Wärtsilä Corporation Annual report 2013 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 Table of contents 03 BUSINESS 37 SUSTAINABILITY 125 GOVERNANCE 170 INVESTORS 183 BOARD OF DIRECTORS' REPORT 200 FINANCIALS 2 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BUSINESS 03 BUSINESS 18 SHIP POWER 21 Operating environment 04 MESSAGE TO THE 25 Strategy SHAREHOLDERS 26 Ship Power and sustainability 06 THIS IS WÄRTSILÄ 28 Development 2013 07 Operating environment 29 SERVICES 07 Corporate strategy 31 Operating environment 09 Financial targets 32 Strategy 10 POWER PLANTS 33 Services and sustainability 12 Operating environment 34 Development 2013 15 Strategy 35 POWERTECH 16 Power Plants and sustainability 17 Development 2013 3 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BUSINESS Message to the shareholders Dear shareholders, For Wärtsilä, 2013 was a year of varying activity within our different end markets. While the improvement in global vessel contracting was significant, power generation markets declined for the second consecutive year. Unfavourable exchange rates and some delayed deliveries at the end of the year led to a slightly weaker than expected net sales development. Profitability on the other hand developed well, reaching 11.2% for the full year. I am pleased with the resilience we have shown in reaching our profitability targets, despite the lower level of sales. Cash flow from operating activities development was strong, increasing to EUR 578 million during the year. Global economic policies and fluctuations in emerging market currencies delayed customer decision-making in the power generation markets. Our Power Plants order intake developed accordingly, decreasing by 15%. 82% of the orders received were for gas based power plants, showing that there is continued demand for our fuel flexible solutions. Major orders were received for a 274 MW dual-fuel power plant from Jordan and a 220 MW natural gas fuelled power plant from Oregon, USA. In the shipbuilding industry, competitive new building prices combined with the increased fuel efficiency of modern vessels attracted investments in the merchant segment. Furthermore, oil price levels supported activity in the offshore markets, including operations in harsh and deep water areas. This resulted in stronger vessel contracting and a more balanced order mix compared to recent years. In line with overall market activity, Ship Power’s order intake developed well, increasing by 14% in 2013. Several notable orders were received in the offshore industry and the demand for dual-fuel engines and gas handling systems continued to be active. In the latter part of 2013, we launched our 2-stroke, low pressure, dual-fuel engine. The first order for this technology was received shortly thereafter, and we feel that this technology could very well be a game changer for merchant shipping. Overcapacity in the marine market continued to impact global fleet utilisation and our customers’ remained focused on reducing operating expenses. The continued good demand for power plant related services compensated for this development and contributed to the overall stability of the service market. I am pleased to note that our concentration on long-term service agreements has proven successful in 2013. The share of contracts in Services net sales increased during the year, and several important agreements were signed with both power plant and marine customers. As certain emerging countries, such as China and Brazil, gain a stronger foothold in the shipbuilding industry, we must adapt our operations accordingly. During 2013, Wärtsilä announced the set up of a new, fully-owned manufacturing facility in Brazil to meet the local content requirement and the increasing demand, particularly in the offshore market. We also began to construct production facilities for Wärtsilä Yuchai Engine Co. Ltd, our latest joint venture in China. These initiatives will enable us to better serve our customers locally, thus strengthening our competitiveness in these key markets. In 2012, we took the first steps towards restructuring our organisation so as to increase the flexibility and speed of our operations. In this way we can better address the changing market environment. The success of this realignment resulted in the decision to take the next step and combine the PowerTech and Ship Power 4-stroke organisations into one single business unit. In this new set up, all activities, from R&D and manufacturing to sales, are combined into one organisation. This change will further enhance transparency and accountability within Wärtsilä; factors which will enable us to better support our customers and increase 4 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BUSINESS the efficiency of our operations. I believe these changes are essential in order to be able to capture the growth opportunities that we have identified in the market. As a global leader in complete lifecycle solutions for the marine and energy markets, Wärtsilä has a key role to play in providing sustainable solutions for the shipping and power generation sectors. A strong emphasis on research and development is necessary for maintaining our competitiveness going forward. Efficiency improvement, fuel flexibility, and environmental performance are the key focus areas of our R&D investments, which in 2013 represented 4.0% of net sales. Responsible business conduct and the safety of our personnel is our priority. The positive trend in lost time injury frequency continued, reaching an all time low in 2013. We remain committed to supporting the UN Global Compact and its principles with respect to human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. Our strategic priorities are well in line with the fundamental changes occurring in our end markets. The world's need for sustainable and reliable power has not vanished and we see growth opportunities in gas power plants as part of our Smart Power Generation concept. The regulatory environment is also driving interest in gas in the marine markets, and it is expected that the share of gas-fuelled vessels will increase significantly in the coming years. Today, gas availability represents one of the main barriers for its wider scale use. Infrastructure expansion is partly planned to take place through investments in midsized LNG distribution, which represents an interesting opportunity for Wärtsilä. By combining our experience in engineering, procurement and construction project execution with our LNG handling expertise, we can offer turnkey LNG terminal solutions, thus positioning us well in this up and coming market. The new emission regulations are becoming imminent, and vessel owners are preparing themselves to comply with the new requirements. The progress we have made in environmental solutions, both in terms of receiving type approvals for our ballast water systems and in strengthening our extensive reference list of exhaust gas cleaning systems, supports our growth ambition in this field. Wärtsilä is well positioned to pursue growth even in today’s challenging market environment. However, only by increasing the efficiency and flexibility of our organisation globally can we secure profitability and maintain competitiveness going forward. This is the basis for the Group-wide efficiency programme announced at the beginning of 2014. Our market outlook remains cautious, although a slight improvement may be seen in certain areas. In 2014, we anticipate some growth in net sales and expect operating margins to be around 11%. I would like to take this opportunity to thank our customers who have entrusted their business to us during these challenging times and our personnel for their continuous efforts in serving our customers globally. I am also very thankful to our shareholders for all the interest expressed in Wärtsilä, and for the trust placed in our future potential. Björn Rosengren President & CEO 5 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BUSINESS Key figures Restated MEUR 2013 Q4 / 2013 Q3 / 2013 Q2 / 2013 Q1 / 2013 2012 20112 Net sales 4 654 1 533 1 209 1 152 882 4 725 4 209 Power Plants 1 459 468 421 369 202 1 498 1 365 Ship Power 1 325 425 340 315 245 1 301 1 022 Services 1 842 507 435 465 434 1 908 1 816 Depreciation and amortisations -123 -29 -30 -32 -32 -139 -113 Operating result1 520 201 138 111 70 517 469 Operating result1, % 11.2 14.2 11.4 9.6 8.0 10.9 11.1 Profit before taxes 507 181 126 104 96 453 429 Earnings per share, EUR 1.98 0.74 0.48 0.39 0.37 1.72 1.44 Balance sheet total 5 211 5 211 5 030 5 038 4 990 5 036 4 600 Interest-bearing liabilities, gross 276 276 581 549 668 794 652 Cash and cash equivalents 388 388 254 219 205 225 592 ROI, % 21.2 20.4 20.4 Gearing 0.15 0.15 0.31 0.40 0.42 0.32 0.04 Order book, end of period 4 426 4 426 4 568 4 763 4 998 4 492 4 007 Order intake 4 872 1 351 1 097 1 071 1 352 4 940 4 516 Year-end market capitalisation 7 055 6 454 4 402 Personnel, number at end of period 18 663 18 663 18 776 18 620 18 674 18 887 17 913 1 Figures exclude non-recurring items. 2 The 2011 figures have not been restated according to the revised IAS 19. Wärtsilä in brief Wärtsilä is a global leader in complete lifecycle power solutions for the marine and energy markets. By emphasising technological innovation and total efficiency, Wärtsilä maximises the environmental and economic performance of the vessels and power plants of its customers. In 2013, Wärtsilä's net sales totalled EUR 4.7 billion with approximately 18,700 employees. The company has operations in over 200 locations in nearly 70 countries around the world. Wärtsilä is listed on the NASDAQ OMX Helsinki, Finland. Power Plants Wärtsilä is a leading supplier of modern, environmentally advanced, highly efficient, and dynamic power plants that allow the maximum integration of intermittent renewable power generation. We offer multi-fuel power plants, including baseload generation, peaking and load following operation, as well as dynamic system balancing and ultra-fast grid reserve. We serve both the current and future capacity markets. In addition to the technical advantages, our fast track deliveries of complete power plants, together with long6 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BUSINESS term operation and maintenance agreements, provide our customers with complete solutions – in urban areas as well as in the most demanding remote environments. Ship Power Wärtsilä enhances the business of its marine and oil & gas industry customers by providing innovative products and integrated solutions that are safe, environmentally sustainable, efficient, flexible, and economically sound. Our solutions are developed based on our customers' needs and include products, systems and services. Being a technology leader, and through the experience, know-how and dedication of our personnel, we are able to customise optimised solutions for the benefit of our clients around the world. Services Wärtsilä supports its customers throughout the lifecycle of their installations by optimising efficiency and performance. We provide the most comprehensive portfolio of services and the broadest service network in the industry, for both the energy and marine markets. We are committed to providing high quality, expert support and the availability of services in the most environmentally sound way possible, wherever our customers are located. Wärtsilä's operating environment During 2013, uncertainty over the global economic development continued. Compared to 2012, global GDP growth decreased from 3.2% to 2.9%. GDP growth was highest in the emerging markets and developing economies, which are expected to continue to account for the bulk of global growth going forward. The emerging markets are highly important for Wärtsilä. Over 50% of the Group net sales came from non-OECD countries in 2013. The majority of Power Plants' orders came from emerging markets, and Asia was the largest single region. The shipbuilding market continues to be dominated by Asian yards in South Korea and China. The lower GDP growth, coupled with global economic policies and significant exchange rate fluctuations in emerging markets, resulted in decreased investments in liquid and gas fuelled power plants. In the Ship Power markets, overcapacity is still one of the main obstacles to a full recovery. Stronger global GDP growth would be required for this overcapacity to be absorbed. Also the Services business would benefit from an improved global economic outlook, as the current conditions in the marine markets have resulted in customers spending less on discretionary maintenance and investments. Corporate strategy Wärtsilä aims to be the leader in complete lifecycle power solutions for the global marine markets and selected energy markets worldwide. We see growth opportunities in gas power plants as part of our Smart Power Generation concept, in gas-fuelled engines and related systems for the marine market, as well as in medium-scale LNG infrastructure development. We also seek growth in environmental solutions, including exhaust gas cleaning systems for SOx removal and ballast water management systems. Our strengths are our technological leadership, an integrated product and service offering, our close and long-standing customer relationships, and our unparalleled global presence. With our production and supply chain management we constantly seek ways to maintain cost efficiency and high quality – often in co-operation 7 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BUSINESS with leading industrial partners in our key growth markets. Our strong focus on R&D allows us to stay at the forefront of technology and innovation in our industry. We are determined to capture growth opportunities within our end markets, while maintaining a solid profitability. Sustainability Wärtsilä's aim is to meet shareholder expectations and contribute toward the well-being of the society. This requires efficient, profitable and competitive company operations. Good economic performance establishes a platform for the other aspects of sustainability – environmental and social responsibility. Wärtsilä's overriding promise is to supply power solutions that offer high efficiency with low environmental load. Our objective is to continuously improve the environmental performance of our products and services, as well as to maintain technological leadership by utilising new technologies and collaborating with our customers and other stakeholder groups. In doing this, we help our customers and society at large to meet the goals of the tightening global environmental regulations and guidelines. Wärtsilä acts as a good corporate citizen wherever we are active. Our business operations and relations with our stakeholders are governed by our Code of Conduct. Wärtsilä is a responsible employer, and we seek to offer our employees an interesting and exciting workplace where openness, respect, trust, equal opportunities and scope for personal development prevail. A further aim is to offer a hazard-free working environment to our employees and contractors and to minimise the health and safety risks associated with the use of our products and services. Supply chain management and development are integral elements of our operations. Values 8 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BUSINESS Financial targets Target Development Graph Net sales Our target is to grow In 2013, Growth over the cycle faster than global GDP. Wärtsilä's net sales decreased by 1% to EUR 4,654 million. Wärtsilä's CAGR 2003-2013 was 8%. Profitability Our operating profit In 2013, our Profitability margin (EBIT%) target is operating profit 14% at the peak of the was EUR 520 cycle. At the trough of million, 11.2% the cycle, our target is of net sales. to keep the operating profit margin above 10%. 9 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BUSINESS Capital structure Our target is to maintain In 2013, our Gearing gearing below 0.50. gearing was 0.15. Dividend Our target is to pay a The Board of Earnings/share, dividend/share dividend equivalent to Directors 50% of earnings. proposes that a dividend of 1.05 euro per share be paid for the financial year 2013, which represents 53% of of operational earnings. Wärtsilä Power Plants Wärtsilä Power Plants provides superior value to its customers by offering decentralised, flexible, efficient, and environmentally advanced energy solutions. We offer dependable power plants that can be constructed in multiple parallel generation units, and on a fast track basis. 10 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BUSINESS An offering based on flexibility We offer our customers solutions ranging from power generation equipment only deliveries to full turnkey power plants. Our tried and tested power plants are modularised so as to enable them to be located close to the end-user customers. This also allows construction to be carried out in phases according to the customer's needs. The fuel flexibility of our solutions supports the transition from oil to gas as the markets increasingly embrace natural gas. Through operation and maintenance agreements we support our customers throughout the lifecycle of their installations. We operate mainly in emerging markets; however, there is demand for our power plant projects also in the developed markets. Our business is divided into three segments We have three main customer segments: utilities, Independent Power Producers (IPP’s) and industrial customers. Utilities supply electricity to residential, commercial, and industrial end users, whereas IPP’s are financial investors investing in power plants and selling the generated power to utilities. Customer needs in these segments vary according to the application for which the plant is used. In traditional baseload power generation, customers require competitive lifecycle costs, reliability, world-class product quality, and fuel and operational flexibility. In balancing and peaking applications, customer needs typically include rapid start and ramp up, the ability to operate at varying loads, as well as competitive electricity generation and capacity costs. Industrial customers are mainly private companies in industries, such as mining, cement and oil & gas, investing in captive power plants. Reliability, reduced energy costs, and independence from the grid are among the key factors in their decision-making. Smart Power Generation Wärtsilä’s Smart Power Generation concept enables an existing power system to operate at its maximum efficiency by most effectively absorbing current and future system load variations, hence providing dramatic savings. The concept’s main cornerstones are very high energy efficiency, outstanding operational flexibility, and multi-fuel operation. For current and future low-carbon power systems, it balances the large input fluctuations from wind and solar power. It also provides high efficiency baseload, peaking, and load-following power, as well as super-fast grid reserves at the national power system level. Further information on Smart Power Generation can be found by visiting www.smartpowergeneration.com. Smart Power Generation 11 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BUSINESS Power Plants operating environment Wärtsilä’s power plants are used in wide variety of applications. These include traditional baseload energy generation for national grids, providing dynamic grid power balancing services in order to integrate larger share of renewable energy, and island mode applications which operate independently. As a global supplier of power plant solutions, we recognise that there are significant differences in the energy infrastructure models between regions and countries. Wärtsilä’s Smart Power Generation concept is ideal for matching the solutions to meet the specific needs of each infrastructure. We serve primarily four types of energy infrastructure: • Liquid fuel based energy infrastructure with heavy fuel oil power plants • Energy infrastructure transitioning to gas through LNG with dual-fuel power plants • Natural gas based energy infrastructure with pure gas flexible baseload power plants • Energy infrastructures with high levels of intermittent renewable energy requiring fast responding, dynamic balancing power plants The main customer segments within these markets are utilities, Independent Power Producers (IPP's), industrial manufacturers in industries such as the cement, mining and textile industries as well as oil & gas industry customers. The commercial drivers for power plant investments vary between the different customer segments. Generating and selling power is the core business for utilities, and power generation facilities are therefore strategic assets. IPP’s are typically financial investments in order to gain returns. Industrial customers need power supply for their process facilities or factories. The common factor in each of these customer segments is that the power plant projects are often significant investments. Wärtsilä's power plants are funded in many geographical markets. Funding sources are typically a mix of international, commercial, governmental, export credit agency and multilateral financing. Wärtsilä does not provide its customers with funding, but provides support in finding funding solutions for them. General market drivers in the Power Plants business The demand for power generation is driven primarily by population growth and economic development. As electricity consumption grows, the demand for both new power generation equipment and replacement equipment for older capacity increases correspondingly. Looking ahead, growth is expected to be higher in non-OECD countries, due to increasing industrialisation and improving living standards. The majority of Wärtsilä Power Plants' orders come from the emerging markets. In emerging markets and remote areas, the demand for flexible baseload power plants, as well as for industrial self-generation, is driven by growth in electricity consumption and by developments in the commodity prices. The demand for gas and dual-fuel driven plants increases along with the introduction of gas networks to the emerging markets. 12 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BUSINESS Final electricity generation by region While economic development is a less important driver in the OECD countries, the ageing installed capacity will drive demand for new investments. The important drivers include stricter environmental regulations and the aim for low carbon power systems, which are spurring investments in renewable energy. Solutions, such as wind power, lead to unforeseen grid stability challenges, which require additional backup and balancing power. The large scale use of renewable power increases the need for the flexible, reliable, and efficient power that Wärtsilä's solutions provide. Age profile of installed thermal and nuclear capacity by region 13 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BUSINESS Share of renewables in electricity generation by region The demand for gas is expected to grow, as it enables system balancing with minimal emissions compared to other fossil fuels. This is further supported by the increasing availability of gas resulting from growing investments in LNG infrastructure, as well as from unconventional sources such as shale gas becoming economical. The gas power plant capacity is expected to grow by 2.4% per year, and 65% of this growth is expected to occur in non-OECD countries. Wärtsilä is well positioned in these markets. In regions where the gas infrastructure is being built, a key feature of our power plants is the capability to utilise available liquid fuels until the availability of gas is fully reliable. World electricity generation by type Power Plants’ competition In larger gas-fired projects, Wärtsilä often competes against gas turbine technology. In smaller gas based projects and in the heavy fuel oil based power plant market, Wärtsilä's competitors are mainly other engine suppliers. We hold a leading position in engine technology with the largest and most efficient gas and dualfuel engines. Our competitive strengths include the ability to provide complete turnkey power plants combined with operation & maintenance agreements as well as fuel flexibility. Our main advantages over gas turbine technology are higher efficiency in varying loads, the capability to achieve faster starts without increased costs, and the ability to offer dual-fuel solutions for markets transitioning to natural gas. 14 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BUSINESS Gas turbine and engine manufacturers Main drivers for Wärtsilä's Power Plants business • Economic development and growth in electricity consumption • Growth in the use of gas as fuel in power plants • Need for fuel flexibility due to uncertainty in gas availability • Environmental concerns and renewable energy investments • Ageing generation capacity Power Plants strategy Our aim is to be a globally recognised leader in liquid fuel and gas power plants. We will promote the Smart Power Generation concept to the increasingly dynamic and environmentally conscious global energy market to enable more sustainable, affordable and reliable power systems. Our strategy is to: • Maintain our leading position in heavy fuel oil & dual-fuel power plants by enhancing our value proposition as well as by influencing and actively developing selected target markets • Grow strongly in large utility gas power plants by capturing market share from combustion turbines • Grow in biofuel power plants by enabling a wide fuel range • Grow in special applications nuclear emergency power, combined heat and power, oil & gas and LNG infrastructure by introducing our value proposition to the selected customer segments Our value proposition is based on providing solutions with guaranteed performance, high energy efficiency, and unique fuel and operational flexibility, which make them ideal for many types of energy infrastructures in varying applications. Our products are based on tried and tested concepts, and modularity is a key enabler for ensuring cost competitive solutions in both equipment and turnkey deliveries. Demonstrating the superiority of our value proposition will enable us to achieve our strategic goals of growing in the large gas power plant market for utilities and maintaining our leading position in heavy fuel oil fired and dual-fuel power plants. We will also seek growth in special applications, such as LNG terminal deliveries, combined heat and power solutions, oil & gas field power, and emergency power applications for nuclear power plants. The capability of our engines to run on a wide range of fuels makes it possible for us to further 15 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BUSINESS grow in the market for power plants using renewable fuels. Our focus is on products and projects that provide unquestionable environmental benefits and that make economic sense. Power Plants strengths • Unique operational and fuel flexibility • Energy efficiency and emissions compliance • Competitive capital cost and EPC capability • Global service organisation Power Plants and sustainability Wärtsilä Power Plants contributes to the development of a sustainable power system with proven optimised solutions for various market needs. The development of a more sustainable energy infrastructure is driven by climate policies, energy security, and economics. Carbon-intensive energy sources are being replaced by low carbon fuels, such as natural gas and renewable solutions. Energy savings and efficiency improvements are encouraged, and even legally enforced, at every level. This development is evident on a global scale, even though short-term actions can vary in different regions. As a part of its commitment to sustainability and responsible business conduct, Wärtsilä has taken an active role in market and solution development, advising national decision makers on changes in the power markets, and on relevant technical and commercial norms. In this way, Wärtsilä is helping to speed the transition to more sustainable power systems. Wärtsilä strives to maintain a deep understanding of the market requirements, and to develop its solutions in a way that enables them to contribute effectively to improved energy system performance in various regions of the world. Wärtsilä's energy solutions offer a unique combination of flexibility, high efficiency, and low emissions. Many different fuels, including bio-fuels, can be used efficiently, which helps reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Wärtsilä's Smart Power Generation technology enables the development of a reliable energy infrastructure, wherein most of the sustainable characteristics are already known. Towards sustainable power systems The effects of climate change require a dramatic decrease in coal based power generation and a major increase in low carbon power generation, including wind, solar and natural gas fired plants. In modern power systems, the majority of electricity will be generated by wind and solar power, while thermal power generation will be increasingly used for system balancing and back-up. The variability of renewable energy generation requires the balancing and back-up power to be flexible and dynamic. Current and earlier power systems were not designed for this purpose. In order to meet the required capacity, new flexible power generation assets need to be added to the system. Such flexible capacity is based on three elements: operational flexibility, energy efficiency, and fuel flexibility. Operational flexibility is needed for reacting to the rapid changes in wind and solar output. Power plant requirements include the following capabilities: • Frequent and fast plant starts and stops without negative wear and tear consequences • Cyclic operation with high up and down ramp rates 16 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BUSINESS • High full and part load efficiency • A broad load range • Minimal CO2 emissions Energy efficiency means that less fuel is needed to generate electricity. Lower fuel consumption results in lower CO2 levels in power generation. Fuel flexibility enables the transition to more sustainable fuels when they become available. This feature becomes increasingly important when investing in new power capacity, because the plant is not fixed to a certain fuel where more sustainable fuels may be available in the future. Smart Power Generation meets all of these requirements, thus allowing the maximal utilisation of valuable renewable power, and the smooth operation of inelastic baseload thermal power plants. According to the results of future power system modelling, Smart Power Generation, together with increased wind and solar capacity, enables dramatic reductions in system level CO2 emissions. Wärtsilä's Smart Power Generation concept allows true operational optimisation of the entire energy system in a cost-efficient, reliable and sustainable way: • Enables extremely low carbon levels from the total system • Enables the highest penetration of wind and solar power capacity without balancing problems • Enables baseload plants to operate on high output and efficiency, thereby enabling the lowest CO2 levels • Minimises wind curtailment and helps to avoid negative prices • Reduces the amount of spinning reserve • Enables the efficient use of bio gasand liquid bio-fuel resources • Allows the entire system to operate in the most cost effective way • Removes the abusive cyclic load from plants that are not designed for it, enabling them to operate in their most cost-effective way • High efficiency over a wide load range enables flexible power plants to operate in the most cost effective way • Ensures system reliability, even during extreme conditions, such as • Wind variations • Contingency situations • Enables decentralisation of the intermediate and peak load capacity • Flexible plant sizing facilitates later expansion to match local needs • Installing generation capacity in load pockets reduces grid losses and helps to avoid investments in new high voltage grid expansions • Fast track delivery enables local capacity deficits to be rapidly overcome Power Plants development in 2013 Activity in the overall power generation markets declined during 2013, as macro-economic volatility continued to cause delays in investment decisions throughout the year. Customer decision-making was further impacted by the significant exchange rate fluctuations seen in multiple emerging market currencies during the 17 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BUSINESS second and third quarters. Still, economic growth in the emerging markets continued to support demand for new power generation capacity. Wärtsilä’s power plant quotation activity was higher in 2013 than during the previous year. Activity remained focused on natural gas based generation. Wärtsilä's share of global orders for natural gas and liquid fuel based power generation (including all prime mover units of over five MW) increased to 5.8% during the first half of 2013 from 4.9% during the corresponding period in the previous year. The total market was 18.8 GW during the same time period. In 2013, the Power Plants order intake decreased by 15% to EUR 1,292 million. This development is in line with the decline in the global power generation markets. 82% of the orders received, measured in MW, were for gas based power plants. In 2013, major orders were received for a 274 MW power plant from Jordan and a 220 MW power plant from Oregon, USA. Other important orders were received from Finland, Russia and Indonesia. Net sales for Power Plants decreased by 3% to EUR 1,459 million during 2013, which represents 31% of Wärtsilä's total net sales. Wärtsilä Ship Power Wärtsilä Ship Power has a strong position in the marine industry, and we are a growing force in the oil & gas industry as well, where our name is well-known in the offshore sector. We provide optimised, environmentally sustainable, and economically sound solutions, which are developed according to our customers' needs. Our in-depth understanding of our customers' businesses, combined with our extensive network, broad product portfolio, and ability to be involved in the life of the vessel as early as the design process, enables us to support our customers throughout the lifecycle of their installations. Ship Power is organised by product lines, with one shared sales organisation responsible for customer relations, clarifying customer needs, and for the sales network globally. This organisational structure enables end-to-end control of activities, including R&D, engineering and manufacturing. As of 2014, PowerTech will be integrated into the 4-stroke product line, with the aim of further strengthening competitiveness and serving customers more effectively through increased flexibility, faster decision-making, and optimal utilisation of resources. We serve shipyards and ship owners Ship Power customers comprise both shipyards and ship owners, and their needs and demands differ significantly. The decision-making process of shipyard customers is typically affected by product prices, delivery times and reliability, project management, ease of installation, and the supplier's ability to manage large delivery scopes. Ship owners, on the other hand, require reliability and support, as well as the availability of services. Decision-making is further impacted by freight rates, interest rates, and the cost of the ship. Furthermore, both ship owners and operators are increasingly considering factors such as operational efficiency, including environmental compliance, in their decision-making. We are committed to meeting the needs of all our customer groups, which we achieve through our in-depth understanding of their businesses, operating models and requirements. As a result, we are able to offer products and solutions that best further their business interests. Our extensive offering covers all main vessel segments Ship Power is active in all the main vessel segments, and understands the particular needs and requirements related to each of them – from the initial vessel design choices to everyday operations throughout the lifecycle. Our offering also covers gas systems for land-based installations, such as gas terminals. Our design 18 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BUSINESS capabilities, extensive industry experience, and technological leadership form the basis of our reputation. Our offering is the broadest in the industry: • Mediumand low-speed diesel and dual-fuel gas engines • Propulsion systems and gears • Seals and bearings • Automation systems • Communication and control systems • Power distribution and management systems • Environmental solutions, including exhaust gas cleaning, ballast water management and fresh water systems • Pumps and valves • Gas systems, including LNG handling, inert gas systems, compressors, liquefaction and regasification • Ship design Our in-depth expertise in optimising the efficiency of vessels makes it possible for our customers to achieve performance that specifically matches their operating profile, as well as cost efficiencies and improved environmental performance. Innovative and competitive products, delivered efficiently and with high quality, form the basis of our offering. The ability to combine the products we offer into larger systems and solutions supports our strategy of being the main ship power supplier to our customers. This strategy provides added value to both our yard and ship owner customers. Shipyard customers can focus on their areas of expertise and benefit from reduced risks of product interface problems, while ship owners can rely on benefits related to operations and maintenance. Segment Vessel type Main offering* Merchant Tankers 2-st engines, auxiliary engines, fixed pitch propellers (FPP), tunnel thrusters, 4-st engines for smaller vessels Containers 2-st engines, auxiliary engines, FPP, tunnel thrusters, ship design, 4-st engines for smaller vessels LNG carriers 4-st main dual-fuel engines, controllable pitch propellers (CPP), gearboxes, tunnel thrusters Bulkers 2-st engines, auxiliary engines, FPP, tunnel thrusters, 4-st engines for smaller vessels Other: cargo, RoRo, car carriers, LPG All of the above carriers Offshore Floating exploration: drillships, semi4-st engines, steerable thrusters, tunnel thrusters, submersibles, etc. vessel automation, electric power distribution, gearboxes Floating production units: FPSO's, FSO, 4-st engines, steerable thrusters, tunnel thrusters, floating LNG, etc. CPP, vessel automation, electric power distribution, gearboxes Service/Supply vessels: OSV's, PSV's, 4-st engines, steerable thrusters, tunnel thrusters, AHTS, AHS CPP, electrical propulsion, ship design, automation, gearboxes 19 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BUSINESS Other: crane vessels, pipelayers, All of the above accommodation vessels Cruise Cruise vessels 4-st engines, FPP, tunnel thrusters and Ferry Ferries 4-st engines, CPP, FPP, steerable thrusters, tunnel thrusters Other: ro-pax, yachts All of the above Special Tugs 4-st engines, FPP, steerable thrusters, tunnel vessels thrusters, vessel automation, ship design Dredgers 4-st engines, CPP, FPP, steerable thrusters, tunnel thrusters, vessel automation Other: fishing vessels, ice breakers, All of the above research vessels, work boats, inland waterway vessels Navy Frigates, corvettes, patrol vessels, aircraft Waterjets, seals and bearings, tunnel thrusters, 4-st carriers, destroyers, support vessels engines * Excluding Wärtsilä Hamworthy's offering, which can be installed in nearly all ship types. Growth through gas, environmental solutions and efficient vessels Within the industry, Ship Power is uniquely positioned for growth driven by the increasing availability and use of gas as a marine fuel, the introduction of new environmental regulations, and the increased demand for more efficient vessels as a result of rising fuel costs. Stricter environmental regulations are driving the interest in gas as a marine fuel, as well as in emissions abatement technology, such as exhaust gas scrubbers and ballast water treatment systems. Ship Power offers its customers alternative solutions for meeting these requirements in a way that best meets the needs of their business and operating model, both as part of new build projects and as retrofits to vessels already in operation. In order to comply with the upcoming IMO sulphur regulations, ship owners whose vessels operate in environmental control areas have the choice of either operating on lower sulphur fuels, such as light fuel oil and gas, or using exhaust gas cleaning technology. Our offering for the gas markets consists of gas fuelled engines, gas conversions, and gas handling systems including LNG handling, liquefaction, regasification, inert gas systems, and equipment for small-to-medium scale onshore gas installations. We are a market leader in on-board gas handling and dual-fuel engines, which have been supplied to more than one hundred LNG carriers, and increasingly to other segments of the marine and oil & gas industry, from cruise ferries to FPSO’s. Today, our portfolio of exhaust cleaning systems is the broadest in the industry, and our reference list the most extensive in the market. Our exhaust gas cleaning portfolio consists of closed loop systems for fresh water use, open loop systems for seawater use, and a combination of the two, i.e. the hybrid system. Proposed ballast water regulations will necessitate the installation of a ballast water management system to stop the spread of non-indigenous invasive species. We offer our customers systems based on the two most common technologies for ballast water treatment; ultraviolet treatment and electro-chlorination. 20 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BUSINESS Increasing fuel prices has made efficiency one of the top concerns for ship owners and operators. We help our customers maximise the efficiency of their vessels on several levels: we design vessels which are as efficient as possible for their intended operating profile, we engineer integrated power, propulsion and equipment systems that ensure the best possible total efficiency, and of course also supply the efficient individual products required for the system. Once delivered, our comprehensive control and monitoring systems and lifecycle services enable efficient operation of the vessels throughout their lifecycle. Ship Power operating environment Ship Power serves the marine industry and the oil & gas industry. The main vessel segments covered in the marine industry are merchant, cruise & ferry, navy and special vessels. In the oil & gas industry we are active in offshore vessels, and in land-based gas installations. Ship Power’s customers include both shipyards and ship owners. General shipbuilding and shipping market drivers Demand in the shipbuilding and shipping industries is mainly driven by developments within the global economy and the resulting impact on trade and transportation capacity requirements. The global economy also influences fuel prices, which in turn has both a direct and an indirect impact on the marine and oil & gas industries. High fuel prices drive the development in the oil & gas industry, while in the general shipping industry they increase the demand for efficient vessels. Other factors, such as shipyard capacity, new build prices, decommissioning and scrapping, interest and freight rates, and environmental regulations, also affect these industries. Global demand for new vessels drives Wärtsilä Ship Power’s business, in particular ships built for seaborne cargo transportation, offshore oil drilling, production and support, cruise and ferry services, and for naval use. Another important factor is the demand for environmental solutions and gas as a marine fuel that stems from environmental regulations. Moreover, the increasing demand for oil and gas, together with declining production from traditional fields, supports new offshore oil & gas investments in deepwater and remote locations. Main drivers for Wärtsilä's Ship Power business • Developments in the global economy • Development of world trade and needed transportation capacity • Development of oil and gas prices • Environmental regulations • Development of new offshore oil & gas fields Competitors and market position Wärtsilä Ship Power has continuously broadened its portfolio, which today ranges from engines and propulsion equipment to electrical equipment, automation, ship design, environmental solutions, gas systems, and pumps and valves. This is backed by the capability to build environmentally sound solutions, and by the best service support throughout the lifecycle of the product. Our competitive advantage lies in having the industry’s broadest marine focused offering of leading, innovative products, and insightful integrated systems and engineering, which is supported by a unique sales and service network in touch with our customers globally. 21 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BUSINESS Our field of competitors is broad. It includes engine companies like MAN, Caterpillar and Chinese license manufacturers, propeller makers such as Schottel and Thrustmaster, and environmental and auxiliary equipment providers like Alfa Laval. It also includes electrical and automation houses like Siemens or Kongsberg, pump and gas system providers such as Colfax and Cryostar, and companies with broad offerings like Rolls-Royce or Hyundai Heavy Industries. Wärtsilä is recognised as a proven supplier of innovative, sustainable technology in the marine and oil & gas markets ranging across our portfolio. In the medium-speed dual-fuel engines we are recognised as the market leader with the most extensive references in the industry. Wärtsilä offering Main application* Main competition** Wärtsilä's market position 4-stroke medium Small merchant vessels, MAN D&T, MAK (CAT), Rolls-Royce, Approximately speed main offshore, special vessels HiMSEN. half of the engines market (in kW) is controlled by Wärtsilä. 4-stroke auxiliary All vessel types Market is highly fragmented, price Wärtsilä is a generating sets sensitive and with heavy competition. market Main competitors are MAN D&T and its challenger, local license manufacturers, Yanmar having around and HiMSEN. High-speed engines also 4% of the total compete in the auxiliary engine market. market. 2-stroke engines Large and medium size MAN D&T, Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Market (built under merchant vessels challenger, license) approximately 10% of the market (in kW) is controlled by Wärtsilä Propulsion All vessel types Rolls-Royce, Schottel, Hyundai Heavy CPP & FPP: • Controllable Industries, Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Market is Pitch Propellers Mecklenburger Metallguss, fragmented with (CPP) Thrustmaster, Brunvoll, Kawasaki, several players • Fixed Pitch Caterpillar (Berg Propulsion) competing, Propellers (FPP) Wärtsilä among • Steerable the top players. thrusters Steerable • Tunnel thrusters thrusters: Wärtsilä among the top players. Tunnel thrusters: Market is highly fragmented, Wärtsilä is a market challenger. 22 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BUSINESS Electrical & Offshore, special vessels ABB, Siemens, Kongsberg, RollsEstablished Automation Royce, General Electrics position in • Low loss offshore, concept (LLC) otherwise • LV & MV market switchboards challenger. • Variable speed drive • Flowline heating • Ship automation systems • Power management systems • Integrated bridge solutions Ship design OSVs, merchant vessels, Skipsteknik, Marinteknik, MMC, RollsAmongst the specialized vessels, Royce, Ulstein leading fishing vessels independent ship design houses. Oil & Gas systems Offshore gas processing TGE Marine, Cryostar, Linde GAS Wärtsilä • Regasification & storage vessels, LNG/ AGA, Kobelco, Moss Maritime, Daewoo Hamworthy systems LEG/LPG carriers, floating Shipbuilding & Marine Engineering, among the top • Gas production systems, Weir LGE, Cryonorm, John Zink, Black players. reliquefaction industry applications, fuel & Veatch, Air Liquid, Aker Solutions, systems gas systems for all vessel FMC/CDS, Cameron/Concept • Onshore gas types liquefaction systems • Gas recovery systems • Oil separation systems • Fuel gas systems Pumps and valves All vessel types, onand Niigata, Marflex, Framo, Hyundai Wärtsilä • Deepwell cargo offshore oil & gas facilities Heavy Industries, Shinko, Colfax, Hamworthy pumps Ellehammer among the top • Pump room players. systems • Engine room pumps • Fire-fighting systems • Valves Environmental All vessel types Alfa Laval, Green Tech Marine, Wärtsilä among solutions Techcross, Panasia, Evac, Scanship the top players. • Exhaust gas GEA Westfalia, Marinfloc cleaning • Ballast water management systems 23 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BUSINESS • Inert gas systems • Water production systems • Water treatment systems * Only main applications mentioned. ** Only main competitors mentioned. Market position of medium-speed main engines Market position of low-speed main engines 24 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BUSINESS Market position of auxiliary engines Ship Power strategy Wärtsilä Ship Power's strategic goal is to be the leading provider of innovative products and integrated solutions to the marine and oil & gas industries. To achieve this we will build on our deep customer understanding and: • Solidify our clear leading position in solutions for gas fuelled vessels, environmental compliance and efficiency optimisation • Further develop our position as the shipbuilding industry's leading systems integrator • Provide a competitive offering of products for the growing needs of the marine and oil & gas markets • Seek further growth through the ability to offer the most efficient lifecycle solutions for our customers As a solutions provider, we are ready to deliver everything from a single product to complete lifecycle support of complex systems for powering ships; from concept development to operational use. Wärtsilä Ship Power is uniquely positioned in being the industry's only true provider of a total marine offering. This offering includes engines, generating sets, reduction gears, propulsion equipment, automation and power distribution systems, sealing solutions, emission control and abatement systems, gas containment and handling systems, control and communications, and the world's strongest service network serving the shipping and offshore industries. Our wide range of products is supported by world class ship design, engineering, and project delivery capabilities, allowing us to provide solutions capable of optimising the lifecycle value of our customers’ installations. We see important mid-term growth opportunities in solutions for gas fuelled vessels, environmental compliance and efficiency optimisation. Wärtsilä is already well positioned in these areas, having the most extensive experience and track record in running gas engines, a unique portfolio of products for emissions control and abatement (including exhaust gas cleaning systems, ballast water treatment systems, selective catalytic reduction etc.), and a holistic approach to ship-level efficiency optimisation through our engineering and ship design capabilities. Wärtsilä Ship Power seeks organic growth that will be supported by acquisitions and partnerships. We develop and deliver our offering of innovative and competitive products based on the requirements of our customer segments and the operating profiles of their vessels. We further offer ship owners and operators 25 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BUSINESS integrated lifecycle solutions, whereby performance and availability are guaranteed. This integrated offering will be crafted hand in hand with Wärtsilä's Services business. We maintain our position as the shipbuilding industry's leading systems integrator, and will establish a similarly strong foothold in the oil & gas business. Finally, we will invest further in strengthening our presence and maximising the efficiency of our supply chain, engineering and sales, especially in the key shipbuilding areas, notably China, South Korea and Brazil. Ship Power strengths • The broadest portfolio of reliable and high performing products and solutions in the marine and offshore oil & gas industries, supported by the industry's strongest global services network • An unmatched track record in providing gas fuelled vessels with our dual-fuel technology and gas systems • The most comprehensive selection of options for meeting our customers’ needs concerning fuel flexibility, efficiency and environmental requirements • A unique synergy between ship design and engineering capabilities that allows us to maximise a vessel's efficiency throughout its lifecycle • A strong presence in all major segments in the industry, allowing us to navigate ship building cycles Ship Power and sustainability The marine and oil & gas industries are at the very center of converging megatrends, namely a move towards a more diverse and cleaner energy mix, increased transparency and accountability with regards to environmental performance, and a need to improve economic performance despite possible uncertainties in the global economy. For Wärtsilä it is clear that improved sustainability is central to addressing all these trends. Shift to natural gas Stricter regulatory Focus on energy efficiency environment The global energy landscape is The marine industry is The global economic downturn has shifting towards a more diverse and implementing changes to put enormous pressure on the cost sustainable energy mix, and natural comply with existing structure of especially the marine, gas the cleanest fossil fuel has a environmental regulations, while but also the oil & gas industry. In key role to play in this transition. evaluating the possibilities for the marine industry in particular, the The oil & gas industry has, during complying with upcoming high cost of fuel is a key driver for recent years, seen a dramatic rise regulations. Emissions to air upgrading equipment, rethinking in the demand for natural gas as (CO2, NOx, SOx, PM, VOC, and operational profiles, and new supply is increasing. The marine others) and water are under vessel designs. Investments in industry is also affected by this scrutiny. Similarly, regulations improved energy efficiency have transition with interest in the use of relating to safe and clean both economic as well as improved gas as a marine fuel rising sharply. operations are becoming environmental performance stricter, especially for the oil & benefits. gas industry. Wärtsilä is committed to becoming the most valued business partner of all of its customers. This means that it is essential for Ship Power to have sustainability at the very core of its product and solutions development. 26 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BUSINESS Our R&D and business development activities are based on a deep understanding of how these megatrends affect our customers. The expansion and development of Wärtsilä’s offering to the marine and oil & gas industries over the years demonstrates our response to our customers’ needs. Gas, environmental compliance, and efficiency are the three pillars on which Ship Power builds its offering. Gas Gas is an increasingly available, cost-efficient and clean fuel. Wärtsilä develops products and services that enable the safe use, handling and distribution of natural gas for the marine and oil & gas industries. Wärtsilä is the marine industry’s undisputed leader when it comes to gas-fuelled propulsion. Today our dualfuel medium speed engines power more than 150 vessels (primarily LNG carriers) and have accumulated over 7 million running hours in both land-based and marine applications. These milestones represent achievements that cannot be matched today by any other engine manufacturer. Thanks to a strong and safe track record in the use of gas as a marine fuel for LNG carriers the industry is increasingly keen on expanding the use of LNG to other vessel types. During 2013, Wärtsilä announced the expansion of its dual-fuel portfolio to cover 2-stroke low speed engines. The launch of the Wärtsilä RT-flex50DF, and the expansion of the entire 2-stroke portfolio to dual-fuel versions, will help catalyze this change towards gas in the marine industry. These new engines are IMO Tier III compliant in gas mode. The benefits of using Wärtsilä’s well proven low-pressure dual-fuel technology are many: • Emission reductions (when operating in gas mode): -85% NOx, -99% SOx , up to 99% reduction of particulates (PM), 20-30% less CO2 emissions, no smoke • Fuel flexibility to enhance operational security and competitiveness. Operation on HFO, MDO, bio fuels and crude oil is possible • Capital expenditure reductions of 15-20%, since the use of low pressure technology means simpler (lower cost) gas handling systems, and no need for further exhaust gas cleaning systems • Reduced waste streams (liquid waste) • No need to use secondary emission reduction systems (and hence no consumption of reagents) • Redundancy and safety • Stable operation on gas across the entire load range with no need to switch to diesel fuel at low loads • Lower consumption of pilot fuel (just 1% of total fuel used) Enabling the use of gas as a marine fuel means much more than supplying a proven technology on gas engines. For Wärtsilä it means also maintaining its leading position in the design of gas fuelled vessels, and offering reliable and competitive gas storage and handling systems. Wärtsilä also supports the development of the broader gas value chain in the oil and gas industry with, for instance, its liquefaction and regasification solutions. Environmental compliance Wärtsilä offers a wide set of options for compliance with environmental regulations. All include working technologies, fast installation, and support throughout our global network. We are committed to providing our customers and the society at large with reliable and safe technologies for environmental compliance, which will be available for use as new regulations come into force. We can also assist our customers in the process of evaluating the best options for compliance so as to adopt a solution that meets their specific operational needs. 27 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BUSINESS In the marine industry our offering for environmental compliance covers the following: • For SOx and NOx compliance: gas propulsion, conversions to gas propulsion, exhaust gas cleaning systems (NOR, hybrid scrubber system, open loop scrubber system) • For ballast water compliance: UV and EC technologies • For EEDI compliance: improved efficiency of individual products, ship design • For emissions to water compliance: sealing systems In addition to these, Wärtsilä’s offering to the oil & gas industry includes the following solutions to facilitate safe and clean operations: • VOC recovery • Waste and fresh water management systems • Oil separation • Flare gas recovery Efficiency At Wärtsilä, we strive to optimise the lifecycle cost of installations. We do this because it makes economic sense to our customers, since we understand the pressure for reducing costs and investing in developing products and solutions that will help achieve significant savings. Furthermore, improved efficiency results in better environmental performance. For us, one way of improving efficiency is to invest in renewing our product portfolio. During 2013, Wärtsilä announced the introduction of a new efficient thruster portfolio, and has continued to introduce its new X series 2-stroke engines to the market. In both cases, significant improvements in efficiency have been achieved. Currently, Wärtsilä is also developing a new generation of 4-stroke engines where efficiency improvement will be a key feature. Wärtsilä has also developed individual products that improve efficiency, such as the Energopac Rudder and the Low Loss Concept (LLC). Furthermore, Wärtsilä is uniquely positioned to improve overall vessel efficiency and the efficiency of operations, thanks to our deep know-how in all relevant disciplines, including automation, machinery, propulsion and ship design. By combining this know-how with a deep understanding of our customers operations, we are able to achieve major efficiency improvements. Ship Power development in 2013 During 2013, the total number of new registered vessel contracts was 2,201. Market activity improved significantly compared to 2012, when the volume for known contracts was 1,090 vessels. Ordering was active in all major vessel segments, resulting in a more evenly spread contracting mix compared to the previous year. Competitive new building prices and the increased fuel efficiency of modern vessels attracted investments in merchant vessels. Furthermore, oil price levels supported activity in the offshore markets, including operations in harsh and deep water areas. China and South Korea captured respectively 41% and 33% of the contracts confirmed during 2013 in terms of compensated gross tonnage, while Japan secured 15%. Wärtsilä’s share of the medium-speed main engine market increased to 52% (49% at the end of the third quarter). The market share in low-speed engines remained at 10%, while in auxiliary engines the market share decreased slightly to 4% (10% and 5% respectively at the end of the third quarter). 28 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BUSINESS Ship Power’s order intake increased by 14% to EUR 1,662 million during 2013, reflecting the improvement in the marine market. Ordering was active in the offshore and special tonnage segments, as well as in the merchant segment. The interest in gas as a marine fuel continued throughout the year, and Ship Power received many orders for dual-fuel engines and gas related systems. The ordering of environmental solutions picked up somewhat and Wärtsilä was awarded an order for its AQUARIUS®UV ballast water management system by Carboflotta Group, as well as several orders for exhaust gas cleaning system. Net sales for Ship Power increased by 2% to EUR 1,325 million during 2013, which represents 28% of Wärtsilä's total net sales. Wärtsilä Services Wärtsilä Services supports its customers by offering the most comprehensive portfolio of services in the industry, thereby optimising their operations and the lifecycle performance of their installations. Our service network is the broadest in the industry, consisting of approximately 11,000 service professionals in more than 160 locations in nearly 70 countries. We offer expertise, local availability, responsiveness, and the most environmentally sound solutions for all customers, regardless of the manufacturer of their equipment. We focus on three key elements for optimal lifecycle efficiency: 29 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BUSINESS Our services offering We aim to develop close relationships with our customers, thus enabling us to gain an in-depth understanding of their business, and to extend our offering accordingly. Our Services business provides full and complete support for both Ship Power and Power Plants’ installations, and is based primarily on the equipment sold and designed by Wärtsilä, including engines, propulsion systems, electrical and automation systems. However, Wärtsilä Services has the capability to retrofit and service other brands as well. We are continuously developing our existing competences while also building new competences in strategic growth areas, such as gas engines, the offshore oil & gas industry, asset optimisation systems and environmental solutions. Expanding our offering by developing our portfolio through innovations will continue to be our focus in the future. Further growth is sought by strengthening our service offering in response to our customers' increased interest in partnerships, thereby providing them with both lower costs and improved operational efficiency. Our areas of expertise include: Engine services We provide a full range of services for mediumand low-speed gas, dual-fuel and diesel engines and other related systems. Our offering comprises everything from standard engine overhauls to optimisation retrofits that improve the performance of older engine designs. Propulsion services We offer a complete range of services for propulsion systems throughout the lifecycle of an installation. Propulsion improvements enable optimal fuel efficiency for vessels and offshore rig reliability. Seals & bearings services We provide a wide range of sealing, bearing and sterntube solutions in the form of integrated systems, packages and products. These services provide marine and industrial customers with increased efficiency, reduced running costs, and operational longevity. Electrical & automation services Electrical and automation services include the maintenance and upgrade of all types of control and automation systems for power plants, marine applications, and oil & gas installations, as well as for power plant and vessel safety systems. We provide a wide offering of services from instrumentation to turnkey engineering packages, as well as modernisation and conversion projects. Boiler services We provide a comprehensive range of boiler services, including inspection services, condition based services, and spare parts for all types of boiler plants, economisers, and their control systems. Environmental services We offer land based power plants and ship installations an extensive set of services aimed at improving efficiency and minimising emissions. These solutions include fuel conversions, low NOx solutions, and propulsion efficiency services. Furthermore, our field service organisation supports Ship Power’s environmental retrofit market in the installation and commissioning of environmental solutions. 30 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BUSINESS Service agreements We tailor our service agreements to the customers' needs, letting them choose from different levels of partnership, thus allowing them to concentrate on their core business. Technical management agreements include regular inspections, monthly reporting, and exchange programmes for spare parts. In our maintenance agreements, we provide fixed prices for inspections, technical support, spare parts, training, and maintenance work. Our operations and maintenance agreements can cover full operational, management and maintenance services, as well as installation performance guarantees. Service projects Our project management capabilities enable us to optimise the performance of our customers' installations through upgrades, modernisations, fuel conversions and safety solutions. Training services Our training services cover all aspects of management, operational, maintenance, and safety issues, and range from traditional hands-on training to advanced remote training systems and e-learning opportunities. Services operating environment Wärtsilä Services supports the company's marine and power plant customers. Of the company’s existing installed engine base, measured in MW, approximately one quarter is power plant related and the remainder marine industry installations. In terms of Services' revenues, around 40% comes from power plant customers and 60% from marine customers. The service portfolio includes everything from spare parts and field service work, to more advanced lifecycle solutions aimed at reducing operational costs and improving efficiency. Roughly half of the Services revenue comes from spare parts, one quarter from field service, and one quarter from service solutions, such as maintenance agreements and service projects. Installed base by business 31 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BUSINESS Services net sales by business General market drivers for Services The main market driver in the service business is the size and development of the active engine base. The market conditions faced by end customers have a direct impact on the utilisation rate and the estimated lifetime of installations in operation. In the marine service business, the activity level of the vessel fleet is impacted by the number of anchored, idled, and scrapped vessels, as well as by the speed at which vessels operate. The lifecycle phase of an engine also affects maintenance requirements, and thereby the service needs for both marine and power plant installations. Lifecycle solutions are offered through long-term service agreements and retrofit projects. The need for such solutions is driven by changes in, for instance, the cost or availability of different fuels, the cost or availability of crew, and/or the level of technical expertise needed to operate the vessels or power plants. Changes in environmental regulations, as well as improved safety aspects, also influence the need for lifecycle solutions. The outsourcing of operations and management is today an important trend in the power plants service market. In the future, this may also become a more important driver for marine customers whereby partnerships can improve clarity concerning future costs and improve operational efficiency. Competition and market position Wärtsilä has a strong position in the service market. Only a few smaller players are able to provide such a broad services offering globally, and thus competition is mainly local. Local competition consists mainly of parts traders, repair yards, local workshops, and component suppliers for spare parts and the field service business. The number of local players is quite large and competition is rather fragmented since each product has its own set of competitors. The competition for long-term service agreements for operating power plants comes from a few regional players capable of offering plant operational services, including those with different technologies. In the marine market, although some customers handle service and maintenance themselves, a similar scope of service agreements is also offered by ship management companies. Wärtsilä Services co-operates with several companies in this area, offering a variety of options to ensure the best solution for the end user. 32 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BUSINESS Services strategy Our customers recognise Wärtsilä as being a reliable service partner; competitive, trusted, and easy to deal with. • We focus on customer needs in order to constantly develop our offering proposition with value-enhancing products • We support our customers locally through our qualified global field service network • We grow by providing more service agreements with new Ship Power and Power Plants deliveries • We support our customers in minimising their environmental footprint and foster a customer-focused quality attitude and a safe way of working The size and scope of the Services business provides a platform for further growth. Our objective is to maximise our market share in the marine and power plant service markets. We will develop our service offering and delivery process to cost-efficiently provide better value for our customers. Together with our customers, we create lifecycle-optimising solutions that improve the operational efficiency and profitability of our customers' installations. We use our advanced expertise to offer them global 24/7 support in the fields of logistics, maintenance, plant-operating services, asset monitoring systems and technical support, as well as high-quality real-time information and analyses through effective online services. This offering includes an advanced portfolio of long-term agreements, allowing customers to focus on their core business. Moreover, we are able to deliver service projects that match the changing needs of our customers' businesses. We combine our service solutions with new equipment sales to create value-adding lifecycle solutions. In the environmental solutions retrofit market, we support Ship Power with our unparalleled sales network and field service organisation. Furthermore, we offer environmental upgrade solutions, such as fuel conversions, that improve the efficiency of installations and minimise emissions. Services' strengths • Long-term relationships with customers and an in-depth understanding of their needs • A complete lifecycle offering • The broadest services offering in the industry • A global service network Services and sustainability Environmental legislation and the need for energy efficiency are currently the main drivers for our customers’ actions towards developing their businesses in a more sustainable way. Wärtsilä Services strives to be a leader in supporting its customers’ efforts to meet and exceed current and future business and sustainability demands. Through continuous innovation, we will continue to provide shipping companies and energy providers with environmentally sound solutions well into the future. Wärtsilä Services conducts its business in a responsible way, and creates added value by providing services from locations in close proximity to its customers, and through offering employment opportunities in local communities. 33 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BUSINESS Solutions for the marine and power industries The essential role for Wärtsilä Services as regards sustainability is to provide a range of services that ensure reliable and optimised operational, environmental, and safety performance. The availability of liquid fuels and gas, together with stricter environmental requirements, creates opportunities for the Services business. Our solutions enable the application of the latest technologies in power plants and ships that are already in operation, thereby allowing them to comply with new legislative requirements. A lifecycle optimised approach guides the creation of our solutions, which are developed in co-operation with the customer. The aim is to improve the economic and environmental performance of existing installations, and to ensure their safety and reliability throughout their operational life. Energy efficiency and maintenance We develop and provide services, such as upgrades, reconditioning, fuel conversions and retrofit solutions, that improve environmental performance, comply with stringent environmental legislation, and extend the operational lifetime of the application. The good maintenance of equipment is a key factor in material effectiveness and energy efficiency. Wärtsilä’s proactive Dynamic Maintenance Planning (DMP) programme includes the planning and scheduling of engine maintenance based on online monitoring of the mechanical condition, performance, system efficiency data, and other indicators from each engine. The data is collected and monitored daily, which enables fault sources to be identified before failure occurs. For existing installations, a set of primary upgrading solutions are available, such as: • Engine, propulsion, or electrical & automation system efficiency upgrade packages that reduce fuel and/or lube-oil consumption, thereby contributing to lower emissions and to the generation of economic benefits • Low NOx solutions that combine various engine modifications designed to find the ideal combination of compression ratio, injection timing and injection rate. The concept has been developed so as to achieve the best possible trade-off between NOx reduction and fuel consumption • The conversion of propeller shaft sealing systems to an anti-pollution version that eliminates the risk of water pollution • Diesel to gas conversions that considerably reduce emissions from the installation. The conversion of heavy fuel oil (HFO) or marine diesel oil (MDO) installations to operate on natural gas offers many benefits, and is becoming an increasingly attractive option throughout the industry For new and existing installations, secondary methods that integrate additional equipment, and which contribute to emissions abatement are available. Wärtsilä Services provides an unparalleled sales channel for such environmental solutions, as well as the field experts needed for their installation and commissioning. Services development in 2013 The overall service market development was stable during 2013. The demand for power plant related services remained at a good level throughout the year, and activity was healthy especially in Africa. The overall marine 34 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BUSINESS service activity was satisfactory. At the end of 2013, Wärtsilä’s installed base totalled 182,000 MW. The marine installed base decreased slightly due to the scrapping of merchant vessels with 2-stroke engines. This development was compensated for by the continued increase in the 4-stroke installed base, particularly in power plant installations. In 2013, net sales from the Services business decreased by 3% to EUR 1,842 million, which represents 40% of Wärtsilä's total net sales. The Services’ sales mix saw an increase in revenues from maintenance service and long-term contracts. Services’ order intake decreased by 4% to EUR 1,885 million. The interest in service agreements continued during 2013. Wärtsilä signed important long-term operations and maintenance agreements with power plant customers in Africa, Australia and the USA. Wärtsilä was also awarded a service agreement by Viking Line for maintaining and servicing the gas-fuelled passenger ferry Viking Grace. PowerTech PowerTech serves both the Ship Power and Power Plants market areas, and comprises R&D and manufacturing for medium-speed engines, supply management and quality, as well as operational excellence. Manufacturing is focused mainly on the assembly, test running, and finishing of products. Our business model, which is strongly connected to a broad network of suppliers, guarantees flexibility in capacity. Being close to the customer is important, as is our focus on quality and the continuous emphasis we place on technology leadership in our R&D activities. The focus on gas, environmental solutions, and Smart Power Generation drives the development of our operations. Our product portfolio consists of medium-speed engines, catalytic systems, and emission monitoring products. Other products sold to the marine markets are a part of Ship Power’s product portfolio. We provide products that are reliable, cost efficient, functional, environmentally compatible, technologically leading, and able to be integrated into solutions or delivered as stand-alone equipment. In the latter part of 2013 Wärtsilä initiated steps to integrate PowerTech into Ship Power’s 4-stroke organisation. The aim is to further strengthen competitiveness and to serve customers more effectively through increased flexibility, faster decision making and the optimal utilisation of resources. The new set up became effective in the beginning of 2014. Wärtsilä's global supplier network supports flexibility in manufacturing Through close co-operation, excellent relations, and the sharing of information with our suppliers, the supply of components and market-conform lead times are secured. Wärtsilä has around 1,200 suppliers globally, and our network is being continuously further developed. Our sourcing strategy is to focus on carefully selected suppliers, with a strong emphasis on performance, innovation, and a presence close to our manufacturing units and joint ventures. Our aim is to continuously develop and strengthen our global supply chain with a strong emphasis on quality and cost competitiveness. PowerTech footprint Wärtsilä's manufacturing model follows market demand to ensure flexible global capacity. The manufacturing of our medium-speed main engines is concentrated at the delivery centres in Vaasa, Finland and Trieste, Italy. As structural changes continue in our end markets, we remain focused on strengthening our presence in key markets, such as China, Russia and Brazil. This enables us to better serve our customers locally, thus 35 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BUSINESS strengthening our position in these emerging markets. Furthermore, local manufacturing allows savings to be achieved in both production and transportation costs. PowerTech currently has four joint ventures globally. In China, the Wärtsilä Qiyao Diesel Company Ltd joint venture produces medium-speed auxiliary engines for local markets. We are also in the process of setting up a new production facility in Zhuhai, China with Yuchai Marine Power Co. The joint venture will focus on assembling medium-speed main engines in order to further strengthen our ability to serve the Chinese markets. In Korea, we manufacture dual-fuel engines for the LNG carrier markets in partnership with Hyundai Heavy Industries Co. In Russia our joint venture with Transmashholding manufacturing multipurpose diesel engines is in the ramp up phase. PowerTech has also initiated the construction of a fully owned manufacturing facility in Brazil to meet increasing market demand, particularly in the offshore segment. This modern multi-purpose diesel generating set packaging and propulsion equipment factory is located in Açu, Brazil, and is scheduled to start operations mid 2014. 36 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SUSTAINABILITY 37 SUSTAINABILITY 78 Wärtsilä's R&D focus 79 Ensuring reliability and safety 38 WÄRTSILÄ AND SUSTAINABILITY 80 Improving efficiency 38 Wärtsilä's sustainability goals 82 Reducing emissions to air 44 The value of sustainable innovation 85 Reducing emissions to water 45 Creating new solutions 86 Long-term research activities 48 Sustainability highlights 2013 87 Environmental performance indicators 55 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 88 Materials, energy and water 55 Roles and responsibilities 91 Emissions and wastes 55 Guiding principles 95 Compliance with legislation 56 Code of conduct 96 Environmental costs and liabilities 59 QEHS Policy 97 PERSONNEL AND SOCIAL 59 Employee practices PERFORMANCE 62 Tools and processes 97 Personnel 62 Management system 103 Occupational health and safety 64 Supply chain management 105 Human and labour rights 64 Local community approach 106 Preventing corruption and bribery 65 Security management 107 Political lobbying 65 Product design principles 107 Competition regulation 66 Stakeholder relations 107 Supplier development and performance 68 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 108 Product liability 69 Customers 108 Customer satisfaction 71 Suppliers 109 OUR FIGURES 71 Employees 109 Economic data 72 Public sector 110 Environmental data 73 Creditors and shareholders 111 Social data 74 Community support 112 REPORT SCOPE 74 Wärtsilä and emission trading 115 Reporting principles 74 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE 116 Independent Assurance Report 77 Lifecycle approach 117 GRI AND UNGC INDEX 37 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SUSTAINABILITY Wärtsilä and sustainability As a global leader in complete lifecycle solutions for the marine and energy markets, Wärtsilä has a key role in providing sustainable solutions for the shipping and energy sectors. We support our solutions globally during their entire lifecycle. This creates the basis for our sustainability work, which is supported by our commitment to responsible business conduct. Our commitment to sustainability and responsible business is based on our mission, vision and strategy, which along with our sustainable development objectives create the framework for developing the company's activities and products. Wärtsilä’s strategy is based on three key growth areas, Smart Power Generation, gas as a fuel and environmental solutions, all of which contribute to a more sustainable future in both the energy and the shipping industry. Our strength is our technological leadership and therefore technology plays a central role in our sustainability work. The Power Plants and Ship Power businesses focus on developing and providing sustainable solutions for the industries in which they operate, whereas Wärtsilä Services has a key role in supporting our solutions and providing the latest technologies for existing installations through upgrades and modernisation packages. Wärtsilä identifies and assesses its sustainability risks on annual basis. Based on the current assessment, the sustainability risks are considered to be at low level. Generally speaking sustainability can be seen as an opportunity for Wärtsilä. Wärtsilä's sustainability goals Wärtsilä’s sustainable development is based on three closely interrelated pillars: economic, environmental and social performance. In the field of sustainable development, Wärtsilä's overriding focus is on the following: • Economic: profitability • Environment: environmentally sound products and services • Social: responsible business conduct The other core areas of sustainability are presented in the picture Wärtsilä’s sustainability approach. Wärtsilä’s strategy for environmental and social responsibility is presented in the Strategy section. Wärtsilä sets corporate level sustainability targets for the core areas. From a sustainability impact point of view, product-related environmental issues are the most significant for Wärtsilä. The use of Wärtsilä’s products has n environmental impact both locally and globally. Other dimensions of sustainability mainly have a local impact. 38 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SUSTAINABILITY Sustainability impact Local Global Economic X Environmental Product related X X Operational X Social X Wärtsilä’s sustainability approach 39 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SUSTAINABILITY Sustainability targets Wärtsilä's targets for reducing GHG and other emissions Target Schedule Status To reduce energy 2016 The Wärtsilä energy audit scheme was completed during 2013. consumption by at least The energy audits identified the savings potential and measures 10% in terms of absolute to improve energy efficiency. During 2013, Wärtsilä continued to consumption (GWh) by conduct energy reviews for identifying energy saving potential for 2016 compared to mean companies outside the audit scope. Energy saving actions are energy consumption in monitored on an annual basis. By 2013, energy savings of 35.6 2005. GWh have been reached, which represents about 76% of the final target. To create solutions for 2015 The operation of a biogas liquefaction plant producing biofuel for enabling medium-sized LNG busses in Oslo has started. The plant can replace diesel in up to to replace liquid fuel 135 busses, and reduce CO2 emissions by 10,000 tonnes a year. infrastructure. A turnkey contract signed for a LNG terminal to be built in Tornio. To enable emission 2015 Since 2004, Wärtsilä has performed gas conversions for more reductions through gas than 23 power plants and one marine installation, totalling 886 conversion projects. MW. In 2013 several customer seminars were held regarding gas conversions as well as one global webinar concentrating on gas as a fuel and gas conversions. To increase total net 2015 Wärtsilä has continued developing fast starting and stopping electrical efficiency in simple capabilities of engines. Significant improvements in both starting and combined cycle power and stopping times have been reached. Thereby also the cyclic plants in cyclic operations. efficiency of the power plants has increased, both in simple and combined cycle mode. Fast start up and loading released for W34 engine based plants. Start to full load now achieved in 2 minutes. Wärtsilä has also developed concepts for minimising the environmental impact depending on the amount of operating cycles per year. This has been achieved by minimising the stand by energy consumption through the utilisation of new technologies and improved engine control systems. Furthermore, major developments have been achieved in ramp up and ramp down rates, enabling optimal fuel economy at transient loads and maximum revenues from reserve markets. 40 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SUSTAINABILITY To influence developing 2015 Wärtsilä has participated in many studies which have assessed dynamic power markets in the value of flexibility for the power systems. Wärtsilä has also order to enable wide scale assessed various power market models and their ability to secure renewable integration. adequate flexibility in the power systems. Wärtsilä has conducted an active dialogue with various stakeholders concerning dynamic power markets. To enable the reduction of 2015 A solution released for pilot sales. Full scale validation and power losses by 3-5% in verification of MV frequency converter will start in first-half of electrical propulsion using 2014, and of MV LLC in second-half of 2014. medium voltage system. To develop performance 2012 Development of LNG carrier energy efficiency concept management solutions for proceeding according to schedule. Concept piloting will be different vessel types executed during 2014. enabling better efficiency of the plant. To develop 10 new Wärtsilä 2015 Global platform roll-out was delayed in 2013, but individual Optimiser solutions enabling solution development continued. Platform development focus customer to optimise the was placed on supporting W3C and other energy efficiency lifecycle performance. advisory applications and services, such as SEEMP reporting as part of Marine Agreements offering development. To reduce GHG emissions 2015 Technology has been tested in the laboratory during 2013. The by 3% through improving release of the new technology is scheduled for 2014. the engine efficiency. To expand the gas portfolio. 2015 LNGPac sold to 8 installations in 2013. To stimulate growth for 2015 Wärtsilä received: LNG-fuelled OSV's. additional orders for LNG powered OSVs in the Gulf of Mexico market additional orders for LNG powered OSVs in the North Sea market additional orders for LNG carriers for global trade repeat order for Oil&Gas FPSO topside power module application. To expand the field of LNG 2015 Orders for vessels for regional trade: applications beyond present vessel types and to facilitate dual-fuel engines, propulsion equipment and cargo handling LNG re-engining. package for Evergas. Order for passenger ferries: Societe des Traversies Quebec passenger ferries first gas fuelled ferry for a domestic route in Denmark for Danish municipality Samsø Kommune. To deliver environmental 2015 During 2013 Wärtsilä has focused mostly on consultancy projects and energy efficiency related to reduction of air and water pollution. Altogether over 10 consultancy projects: 10 environmental and energy efficiency consultancy projects have projects. been sold. 41 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SUSTAINABILITY In addition to the targets presented above, Wärtsilä has set internal sales targets for its environmental products. Wärtsilä's targets for reducing the emissions to the water Target Schedule Status To develop 2015 The dry concepts for high efficiency combined cycle solutions have been further dry developed with promising results. The dry concept for Flexicycle has been concepts for developed and optimised. Cost and performance has been verified with high-efficiency information from latest Flexicycle projects. Efficient steam turbine combined cycle performance has also been verified in delivered project. solutions. Wärtsilä's targets for improving the overall performance Target Schedule Status To conduct 3 lifecycle 2015 The potential product categories for the lifecycle assessment have assessments. been reviewed. First lifecycle assessment started in 2013. Wärtsilä's social targets Target Schedule Status To make Wärtsilä a Continuous Open vacancies filled: 54% internal selections and 46% external workplace where all selections. employees have the opportunity to show 4.1 trainings days/employee during 2013. their best and develop their career – to build a company of equal opportunities. Target 2013: More than 50% of the open vacancies* filled from 42 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SUSTAINABILITY internal applicant pool including promotions and lateral moves. Target 2013: An average of 5 training days/employee per year. To develop a new way 2015 The model for supplier assessment and development was reviewed of working in supplier in 2012, and the process has been updated and applied in 2013. relations, safeguarding As a result of this review, periodical assessment of key suppliers is Wärtsilä's sustainability now required. commitment. In 2013, a Supplier Handbook was issued and communicated to Target 2013: suppliers better addressing Wärtsilä´s requirements to suppliers. A Implementation of noteable part of this handbook describes sustainability related revised model for requirements for suppliers. supplier assessment and development. Development discussion Continuous 91% of all personnel have completed development discussions in coverage 100%. 2013. To implement certified Continuous 3 new OHSAS 18001 certified companies and 2 new ISO 14001 EHS management certified company during 2013. The management system coverage systems in all is presented in the management system section. subsidiaries (excluding purely sales offices). To reach the long-term Continuous In 2013, Wärtsilä continued improving, consolidating and spreading goal for zero lost time the safety culture. Over 6,900 employees completed the 4-hour einjuries. learning focusing on Wärtsilä's Zero Injury approach. The positive trend continued, the lost-time injury frequency rate was 4.4 compared to the previous year's 5.5. To ensure Code of 2013 At the end of 2013 16,950 employees covering 91% of total Conduct commitment employees has successfully participated in the training. throughout the organisation. Target 2012-2013: 95% coverage of participation in Code of Conduct learning module. To reinforce the Anti2014 The Anti-Corruption ABC e-learning course was tailored and corruption/broker launched first in English and later in 10 additional languages both training of key as online and offline versions in 2013. employee groups and obtaining anti43 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SUSTAINABILITY corruption A total of 11,321 employees had completed the e-learning course commitments from all by the end of 2013. key employees trained. Target 2012: To identify the key employees (all sales personnel, company presidents and controllers) to be included in the training by each business. Target 2013: Training of key employees to achieve 85% completion rate. Target 2014: Training of all employees to achieve 80% completion rate. To conduct three 2015 Wärtsilä supported the building of school in South Sudan. The community support school was inaugurated in August 2013. Altogether 2 projects projects by 2015. conducted. Wärtsilä ParticipAid framework was launched and first pilot company utilised the framework in UAE. To improve well-being 2015 Analysis done, action plan agreed, and implementation in progress. at work and increase Examples of actions taken: productivity by reducing • Individual health situation analysis every second year the sickness day cost. • Co-operation with health care service provider. Target 2012: To conduct analysis and action plans for improvement in Germany, Finland, Spain, Norway and Italy. * Open vacancies in job levels 3-6 44 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SUSTAINABILITY The value of sustainable innovation Our most important contribution to sustainability is to supply environmentally sound solutions and services, which enable our customers to develop their business in a sustainable way. This requires us to continuously invest in technology development and in an ongoing search for new solutions that are more efficient and environmentally sound. Investing in research and product development benefits Wärtsilä's customers as well as the environment, both in the short-term and over a longer time span. The growth in the world's energy needs, combined with increasingly stringent environmental requirements and the scarcity of natural resources create a challenging operating climate for companies in Wärtsilä's line of business. Wärtsilä has responded to these challenges by improving the energy efficiency of its products while simultaneously reducing their emissions. As part of sustainable innovation approach Wärtsilä has also assessed the benefits of its existing solutions on the system level, e.g. for power systems. Wärtsilä gives strong priority to developing and applying technologies that reduce the environmental impact of its products. In order to meet the needs of our customers, to be prepared for future requirements and to remain an industrial frontrunner, Wärtsilä's product development must be at all times innovative, determined and willing to explore new technologies. We strive to develop environmentally sound products and solutions across a wide front, including technologies related to efficiency improvement, the reduction of gaseous and liquid emissions, waste reduction, noise abatement as well as effluent and ballast water treatment. With a proactive approach to meeting future demands, Wärtsilä has developed both primary and secondary abatement technologies and broadened the range of usable fuels. Key features of Wärtsilä's environmentally sound solutions include: • Reliability, safety and long lifetime • Solutions to reduce emissions • Alternatives to heavy fuel oil • Flexibility in fuel use • Solutions to maximise efficiency with lowest lifecycle cost • Solutions to minimise water consumption • Optimisation of vessel design and operations By combining the key features and by understanding system level benefits of our offering, we are able to provide solutions for enabling the development of sustainable shipping and sustainable power systems. Creating new solutions Enabling gas operations in ships Wärtsilä's dual-fuel (DF) technology offers both flexibility in fuel choice and environmental advantages when operated in gas mode. Emissions of CO2, NOx, SOx and particulates are significantly reduced, while the DF technology provides the possibility to run the engine on liquid fuel should gas not be available. It also allows a choice of fuel based on cost and availability. The use of DF technology with gas as a fuel option is an optimal solution for vessels that spend a lot of time in ECA zones, and for vessels that carry gas with them, such as LNG carriers. Wärtsilä is developing a complete portfolio of medium-speed gas engines and related fuel 45 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SUSTAINABILITY handling systems for LNG tankers and gas-fuelled ships. In 2013, Wärtsilä introduced its 2-stroke dual-fuel engine technology. The Danish tanker operator Terntank Redri A/S selected Wärtsilä’s new 2-stroke, low pressure, dual-fuel engine to power their two new tankers. Enabling LNG as fuel on LPG carriers combined with an onboard cargo handling system lowers fuel consumption Wärtsilä is developing a combined LNG fuel and cargo handling system for Liquefied Petroleum Gas carriers. The system utilises the cold energy from the LNG fuel to liquefy the cargo boil off vapor during the voyage. The expected emission reductions from the auxiliary engines alone are in the region of 3.5-4.5 tons/day/ship. Wärtsilä has also developed a solution to utilise associated gases, previously considered as waste, to be converted into a valuable resource of energy. This solution is based on patented Wärtsilä Gas Reformer technology. Developing groundbreaking technology to cut emissions Wärtsilä and ABB Turbo Systems are co-operating in a joint programme to develop a new and groundbreaking application for two-stage turbocharging on large diesel engines. This advanced engine technology, together with two-stage turbocharging, offers significant advantages in fuel consumption and engine emissions. In this programme, Wärtsilä is focusing on developing an advanced engine technology, which with the turbocharger, is able to reach the highest possible performance, thus creating a cost-effective commercial solution for its customers. ABB Turbo Systems is delivering the turbocharging technology with defined performance parameters in terms of airflow, pressure ratios and efficiency. The technology will be implemented in specific market segments where lifecycle costs are of the highest importance. In 2012, first industrialised engine was delivered from the Vaasa factory where the engine's performance, as well as the manufacturing process, were validated. In order to fully utilise the potential of two-stage turbocharging, Wärtsilä has further developed technologies that enable engine optimisation over a vide load range. Technologies such as variable valve and fuel systems have been developed, and during 2013 plans for industrialising these technologies were initiated. By ensuring optimum engine operation at part load Wärtsilä's customers can further reduce improve their operational costs. Enabling liquefied biogas to be available for public transportation Wärtsilä delivered the first biogas liquefaction plant to the Municipality of Oslo in November 2013. The production of liquid biogas commenced at start-up, indicating a success first installation of the technology. The control of the system is fully automated, which is an important step developing a fully commercial product for industrial owners. The produced bio-LNG will be used in 135 city-buses, which reduces the CO2 emissions by approximately 10,000 tons annually. Based on experience from the first delivery, extensive work has been carried out to standardise the biogas liquefaction technology and product. Wärtsilä currently offers three different capacity classes adapted to marked needs. Standardisation is vital for reducing cost and improving competitiveness. Enabling ship power production from captured recovered emissions of Volatile Organic Compounds Wärtsilä continues to improve the efficiency of power production by utilising ship based VOC recovery systems. This is achieved by closely integrating the VOC recovery plant with a dedicated combustion and power unit. The systems can be utilised effectively on shuttle tankers, floating storage units and oil terminals. 46 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SUSTAINABILITY They are designed to recover up to 100% of the VOC emissions, and enable full usage of the recovered products replacing HFO and diesel. Enabling re-liquefaction of LPG compositions from shale gas and with improved efficiency. Very Large Gas Carriers, VLGC`s, are the largest gas carriers transporting LPG. Their typical size is 84,000 cu.m. These ships are equipped with reliquefaction plants to handle the boil off from the cargo tanks. Wärtsilä has developed a new generation of reliquefaction plants with improved efficiency. The plants are capable of handling high ethane content propane compositions, which is a new requirement related to trading of LPG from US shale gas process plants. The new developed process cycle from Wärtsilä allows up to 8-9% ethane in the LPG, compared to a maximum of 5% previously. The plant enables a 15-20% reduction in power consumption, with a direct reduction in the fuel consumption of the auxiliary engines. Expanding fuel flexibility Wärtsilä's power plant solutions are fuel flexible. The plants can be designed as multi-fuel plants and can even be converted from one fuel to another during the plant's lifecycle. Wärtsilä sees an increasing demand for large scale multi-fuel power plant projects, especially in those markets where a natural gas infrastructure is under development. Wärtsilä multi-fuel power plants can provide electricity from day one with various liquid fuels, and then switch to gas when it becomes available. This approach maximises the plants' availability and efficiency over the lifecycle. Wärtsilä is devoting more resources to the use of alternative fuels as part of its proactive approach to providing cost-effective, flexible, and environmentally sound solutions for its customers. Wärtsilä is studying and testing different fuel sources, such as vegetable oils, animal fats and emulsions, in its fuel laboratory. Recently Wärtsilä has tested engines running on tyre based pyrolysis oil, oil from a rock burning refinery process, different kinds of condensates coming from oil and gas wells, jatropha oil, fish oil, chicken oil, traditional animal fats, and different kinds of synthetic oils. In addition Wärtsilä has tested and developed solutions for operating engines on condensates, which enables them to operate on locally available fuels in oil fields and to utilise flare gases, thereby reducing greenhouse gas emissions. In 2013, Wärtsilä began constructing the world’s largest tri-fuel power plant, IPP3 in Jordan. The plant will initially run on heavy fuel oil, but as soon as the new gas infrastructure has been built and gas is available, the plant will switch to gas with minimal modifications. Enabling a global transition to a more sustainable electricity infrastructure Wärtsilä develops its products and market approach to offer high value solutions for a more modern and sustainable energy infrastructure. Wärtsilä's flexible power solutions make it possible to install much larger quantities of variable, non-dispatchable wind and solar power capacity to the electrical systems without jeopardizing system stability. The same flexible power plant solutions offer unique value in grid contingency situations where dynamic features, such as extremely fast starting (<5 minutes to full load), loading and stopping, are of paramount importance. Additional benefits include a high energy efficiency level over a wide load range, multifuel operation, no water usage, and the ability to locate the power generation facility within the load pockets, i.e. in cities, even in California where they have the most stringent emission requirements. Combining wind power with Wärtsilä's dynamic gas power plants offers noteable potential for dramatically reducing CO2 emissions worldwide. In order to ensure the security of the national power supply even in an emergency, Wärtsilä is delivering a grid reserve power plant for Estonia during 2013-2014. The plant will be able to start even in a scenario where all 47 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SUSTAINABILITY power has completely been lost, and will reach full output in less than 10 minutes – either running on gas or light fuel oil. Enabling efficient performance without water consumption Standard Wärtsilä power plants are equipped with closed loop cooling systems. The system enables efficient performance without water consumption. This feature is available also for the Wärtsilä Flexicycle [TM] plants, where waste heat, in form of steam, is used for additional power generation. Continuous work is ongoing in order to increase the electrical efficiency without water consumption. The Dominican Republic received a major addition to its grid in 2013, as Wärtsilä commissioned a multi-fuel Flexicycle power plant. Despite extreme tropical conditions, the power plant will efficiently cater for the needs of both the national utility and a closely located gold mine. In this power plant the steam turbine is cooled by cooling towers. The same plant technology is available with closed loop cooling system for places where water availability is limited. 48 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SUSTAINABILITY Sustainability highlights 2013 Q1 10.1. The new P-63 FPSO vessel, featuring Wärtsilä 50DF dual-fuel engines, the first such 13.1. Maiden Voyage of M/S Viking Grace, the world's largest LNG-fuelled passenger vessel, ship to produce more than 100 powered by Wärtsilä. MWe of power with gas engines, completed the full 100% load tests. 4.2. Wärtsilä contracted to supply 8.2. Wärtsilä's Sustainability 18.3. Wärtsilä launches a 220MW natural gas fuelled report 2012 published as part of GasReformer product for turning power plant in Oregon, USA, to the Annual Report. oil production gas into energy. accommodate rapidly changing input levels of renewable energy sources to the grid. 18.3. Wärtsilä Diversity Initiative launched. 49 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SUSTAINABILITY Q2 12.4. Wärtsilä 34DF dual-fuel engines received certification of emission standard compliance 15.4. Wärtsilä contracted to supply total integrated solutions for new series of the most from the US Environmental environmentally sustainable LNG Protection Agency. carriers in the world for a Danish operator. 15.4. Wärtsilä Propulsion Wuxi 6-9.5. Wärtsilä GasReformer 16.5. Wärtsilä AQUARIUS EC exceeds 800 days with zero Lost product was recognised by the Ballast Water Management Time Injuries. Offshore Technology Conference System received the IMO Final with the 2013 Spotlight award for Approval status. reducing offshore oil and gas sector operating costs while benefiting the environment. 22.5. Wärtsilä contracted to 28.-29.5. Wärtsilä discussed 4.6. “10 years of LNG operation” supply Russia's largest engine sustainable shipping with key ceremony at Nor-Shipping in power plant, running on natural stakeholders in Europe in two Oslo. gas. events in the European parliament and with the members of the Sustainable Shipping Initiative. 50 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SUSTAINABILITY Q3 2.7. Wärtsilä, together with CEVA Logistics, were winners of the Lean & Green Star Award 2013 10.7. The largest power plant running exclusively on natural gas engines on the African continent, for their successful efforts to in Sasolburg, South Africa, was reduce CO2 emissions by 60 per inaugurated. cent at Wärtsilä’s warehousing operations. 25.7. Wärtsilä receives ‘Excellent 6.8. Wärtsilä Brazil listed as one 2.9. Wärtsilä Annual Report 2012 Partner 2013’ award from of the 30 best companies to work ranks high in Report Watch's Samsung Heavy Industries. for in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, global competition. according to Great Place to Work® in 2013. 27.9. Wärtsilä Anti-corruption eLearning course made available in 11 languages. 51 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SUSTAINABILITY Q4 9.10. Wärtsilä launches new long life seal ring for use with Environmentally Acceptable 9.10. Wärtsilä 20DF, another ECA compliant dual-fuel engine released to the US market. Lubricants (EAL). 10.10. Wärtsilä Power Plants' 17.10. Crisis Management 18.10. South Sudanese school two technical papers awarded at Initiative (CMI) arranged a fund inaugurated with Wärtsilä Power-Gen Asia 2013 and the raising dinner at Wärtsilä. support. Asian Power Awards 2013. 29.10. The first Wärtsilä closed 15.11. Wärtsilä Valves Ltd., Hull, 18.11. United States Coast loop scrubber, installed on received OHSAS18001 Guard grants AMS acceptance Containership VII, received a certification. for Wärtsilä’s AQUARIUS®UV compliance certificate. Ballast Water Management System. 52 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SUSTAINABILITY 28.11. Wärtsilä employee 2.12. New Terntank tankers will 4.12. Wärtsilä launches 2-speed satisfaction survey, MyVoice feature the first recently marine gearbox to significantly 2013, response rate hits a new introduced Wärtsilä 2-stroke, low reduce fuel consumption. record of over 78%. pressure, dual-fuel engines. 4.12. Customer webinar 8.12. Manufacturing site in 16.12. Wärtsilä AQUARIUS®EC Flexibility brings value in energy Grunnavågen, Norway exceeds Ballast Water Management market . 2000 days of zero Lost Time System granted IMO Type Injuries. Approval. 31.12. The annual Lost Time Injury frequency index reached record low again. 53 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SUSTAINABILITY Wärtsilä in sustainable development indices FTSE4Good Index OMX GES Sustainability Nordic Index & OMX GES Sustainability Finland Index ECPI Global Carbon Index & ECPI Global ESG Best Wärtsilä has also been rated a Prime company by in Class Equity index oekom research 54 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SUSTAINABILITY Sustainability management Wärtsilä applies global guiding principles such as the Quality, Environmental, Health & Safety policy (QEHS policy) and the Code of Conduct, which together with the company's values ensure a harmonised way of working towards sustainable development. The Corporate Manual includes, in addition to those mentioned above, other policies and directives, a description of the company's operating procedures, responsibilities and the management system structure. Wärtsilä's governance and risk management principles, as well as the main sustainability risks, are described in the Governance-section. Roles and responsibilities Wärtsilä's Board of Management has the overall responsibility for sustainability performance. The Board of Management approves the guiding principles and reviews the content on a regular basis. The Board of Management defines sustainability targets and monitors performance against these set targets. Performance is reviewed in connection to the management reviews on both Wärtsilä's Board of Management and Business Management Team levels. Wärtsilä's sustainability function is responsible for providing the necessary information to management, identifying development needs as well as for coordinating sustainability programmes and preparing instructions. The function co-operates closely with the Businesses and the supporting functions such as Human Resources, Legal, Compliance, Quality, Wärtsilä Supply Management and Real Estate. It also collects and consolidates sustainability data from the subsidiaries. Wärtsilä has clearly defined responsibilities supported by necessary instructions and training. This training covers for example the Code of Conduct, anti-corruption as well as environmental and occupational health and safety issues. Wärtsilä monitors sustainability performance by utilising the information provided by various sustainability tools and activities such as internal audits and compliance processes. Guiding principles Wärtsilä Corporate Manual gives a brief description of the Wärtsilä way of working and contains the core policies, guidelines and instructions that are applicable to the entire Wärtsilä Group. These policies complement the Code of Conduct which set out, among other things, the requirement to maintain the highest legal and ethical standards in the Wärtsilä business practices. 55 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SUSTAINABILITY Voluntary commitments Wärtsilä participates in the Sustainable Shipping Initiative and the UN Global Compact initiative. Wärtsilä has also signed an agreement in 2008, whereby the Finnish industry voluntarily endeavours to use energy more efficiently. Wärtsilä North America Inc. has joined the Customs Trade Partnership Against Terrorism (C-TPAT) agreement signed in 2003. Wärtsilä Code of Conduct Introduction Wärtsilä is committed to carrying out its business in a sustainable way. In order to promote the long-term interests of Wärtsilä and its stakeholders, the company strives to maintain the highest legal and ethical standards in all its business practices. Each employee is expected to act responsibly and with integrity and honesty and to comply with this code and its underlying policies and instructions. Compliance with laws All business and other activities of Wärtsilä shall be carried out strictly in compliance with all applicable laws and under the principles of good corporate citizenship in each country where such activities take place. Each employee is expected to comply with the requirements of those laws and regulations that apply to Wärtsilä's operations and to his/her job and with the Wärtsilä principles of good corporate citizenship. Openness Wärtsilä promotes openness and transparency as well as continuous dialogue with its stakeholders, including customers and other business partners, shareholders, personnel, authorities, local communities and the 56 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SUSTAINABILITY media. Stock exchange rules and competitive considerations may, however, in some cases restrict such openness and transparency. Wärtsilä strives to be honest and accurate when communicating with its stakeholders, and also Wärtsilä employees shall make their statements in accordance with this principle. Respect for human and labour rights Wärtsilä supports and respects the protection of human rights as defined in the United Nation's Universal Declaration on Human Rights. No employee is allowed to take any action that violates these human rights principles, either directly or indirectly. Wärtsilä supports basic labour rights as defined by the International Labour Organization. In this respect, Wärtsilä upholds the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. In the case that these rights are restricted by local law, Wärtsilä endeavours to offer its employees alternative means to present their views. Wärtsilä does not accept any form of forced or compulsory labour or the use of child labour. Fair employment practices Wärtsilä promotes freedom from discrimination based on race, ethnic or national origin, colour, gender, family status, sexual orientation, creed, disability, age, political beliefs or other characteristics protected by law. Wärtsilä fosters equal opportunity and our employees are selected and treated on the basis of their abilities and merits. Wärtsilä does not accept any form of discrimination, harassment or bullying from its employees. Occupational health and safety Wärtsilä endeavours to create hazard-free workplaces for its employees, contractors and others working in various locations by applying high standards of occupational health and safety. Wärtsilä strives to assure the safety of its products and solutions through its world-class product and solution development processes. Each employee is responsible for complying with the safety instructions, for using personal protection equipment when required and for reporting on any shortcomings regarding safety instructions or protection measures. Conflicts of interest Wärtsilä expects full loyalty from its employees. Employees must avoid situations where their personal interests may conflict with those of Wärtsilä. This means, for instance, that employees are not allowed to accept gifts or entertainment from a stakeholder, except a gift or entertainment of a minor value given on an occasional basis, providing it does not create a conflict of interest situation. Anti-corruption No Wärtsilä company or any of its employees may, directly or indirectly, promise, offer, pay, solicit or accept bribes or kickbacks of any kind, including money, benefits, services or anything of value. Such payments and favours may be considered bribery, which violates local legislation and internationally recognised principles for combatting corruption and bribery. 57 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SUSTAINABILITY Environment Wärtsilä's target is to develop and produce for its customers environmentally advanced solutions and services that fulfil essential requirements, such as low emissions and high efficiency. Efforts are made to achieve sustainable development by means of raw material selection, processes, products, wastes and emissions through the use of the latest technical advances. Each employee shall comply with the policies and instructions regarding environmental protection. Relationship with authorities and local communities Wärtsilä maintains constructive co-operation with authorities and regulatory bodies, at both local and international levels. Wärtsilä seeks to play a role in serving the needs of the local communities whenever possible. Innovation and protection of proprietary information Wärtsilä supports and encourages innovation by its employees in all areas of its activities. Wärtsilä's intellectual property is one of its most valuable assets, and the patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets and other proprietary information of Wärtsilä must be protected. At the same time, each Wärtsilä employee must respect the intellectual property rights of others. Accuracy of accounting records Wärtsilä accounting records must be accurate and reliable in all material respects. Unrecorded funds are prohibited. The records must not contain any false, misleading, or artificial entries. Competition and fair dealing Competition laws aim to protect consumers and businesses against unfair business practices. Each employee shall comply with those laws. Actions such as participation in cartels, abuse of a dominant position in the market place or the exchange of price or other commercial information between competitors are prohibited. Wärtsilä employees should be sensitive to competition concerns when attending occasions where competitors, or potential competitors, can be present. Anti-fraud Wärtsilä does not tolerate fraudulent behaviour or activities, such as embezzlement, fraud or theft. Such violations will lead to immediate termination of employment and are subject to criminal sanctions. Implementation Wärtsilä takes an active approach to the application of this code and promotes its implementation through the effective communication of its contents to employees. Wärtsilä monitors the application of this code internally. Suppliers and business partners are an important and integral part of the total value chain of the products and services of Wärtsilä. They are expected to conduct their businesses in compliance with the same high legal and ethical standards and business practices as Wärtsilä. Wärtsilä promotes the application of this code by monitoring the actions of its suppliers and business partners. 58 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SUSTAINABILITY In the case that questions arise regarding the interpretation of, or compliance with, this code, Wärtsilä Legal Affairs should be contacted. The application of the code will be reviewed from time to time by the Board of Management, which may decide on necessary revisions or interpretations. Reporting violations Any Wärtsilä employee becoming aware of a potential violation of this code must contact his or her superior or Wärtsilä Legal Affairs. The president of the respective subsidiary must be informed, unless he or she is party to the alleged violation, in which case the Group General Counsel of Wärtsilä Corporation must be contacted. Wärtsilä will investigate all reported matters with discretion. Wärtsilä shall not take any adverse actions as a result of such reporting against any employee reporting in good faith what he or she believes to be a violation of this code. Sanctions Violation of this code may lead to a warning, the termination of employment and the payment of damages. Additionally, certain violations of a criminal nature can lead to criminal sanctions, such as fines or imprisonment. Wärtsilä Quality, Environmental and Health & Safety Policy We provide lifecycle power solutions and services which meet or exceed our customers and other stakeholders' expectations being: • Reliable and safe • Efficient and Environmentally sound • Compliant with the applicable legal requirements and regulations We continually improve our performance and reduce adverse environmental impact, through objectives set by management, to satisfy our customers and other stakeholders. Our business premises provide a safe and healthy working environment for our employees and partners. Our skilled organisation acts as a responsible global citizen. Approved by Wärtsilä Board of Management 15 March, 2012. 59 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SUSTAINABILITY Employee Practices Wärtsilä's corporate policy on equal opportunities and fair employment practices creates a common framework for employee practices in all Wärtsilä companies and contains the following sections: Equal opportunities, Human and labor rights, Well-being at work, No harassment accepted, Remuneration, Implementation and Violations. Equal opportunities Wärtsilä is committed to fostering equal employment opportunities, in which individuals are selected and treated on the basis of their job-relevant merits and abilities and are given equal opportunities within Wärtsilä. Wärtsilä's policy is to treat all employees equally on the basis of their merits, without discriminating them on the basis of their race, ethnic or national origin, color, gender, family status, sexual orientation, creed, disability, age or political beliefs. Employee benefits and remuneration The basic principle for remuneration in the company is to pay the same wage for the same job and the same performance. The salary is meant to be just, fair and encouraging. Differences in individual salaries are based on how demanding the job is, on differences between competence, work experience and performance and not on gender. In general, temporary and part time employees are offered the same benefits as permanent employees. In some countries, eligibility is linked to months or years of service – such differences being typically based on collective agreements according to local legislation. Individual salaries are reviewed once a year in connection with the performance review and in the framework of annual salary increase guidance. The company may pay employees an annual bonus in accordance with company rules and based on separate bonus agreements. Based on financial and individual performance, bonus outcome is determined once a year. Employees may be paid a spot bonus based on exceptional performance. Benefits, such as a company car, service year awards and well-being, fitness and health services, are planned and implemented locally taking into account both company guidelines and national practices. Minimum notice period Wärtsilä complies with European Union directives, local acts of co-operation in the companies and corporations, collective agreements and equivalent regulations concerning consultation and local bargaining. Concerning the termination of employment, Wärtsilä respects national labor union agreements and employment legislation. In the case of occurrences having significant business or social implications, such as personnel redundancies, the transfer in full or part of production facility location, structural changes, as well as transnational effects, the EWC Working Committee and/or local employee representatives are consulted before decisions about such matters are made or, if that is not possible, as soon as possible. The objective is to provide information about any significant operational change at the time of planning. 60 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SUSTAINABILITY Competency management Wärtsilä's Competency Management and Development frame is a structured way to carry out long-term competence development plans within our businesses and functions. Wärtsilä has defined sixteen global job families consisting of generic job descriptions for seven different demand levels. In the job description, the most critical competencies of the job are defined and used as a basis for individual position competence requirements. Typically in the connection of annual development discussion, individual competencies are assessed against the job requirements and position profile. Competence assessment of our employees and a comparison with competence targets allow us to analyse competence gaps and create development plans accordingly. All training and development activities in Wärtsilä strive to develop, maintain and renew the short and long term skills and competencies required to fulfill our strategy. Having the right competencies available at the right time and being able to continuously adapt to a changing business environment are critical success factors for Wärtsilä. Consultation and information procedures in Group companies Wärtsilä's procedures for consultation and information within the Group are arranged in each country according to local legislation. Wärtsilä's Code of Conduct calls for ongoing and open dialogue between the company's management and employee representatives through co-determination bodies, and employees are kept informed of both the Group's situation and that of their particular company. Company management and personnel engage in an open discussion also in those countries where there are no formal co-determination bodies as such. Regular briefings for personnel are an integral part of the operating procedures of Wärtsilä companies. Employee participation in decision-making also extends to occupational health and safety (OHS). Most Wärtsilä units have an OHS committee with representatives from all personnel groups. In addition to Wärtsilä's procedures for consultation and information for employees at the local level, the European Works Council (EWC) handles issues that affect at least two companies located in the EU and the Group as a whole. The EWC and its working committee play an active role in considering and pursuing corporate level issues. Dialogue at the individual level is conducted through development discussions, which are held at least once a year. The subjects covered in these discussions range from the Group's and business unit's targets to the individual's job description, competence development, career alternatives, personal targets and feedback. Development discussions are by definition held with all employees. Employees are able to have a direct impact on the company's operations and their development by making suggestions. Each Wärtsilä employee can offer suggestions for improvement in operations either through the continuous improvement process (CIP) or by submitting private initiatives. CIP-proposals are discussed jointly and need a common decision to be put into effect. Individual initiatives are evaluated by experts within the company and, if found to be feasible, are put into effect. Another global channel for new ideas is the MyDea tool in the Idea Management portal via which new ideas concerning products and solutions, operational development and business are proposed and channeled to the nominated substance owners for comments and further reviews. Business performance updates are given to all personnel on a regular basis in connection with Wärtsilä interim reporting. The company intranet Compass'' and the employee magazine Wattsup'' are the common global channels for internal communication. 61 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SUSTAINABILITY Recognition of excellent performance Wärtsilä encourages its employees to be innovative by granting an annual Technology and Innovation Award either to an individual or to a team for the best technical innovation of the year. The award criteria are that the invention must be innovative and environmentally sound, it must represent leading technology, improve a product or process and offer potential for cost savings. Wärtsilä also grants annually a Customer Care Award for a team or individual who actively participated in the initiatives leading to development of business operations, quality improvements in how we serve and partner with customers, customer satisfaction or Wärtsilä values demonstration. Tools and processes Wärtsilä utilises various tools and processes to manage and to further develop its sustainability. The key tools for sustainability are presented in the table below. Wärtsilä tools for Sustainability Basic principles Systems and Others processes Vision, Mission and Strategy Quality Sustainability target Management setting. System Corporate Governance Environmental Sustainability Management management reviews. System Corporate policies and principles: Code of Conduct, QEHS Occupational Business policy, Policy on Equal Opportunities and Fair Employment Health and development tools: Practices, Anti-Corruption Policy, Compliance Reporting Policy Safety Due diligence, etc. Management Environmental System surveys. Corporate Manual Supplier Stakeholder dialogue. Management System Corporate requirements for suppliers Risk Sustainability management reporting. process 62 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SUSTAINABILITY Wärtsilä's management system Wärtsilä's management system aims to generate added value for Wärtsilä's various stakeholders, achieve the company's strategic objectives, support sustainability performance, manage operating risks and enhance Wärtsilä's performance through the continuous improvement process. The system includes a range of tools, such as systems for managing quality, the company's environmental responsibilities and occupational health and safety. Management reviews are conducted at various levels of the organisation to monitor the effectiveness of the system, the achievement of targets and the development of key performance indicators. Wärtsilä's processes are developed in the Businesses, the Business lines, the Division and the Functions. These development projects are governed by the Wärtsilä Controllers’ meeting and OD Portfolio Management Team, Wärtsilä Presidents’ Quality Review and Quality Reviews and the Functional Management Teams. Wärtsilä's Board of Management is responsible for defining the company's main strategies, principles and policies and for the management system itself. The Board of Management regularly monitors the effectiveness and performance of the management system. Responsibilities are distributed to the line organisation at all levels of the company, and the management system defines a specific sphere of responsibility for each Wärtsilä employee. Work groups for developing the management system are appointed at the corporate level and in most Wärtsilä subsidiaries. At the Group level, the following work groups coordinate the development of product and operational issues: Work Focus Main tasks group Wärtsilä Quality Overall responsibility for Wärtsilä quality, quality process improvement and Presidents’ achievement of strategic quality goals. Quality Review Wärtsilä Strategic Overall responsibility for Wärtsilä's operational development and the Controllers’ Operational operational development plans and, governing the work of IM and Process Meeting development development. Business Quality Support and oversee quality development based on customer perception of Line Quality our quality and full end-to-end life cycle view. Platform for focusing on the Reviews key improvement areas with biggest impact to our customers. Cross functional decision making to increase efficiency and shorten resolution lead time. Wärtsilä OD Operational Operational development road map, targets and guidelines based on Portfolio development business strategies and targets and overall operational development Management process responsibility for the approval of the Wärtsilä Controllers’ Team. Team Cross-divisional operational development alignment and harmonisation. Wärtsilä Environmental, Overall responsibility for Wärtsilä EHS, EHS management system EHS health and development, corporate level overall responsibility for Wärtsilä quality Management safety (EHS) measuring and target setting and monitoring of legislation developments. Team 63 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SUSTAINABILITY Management systems Proportion of Wärtsilä companies with certification ISO 9001 79% ISO 14001 65% ISO 18001 62% Supply chain management Wärtsilä has defined its processes for choosing suppliers, determining their requirements and developing the supply relationship. Wärtsilä offers its suppliers a partnership that strengthens the competitiveness of both parties. A precondition of this partnership is an open and continuous dialogue. Partnership thinking is also applied in Wärtsilä's research and development activities, where the company often collaborates with universities and key suppliers. Wärtsilä's supplier requirements address both general features and issues relating to quality, product-specific requirements, environmental management, occupational health and safety, social responsibility and legal compliance. These requirements are included in standard supply contracts. Wärtsilä controls regularly that suppliers comply with these requirements by using performance indicators and audits. Suppliers must demonstrate their compliance with these requirements in order to receive approved supplier status. The main priorities in Wärtsilä's supplier evaluations are supplier selection, conformance with requirements and performance reviews. Wärtsilä assesses and manages its suppliers through its Supplier Management System. Wärtsilä regularly conducts supplier evaluations. These are divided into three categories: pre-assessment, auditing and performance review. A pre-assessment is made of potential new suppliers before the supplier relationship begins. Audits are conducted for new suppliers and for suppliers whose performance does not meet Wärtsilä's requirements. Performance reviews are carried out to identify and solve deviations from requirements. In the evaluation of a supplier, Wärtsilä focuses on several critical indicators in which Wärtsilä expects the suppliers to have high standards and performance: compliance with relevant legislation; environmental, occupational health and safety and quality management; process mapping, risk management; quality plans and social performance. Local community approach Wärtsilä aims to contribute towards the well-being of local communities in which the company is present. This can be reached for example by creating employment, by paying taxes and social dues, by providing training and education to employees, by co-operating with local stakeholders and by supporting local development. 64 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SUSTAINABILITY The guiding principle of Wärtsilä's Code of Conduct is to promote openness and good interaction with its stakeholders locally. This applies as much to the families of personnel, our neighbours, educational institutions and the media as to local authorities and officials. The methods used towards this end include Open Door days, press briefings and different modes of communication for different target groups. As a truly international company, Wärtsilä has delivered solutions to more than 160 countries. Wärtsilä supports its solutions globally during their entire lifecycle, often spanning up to 30 years. Thus, Wärtsilä can at times be present in countries facing various uprisings, ethnic conflicts, area disputes or violations of human rights. Conducting business locally emphasises the importance of responsible business practices. Governments and the international community define the proper framework for companies to conduct their business. Wärtsilä complies with relevant legislation and international conventions. Wärtsilä complies with all relevant guidelines of the OECD and the International Chamber of Commerce and with the sanctions set by the United Nations and the European Union, by supporting their implementation. In addition, the Wärtsilä Code of Conduct applies to all Wärtsilä employees. We are committed to sustainable development and responsible business conduct, and we promote the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact within the sphere of our influence. Wärtsilä's impact on employment, the public sector and the company's activities for charitable purposes are described in the Economic Performance section of this report. Measures to evaluate the impacts on local communities in case of operational changes of Wärtsilä subsidiaries are determined case by case. Security management Wärtsilä has a corporate security policy and different guidelines, which incorporate human rights considerations and international best practices. Wärtsilä’s security management principles and strategies are reviewed and analysed in the Corporate Security Management Committee (CSMC). CSMC consists of business representatives, security and risk management professionals and is chaired by the Executive Vice President. Wärtsilä security risk management actions are reported to the Board of Management by the committee chairman. Security management in Wärtsilä is divided into four specific security areas: personnel, premises (physical), information and automation security. Operational security management in these areas is conducted on the business and local level. Through its network companies Wärtsilä has received C-TPAT and AEO certifications for supply chain security management. Wärtsilä deploys security professionals who are members of ASIS International and CSO Roundtable. Product design principles Wärtsilä strives to develop environmentally sound, safe and reliable products and solutions for its customers. By providing lifecycle maintenance, reconditioning and retrofitting services for its products Wärtsilä is able to support its’ customers operations throughout the entire life of service of Wärtsilä products. Reconditioning of engines and components increases the reliable service life of the products. Modernizing can improve current operational performance of installations and enables customers operations to meet tightening future regulative requirements. 65 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SUSTAINABILITY The majority of the international environmental policies and requirements for Wärtsilä’s products and solutions are set by the International Maritime Organization (IMO), the UNECE (United Nations Economic Commission for Europe) and the World Bank. In national or regional level organisations such as the U.S. EPA, the European Commission and market areas such as Germany, Japan and India are considered most important policy and regulatory directors for Wärtsilä products. The IMO is responsible for adopting its own standards for the safety and security of shipping and the prevention and control of marine pollution and emissions from vessels. IMO regulates nitrogen and sulphur oxide emissions as well as ballast water treatment procedures and limitations. World Bank/IFC (International Finance Corporation) provides general and industry specific instructions of good international practices such as the thermal power plants' EHS (Environmental, Health and Safety) guideline, which is today the minimum environmental standard in global power plant projects. It is adhered to in most of the finance activities for projects in emerging markets. In the European Union, the EU Industrial Emissions Directive (IED) sets the requirements to minimise pollution from different industrial sources throughout the EU. Wärtsilä's engines are designed to meet the requirements of the European Commission's Machinery Directive, the SOLAS Convention and other relevant safety directives, while Wärtsilä's propulsion systems are designed to comply with the SOLAS and the safety requirements of relevant classification bodies. New types of engines must also meet international safety requirements. Type approval is acquired from classification societies before new products are launched. Wärtsilä's Ship Design follows class society and flag state rules in the design process to secure safe and compliant designs for its clients. Class approval is required for drawings and calculations to be delivered to the client before construction of the vessel starts. Wärtsilä's products are delivered with appropriate user guides that include basic information about the products and full instructions for their use. In addition, Wärtsilä provides appropriate specific training to ensure environmentally sound and safe utilisation of Wärtsilä’s products at customers’ daily operations. In order to ensure Wärtsilä’s ability to respond to future regulation requirements, the company actively monitors legislative initiatives and changes in environmental legislation. As a result, Wärtsilä has focused its R&D activities for development of new environmental sound products and solutions that meet the future demands of the changing operating environment. Stakeholder relations Wärtsilä takes actively care of its relations with stakeholders by engaging in an open and constructive dialogue with its various stakeholders. Wärtsilä believes that open dialogue with stakeholders is essential when developing operations, products and services. At the corporate level, Wärtsilä has defined its most important stakeholders to be its customers, owners, suppliers, employees and the society. Wärtsilä's subsidiaries define their own primary stakeholders which, in addition to the ones mentioned above, include local residents close to production plants, educational institutes and public authorities. The priorities in managing stakeholder relations vary within Wärtsilä from one subsidiary to another. Wärtsilä continuously enhances its reporting performance both on its own initiative and in response to feedback from its stakeholders. 66 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SUSTAINABILITY Main expectations of Wärtsilä's stakeholders and Wärtsilä's goals In order to facilitate active dialogue with customers Wärtsilä arranges Customer Days for existing and potential customers at locations in various parts of the world. These events are used to review subjects of topical interest from both local and global perspectives, and to discuss existing and future needs and challenges. In addition to customer days Ship Power and Power Plants businesses arranged or participated in some 260 industry-related events globally, including international and national seminars, exhibitions, and conferences in 2013. These events were visited by customers, potential customers, and other stakeholders such as investors, consultants, suppliers, students, and other interested parties. Employee dialogue takes place in many formats. More information about the procedures and processes to support active and engaging dialogue with Wärtsilä employees is described in the section of Consultation and information procedures in Group companies. The aim of open dialogue and discussion with local and international public authorities and officials is to share information and support authorities to improve the quality of regulation. Wärtsilä participates in public consultations in the areas of importance to the company. 67 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SUSTAINABILITY Activities in organisations In 2013, Wärtsilä participated in several relevant activities organised by various national and international organisations and associations. The key organisations for Wärtsilä and the nature of Wärtsilä's activities are shown in the table below. Stakeholder Organisation Nature of activity Interest groups Confederation of Finnish Industries (EK), Membership and participation in Finland Chamber of Commerce (ICC activities. Finland), The Federation of Finnish Technology Industries Industrial Cogen Europe, Cruise Line International Board membership and participation in organisations Association (CLIA), EnergyVaasa, Engine activities of specific working groups (CIMAC, Manufacturers Association (EMA), WADE, Euromot, VDMA, CogenEurope, EURELECTRIC, European Sustainable Italcogen, Cogen Turkey). Membership and Shipping Forum (ESSF), European Cruise participation in activities (CII, CLIA, ESSF, Council (ECC), European Association of EURELECTRIC, EMA, EGSA, ECC, Engine Manufacturers (Euromot), Exhaust WaterBorne TP, ABRAGEF, ABRAGET, Gas Cleaning System Association Association of Singapore Marine Industries, (EGCSA), International Council on IBP). Combustion Engines (CIMAC), World Alliance for Decentralized Energy (WADE), Verband Deutscher Maschinenund Anlagenbau (VDMA), Indian diesel engine manufacturers association (IDEMA), Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), WaterBorne TP, Brazilian Association of Flexible Energy Generation (ABRAGEF), The Brazilian Thermoelectric Generators Association (ABRAGET), Hong Kong Shipowner Association, Association of Singapore Marine Industries, Brazilian Institute of Oil and Gas (IBP) Standardisation European Committee for Standardisation Participation in activities. organisations (CEN), International Organisation for Standardisation (ISO) International International Maritime Organisation Participation in activities through national organisations (IMO),United Nations Economic delegations (IMO). Participation in activities Commission for Europe (UNECE) (UNECE). Other European Federation for Quality Participation in activities (EFQM, EEF, UN Management (EFQM), European Energy Global Compact Nordic Network). Forum (EEF), Global Reporting Initiative Organisational stakeholder (GRI). (GRI), UN Global Compact Nordic Network 68 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SUSTAINABILITY Creating economic added value Wärtsilä's purpose is to create value for its various stakeholders. The focus is on profitability and raising shareholder value. Achieving this depends on our ability to satisfy the expectations of our other stakeholders as well. These include providing customers with high-quality and environmentally sound products, solutions and services, building long-term partnerships with suppliers, offering employees competitive compensation and working conditions and contributing to the well-being of the local communities in which we operate. Good economic performance establishes a platform for the other aspects of sustainability – environmental and social responsibility. Despite the difficult conditions in the global economy during 2013, Wärtsilä has performed well. Profitability remained resilient and totalled EUR 520 million, 11.2% of net sales. Wärtsilä’s net sales amounted to EUR 4,654 million, a decrease of 1% compared to the previous year. Asia's share of net sales was 38%, Europe's 29%, the Americas' 23% and others' 11%. Our long-term target is to grow faster than global GDP, and our operating profit margin (EBIT%) target is 14% at the peak of the cycle. Even at the trough of the cycle, our target is to keep the operating profit margin above 10%. Added value to Wärtsilä's stakeholders MEUR 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Customers Net sales 4 654 4 725 4 209 4 553 5 260 Suppliers Cost of goods, materials and services purchased -2 901 -3 007 -2 694 -2 927 -3 593 Value added 1 753 1 717 1 514 1 626 1 667 Distribution of value added Distributed to stakeholders Employees Wages and salaries 903 887 770 773 735 Public sector Taxes and social dues 314 317 322 326 337 Creditors Net financial items 19 30 16 13 34 Shareholder Dividends 207 197 178 271 173 Communities Donations given 1 1 1 1 1 For business development 310 285 228 242 388 69 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SUSTAINABILITY Customers Wärtsilä creates added value for its customers by providing products, solutions and services that fulfil their needs and expectations. The development of high-quality, reliable and environmentally sound solutions and services depends on long-term collaboration and continuous interaction with customers. We provide our customers with service throughout the product lifecycle, thus ensuring optimal performance during the product’s lifetime. The modernisation of installed products can also extend their service life. Net sales by market area Net sales/employee 70 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SUSTAINABILITY Suppliers Suppliers play a significant role in our delivery process. We aim to have close and excellent relationships with our key suppliers in order to ensure that both parties have a mutual understanding of and are able to respond to our strict process and product requirements. Apart from financial benefits, close relationships create added value for suppliers through the knowledge and development support we offer them, and at the same time Wärtsilä gains from the supplier competence. Successful relationships can also help a local supplier to expand internationally by becoming a part of our global supply chain. In 2013, the value of goods, materials and services purchased by Wärtsilä was EUR 2,901 million. Wärtsilä has more than 3,700 active suppliers, most of whom are located in Europe, where we have our main production units. We are also continuously investing in developing a strong supply chain network in Asia. Cost of all goods, materials and services purchased Employees At the end of 2013, Wärtsilä had 18,663 employees worldwide. We also employed thousands of people indirectly through our supply chain. In order to be able to recruit competent and motivated people, we endeavour to offer employees competitive salaries, opportunities for continuous personal development and a good working environment. Developing employee skills and competences is of critical importance both for our business performance and for the development of our employees. Wages and salaries totalled EUR 903 million in 2013. This figure includes basic salaries as well as payments based on various profit sharing and incentive schemes, which cover some 65% of the total workforce. Pension cover The pension cover is based on the legislation and agreements in force in each country. In Finland, most of the pension obligations are covered by the Employee Pensions system (TyEL). The largest defined benefit plans are used in the Netherlands, Switzerland and the United Kingdom. Most of these defined benefit pension plans are managed by pension funds, and their assets are not included in the Group's assets. Wärtsilä's 71 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SUSTAINABILITY subsidiaries make their payments to pension funds in accordance with the local legislation and practices in each country. Authorised actuaries in each country have performed the actuarial calculations required for the defined benefit plans. More information on the Group's pension obligations can be found in the Financial Review, Note 20. Pension obligations. Wage levels Wärtsilä applies and follows the local employment legislation in all countries and respects the local collective labour agreements, which often define the minimum wage levels. In addition, entry level salaries are benchmarked against the market references by function and educational qualification. Laws and regulations give the minimum level, but often the actual salaries exceed these levels. A total compensation package is tailored for each country on the basis of corporate rewarding guidelines and local market practices. The base salary is set to meet market conditions, the demands of the job and individual competence and performance. Salaries and wages by market area Hiring principles In principle, all open vacancies are published both externally and internally ensuring equal opportunity to apply for Wärtsilä positions. If there is no specific reason like a competence transfer need from other countries to hire expatriates to the position, local residents are hired. This principle also applies to senior management. Senior management includes global business and corporate management and local company management positions. Public sector Wärtsilä pays various social dues and taxes to the governments of different countries. Income taxes and social dues in the financial period 2013 were EUR 314 million. The social costs for employees contribute to the funding of pensions, unemployment and other social benefits that provide security and improve the quality of life for the company's employees and their families. 72 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SUSTAINABILITY Wärtsilä companies also receive subsidies from the public sector. The value of the subsidies received in 2013 was EUR 6 million, and they were among others related to R&D projects. Subsidies received from the public sector Taxes and social costs by market area Creditors and shareholders Creditors In 2013, Wärtsilä’s net financial items totalled EUR -19 million. At the end of the year, Wärtsilä’s net interest bearing debt amounted to EUR 276 million, the solvency ratio was 43.9% and gearing was 0.15. 73 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SUSTAINABILITY Shareholder value Dividends totalling EUR 207 million are proposed to be paid to the company’s shareholders. Our dividend policy is to pay a dividend equivalent to 50% of the operational earnings per share. The dividends paid per share are presented in the notes to the financial statements. At the end of 2013 earnings per share (EPS) was EUR 1.98 and Wärtsilä’s market capitalisation was EUR 7,055 million. Community support At the national level, we provide financial support for a number of national, cultural and social activities. The Board of Directors has supported activities focused on children and youth, nature conservation, national defence, disabled war veterans and medical and technical research. Wärtsilä's Board of Directors contributed altogether EUR 111,200 to these activities in 2013. Additionally, many Wärtsilä companies provide support to local organisations for similar activities in their countries of operation. Donations to good causes by the Board of Directors TEUR 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Total 111 104 60 670 70 Donations to local organisations¹ TEUR 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Total 609 456 940 421 527 1 The figures include the data from 15 major Wärtsilä companies and the parent company. Wärtsilä and emission trading Wärtsilä Italia S.p.A is the only subsidiary that falls into the scope of the EU Emission Trading Scheme (ETS) because of the heating plant of the factory. The EU ETS has not had any impact on the company's profitability. Wärtsilä's response to climate change is to develop and provide products, solutions and services that enable our customers to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions. We also advise and support our customers in utilising the Kyoto Protocol's Flexibility Mechanisms (JI and CDM) in their power plant projects. More information about Wärtsilä's solutions for climate change can be found in the Environmental Performance section. The potential business risks related to climate change and Wärtsilä's products are presented under the sustainability and climate change risks in the Risk Management chapter of the Governance review. 74 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SUSTAINABILITY Environmental performance The environment is the key element in Wärtsilä's approach to sustainability. For us, environmental responsibility has two dimensions: products and operations. Most of our efforts to improve our environmental performance, also within our operations, are conducted as part of product development and improvement. This work is supported by operational measures, which are based on achieving high environmental standards and continuous improvement. To continually improve environmental performance within the company's operations requires the organisation to constantly work in a systematic way. This work is guided by our strategy and its environmental targets, the Code of Conduct and the company's policies relating to Quality, Environmental, Health and Safety, and it is co-ordinated and monitored by the EHS Management team and the Quality Board. In developing our operations, processes and products, we endeavour to use the latest technologies available for improving efficiency in areas such as material and energy consumption as well as for reducing and managing emissions and waste. Wärtsilä has defined a process for the development of a product environmental strategy and its targets. The process includes the identification of aspects and impacts of the products, the means to influence these impacts, the identification of enabling and restricting boundary conditions and the analyses of the information and the preparation and implementation of the strategy and the targets. Wärtsilä continuously develops and improves its operations and products with the help of certified environmental management systems. Our principle is to apply the certified EHS (Environmental, Health and Safety) management systems based on ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 in all Group companies, excluding those companies focusing purely on sales. These units are required to apply Wärtsilä's internal EHS model. Our EHS management systems cover all the operations of our subsidiaries, which means that we are able to promote environmental protection and reduce adverse impacts on a wide front. The company's EHS management system focuses especially on complying with legal requirements, identifying and reducing environmental aspects, impacts and risks, training personnel and clearly defining their responsibilities, full documentation of activities and procedures, action in emergencies and continuous improvement of environmental performance. The company's subsidiaries set their own targets covering significant environmental aspects of their operations and monitor the overall performance of the management systems. At the end of 2013, 50 Wärtsilä companies operated with a certified environmental management system. These certified environmental management systems cover roughly 91% of Wärtsilä's total workforce. 75 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SUSTAINABILITY Wärtsilä's environmental strategy – a continuous process Environmental management in Wärtsilä 76 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SUSTAINABILITY Lifecycle approach Since Wärtsilä's products have such a long operational life, identifying their lifecycle impacts is essential for understanding their total environmental impact. Based on the results of these lifecycle assessments, the majority of the environmental impacts of a diesel engine arise during the operation of the engine. These derive from the exhaust emissions and from the fuel supply chain relating to its operation. Wärtsilä manages the lifecycle of its products through product design, careful selection of suppliers, production methods, optimising transportation, maintenance and repair during the products' operational lifetime and by training and advising customers in using products and systems in the most efficient way. Wärtsilä offers service agreements and introduces products that help customers to optimise their operations. Furthermore, Wärtsilä actively supports customers in selecting suitable solutions in the early phase of projects. In addition to lifecycle assessments, Wärtsilä has also utilised other assessment levels, such as end-user and system level assessments, in order to identify the improvement potential of existing technologies in new application areas and the development needs for the solutions offered. Multilevel assessment approach 77 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SUSTAINABILITY Environmental impacts – product lifecycle Research & Development focus Wärtsilä continuously strives for technological leadership. This is achieved by developing products addressing customer needs which are based on reliable, efficient, and cost-competitive technologies. Wärtsilä's R&D activities focus on technologies, products, and solutions that are fuel-efficient, reliable, safe, self-diagnostic, cost-efficient to operate, and that produce minimal environmental impacts throughout their lifecycles. At Wärtsilä, we protect innovation and competitiveness through close attention to Intellectual Asset Management and continuous development of our internal key competences. We build networks and clusters to further extend our know-how, skills and capacity by committing to long-term relationships with suppliers, engineering companies, university partners, and licensees and other OEMs (Original Equipment Manufacturers). Our R&D resources are dedicated and invested into products and technologies development and design with an increased focus on both simulation and virtual testing and validation. Wärtsilä actively develops product platform concepts and design products that are easy to manufacture and to service. A substantial proportion of the company's investments in product development are targeted at securing environmental compliancy providing shortand long-term benefits for whole value chain and ultimately for the environment. 78 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SUSTAINABILITY R&D Costs MEUR 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 185 188 162 141 141 Research and development expenditure Ensuring reliability and safety The long operational lifetime and the application of Wärtsilä products highlight the importance of reliability and safety. Wärtsilä's development process is geared to ensuring the reliability and safety features of the end product, and extensive validation and testing programmes are undertaken before the product is fully released. New technologies are validated before they are introduced into products. Validation is done both in the R&D laboratories and or with partners in existing installations. By focusing on the initial stages of the development process, the development time for new solutions can be reduced without compromising the emphasis on reliability and safety. Individual components are validated already in the design phase by using advanced calculations and simulation tools. This approach enables us to identify areas of improvement at an early stage in the process and further reduces the amount of component testing. The actual component and technology testing allows efficient validation of the system, which results in faster development and market introduction for new products. Validation testing on site with existing installations in cooperation with our customers enables us to further improve performance of existing solutions as well as to find new and better solutions. The customer benefits by getting the first insight into new technologies, while Wärtsilä gains long-term experience under controlled conditions. A typical field installation operates for 6,000 hours per year. When the product has successfully passed all the process steps and its performance meets Wärtsilä's high standards, it can be delivered to the market. 79 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SUSTAINABILITY Product development process Improving efficiency Energy efficiency has always been a priority for Wärtsilä, and remarkable gains in the efficiency of our products and solutions have been achieved over the years. Total ship efficiency Improving total ship efficiency reduces lifecycle costs and emissions. By combining our knowledge of automation, machinery, propulsion and the control of them with an optimised ship design into a single integrated solution, a truly efficient ship operation can be achieved. From a long-term perspective, the potential for improving energy efficiency has been estimated to be 30-50%. This will be achieved by optimising component performance, ship design, waste heat recovery and the recovery of other losses, weather and voyage routing and by taking advantage of potential new technologies. The efficiency of the ship can be improved also by using concepts, such as: • the Low Loss Concept, which reduces the losses in the electrical power train by 30-50% • optimisation of the hull design Several joint development programmes with customers are currently ongoing and aimed at significantly reducing their operating costs. System integration enables further efficiency improvements, while customers benefit from having proven solutions from a single supplier. With lifecycle support, yards can better optimise their building schedules and owners get proven solutions that are easier to manage. Engine efficiency improvements The efficiency of Wärtsilä diesel and gas engines ranges between 42-52%, depending on the engine type. The peaking efficiency of 52% for the best engines is one of the highest efficiency ratings among existing prime movers. The improvement in efficiency is becoming more challenging as the emission requirements are getting increasingly stringent. Wärtsilä has several ongoing programmes targeting simultaneously to ensure the high efficiency of its engines, and to reduce engine emissions. 80 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SUSTAINABILITY One key success factor in this field has been the development of integrated engine functionalities that enable low emissions and high engine efficiency. The air and fuel admissions are controlled by an automated system that provides optimal combustion under all operative conditions. Wärtsilä's extensive experience in component design has led to the development of combustion chambers capable of withstanding higher cylinder pressures and temperatures. This contributes to engine efficiency directly and positively. The research and development of two-stage turbocharging is another important part of aiming to achieve our goals in environmentally sound solutions of engine fuel efficiency development. Wärtsilä engine fuel efficiency development However, improving the efficiency of a single component does not necessarily guarantee the best overall outcome. In marine, more can be achieved through comprehensive ship design, system integration and machinery optimisation. Similarly, in power plant applications, by combining various technologies an overall efficiency rating of 90% is possible. Heat recovery and energy conversion improvements The utilisation of fuel energy can be further improved by using heat recovery concepts and secondary cycles. Steam-based combined cycles are applied widely in diesel engine applications and are expected to gain a foothold also in bigger gas engine plants. Further improvements can be expected by designing engines for secondary cycles. Propeller efficiency upgrades The propeller's efficiency, amongst other parameters, is an important consideration for achieving economic sailing. Fouling, surface roughening and leading edge damage to the propeller, when in service, can result in efficiency losses of 3-7%. Also, by replacing outdated existing propellers with new ones designed based on the latest knowledge, propeller designs and operating profile of the vessel, significant savings with short payback periods can be achieved. For ships such as oil tankers and container vessels with annual fuel costs exceeding EUR 5 million, propulsion degradation can easily cost several hundred thousands of euros a year. The results of ongoing projects investigating the efficiency loss of propellers in service will improve the performance based maintenance of a ship's propeller and will thus increase the vessel's overall efficiency throughout its lifecycle. Wärtsilä provides several solutions such as EnergoproFin propeller cap with fins, Energopac rudders and HR nozzles, that can also be retrofitted. 81 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SUSTAINABILITY Reducing emissions to air Reducing greenhouse gas emissions Green House Gas (GHG) emissions are proven to be the dominant factor for climate change. The most important of such emissions are carbon dioxide (CO2), nitrogen oxides (NOx) and methane (CH4). In addition to improving the efficiency of its solutions, Wärtsilä continuously develops technologies for reducing greenhouse gas linked emissions from both diesel and gas engines. For gas engines, Wärtsilä is developing technologies such as Ultra Low THC (Total Hydro Carbons) emission reduction, which reduces the THC levels by 30-90% by utilising both primary and secondary technologies. The long-term investments in research and the strive for more environmental sound solutions have resulted in materialisation of many benefits and success especially at low load where the methane slip has reduced by as much as 75%. Many of the engine optimisations can also be retrofitted on existing older engines. These measures can include optimising combustion space, updating the software that is controlling the combustion, and a general optimisation of the machinery power management. Development of specific carbon dioxide emissions of Wärtsilä engines Reducing sulphur dioxide emissions In 2008, the UN International Maritime Organization (IMO) revised its standards on the sulphur content of marine fuels (contained in MARPOL Annex VI). The current limit for sulphur content in the fuel is 1.0% m/m (by weight), and from 2015 onwards vessels sailing in Sulphur Emission Control Areas (SECAs) will have to comply with emission levels equivalent to a sulphur content of 0.1% m/m. Outside SECA’s, the limits are 3.5% m/m and from 2020 onwards 0.5% m/m. Marine sulphur emissions can be reduced in three different ways: • by decreasing the sulphur content of the fuel used • by removing sulphur from the exhaust gas • by changing fuel, for example through the use of natural gas 82 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SUSTAINABILITY Several methods can be used for de-sulphurising exhaust gases. Wet scrubbing is an obvious alternative for ships, as the scrubbing medium is readily available and the technology has been used for Inert Gas Systems onboard ships for 50 years. Development of a new, more space efficient design for the cruise and ferry segment has led to orders from several ferry companies during 2013. Wärtsilä has also invested further in increasing its engineering and installation capabilities, and can now offer additional services, including basic engineering and a complete turnkey Exhaust Gas Cleaning solution. Emission legislation – IMO fuel sulphur cap Comparison of typical NOx, SOx and particulate emissions – influence of fuel type Reducing nitrogen oxide emissions The IMO NOx Tier II rules have been in force as of 2011. The Tier II NOx limit is 20% below the 2010 emissions levels. All Wärtsilä portfolio products are IMO NOx Tier II compliant. The next NOx emissions level, IMO Tier III, will be valid from 2021, at the latest. This is expected to demand a reduction of 80% in NOx levels from Tier I levels in the NOx Emission Control Areas. An 80% NOx reduction requires a step change in terms of engine technology and product offerings. Wärtsilä is looking into different solutions involving: 83 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SUSTAINABILITY • Engine internal technologies • After treatment technologies • Fuel (gas) related technologies Gas engines already comply with IMO NOx Tier III, but development of other technologies will be needed, as will the integration between them. A driving factor in this work is the lifecycle cost of the solution. There will be two basic engine technologies that enable diesel engines to reach Tier III NOx emissions requirements: Selective Catalytic Reduction (SCR) and Exhaust Gas Recirculation (EGR). Selective Catalytic Reduction will play an important role in the future, and it is essential to ensure that combinations of SCR and scrubbers are applicable. Wärtsilä has experience in SCR systems with a wide range of fuels. Wärtsilä is able to deliver also SCR solutions for high sulphur applications, thus ensuring the compatibility of SCR solutions with scrubbers. However, further development and commercialisation work will be carried out to optimise the system for a wider scope of applications and will take into consideration various side effects and boundary conditions. Development of diesel engine specific fuel consumption and NOx emissions Emission legislation – marine application (IMO) 84 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SUSTAINABILITY Sulphur and nitrogen emission control areas (SECA and NECA) Sulphur emission control areas (SECA) 85 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SUSTAINABILITY Reducing emissions to water In 2004, the International Maritime Organization (IMO) adopted the Global Ballast Water Convention, which mandates the management of ballast water and sediments on both new builds and existing vessels. The Convention aims to protect local biodiversity from the threat of non-indigenous invasive species that may in turn cause a negative economic impact on society, reduce output from fisheries, and add substantial costs associated with control and clean up measures. It is estimated that around USD 1.4 trillion per year is spent on clean-ups, economic losses, and environmental damage related to ballast water transportation from one ecological zone to another. Wärtsilä expects the Convention to be ratified in 2014. In addition, December 2013 saw the introduction of EPA legislation (VGP 2013) which requires ballast water treatment to be in compliance with US Coast Guard (USCG) regulations in 33 CFR Part 151 for ships operating in US waters (excluding recreational and military vessels). USCG performance requirements are identical to those set out in the IMO Convention, but require equipment to be assessed on more stringent test protocols based on U.S. EPA (US Environmental Protection Agency) Equipment Test Validation (ETV) protocol.” The AQUARIUS® range of ballast water management systems (BWMS) available from Wärtsilä was obtained through the acquisition of Hamworthy in 2012. This offers customers a choice of treatment technology. The Wärtsilä AQUARIUS® UV BWMS was granted IMO Type Approval in December 2012 and received USCG Alternate Management System (AMS) acceptance in October 2013, the first step towards full USCG Type Approval. This will allow all US and foreign flag ships fitted with the Wärtsilä AQUARIUS®UV BWMS to operate in US territorial waters, and to discharge its treated ballast water for an interim period of up to 5 years from the ship specific implementation date. The Wärtsilä AQUARIUS®EC BWMS gained IMO Type Approval in December 2013. This provides ship owners with a greater choice of cost effective BWMS technologies. The modular design approach and installation flexibility of this technology further reaffirms the company's commitment to developing sustainable environmental solutions for the marine industry. Long-term research activities The HERCULES programme The long-term HERCULES R&D programme was conceived in 2002, and has been set up within the context of the EU's sixth and seventh Framework programmes. In sharing a joint vision, the two major lowand medium-speed engine manufacturers, Wärtsilä and MAN Diesel & Turbo, have been collaborating with universities, research institutions, and other industrial partners to develop new technologies for marine engines. In the third phase that started in 2012, the HERCULES-C project aims at taking marine engine technology a step further towards improved sustainability in energy production and total energy economy. This is to be achieved through extensive integration of the new technologies developed in the first two phases, HERCULES-A and HERCULES-B. This challenge is being addressed by adopting a combined approach for engine thermal process optimisation, systems integration, engine reliability, and extended lifetime. The particular objectives are: • Further substantial reductions in fuel consumption, while optimising power production and usage • Near-zero emissions • Maintaining the technical performance of engines throughout their operational lifetime 86 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SUSTAINABILITY HERCULES-C comprises 47 sub-projects under 10 work packages, involving the complete spectrum of marine diesel engine technology. It is planned to run for three years, from 2012 to 2014, with a total budget of EUR 17 million. The project has been made possible by a EUR 9.4 million funding through the European Commission Framework Programme 7. CLEEN – Cluster for Energy and the Environment CLEEN Ltd. maintains and develops a world-class open innovation platform for market-driven joint research between industry and academia, and is part of SHOK (Strategic Centres for Science, Technology and Innovation). Wärtsilä participates in the Future Combustion Engine Power Plant (FCEP) research programme under CLEEN, which was started on 1 January 2010. The programme focuses on research topics and development efforts in the areas of reciprocating engine technologies and related power plant technologies. The key areas of research include improvements in the combustion process, energy efficiency, emission reduction methods, heat recovery systems, and power conversion technologies. Other central research areas include automation & control, fuel flexibility, and the use of renewable fuels in combustion engines. The programme objectives and scope have been set jointly by the industry and research institutions, thereby enabling deep co-operation in executing the programme, and promoting breakthrough innovations across broad interfaces. The total FCEP programme budget is EUR 37.8 million. This is covered by the participating companies (EUR 12.9 million) and research institutes (EUR 5.1 million), with the remaining EUR 19.8 million coming from the Finnish Funding Agency for Technology and Innovation (Tekes). This programme has been successfully underway for four years, with a special emphasis on the final year to utilize the established research network and infrastructure to facilitate new results and technical solutions. The FCEP consortium consists of the leading combustion engine and power equipment manufacturers, supported by local research institutes and universities. The 17 consortium partners represent a very high level of technical and scientific excellence in this field. Environmental performance indicators The environmental impacts of Wärtsilä's operations largely relate to manufacturing. The main environmental aspects of manufacturing relate to the use of energy and natural resources and thus also to the emissions that are produced by the manufacturing processes. Product development also requires the testing of products and individual components which, alongside manufacturing, loads the environment. However, the positive impacts of product improvements on the environment far outweigh the negative impacts of testing when taking the product's entire lifecycle into account. The main reasons for significant fluctuations in certain reported environmental performance indicators from year to year are: • changes in production volumes • changes in R&D testing programmes • changes in company structure (divestments, mergers & acquisitions) • changes in the reporting scope and coverage. The environmental indices used in connection with performance indicators are linked to the development of net sales. It should be noted, that e.g. increased investments in R&D during any particular year do not impact net sales but may increase the absolute value of an indicator and the related index. 87 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SUSTAINABILITY Monitoring environmental impacts Within Wärtsilä, environmental impacts caused by operational activities are monitored as follows: • participation in the monitoring of air quality with other local stakeholders • measurement of air emissions • charting of noise levels • periodical effluent analysis • soil analysis • dispersion analyses and bio-indicator surveys. Materials, energy and water Materials The main materials used in Wärtsilä products are various metals: cast iron, alloy and structural steel, aluminium alloys and bronze. Recycled material content of these metals vary depending on the material and supplier in question. Recycled material, such as end-of-life coins and bronze propellers, is used for example in the casting of new propellers. In 2013, the total material usage was 91,720 tons (99,570). The major material groups were various metals 76% (71), sand 18% (21) and various chemicals 4% (7). Materials 88 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SUSTAINABILITY Weight-to-power ratio of Wärtsilä's medium-speed engines for 6-cylinder in-line engines Energy Total energy consumption The total energy consumption (in terajoules, TJ) includes the electricity, heat and fuels used in Wärtsilä companies in recent years. The fuels are used mainly in engine testing, but also in heating, production and transportation. Annual energy consumption Electricity Wärtsilä uses electricity in its manufacturing operations for example in machining components and in service workshops and offices. Both the electrical and the heat energy generated during engine test runs can be utilised. Wärtsilä's aim is to use the electrical energy for its own purposes while also selling part of this electrical energy to local power companies. Due to the nature of engine test runs, the production of electricity and the company's electricity demand are not equivalent; this allows the surplus energy to be sold to local power companies. 89 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SUSTAINABILITY Electricity balance 2013 Annual electricity consumption Heat Heating for factories and offices accounts for most of Wärtsilä's consumption of heat energy. In several factories, the heat generated in engine test runs is used for heating. Some factories and offices are connected to a local district heating network, some have their own heating plant and some use electricity for heating. Water Wärtsilä's water consumption can be divided into two categories: domestic use and cooling use. Domestic water is used mainly for sanitary purposes and by industrial equipment, such as machine tools and washing machines. Some factories also use domestic water to produce moulds or to fill in their closed-loop cooling system needs. Wärtsilä uses seawater for its engine and process cooling needs, in which case the cooling water system is kept separate so that only heat is released into the natural water system. Wastewater is sewered and piped to the local wastewater treatment plant or treated on site before being discharged. If the effluent is not suitable for sewage treatment, it is taken away for appropriate processing, for example to a special treatment plant for hazardous wastes. 90 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SUSTAINABILITY Annual water consumption Total annual water consumption split by the purpose of use. Out of cooling water about 99% comes from local surface watercourses where only heat is released along with clean water, and about 1% of cooling water comes from municipal water utilities. Out of Wärtsilä’s total water consumption in 2013 about 89% was seawater for cooling purposes, about 11% was from municipal water supplies, about 0.08% was rainwater collected and stored, about 0.06% was waste-water re-used from another organisation, and about 0.01% was directly withdrawn groundwater. Emissions and wastes Emissions to the air The primary sources of manufacturing noise are the engine test runs and the ventilation machinery on factory roofs. This noise is mostly low frequency and is therefore not easily detected by the human ear. Wärtsilä has specifically addressed the issue of noise protection using technical means and has succeeded in lowering noise levels considerably. However, noise abatement is a continuous need and requires regular monitoring. Air emissions are mainly caused by test runs and the painting of completed engines or other Wärtsilä products. Test run emissions consist of nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulphur dioxide (SO2), carbon dioxides (CO2) and particles, as well as small amounts of other emission components. The painting of engines and other Wärtsilä products generates VOC emissions (volatile organic compounds). Engine emissions are reduced through research and development, as well as product development and testing. These measures also generate emissions, but their results reduce the future emissions of manufactured engines. In addition to direct CO2 emissions, Wärtsilä’s operations generate indirect CO2 emissions. In 2013, the calculated secondary CO2 emissions were 57,040 tons (54,011) (from purchased electricity and heat) and the CO2 emissions from flights totalled 40,596 tons (39,033). Wärtsilä has taken several measures to reduce its indirect CO2 emissions. The energy efficiency commitment aims to reduce energy consumption and emissions. In addition, Wärtsilä’s focus lies on reducing travelling by implementing a strict travel policy and by using three main virtual meeting concepts: Office Communicator, 91 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SUSTAINABILITY which enables live chats between two people or more; Live meetings allowing multi-person meetings from personal computers, in which presentation material can be shared and the Telepresence videoconferencing system. Wärtsilä Live and Telepresence are in everyday use. Approximately 3,000 Live-meetings are arranged daily, and there are 35 Telepresence rooms established in Wärtsilä premises in 18 countries. Waste management Manufacturing activities cause various wastes. These are divided into two main categories: hazardous and non-hazardous wastes. Hazardous wastes include cutting fluids, various types of waste oil, paints and solvents, oily wastes, solid wastes etc. Non-hazardous wastes include scrap metal, metal swarf, waste plastics, waste wood, domestic waste, cardboard and paper waste. All Wärtsilä companies sort their waste according to local municipal regulations. Generally speaking, the main sorting categories are waste to be incinerated, waste for landfills, and waste for recycling. Waste management in Wärtsilä has four aims, listed in their order of priority: • to reduce the amount of waste generated in processes • to use waste as a material • to use waste as energy • to dispose of waste in an environmentally sound way. Annual VOC emissions 92 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SUSTAINABILITY Annual NOx emissions Annual SO2 emissions Annual CO2e emissions 93 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SUSTAINABILITY Annual particulate emissions Indirect CO2 emissions Total hydrocarbons 94 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SUSTAINABILITY Annual waste Compliance with legislation Wärtsilä companies comply with the local environmental legislation. The operations of Wärtsilä's manufacturing companies require a valid environmental permit. Wärtsilä companies have the required environmental permits, the terms of which are generally met. Incidents of non-compliance are described in the following chapters. Environmental disturbances and complaints The number of disturbances, complaints and incidents of non-compliance are presented below. Reported disturbances cover incidents in which the Wärtsilä company concerned has usually been obliged to report the disturbance to the authorities. The following main environmental disturbances occurred in Wärtsilä's business locations in 2013: • 2 fires • 3 oil spills All the above disturbances were investigated and appropriate corrective actions were taken in each case. The complaint made by occupants of neighbouring property was related to smoke. The complaint was investigated and discovered unfounded. Cases of non-compliance Wärtsilä Azerbaijan LLC missed the deadline for renewing their Ecological Passport. The document was arranged promptly after this was discovered. Wärtsilä de Mexico S.A. was found missing the Environmental Impact Statement required to operate in the protected natural area of Cd. Del Carmen. A fine of EUR 3,328 was paid, and the statement will be arranged during the first quarter of 2014. 95 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SUSTAINABILITY Disturbances, complaints and non-compliances Non-compliance cases presented in previous reports Wärtsilä India Ltd. has reached compliance with the permitted water consumption limits. Environmental costs and liabilities Concerning Wärtsilä’s operations, we have defined expenditures as environmental expenditures if they are related to soil, water and air pollution control, waste management, environmental management or noise control. Wärtsilä real estate and environmental responsibilities The real estate that Wärtsilä owns or leases is mainly located in urban areas. The company is not aware of any properties that are situated in areas where biodiversity could be endangered. Environmental risks and liabilities are identified and reviewed as part of the overall risk management. In Wärtsilä’s operations, potential liabilities are primarily related to the company’s real estate. Environmental liabilities are systematically scrutinised in conjunction with every acquisition or sale of real estate. Wärtsilä has recognised certain cases where potential environmental liabilities may exist, but these are not expected to have a significant financial impact on Wärtsilä. Environmental capital expenditures and operating expenses MEUR 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Environmental capital expenditures 0.6 0.8 0.9 2.9 1.1 Environmental operating expenditures 5.1 6.3 6.1 5.5 4.2 96 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SUSTAINABILITY Personnel and social performance Wärtsilä's aim is to provide the best value and service to our customers by continuously developing our competencies and way of working. The strategic goal of Wärtsilä's social responsibility and people strategy is to bring the business strategy alive by developing Wärtsilä's organisation and competencies to meet the evolving business needs. Our aim is to have energetic, competent and motivated personnel with exciting and meaningful jobs and career opportunities led by excellent leaders. We recognise good performance and respect diversity. We also endeavour, by applying high standards of occupational health and safety, to offer a hazard-free workplace to our employees, contractors and others working in different parts of the corporation. Good corporate citizenship is accomplished through active co-operation, open communication and good relationships with our stakeholders. Wärtsilä's operations and relations with its stakeholders are based on the company's Code of Conduct, with which each Wärtsilä company and individual is required to comply. Personnel in figures 2013 Number of employees at 31 Dec. 2013 18 663 Number of nationalities 120 Change in number of employees (net employment creation) -477 Average age of employees years 39.7 Male/female ratio % 85/15 Executive positions globally: male/female ratio % 90/10 Employee turnover (resigned) % 7.7 Total payroll costs MEUR 903 Aggregate coverage of different bonus schemes % 65 Development discussions held annually % 91 Personnel Structural changes in 2013 Wärtsilä opened a new services workshop in Niterói, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil on 27 February 2013. The new facilities will strengthen Wärtsilä’s presence in Brazil and enable Wärtsilä to support its customers by offering a wide range of workshop services with rapid response times. The new workshop will replace the company's current premises in São Cristóvão, Rio de Janeiro, and is designed to bring logistical advantages for the company and its customers. It will feature, among other things, a laboratory for automation and electronic fuel injection, as well as a dedicated marine thruster facility. The scope of services will also be expanded to include repairs to large engines, and the maintenance of propulsion systems for ships. About 200 employees will work in the new workshop, 120 of whom are able to work offshore. The team will be connected to Wärtsilä’s worldwide technical support and will join a network of international technicians able to support local projects all around the world. 97 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SUSTAINABILITY On 29 August 2013, Wärtsilä announced the combination of the PowerTech and Ship Power 4-stroke organisational structures into one business unit. The new organisation became effective 1 January 2014. Ship Power's new 4-stroke organisation consists of all 4-stroke R&D and production both for the Ship Power and the Power Plant markets, as well as engineering, project management and 4-stroke sales for the Ship Power market. The former PowerTech delivery centres continue within the new product companies. In September 2013 following years of deteriorating business performance, Ship Power's Environmental Solutions announced the restructuring of the Wärtsilä Serck Como company, which is located in Geesthacht, Germany. Plans have been developed to reduce the activities to focus solely on the strategic core business, i.e. fresh water generation for marine and offshore segments, new system deliveries and after sales. Wärtsilä inaugurated its new test facility for future propulsion products and technology in November 2013. The Wärtsilä Propulsion Test Centre was established and funded by Wärtsilä with strong support from VTT Technical Research Centre of Finland, who will provide the resources to operate the facility. The test centre is located in Tuusula, southern Finland, and will enhance the company’s capabilities in product validation and research activities. The new facility enables Wärtsilä to speed up the development of new, high quality and environmentally sound propulsion products together with research institutes, universities and suppliers. It will have a central role in propulsion related research and development activities carried out by the company. In particular, the test centre will be used for functional and endurance testing with an emphasis on mechanical power transfer. With the new test centre Wärtsilä will remain at the forefront of propulsion technology advancement as the demands of the marine industry evolve. Personnel In addition to direct employment, Wärtsilä employed also indirectly an external workforce totalling 2,813 manyears in subcontracting at its factories and units. The units located in Finland had a total personnel of 3,662 employees. Personnel by country 98 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SUSTAINABILITY Personnel by business Personnel by market area Number of employees per business No. of employees Change Power Plants 1 053 121 Ship Power 3 612 1 473 Services 10 785 -378 PowerTech 2 449 -1 362 Other 764 -79 99 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SUSTAINABILITY Full-time/part-time employees Permanent/temporary employees Age structure 100 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SUSTAINABILITY All in all, 2,531 employees left Wärtsilä globally during 2013 for different reasons. In addition, part of the expired temporary employment, voluntary leavers and retirements was not replaced. At the same time, Wärtsilä continued focused recruitments in the critical competence areas. Major part of open vacancies was filled by Wärtsilä employees. In December, at Wärtsilä's Product Company Trieste in Italy, Management and union representatives defined and agreed a plan for a temporary lay-off program following the temporary reduction of the workload in the factory. In the period between Monday, January 13 and Friday, April 11, 2014, there will be temporary lay-offs focusing on Fridays and Mondays. Wärtsilä had 18,663 employees at the end of 2013 (18,887). People management in 2013 The main goal of Wärtsilä's Human Resource strategy is to support the group business strategies and to bring them alive by developing Wärtsilä's organisation and competencies to meet the business needs. The key focus areas of the people strategy continues to be further development of leadership and leadership culture in the company as well as a high-performance culture throughout the organisation by promoting true employee engagement through a culture of open communication, integrity and innovation and finally by ensuring that the businesses have the requisite resources and skilled and motivated people at their disposal. This means supporting organisational design and changes, continuous competence development and stronger performance management processes with target setting, proper feedback, evaluation of overall performance and recognition of strong performance. In 2013, Wärtsilä Hamworthy integration continued according to plan. The merger of the Ship Power and PowerTech organisations have been major projects, and a strong focus for human resources as well. In addition to these global changes, many local change initiatives have been concluded. Wärtsilä Human Resources continued to develop its common people management processes and tools and common ways of working across national and organisational boundaries. Strong focus and effort has been made to further develop managerial skills in people management by launching Management Focus, a modular training program for all line managers. During 2013, 80% of all line managers participated this three module training. Wärtsilä Human Resources continued to invest in technologies and tools that enable quick access to online reports, employee information and annual compensation planning both local and multi country teams. Diversity initiative A diverse workforce generates higher profits, better complex problem-solving skills and access to a larger talent pool. Wärtsilä’s Diversity Initiative began in 2012 and aims to drive an inclusive corporate culture at all levels to meet global requirements in the corporation. By investing in diversity and supporting employees of varied gender, age, personality and educational background, Wärtsilä becomes a more innovative business partner as well as a more attractive employer. The Diversity Initiative is a means to ensure that Wärtsilä continuously develops a proactive approach to diversity. Gender balance was identified as the first aspect of diversity to focus on, and one of the initiative’s first goals became to increase the number of female employees to 20% by 2015 (2013: 15%). Wärtsilä’s President & CEO Björn Rosengren has stated that measures should be taken to reach this goal, to assist women in their career progress, and to support their attainment of managerial positions in the corporation. Research shows a correlation between women in management and higher profits. 101 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SUSTAINABILITY As part of the Diversity Initiative, a Gender Diversity Survey was conducted in all of Wärtsilä’s subsidiaries during 2013. There were almost 5,000 responses globally, showing that improving gender balance is seen as important throughout the organisation. Organisational culture and career development for women were identified as key focus areas for the future development. A Diversity Forum was established to discuss, brainstorm and develop methods and tools to increase diversity in the corporation. The forum consists of ten Wärtsilä employees of varied genders, nationalities and educational as well as professional backgrounds. Regular Diversity Forum meetings were established and the initiative was promoted both internally and externally. The Diversity Forum also undertook benchmarking with other companies that had taken part in similar initiatives. Since the Diversity Initiative was initiated, awareness of diversity-related questions has risen. Follow-up analysis shows that overall feedback towards the initiative is positive, and diversity has become a key topic for Wärtsilä. The Diversity Forum will continue developing actions both on global and local levels internally and externally, to work towards a more diverse and balanced corporation. Performance management The performance management process supports Wärtsilä in reaching its business targets by translating business strategies to team and individual objectives. Each Wärtsilä employee needs to know and understand Wärtsilä's business strategies and their goals. More importantly, everybody needs to know the targets set for their own units and the main target areas related to their own work. As part of the performance management process, each employee has a proper performance evaluation based on their overall job performance. Overall performance evaluation is one of the inputs for the compensation decisions following the principle of performance-based rewarding. Learning and development Wärtsilä continued its leadership development activities in many areas. New learning solutions for line managers have been developed to support the managers in their people management and leadership roles. An annual executive development programme was held in November, and six other global leadership development programmes for senior managers were carried out during 2013. The number of managerial training days is also followed regularly as one of the HR KPIs. In 2013 Wärtsilä Learning & Development delivered totally 6,743 training man days for managers. Continuous development of new learning solutions for core competence areas in sales, project management and technology have been developed and delivered, and they continue to be part of the learning offering in 2014 as well. Learning at work, self-learning, mentoring, coaching, job rotation and assignments designed to enable the competence development and the transfer of competence and skills from experienced to younger employees are integral parts of the development of learning and competence within the company. Employees are given formal classroom training at all organisational levels: from induction training for new employees to training courses for the company's top executives. Wärtsilä employees attended 75,177 training days in total which gives 4.08 training days per employee on average. Many of the training programs are tailored to the specific strategic competence development needs of the businesses. 102 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SUSTAINABILITY Training days Training days Days/employee 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Managers and superiors 4.6 3.3 3.4 3.2 3.9 Other white-collar employees 4.1 3.9 2.5 2.9 3.8 Blue-collar employees 3.6 3.0 3.4 3.3 3.5 Engagement The positive trend in development discussion compliance has continued. The average coverage of annual development discussions was 91% globally. Strengthening engagement through active strategy communication has been a main target for all Wärtsilä entities. Positive impact of the different communication initiatives was also visible in the seventh global employee engagement survey, MyVoice, which was conducted in October 2013. The MyVoice Survey response rate was at an all time high of 78% during 2013. Overall satisfaction continued to be strong across Wärtsilä, although there are differences between geographies and organisational entities. Occupational health and safety Wärtsilä's occupational health and safety principles are defined in the Code of Conduct, the company's QEHS policy and in the directive on environment, health and safety (EHS). Wärtsilä's subsidiaries are required to have a management system in use that conforms to the QEHS policy and the EHS directive. The main aspects of the management system relate to compliance with legislation, identifying and minimising occupational health and safety risks, personnel training, implementing effective health and safety programmes and instructions, recording and investigating occurred incidents and the continual improvement of occupational health and safety performance. 103 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SUSTAINABILITY The coverage of OHSAS 18001 certifications in Wärtsilä subsidiaries increased during 2013. At the end of 2013, 48 Wärtsilä companies operated with a certified occupational health and safety management system. These certified occupational health and safety management systems cover roughly 82% of Wärtsilä's total workforce. In addition to the management system, Wärtsilä companies apply occupational health and safety programmes as required by local legislation, which are normally developed by occupational health and safety committees consisting of representatives of the companies' management and personnel. Altogether 82% of Wärtsilä companies have an occupational health and safety committee. The indicators used to measure occupational health and safety performance include the number of accidents, the time of absence due to sickness and the frequency of accidents. Wärtsilä has set a corporate level target of achieving zero lost time injuries. This target is a long-term commitment from the company to strengthen safety culture, and it requires actions from all Wärtsilä companies and employees. The safety performance of the companies is monitored on a monthly basis and the results are reviewed in the Board of Management. In 2013, Wärtsilä has continued the global implementation of Zero Injury training programme comprised of a 4-hour e-learning and 4-hour practical training session. The target group for the training consists of Wärtsilä´s front-line personnel working in factories, workshops and customer premises. The e-learning has been translated into 11 major languages in order to ensure effective training in various countries. Over 3,700 employees completed the e-learning and over 1,000 the practical training during the year 2013. To strengthen Wärtsilä's safety culture, the Board of Management decided in 2012 to start a safety walk practice, which requires members of the Board of Management, division management teams and the managing directors or Wärtsilä subsidiaries to carry out regular visits to Wärtsilä's workplaces and discuss with employees about safety related topics. Full implementation of safety walk practice has taken place in 2013, and over 400 safety walks were conducted by the end of 2013. Wärtsilä's first ever Safety Webinar was held 16 April 2013. The webinar targeted Wärtsilä subsidiaries’ Managing Directors, selected business leaders and the QEHS organisation. Live webinar concluded around 180 attendees all around the Wärtsilä network. The theme of the webinar was “Manager´s role in Safety” and that concluded of presenting Wärtsilä´s and customers´ expectations towards safety, practical examples of successful safety leadership and tips on how to conduct safety walks. In 2013, Wärtsilä initiated a project, named WeCare, to activate and harmonise hazard and near miss reporting within the whole Wärtsilä. As part of the project, Wärtsilä purchased and customised software which is globally used for incident reporting, investigation and action handling. At the end of the year 2013, pilot implementation has started in Wärtsilä Norway, Wärtsilä Shanghai Services and Wärtsilä India. Full roll out will follow in the first half of 2014. The positive trend in reducing lost time injuries continued. Wärtsilä achieved a good result in 2013, with a lost time frequency index of 20% below that of the previous year. Wärtsilä regrets to report one fatal occupational accident during the review period. A Wärtsilä employee had a fatal road accident in France while returning back home from a meeting with a customer. During the report period there was one non-compliance discovered in a Wärtsilä subsidiary. Wärtsilä Moss AS had a non-compliance case related to noise protection regulations. Required actions have been taken, and a confirmation from the authorities has been received. 104 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SUSTAINABILITY Injuries Absence rate Human and labour rights Wärtsilä supports and respects basic human values as outlined in the UN's Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Wärtsilä also supports the Ten Principles of UN Global Compact, of which six principles are related to Human and Labour rights. Wärtsilä's employees represent 120 nationalities. The company supports fair and equal treatment of all its employees. Wärtsilä supports the work-related rights defined by the International Labour Organization (ILO). Therefore the company works to ensure that there is freedom of association and right to collective bargaining in the company. In those countries where local legislation does not recognise these rights, Wärtsilä endeavours to give employees other channels for expressing their opinions. 105 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SUSTAINABILITY Wärtsilä does not accept the use of forced labour or child labour in any form. Wärtsilä is unaware of any cases of breach of human rights, discrimination, infringements of rights at work or the use of forced or child labour. During the reporting period the following misconducts were realised: • Wärtsila Service (Shanghai) Ltd., Co. had a single case of exceeding the legal overtime working hours in November 2012, and was required by the authorities to limit overtime work from January 2013. Processes were put in place to ensure no more non-compliances will occur. • Wärtsilä India Ltd. and its subcontractor company failed to register under the provisions of BOCWA at O&M Power Plant situated at Tuticorin, South India. The registration for both Wärtsila India and subcontractor for the above O&M plant was obtained. EUR 148 was paid as a fine. • Wärtsilä Korea Ltd. was charged a penalty fee of EUR 9,639 for not fulfilling its legal obligation to hire disabled persons covering a minimum of 5% of the total headcount. The company has mainly hired blue collar employees, which limits the suitable job offerings to disabled persons. Since Wärtsilä expects its partners and suppliers to act in compliance with its Code of Conduct, similar measures will also apply to them. The company sets common requirements for its suppliers and regularly monitors conformance with these requirements through numerous performance indicators and audits. All the company's main suppliers are required to comply with Wärtsilä's requirements, in order to gain approved supplier status. Wärtsilä assesses all companies in conjunction with mergers and acquisitions. An integral part of these due diligence assessments is compliance with relevant legislation. More information on supplier performance is presented in Suppliers section. Preventing corruption and bribery Wärtsilä's Code of Conduct, Anti-Corruption Policy and Broker Directive expressly prohibit the company and its employees from offering or accepting any kind of benefit considered to be a bribe and from taking actions that could give rise to a conflict of interest or breach of loyalty. The instructions make it compulsory to comply with anti-corruption laws of all the countries in which Wärtsilä does or intends to do business and urge to reporting any cases of corruption and bribery. The company continues to rendering an extensive training programme for its personnel on anti-corruption principles and applicable legislation as well as the relevant company policies and procedures. In May 2009, a former senior manager of Wärtsilä Finland Oy was charged before a court of first instance in Finland with bribery allegedly committed in aggravated circumstances. The charges related to a consulting agreement concluded in 1997 in connection with a power plant project in Kenya. Subsequently, in October 2009, Wärtsilä Finland Oy, which was the Wärtsilä contracting party and the former employer of the senior manager, was charged for aggravated giving of bribe (corporate criminal liability), for which prosecution demanded that Wärtsilä Finland Oy be ordered to pay a corporate fine. Both the senior manager and Wärtsilä Finland regarded the charges as unfounded. Wärtsilä cooperated with the investigation authorities throughout the investigation. On 18 December 2009, the court of first instance in Finland dismissed all the charges and demands. After a lengthy appeals process for reasons of procedural law, the case was referred back to the court of first instance for a new hearing as no evaluation of the evidence had been conducted earlier. On 21 March 2013, the Pohjanmaa district court, being the court of first instance to hear the case for the second time, rendered its verdict. The court dismissed the charges against Wärtsilä Finland Oy but condemned the former senior manager to prison on probation for a period of 1 year 6 months on account of aggravated bribery. The former senior manager has appealed as regards the judgment against him and prosecution has appealed as regards the dismissal of the charges against Wärtsilä Finland Oy. The appeal is currently 106 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SUSTAINABILITY pending before the Vaasa Court of Appeal: the hearings concluded on 21 January 2014 and the Court of Appeal decision is expected within 30 days. Political lobbying Wärtsilä's policy is to engage in an open dialogue and discussion with both local and international public authorities and officials. The aim of the dialogue is to share information and improve the quality of regulation. Wärtsilä participates in public consultations in the areas of importance to the company. During 2013, Wärtsilä did not make any contributions to political parties. Competition regulation Wärtsilä has a compliance programme for managing risks relating to competition law in place, and the company's corporate management is strongly committed to implementing this programme. The cornerstone of the programme is a competition law manual, which is kept up-to-date, providing information on competition rules and instructions for Wärtsilä's internal procedures. As before, Wärtsilä arranged a number of competition law training seminars in 2013 for the relevant personnel in order to further promote knowledge of competition laws and thus ascertain full compliance with them. Suppliers Wärtsilä has implemented measures to regularly track its suppliers' performance. As part of the supplier evaluation, Wärtsilä conducts a rating based upon Wärtsilä´s supplier requirements. This rating includes an evaluation of compliance with Wärtsilä´s sustainability requirements related to legal compliance, environmental, occupational health and safety management and social performance. This rating is a result of pre-qualification questionnaires and conducted audits. Based on this rating, the suppliers can be approved, approved with limitations or remarks, or banned. During 2013, 209 suppliers were rated for the first time, and 239 suppliers received a renewal of their rating. By the end of 2013, Wärtsilä has rated 793 of its key suppliers (1,124 overall), and this covers 95% of the total spent on Wärtsilä Supply Management supplies. This rating is part of the quarterly supplier reviews conducted by Wärtsilä Supply Management. The rating is reviewed regularly, as are the results of conducted audits. In 2013, one supplier was banned because of non-compliance with Wärtsilä's requirements for environmental, health and occupational safety management, or through non-compliance with legislation. Wärtsilä Supplier Development activities are implemented continuously on a global basis. A global action item in 2013 has been the communication of the new Supplier Handbook to suppliers. The handbook clarifies 107 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SUSTAINABILITY Wärtsilä's expectations. There is a major emphasis on introducing sustainability related supplier requirements. As a new requirement, Wärtsilä is introducing a list of substances that are either prohibited or restricted in Wärtsilä's products, materials and processes. This list is named as Wärtsilä's Black and Grey list, and is based on international regulations, conventions and European REACH legislation (Registration, Evalutation, Authorisation & Restriction of Chemicals). Product liability Wärtsilä's occupational health and safety policy defines procedures for ensuring product safety. Further information about issues relating to product safety is given in the Product design principles section. During the review period, no instances of non-compliance related to product liability were identified. Customer satisfaction In order to strengthen our customer-focused mindset, Wärtsilä uses an integrated customer feedback process. Wärtsilä's aim is to achieve excellent long-term relationships with its customers by listening to and acting upon customer feedback. While challenges may arise in our kind of business, by listening to our customers, taking a pro-active approach, and addressing their needs, relationships will develop. Our customers provide us with important feedback during project deliveries, as well as during the operation of their installations. To ensure that we meet our customers’ expectations, their feedback is systematically reviewed and the needed actions are taken accordingly, at both the operative and management levels. In addition, Wärtsilä collects feedback during different events, activities and interactions with our customers. In 2013, Wärtsilä received more than 3,900 specific feedback forms. More than 480 of these triggered a corrective action, which involved front-line personnel taking immediate rectifying steps. Customer satisfaction results Overall satisfaction key performance indicator 108 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SUSTAINABILITY The average results of the customer satisfaction survey 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Power Plants 8.5 8.5 8.4 8.3 8.1 Ship Power 8.2 8.1 8.1 7.6 7.4 Services 8.5 8.4 8.3 7.9 7.9 Sample 3 911 3 022 2 188 1 933 1 859 Our figures The operational performance data in this report has been compiled from the economic, environmental and social records of the Wärtsilä companies. Whilst every effort has been made to ensure that the information is neither incomplete nor misleading, it cannot be considered as reliable as the financial information published in the Financial review. Economic data 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Customers Net sales (MEUR) 4 654 4 725 4 209 4 553 5 260 Net sales by market area (MEUR) Europe 1 329 1 202 1 249 1 266 1 654 Asia 1 759 2 009 1 594 1 754 1 937 Americas 1 068 994 845 1 034 1 176 Africa 405 398 443 390 399 Other 93 122 77 109 94 Suppliers Cost of goods, materials and services purchased (MEUR) 2 901 3 007 2 694 2 927 3 593 Employees Salaries and wages (MEUR) 903 887 770 773 735 Salaries and wages by market area (MEUR) Europe 649 631 552 565 549 Asia 138 145 119 111 106 Americas 91 91 80 78 66 Africa 14 12 11 12 9 Other 10 8 7 6 4 Net sales / employee (TEUR) 248 250 238 253 279 Public sector Taxes and social dues (MEUR) 314 317 322 326 337 Taxes and social costs by market area (MEUR) Europe 232 234 240 253 264 Asia 34 39 41 35 37 Americas 39 36 38 31 32 109 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SUSTAINABILITY Africa 8 6 2 5 3 Other 2 2 1 2 1 Subsidies received (TEUR) 6 331 5 543 8 263 7 406 13 725 Net financial items (MEUR) -19 -30 -16 -13 -34 Community Donations given, Board of Directors (TEUR) 111 104 60 670 70 Donations given, Wärtsilä companies (TEUR) 609 456 940 421 527 Expenditure R&D costs (MEUR) 185 188 162 141 141 Environmental costs Environmental capital expenditures (MEUR) 0.6 0.8 0.9 2.9 1.1 Environmental operating expenditures (MEUR) 5.1 6.3 6.1 5.5 4.2 Environmental data 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Materials Total material usage (t) 91 720 99 570 98 142 100 896 129 320 Metals (t) 69 991 70 323 65 263 69 194 85 351 Sand (t) 16 537 21 279 23 072 20 739 27 157 Chemicals (t) 3 865 6 730 7 963 8 500 12 932 Others (t) 1 327 1 238 1 844 2 462 3 880 Energy Total energy consumption (TJ) 1 613 1 691 1 735 1 916 2 194 Electricity consumption (MWh) 143 833 143 810 145 078 149 047 164 022 Purchased electricity (MWh) 136 098 125 761 129 885 131 562 148 780 Generated electricity (MWh) 7 735 18 007 15 109 17 485 15 242 Sold electricity (MWh) 23 527 22 568 36 893 39 958 60 881 Heat consumption (MWh) 29 077 27 910 31 805 41 401 37 060 Light fuel oil (t) 4 765 5 096 3 409 3 623 5 662 Heavy fuel oils (t) 3 755 5 920 7 652 9 020 15 652 Natural gas (t) 9 806 9 767 10 486 12 347 11 792 Other fuels (t) 4 214 4 025 4 173 3 729 3 326 Water Total water consumption (1 000 m³) 7 534 9 546 9 775 10 292 8 128 Consumption of domestic water (1 000 m³) 744 799 830 840 808 Consumption of cooling water (1 000 m³) 6 790 8 747 8 945 9 452 7 320 Emissions Emissions of nitrogen oxides (t) 549 697 765 826 1 290 Emissions of carbon dioxide (t) (direct) 59 631 63 762 68 897 80 234 96 749 Emissions of carbon dioxide (t) (indirect) 57 040 54 011 56 610 58 002 62 211 Emissions of carbon dioxide (t) (indirect flights) 40 596 39 033 37 459 35 060 37 882 Emissions of sulphur oxides (t) 91 145 265 277 595 Emissions of total hydrocarbons (t) 130 180 166 211 230 Particulates (t) 10 13 20 19 28 Emissions of VOC (t) 49 51 58 61 170 Waste Total waste (t) 44 741 62 517 85 153 43 566 55 803 Non-hazardous waste (t) 33 623 39 512 42 865 38 391 49 946 Hazardous waste (t) 11 118 23 005 42 288 5 175 5 857 110 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SUSTAINABILITY Waste for landfills (t) 16 875 21 988 27 808 21 682 20 752 Waste for recycling (t) 14 622 15 423 12 444 14 221 26 332 Waste for incineration (t) 2 125 2 101 2 614 2 542 2 862 Hazardous waste for landfills (t) 6 360 17 376 38 054 1 127 852 Hazardous waste for recycling (t) 2 796 3 200 2 082 2 161 2 305 Hazardous waste for incineration (t) 1 963 2 429 2 152 1 887 2 699 Compliance with legislation Disturbances 5 3 6 8 8 Non-compliance 2 2 6 3 0 Complaints 1 7 5 5 7 Social data 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Personnel Number of employees at the end of the year 18 663 18 887 17 913 17 528 18 541 Personnel by business Services 10 785 11 163 11 168 11 150 11 219 Ship Power 3 612 2 139 999 969 1 140 Power Plants 1 053 932 855 835 835 PowerTech 2 449 3 811 4 091 4 210 4 911 Other 764 842 800 364 436 Personnel by market area Europe 10 507 10 490 9 813 9 790 10 889 Asia 5 628 6 084 5 830 5 503 5 610 Americas 1 876 1 693 1 700 1 700 1 610 Africa 563 533 484 443 410 Other 89 87 86 92 78 Average age of employees 39.7 39.4 38.8 38.9 38.8 Permanent employees (%) 88 88 88 90 88 Temporary employees (%) 12 12 12 10 12 Full-time employees (%) 97 97 97 97 98 Part-time employees (%) 3 3 3 3 2 Employee turnover (resigned) (%) 7.7 6.9 8.6 9.8 10.5 Net employment creation -477 -416 -191 -814 -310 Training days (days/employee) 4.1 3.4 3.0 3.1 3.7 Managers and superiors 4.6 3.3 3.4 3.2 3.9 Other white-collar employees 4.1 3.9 2.5 2.9 3.8 Blue-collar employees 3.6 3.0 3.4 3.3 3.5 Development discussions held annually (%) 91 84 89 72 78 Gender diversity Male/female ratio (%) 85/15 84/16 86/14 86/14 86/14 Executive positions globally: male/female ratio (%) 90/10 91/9 90/10 90/10 87/13 Regional diversity Number of nationalities 120 107 114 109 110 Injuries Total number of injuries 730 742 987 971 1 169 Number of lost tome injuries resulting in at least 1 day absence, total 199 238 267 333 470 Number of lost time injuries work-related 162 194 221 274 111 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SUSTAINABILITY Number of lost time injuries commuting 37 44 46 59 Lost time injuries / million working hours 4.4 5.5 6.3 7.8 12.9 Absence rate Absence due to illness (% of total working hours) 2.1 2.0 2.1 2.3 2.4 Absence due to lost time injury (% of total working hours) 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.2 Absence due to occupational diseases (% of total working hours) 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Fatalities Number of fatalities, total 1 0 1 1 2 Employees 1 0 1 0 1 Contractors 0 0 0 1 1 Non-compliances Number of non-compliance cases 4 3 4 2 4 Fines of non-compliance cases (EUR) 9 787 45 079 7 869 26 157 17 659 Customer satisfaction Ship Power 8.2 8.1 8.1 7.6 7.4 Services 8.5 8.4 8.3 7.9 7.9 Power Plants 8.5 8.5 8.4 8.3 8.1 Sample 3911 3022 2 188 1 933 1 859 Report scope Wärtsilä's Sustainability Reporting 2013 is prepared according to the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G3). Wärtsilä reports those core indicators which are of most relevance to its operations, products and stakeholders. The Sustainability section of the Annual Report examines the company's economic, environmental and social performance. The core indicators chosen are of importance at the corporate level and are based on the core indicators of the G3 guidelines. Reporting of the product performance, which is done mainly on the internet (www.wartsila.com), describes the environmental aspects and impacts of Wärtsilä's products, the measures taken by Wärtsilä to reduce these impacts and the environmentally advanced solutions that Wärtsilä has developed. Coverage of the report This report covers Wärtsilä's businesses. At the company level, the report includes the parent company and its subsidiaries as well as its manufacturing, service and sales units. The report excludes Wärtsilä's associated companies, joint ventures and supply chain companies. Wärtsilä's businesses comprise of the Ship Power, Power Plants and Services businesses and PowerTech. The first three of these generate external net sales while the fourth is an internal function. The economic performance data covers all Wärtsilä companies. The data on environmental and social performance covers all Wärtsilä companies except the following: Wärtsilä Tanzania Ltd. Cedervall Söner AB Wärtsilä Egypt Power S.A.E Wärtsilä Mocambique Lda 112 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SUSTAINABILITY Antique Energy Operators Ltd. Wärtsilä Operations Guyana Inc. These companies will be included in Wärtsilä's sustainable development reporting in the forthcoming years. Wärtsilä's Sustainability Reporting is an integrated part of its annual reporting, and therefore Wärtsilä publishes its sustainability data annually. Significant changes in Group structure The structural changes that apply to Wärtsilä are described in the Business review. Coverage of operational data Operational data, % of Wärtsilä companies 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Economic 100 100 100 100 100 Environmental 93 79 92 93 84 Social 93 79 92 93 84 Operational data, % of personnel 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Economic 100 100 100 100 100 Environmental 99 94 98 98 98 Social 99 94 98 98 98 Operational data, % of product manufacturing 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Economic 100 100 100 100 100 Environmental 99 93 100 100 100 Social 99 93 100 100 100 113 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SUSTAINABILITY Reporting profile Data collection The data on the products' environmental performance is based on measured test results. Performance data on the environmental and social aspects of sustainability has been collected from the Wärtsilä companies using a detailed questionnaire. Economic performance data is based mainly on audited financial accounts. The sustainability data is collected and reported according to Wärtsilä's specific internal reporting guidelines that include all the definitions and instructions necessary for this purpose. Environmental expenditure and investments are reported applying the Eurostat instructions. Each company has a nominated individual responsible for collection and consolidation of the data, and for its quality and reliability. The management of each company approves the data before it is consolidated at the Group level. The companies report their sustainability data using Wärtsilä's CSM reporting system. The reported data is checked at both local and Group levels before its consolidation. The content of this Sustainability Report was reviewed and approved by Wärtsilä's Board of Management. KPMG Oy Ab has independently assessed the report against GRI principles for defining content and quality. As part of the assurance process, KPMG assesses local level data management and processes, evaluates the relevance and reliability of the data reported to headquarters and assesses whether the reporting guidelines of Wärtsilä are well understood and applied. This is achieved through conducting site visits and video conferencing. Site assurance was carried out in Wärtsilä Water Systems in Poole, England. CME Zhenjiang Propeller Co, Wärtsilä China, Wärtsilä Switzerland and Wärtsilä Japan were assessed through video conferencing. Wärtsilä self-declares an Application level of A+ according to the GRI G3 guidelines for this report. KPMG has checked our reporting and has confirmed it to be Application level A+ . Additional sources of information Wärtsilä has previously published the following reports: Wärtsilä Environmental Report 2000 Wärtsilä Sustainability Report 2002 Wärtsilä Sustainability Report 2004 Wärtsilä Sustainability Report 2005 Wärtsilä Annual Report 2006 Wärtsilä Annual Report 2007 Wärtsilä Annual Report 2008 Wärtsilä Annual Report 2009 Wärtsilä Annual Report 2010 Wärtsilä Annual Report 2011 Wärtsilä Annual Report 2012 These reports and their sustainability data are available on Wärtsilä's website: www.wartsila.com. Sustainability Report Project Team Marko Vainikka Director, Corporate Relations and Sustainability (contact person: marko.vainikka@wartsila.com) Harri Mäkelä Sustainability Officer 114 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SUSTAINABILITY Natalia Valtasaari Director, Investor Relations Minna Kröger Manager, Corporate Relations Reporting principles Economic performance data The economic performance data is based on audited financial accounting and covers all Wärtsilä subsidiaries unless otherwise stated. Donations: The data of this indicator included 15 major Wärtsilä subsidiaries and the parent company in 2013. Subsidies: The data of this indicator included 15 major Wärtsilä subsidiaries and the parent company in 2013. Environmental performance data Total energy consumption includes both direct and indirect energy usage. The direct energy usage includes the fuels used by Wärtsilä subsidiaries. The indirect energy usage includes the purchased electricity and heat. Since the efficiency of purchased electricity and heat generation is not known, the energy conversion is done directly from the purchased values. Heat and electricity data is based on either invoices or measured values. Water consumption: The reported figures are based on either measured values or invoices. The cooling water usage might also be calculated from the heat load in some units. Emissions: The reported figures are mainly based on measured values, based on which specific emission factors are determined. The specific emission factors are determined for various fuels and engine types. The emissions of the heating boilers are either measured or calculated. The emissions of vehicles are calculated by using the VTT (Technical research centre of Finlands) Lipasto database emission factors. The indirect CO2 emissions (scope 2) are calculated by using the emission factors from the GHG Protocol. The CO2 emissions of air travel are based on calculations by Wärtsilä's travel agency and are based on DEFRA (the UK government Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs) defined factors. Environmental hazards: As such are considered major incidents, which generally require communication to local authorities. Social performance data Injuries: The reported figures include all types of reported cases other than lost time injuries. 115 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SUSTAINABILITY Lost time injuries: The reported figures include all the reported injuries resulting in absence from work of at least one day. LTI frequency is expressed as reported lost time injuries per million working hours. The working hours are actual paid working hours. The lost time injury rate does not include commuting injuries. Employee turnover is calculated from permanent employees. The number of resigned permanent employees is divided by the headcount of permanent employees at the beginning of the reporting period. Independent Assurance Report To the Board of Management of Wärtsilä Corporation We have been engaged by the Board of Management of Wärtsilä Corporation (hereafter: Wärtsilä) to provide limited assurance on Wärtsilä’s Sustainability Information in the electronic Wärtsilä Annual Report 2013 from the reporting period 1.1.–31.12.2013. The sustainability information subject to the limited assurance engagement (hereafter: the Sustainability Information) includes the data and text presented in the “Sustainability” -section and its sub-sections in the Report, as well as the following sub-sections of the “Business” section: “Ship Power and Sustainability”, “Power Plants and Sustainability”, and “Services and Sustainability”. The Sustainability Information also includes data and text in the Inside Stories specifically marked with “Sustainability Assured 2013”. The Board of Management of Wärtsilä is responsible for the presented Sustainability Information as well as for preparing and presenting the Sustainability Information in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines 3.0. The Board of Management of Wärtsilä has approved the presented Sustainability Information. Our responsibility is to carry out a limited assurance engagement and to express a conclusion on the Sustainability Information subject to the assurance based on the work performed. We have conducted the engagement in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE 3000): Assurance engagements other than audits or review of historical financial information, issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board. We do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than Wärtsilä for our work, for this assurance report, or for the conclusions we have reached. The evaluation criteria used for our assurance are the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines 3.0. Limitations of the engagement Sustainability related data and information are subject to inherent limitations in data accuracy and completeness, which are to be taken into account when reading our assurance report. The presented Sustainability Information is to be considered in connection with the explanatory information on data collection, consolidation and assessments provided by Wärtsilä. Our assurance report is not intended for use in evaluating Wärtsilä’s performance in executing the sustainability principles Wärtsilä has defined. To assess the financial state and performance of Wärtsilä, the Wärtsilä audited Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 is to be consulted. 116 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SUSTAINABILITY The work performed in the engagement Our assurance procedures are designed to obtain limited assurance on whether the information subject to the assurance engagement is presented in accordance with the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative 3.0 in all material respects. A limited assurance engagement consists of making inquiries, primarily of persons responsible for the preparation of the sustainability information presented, and applying analytical and other evidence gathering procedures, as appropriate. The evidence gathering procedures mentioned above are more limited than for a reasonable assurance engagement, and therefore less assurance is obtained than in a reasonable assurance engagement. In our engagement we have performed the following procedures: • Interviews with two members of senior management to reassert our understanding of the connection between Wärtsilä’s sustainability procedures and Wärtsilä’s business strategy and operations as well as sustainability objectives; • An assessment of data management processes, information systems and working methods used at the Head Office to gather and consolidate the presented Sustainability Information, and a review of Wärtsilä’s related internal documents and guidelines; • Comparison of Sustainability Information to underlying rules of procedure, management and reporting systems as well as documentation; • An assessment of the presented Sustainability Information against the GRI reporting principles; • A review of the presented Sustainability Information, including the performance data and assertions, subject to the engagement, and an assessment of information quality and reporting boundary definitions; • Assessment of data accuracy and completeness through a review of the original numerical information received from Wärtsilä’s subsidiaries as well as through samples the Group’s information systems; • Assessment of the local reporting processes of Wärtsilä’s subsidiaries on a sample basis through a site visit and four video conferences, conducted to Wärtsilä sites selected on the basis of a risk analysis taking into account both qualitative and quantitative information. Conclusions Based on the assurance procedures performed, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the information subject to the assurance engagement is not presented in accordance with the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative 3.0 in all material respects. Helsinki, 10. February 2014 KPMG OY AB Virpi Halonen Nathalie Clément Authorized Public Accountant Senior Manager, Advisory 117 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SUSTAINABILITY GRI and UNGC index 1 Strategy and analysis GRI content Links Remarks GRI / UNGC 1.1 CEO’s statement Message to the Shareholders 1.2 Key impacts, risks and Risk and risk management See also Business opportunities Corporate strategy Strategy sections Power Plants and sustainability Ship Power and sustainability Services and sustainability Wärtsilä and sustainability 2 Organisational profile 2.1 Name of the This is Wärtsilä organisation 2.2 Primary brands, This is Wärtsilä products and services Operating environment Power Plants review Ship Power review Services review PowerTech review 2.3 Operational structure This is Wärtsilä Operating environment Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2.4 Location of Shares and shareholders Helsinki, Finland organisation’s headquarters 2.5 Number of countries This is Wärtsilä www.wartsila.com and location of operations Operating environment Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 30 2.6 Nature of ownership Shares and shareholders and legal form 2.7 Markets served This is Wärtsilä Operating environment 2.8 Scale of reporting This is Wärtsilä organisation Shareholders Operating environment 2.9 Significant changes Board of Directors’ report 2.10 Awards received in Sustainability highlights 2013 the reporting period 3 Report parameters 3.1 Reporting period Report scope 3.2 Date of most recent Report scope report 3.3 Reporting cycle Report scope 118 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SUSTAINABILITY 3.4 Contact point for Report scope questions regarding the report 3.5 Process for defining Report scope report content 3.6 Boundary of the report Report scope 3.7 Limitations on the Report scope report's scope or boundary 3.8 Basis for reporting Report scope subsidiaries and joint ventures 3.9 Data measurements Report scope techniques and bases of Reporting principles calculations 3.10 Explanation of reReport scope statements 3.11 Significant changes Report scope from previous reporting periods 3.13 Assurance policy and Report scope practice 4 Governance, Commitments and Engagement 4.1 Governance structure Governance 4.2 Position of the Board of Directors Chairman of the Board 4.3 Independence of the Board of Directors Board members 4.4 Mechanism for Annual General Meeting shareholder and employee consultation 4.5 Executive Salary and remuneration report 2013 compensation and linkage to organisation’s performance 4.6 Processes for avoiding Governance conflicts of interest 4.7 Processes for Governance determining expertise 4.8 Implementation of Corporate strategy mission and values Wärtsilä and sustainability statements; code of Guiding principles conduct Code of Conduct 4.9 Procedures of the Governance Board for overseeing risk Board of Directors’ report management 4.10 Processes for Governance evaluating the Board’s Board of Directors’ report performance 4.11 Precautionary Risks and risk management principle Wärtsilä and sustainability Environmental performance 4.12 Voluntary charters Strategy: Sustainability and other initiatives Guiding principles 119 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SUSTAINABILITY 4.13 Memberships in Stakeholder relations associations 4.14 List of stakeholder Stakeholder relations groups 4.15 Identification and Stakeholder relations selection of stakeholders 4.16 Approaches to Stakeholder relations stakeholder engagement 4.17 Key topics raised Stakeholder relations through stakeholder Wärtsilä and sustainability engagement 5 Management Approach and Performance Indicators Economic Performance Indicators Disclosure on Economic performance management approach Financial targets EC1 Direct economic value Economic performance generated and distributed EC2 Risks and Risks and risk management opportunities due to Wärtsilä and emission trading climate change EC3 Coverage of defined Employees benefit plan obligations EC4 Significant subsidies Public sector received from government EC5 Entry level wage Employees compared to minimum wage EC6 Spending on local Suppliers suppliers EC7 Local hiring Employees EC8 Infrastructure Community support investments provided for Sustainability highlights 2013 public benefit EC9 Significant indirect Economic performance impacts Local community approach Environmental Performance Indicators Disclosure on Wärtsilä's sustainability goals management approach Environmental performance www.wartsila.com/ sustainability EN1 Materials used by Materials, energy and water weight or volume EN2 Recycled materials Materials, energy and water Reporting system under used development EN3 Direct energy Materials, energy and water consumption EN4 Indirect energy Materials, energy and water consumption 120 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SUSTAINABILITY EN5 Energy saved due to Wärtsilä's sustainability goals conservation and efficiency improvements EN6 Initiatives to provide The value of sustainable innovation www.wartsila.com/ energy efficient or sustainability renewable energy based products and services EN7 Initiatives to reduce Wärtsilä's sustainability goals indirect energy Wärtsilä's R&D focus consumption Improving efficiency Emissions and wastes EN8 Total water withdrawal Materials, energy and water EN9 Water sources Materials, energy and water significantly affected EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused EN11 Location and size of Environmental costs and liabilities land holdings in biodiversity-rich habitats EN12 Description of Environmental costs and liabilities Not applicable significant impact of activities, products and services on biodiversity EN13 Habitats protected or Not applicable restored EN14 Managing impacts Not applicable on biodiversity EN15 Species with Not applicable extinction risk with habitats in areas affected by operations EN16 Total direct and Emissions and wastes indirect greenhouse gas emissions EN17 Other relevant Emissions and wastes Reporting system under indirect greenhouse gas development emissions EN18 Initiatives to reduce Emissions and wastes www.wartsila.com/ greenhouse gas emission Wärtsilä's sustainability goals sustainability Wärtsilä's R&D focus Improving efficiency EN19 Emissions of ozoneNot applicable depleting substances EN20 NOx, SOx, and Emissions and wastes other significant air emissions EN21Total water discharge Materials, energy and water EN22 Total amount of Emissions and wastes waste EN23 Significant spills Compliance with legislation EN24 Transported, Not applicable imported, exported or treated hazardous waste 121 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SUSTAINABILITY EN25 Water bodies and Not applicable habitats affected by discharges of water EN26 Mitigating Power Plants review www.wartsila.com/ environmental impacts of Ship Power review sustainability products and services Services review Environmental performance EN27 Reclaimable www.wartsila.com/ products and reuse sustainability EN28 Significant fines and Compliance with legislation sanctions for noncompliance with environmental regulations EN29 Environmental impacts of transportation EN30 Total environmental Environmental costs and liabilities protection expenditures and investments Social Performance Indicators Labor Practices and Decent Work Disclosure on Personnel and social performance management approach Wärtsilä's sustainability goals LA1 Breakdown of Personnel workforce LA2 Breakdown of Employee practices employee turnover LA3 Employee benefits Employee practices LA4 Coverage of collective Employee practices www.wartsila.com/ bargaining agreements sustainability LA5 Minimum notice period Employee practices regarding operational changes LA6 Representation in joint Occupational health and safety 57% of Wärtsilä health and safety employees were covered committees by collective bargaining agreements in 2013. LA7 Injury, lost time injury, Occupational health and safety fatalitites, absence rates LA8 Education and Occupational health and safety Part of the OHS prevention programmes management systems regarding serious diseases which cover Wärtsilä employees LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions LA10 Average training Personnel hours per year LA11 Programmes for Personnel skills management LA12 Employees receiving Employee practices regular performance and Social data 122 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SUSTAINABILITY career development reviews LA13 Composition of Governance governance bodies and Personnel breakdown of employees Employee practices LA14 Ratio of basic salary Employees of men to women by Employee practices employee category Human rights Disclosure on Personnel and social performance management approach Wärtsilä's sustainability goals HR1 Investment Human and labour rights agreements that include human rights clauses HR2 Suppliers and Suppliers contractors that have undergone human rights screening HR3 Human rights related Code of Conduct Part of Code of Conduct training for employees training HR4 Incidents of Human and labour rights discrimination and actions taken HR5 Supporting right to Human and labour rights freedom of association and collective bargaining in risk areas HR6 Measures taken to Wärtsilä and sustainability eliminate child labour in Human and labour rights risk areas HR7 Measures taken to Wärtsilä and sustainability eliminate forced labour in Human and labour rights risk areas HR8 Human rights related Security management training for security personnel HR9 Incidents involving Human and labour rights rights of indigenous people and actions taken Society performance Disclosure on Personnel and social performance management approach Wärtsilä's sustainability goals SO1 Managing impacts of Local community approach operations on communities SO2 Business units Preventing corruption and bribery analysed for corruption Risks and risk management risks SO3 Anti-corruption Preventing corruption and bribery training Wärtsilä's sustainability goals SO4 Actions taken in Preventing corruption and bribery response to incidents of corruption 123 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SUSTAINABILITY SO5 Public policy positions Political lobbying and participation in public policy development and lobbying SO6 Contributions to Political lobbying politicians and related institutions SO7 Legal actions for antiCompetition regulation competitive behaviour, anti-trust and monopoly practices SO8 Fines and sanctions Social data for non-compliance with laws and regulations Product responsibility Disclosure on Personnel and social performance management approach Product liability PR1 Assessment of health Product liability and safety impacts of Ensuring reliability and safety products PR2 Non-compliance with Product liability regulations concerning health and safety impacts of products PR3 Product information Product liability required by procedures PR4 Non-compliance with Product liability regulations concerning product information and labelling PR5 Customer satisfaction Customer satisfaction PR6 Adherence to Product liability marketing communications laws, standards and voluntary codes PR7 Non-compliance with Product liability marketing communications regulations and voluntary codes PR8 Complaints regarding Product liability breaches of customer privacy PR9 Fines for nonProduct liability compliance concerning the provision and use of products and services = Fully reported = Partly reported = Not reported = UNGC reported = Core indicator = Additional indicator 124 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 GOVERNANCE 125 GOVERNANCE 148 AUDIT 149 INTERNAL CONTROL 126 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 152 Values and control environment 126 Annual General Meeting 152 Control processes 127 BOARD OF DIRECTORS 152 Guidelines and communication 129 Responsibilities 153 Monitoring 130 Board of Directors CVs 153 SALARY AND REMUNERATION 135 Board committees REPORT 2013 137 BOARD OF MANAGEMENT 157 RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT 138 President & CEO and EVP 159 Strategic risks 139 Board of Management CVs 162 Operational risks 143 OTHER MANAGEMENT 165 Hazard risks 143 Management teams 167 Financial risks 147 Managing Directors of the subsidiaries 167 Risk profiles and responsibilities 148 INSIDER MANAGEMENT 125 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 GOVERNANCE Corporate governance Wärtsilä Corporation complies with the guidelines and provisions of its Articles of Association, the Finnish Limited Liability Companies Act, and the rules and regulations of NASDAQ OMX Helsinki Stock Exchange. Wärtsilä also complies with the Corporate Governance Code 2010 issued by the Finnish Securities Market Association. The Code is publicly available on www.cgfinland.fi/en. Wärtsilä has not deviated from any of the Code's recommendations. Wärtsilä's Corporate Governance Statement, prepared in accordance with recommendation 54 of the Finnish Corporate Governance Code, is also published as a separate statement on Wärtsilä's website as well as in this Annual Report. The content of this Corporate Governance section corresponds fully to Wärtsilä's Corporate Governance Statement. Wärtsilä's Audit Committee has reviewed the Corporate Governance Statement, and the company's external auditor has monitored the issuing of the statement and verified that the description of the main features of the internal control and risk management section, as related to the financial reporting process included in the statement, matches the Financial Statements. Governing bodies Wärtsilä implements a single-tier governance model, in which the management of the Wärtsilä Group is the responsibility of the General Meeting of shareholders, the Board of Directors, and the President and CEO. Their duties are for the most part defined by the Finnish Companies Act. The General Meeting of shareholders elects the Board of Directors and auditors. The Board of Directors is responsible for the strategic management of the company. The Board appoints the President and CEO, who is in charge of the operative, day-to-day management of the company. He is assisted in his work by the Board of Management. Governing bodies 126 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 GOVERNANCE Annual General Meeting Wärtsilä's ultimate decision-making body is the General Meeting of shareholders. It resolves issues as defined for General Meetings in the Finnish Companies Act and the company's Articles of Association. These include: • approving the financial statements • deciding on the distribution of dividends • discharging the company's Board of Directors and CEO from liability for the financial year • electing the company's Board of Directors and auditors and deciding on their remuneration A General Meeting of Wärtsilä Corporation shareholders is held at least once a year, at no later than the end of June. If needed, the company may also hold an Extraordinary General Meeting. An invitation to the General Meeting is published in at least two daily newspapers in common circulation in Finland, as decided by the Board of Directors. The invitation shall be published no earlier than two months, and no later than three weeks, before the General Meeting. It shall, however, be published at least nine days prior to the shareholders' record date. Wärtsilä also publishes invitations to its General Meetings as stock exchange releases, as well as on its website, together with the documents and draft resolutions to be submitted to the General Meeting. The invitation to the General Meeting contains the proposed meeting agenda. Shareholders have the right to add items falling within the competence of the Annual General Meeting to the meeting's agenda. The request must be submitted to the Board of Directors in writing well in advance of the meeting so that the item can be added to the Notice of the General Meeting. Wärtsilä publishes well in advance on the company website the date by which a shareholder shall notify the Board of Directors of his or her demand, and the address or email address to which it shall be sent. The demand is always deemed to have arrived in sufficient time if the Board has been notified of the demand at the latest four weeks before the delivery of the Notice of the General Meeting. All shareholders registered by the record date in the company's list of shareholders maintained by Euroclear Finland Ltd have the right to attend the Annual General Meeting. Each share entitles the holders to one vote. The General Meeting is organised in such a manner that shareholders can participate in the meeting as extensively as possible. The Chairman of the Board of Directors and a sufficient number of members of the Board attend the General Meeting. A person proposed for the first time as a Board member is to participate in the General Meeting that decides on his or her election unless there are well-founded reasons for absence. The President & CEO and members of the Board of Management are also in attendance. Annual General Meeting 2013 Wärtsilä's Annual General Meeting was held on 7 March 2013. A total of 1,330 shareholders representing 105,191,509 votes participated in person or by proxy. The Annual General Meeting approved the financial statements and discharged the members of the Board of Directors and the company’s President & CEO from liability for the financial year 2012. The Meeting approved the Board of Directors’ proposal to pay a dividend of EUR 1.00 per share. The dividend was paid on 19 March 2013. The minutes of the meeting and other related documents can be found on Wärtsilä's website www.wartsila.com > Investors > Governance > Shareholder meetings > Annual General Meeting 2013. 127 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 GOVERNANCE The Board of Directors Responsibility for the management of the company and the proper organisation of its operations is invested in the company's Board of Directors, which is composed of five to ten members. Board members serve for one year at a time and are elected by the General Meeting. According to the Corporate Governance Code's recommendation 14, the majority of board members shall be independent of the company and at least two of the members representing this majority shall be independent of significant shareholders of the company. The proposal for board composition is included in the Notice of the General Meeting. The same applies to a proposal for the composition of the board made by shareholders with at least 10% of the votes carried by the company shares, provided that the candidates have given their consent to the election and the company has received information on the proposal sufficiently in advance as to be included in the Notice of the General Meeting. The candidates proposed shall be disclosed separately in corresponding order. Wärtsilä publishes the biographical details of the candidates for the board on its website in connection with publication of the Notice of the General Meeting. The Board elects a chairman and a deputy chairman from among its members. The Board steers and supervises the company's operations and decides on policies, goals and strategies of major importance. The principles applied by the Board to its regular work are set out in the Board Charter. The Board has also approved the rules of procedure applied by the Board's committees setting out their main tasks and working principles. In addition to matters requiring its decision, the Board is also given updates at its meetings on the Group's operations, financial position and risks. The Board conducts an annual self-evaluation of its operations and working methods. The purpose of this evaluation is to assess how the Board has executed its tasks during the year and to act as a basis for developing Board functions. The Board of Directors convenes 7-10 times a year following a pre-determined schedule. In addition to these meetings, the Board convenes as necessary. All meetings are documented. Board of Directors in 2013 As of 7 March 2013, the Board consisted of the following nine members: Ms Maarit Aarni-Sirviö, Mr KajGustaf Bergh (deputy chairman), Mr Sune Carlsson, Mr Alexander Ehrnrooth, Mr Paul Ehrnrooth, Mr Mikael Lilius (chairman), Ms Gunilla Nordström, Mr Markus Rauramo and Mr Matti Vuoria. Until 7 March 2013, the Board consisted of the following nine members: Ms Maarit Aarni-Sirviö, Mr KajGustaf Bergh, Mr Alexander Ehrnrooth, Mr Paul Ehrnrooth, Mr Lars Josefsson, Mr Mikael Lilius (chairman), Ms Gunilla Nordström, Mr Markus Rauramo and Mr Matti Vuoria (deputy chairman). During 2013, the strategic development of Wärtsilä and its position in the growth markets was a major item on the Board's agenda. In addition to all other Board responsibilities, other matters on the agenda have been the monitoring of developments related to Wärtsilä's operational environment and financial position. Independence of the Board of Directors All nine Board members were determined to be independent of the company and five members were determined to be independent of significant shareholders. The four members determined to be dependent of significant shareholders are Mr Kaj-Gustaf Bergh, Mr Alexander Ehrnrooth and Mr Paul Ehrnrooth due to their positions on the Board of Directors of Fiskars Corporation, as well as Mr Sune Carlsson due to his position on the board of Investor AB. During 2013, Fiskars Corporation and Investor AB completed the legal combination 128 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 GOVERNANCE of their respective Wärtsilä ownership interests into a joint venture. When formed, the joint company Avlis AB and its wholly owned subsidiary Avlis Invest AB's total ownership was 42,948,325 or 21.77% of Wärtsilä’s share capital and votes. Fiskars owned 59.7% of Avlis AB and Investor 40.3%. Meeting attendance of the Board of Directors During 2013, Wärtsilä's Board of Directors held 12 meetings. The average attendance of all directors was 97%. Board member meeting participation in 2013 Number of meetings % of meetings Mikael Lilius, Chairman 11/12 92 Kaj-Gustaf Bergh, Deputy Chairman 12/12 100 Maarit Aarni-Sirviö 11/12 92 Sune Carlsson 10/10 100 Alexander Ehrnrooth 12/12 100 Paul Ehrnrooth 12/12 100 Gunilla Nordström 11/12 92 Markus Rauramo 12/12 100 Matti Vuoria 12/12 100 Until 7 March 2013 Lars Josefsson 2/2 100 Responsibilities of the Board of Directors The Board considers all the matters stipulated to be the responsibility of a board of directors by legislation, other regulations, and the company's Articles of Association. The most important of these are: • the annual and interim financial statements • the matters to be put before the General Meetings of shareholders • the appointment of the President and CEO, the Executive Vice President and the CEO's deputy, if any • the organisation of financial supervision within the company The Board is also responsible for considering any matters that are so far-reaching with respect to the area of the Group's operations, that they cannot be considered to fall within the scope of the Group's day-to-day administration. Examples of such matters include: • approval of the Group's strategic plan and long-term goals • approval of the Group's annual business plan and budget • decisions concerning investments, acquisitions or divestments that are significant or that deviate from the Group's strategy • approval of product development projects and development programmes with strategic importance • decisions to raise loans and the granting of security or similar collateral commitments when their size is significant 129 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 GOVERNANCE • approval of risk management principles • the Group's organisational structure • appointment of the company's Board of Management and approval of their remuneration and pension benefits • monitoring and assessing the performance of the President and CEO • approval of the company's management principles and steering systems • appointment of the Board of Director's committees • the granting of donations to good causes Board of Directors CVs Mikael Lilius Primary working experience Fortum Oyj, President and CEO, 2000-2009; Gambro AB, President and CEO, 1998-2000; Incentive AB, President and CEO, 1991-1998; KF Industri AB (Nordico), President & CEO, 1989-1991 and Huhtamäki Oy, President of the Packing Division, 1986-1989. Other positions of trust Independent of the company and significant Metso Corporation, Mehiläinen Oy, Chairman of the shareholders. Chairman of the Board of Wärtsilä Boards; Ambea AB, Evli Bank Ltd., Member of the Corporation. Born 1949, B.Sc. (Econ.). Member of Boards; Ab Kelonia Oy, Member of the Supervisory the Board of Wärtsilä Corporation since 2010, Board, East Office of Finnish Industries, Deputy Chairman of the Board since 2011. Member of the Board. 130 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 GOVERNANCE Kaj-Gustaf Bergh Primary working experience Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken, Member of management, 2000-2001; SEB Asset Management, Director; 1998-2000; Ane Gyllenberg Ab, Chief executive officer, 1986-1998; Oy Bensow Ab, Director, Executive vice president, 1985-1986; Ane Gyllenberg Ab, Administrative manager, 1984-1985 and Ky von Konow & Co, Administrative manager, 1982-1983. Independent of the company, dependent of Other positions of trust significant shareholders due to a position on the Board of Directors of Fiskars Corporation. Born Sponda Oyj, Finaref Group Ab, Fiskars Corporation, 1955, B.Sc., LL.M. Managing Director of Föreningen Ab Forum Capita Oy and KSF Media Holding Ab, Konstsamfundet r.f. Member of the Board of Chairman of the Boards; Julius Tallberg Oy Ab, and Wärtsilä Corporation since 2008, Deputy Chairman Ramirent Group, Member of the Boards. of the Board since 2013. Relevant prior positions of trust Board chairmanships: Ålandsbanken Abp 2011-2013 and Aktia Abp 2005-2009. Board membership: Stockmann Oyj Abp 2007-2013. 131 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 GOVERNANCE Maarit Aarni-Sirviö Primary working experience Mint of Finland Ltd., President and CEO 2008-2010; Borealis Group 1994-2008, several senior positions of which the most recent was Vice President BU Phenol 2001-2008; Vice President BU Olefins 1997-2001 in Copenhagen, Denmark and Neste Oyj 1977-94. Other positions of trust Independent of the company and significant Member of the Board of Directors' Institute of shareholders. Born 1953, M.Sc. (Tech.), eMBA. Finland – Hallitusammattilaiset rt; ecoDa (The Secretary General of Directors' Institute of Finland – European Confederation of Directors Associations), Hallitusammattilaiset ry; Managing Director of Member of the Board. Boardview Oy; Senior Adviser at Eera Oy. Member of the Board of Wärtsilä Corporation since 2007. Relevant prior positions of trust Board memberships: Rautaruukki Oyj, 2005-2012; Ponsse Oyj, 2007-2010 and Vattenfall AB, Sweden, 2004-2007. Sune Carlsson Primary working experience AB SKF, President & CEO 1998-2003; ABB Ltd, Executive Vice President 1988-1998 and ASEA AB, Executive Vice President 1977-1988. Other positions of trust Atlas Copco AB, Chairman of the Board. Relevant prior positions of trust Independent of the company, dependent of significant shareholders due to a position on the Board chairmanships: Stena AB, 2009-2011; Autoliv Board of Directors of Investor AB. Born 1941, M.Sc. Inc, 2003-2011 and Scania AB, 2004-2006. (Eng.). Vice Chairman of the Board of Investor AB. Member of the Board of Wärtsilä since 2013. 132 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 GOVERNANCE Alexander Ehrnrooth Primary working experience President & CEO of Virala Oy Ab 1995-. Other positions of trust Fiskars Corporation, Vice Chairman of the Board; Aleba Corporation and Belgrano Investments Oy, Chairman of the Boards. Relevant prior positions of trust Independent of the company, dependent of significant shareholders due to a position on the Board chairmanships: Oral Hammaslääkärit Oyj, Board of Directors of Fiskars Corporation. Born 2006-2007; Turvatiimi Oyj, 2008-2010. 1974, M.Sc. (Econ.), MBA. President & CEO of Virala Oy Ab. Member of the Board of Wärtsilä Corporation since 2010. Paul Ehrnrooth Primary working experience Savox Oy, President and CEO, 1999-2007; several management positions in Wärtsilä Corporation 1994-1999 and Kone Corporation 1993-1994. Other positions of trust Fiskars Corporation and Ixonos Oyj, Deputy Chairman of the Boards; Savox Group, Chairman of the Board. Independent of the company, dependent of significant shareholders due to a position on the Board of Directors of Fiskars Corporation. Born 1965, M.Sc. (Econ.). President & Chairman of the Board of Turret Oy Ab. Member of the Board of Wärtsilä Corporation since 2010. 133 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 GOVERNANCE Gunilla Nordström Primary working experience Senior management positions with Telefonaktiebolaget LM Ericsson and Sony Ericsson in Europe, Latin America and Asia, 1983-2007. Other positions of trust Member of the Board of Directors of Atlas Copco AB, Sweden. Independent of the company and significant Relevant prior positions of trust shareholders. Born 1959, M.Sc. in Electronics, Industrial Marketing Management. President and Board memberships: Luleå University, Sweden CEO of Electrolux Major Appliances Asia/Pacific, 2007-2010 and Videocon Industries Limited, India based in Singapore, and Executive Vice President of 2009-2010. Electrolux AB. Member of the Board of Wärtsilä Corporation since 2012. Markus Rauramo Primary working experience Stora Enso Oyj Helsinki, CFO and Member of the GET 2008-2012; Stora Enso International London, SVP Group Treasurer 2004-2008; Stora Enso Oyj Helsinki, VP Strategy and Investments 2001-2004; Stora Enso Financial Services Brussels, VP Head of Funding 1999-2001 and Enso Oyj Helsinki, several financial tasks 1993-1999. Other positions of trust Independent of the company and significant shareholders. Born 1968, M.Sc. (Econ. and Pol. Oy Proselectum AB and Teollisuuden Voima Oyj, Hist.). Chief Financial Officer and Member of the Member of the Boards. Management team of Fortum. Member of the Board of Wärtsilä Corporation since 2011. 134 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 GOVERNANCE Matti Vuoria Primary working experience Full-time Chairman of the Board of Directors, Fortum Corporation 1998-2003; Secretary General, Ministry of Trade and Industry 1992-1998. Other positions of trust Sampo plc, Deputy Chairman of the Board; Stora Enso Oyj, The Federation of Financial Services and The Finnish Pension Alliance TELA, Member of the Independent of the company and significant Boards; The Securities Market Association, shareholders. Born 1951, BA, LL.M. President & Chairman of the Board. CEO of Varma Mutual Pension Insurance Company. Member of the Board of Wärtsilä Corporation since Relevant prior positions of trust 2005. Board memberships: Nordic Investment Bank, Danisco A/S, Orion Corporation and Nokian Tyres plc. The Board's committees The Board of Directors appoints annually an Audit Committee, a Nomination Committee and a Remuneration Committee, and may also nominate any other committees if considered necessary in its constitutive meeting following the Annual General Meeting. The Board appoints the members of these committees and their chairmen. The Board also has the right to remove a member from a committee. The members of each committee are appointed for the same term of office as the Board itself. In addition to the committee members, other Board members may participate in committee meetings, if they so wish. The purpose of the Board's committees is to prepare matters to be put before the Board for its decision. The committees have no decision-making authority of their own. The Audit Committee The Board of Directors appoints an Audit Committee to assist it in its work. The Board appoints from among its members at least three members to the Committee. These members shall have the qualifications necessary to perform the responsibilities of the Audit Committee. The Board defines the duties of the Audit Committee in the charter confirmed for the Committee. The Audit Committee monitors the reporting process of financial statements, supervises the financial reporting process, and monitors the efficiency of the internal control, internal audit and risk management systems. Furthermore, the Committee reviews the description of the main features of the internal control and risk management systems pertaining to the financial reporting process, monitors the statutory audit of the financial statements 135 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 GOVERNANCE and consolidated financial statements, evaluates the independence of the statutory audit firm, and prepares the proposal for resolution on the election of the auditor. The Chairman of the Audit Committee convenes the Committee as required. He also reports the Committee's proposals to the Board of Directors and regularly reports to the Board on the Committee's meetings. Audit Committee in 2013 Chairman Markus Rauramo, members Maarit Aarni-Sirviö and Alexander Ehrnrooth. All members are independent of the company and two members are independent of significant shareholders. The Audit Committee met 5 times in 2013. The average attendance of all Committee members was 100%. The Nomination Committee The Board of Directors appoints a Nomination Committee to assist it in its work. The Board appoints at least three of its members to serve on the Committee. The majority of the members of the Committee shall be independent of the company. The Board defines the duties of the Nomination Committee in the charter confirmed for the Committee. The Committee communicates, as necessary, with major shareholders in matters concerning the appointment of the Board of Directors. The Nomination Committee can also, as necessary, prepare proposals to be put before the General Meeting concerning the appointment of Board members. The Nomination Committee prepares matters concerning the remuneration that applies to Board members. The Chairman of the Nomination Committee convenes the Committee as required. He also reports the Committee's proposals to the Board of Directors and regularly reports to the Board on the Committee's meetings. Nomination Committee in 2013 Chairman Mikael Lilius, members Kaj-Gustaf Bergh and Matti Vuoria. All members are independent of the company and two are independent of significant shareholders. The Nomination Committee met 2 times in 2013. The average attendance of all Committee members was 100%. The Remuneration Committee The Board appoints a Remuneration Committee to assist it in its work. The Board appoints at least three of its members to sit on the Committee. The majority of the members of the Committee shall be independent of the company. The Board defines the duties of the Remuneration Committee in the charter confirmed for the Committee. The Remuneration Committee prepares, as necessary, matters concerning the nomination of the President and CEO, the CEO's deputy and other board of management members to be put before the Board. The Committee prepares proposals to be put before the Board of Directors concerning the incentive schemes and remuneration that apply to the President and CEO and the Board of Management members. The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee convenes the Committee as required. He also reports the Committee's proposals to the Board of Directors and regularly reports to the Board on the Committee's meetings. 136 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 GOVERNANCE Remuneration Committee in 2013 Chairman Mikael Lilius, members Paul Ehrnrooth and Matti Vuoria. All members are independent of the company and two are independent of significant shareholders. The Remuneration Committee met 2 times in 2013. The average attendance of all Committee members was 100%. Board member committee meeting participation in 2013 Audit Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Mikael Lilius 2 2 Kaj-Gustaf Bergh 2 Maarit Aarni-Sirviö 5 Sune Carlsson Alexander Ehrnrooth 5 Paul Ehrnrooth 2 Gunilla Nordström Markus Rauramo 5 Matti Vuoria 2 2 Until 7 March 2013 Lars Josefsson 1 Board of Management The company's Board of Management comprises eight members: the President & CEO, the Senior Executive Vice President heading the Ship Power business, the Executive Vice Presidents heading the Power Plants and Services businesses, the Chief Financial Officer, and the Executive Vice Presidents heading the Communications & Branding, the Corporate Relations & Legal Affairs and Human Resources functions. Board of Management members are appointed by the company's Board of Directors, which also approves their remuneration and other terms of employment. The Board of Management is chaired by the President & CEO. It considers strategic issues related to the Group and its businesses, as well as investments, product policy, the Group's structure and corporate steering systems, and it supervises the company's operations. The Chief Financial Officer's main areas of responsibility include group control, treasury (including project and customer financing), taxation and process development, corporate planning, corporate real estate, and the information management support functions. The Executive Vice Presidents heading the businesses are each responsible for the sales volumes and profitability of their respective global businesses, employing the services of the Group's worldwide subsidiaries. The main areas of responsibility of the Executive Vice President, Corporate Relations & Legal are corporate relations and legal affairs, intellectual asset management and sustainability, as well as environmental and occupational health and safety. The Executive Vice President, Human Resources is responsible for people related processes. The main areas of responsibility of the Executive Vice President, Communications & Branding are external and internal communications, as well as branding. Information on the members of the Board of Management, their areas of responsibility and holdings can be found in the section Board of Management CVs and in the full Governance statement. 137 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 GOVERNANCE The Board of Management in 2013 In 2013, the Board of Management met 14 times. The main issues addressed by the Board of Management included market development and business strategy, the growth and profitability of the company, as well as issues relating to developments regarding competitiveness and costs. Another focus area has been the further development of Wärtsilä's organisational structure and the implementation of organisational changes. The development of markets, the regulatory operating environment, order intake and production capacity, as well as supplier and other stakeholder relationships were also important matters addressed by the Board of Management. Other important considerations for the Board of Management included the development of the company's personnel and management resources worldwide. The Board of Management gave considerable attention to the integration of the acquired Hamworthy plc. The President & CEO and the Senior Executive Vice President The Board of Directors appoints a President for the Group who is also its Chief Executive Officer. The President & CEO is in charge of the day-to-day management of the company and its administration, in accordance with the company's Articles of Association, the Finnish Companies Act, and the instructions of the Board of Directors. He is assisted in this work by the Board of Management. The President & CEO's service terms and conditions are specified in writing in his service contract. The President & CEO of the company is Mr Björn Rosengren. The deputy to the President & CEO is Mr Jaakko Eskola, Senior Executive Vice President, Ship Power, following the retirement of the former deputy, Chief Financial Officer Mr Raimo Lind, on 31 July 2013. 138 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 GOVERNANCE Board of Management CVs Björn Rosengren Primary working experience Senior Executive Vice President Atlas Copco AB and Business Area President for Construction and Mining Technique 2002-2011; President of the Atlas Copco Rock Drilling Equipment division 2001-2002; President of the Atlas Copco Craelius division 1998-2001; GM of Nordhydraulic, Nordwin AB, Sweden 1995-1998; Various positions within ESAB Group 1985-1995. President & CEO of Wärtsilä Corporation since Positions of trust 2011. Born 1959, M.Sc. (Tech.). Joined the company in 2011. Danfoss A/S, Denmark, Member of the board. Jaakko Eskola Primary working experience Wärtsilä Corporation, Vice President, Power Plants Sales & Marketing 2005-2006; Wärtsilä Development & Financial Services Oy, President 1998-2005; PCA Corporate Finance, Executive Director 1997-1998; National Banking Group, various managerial positions in international project finance 1986-1997; Industrialization Fund of Finland, Corporate Analyst 1984-1986; VTT Technical Research Centre of Finland, Researcher Senior Executive Vice President and Deputy to the 1983-1984. CEO since 2013. President, Ship Power since 2006. Born 1958, M.Sc. (Eng.). Joined the company in Positions of trust 1998. ALMACO Group, Member of the Board; Finnish Marine Industries Association, Chairman of the Board. Relevant prior positions of trust European Marine Equipment Council (EMEC), President, 2008-2011. 139 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 GOVERNANCE Pierpaolo Barbone Primary working experience Wärtsilä Corporation, Vice President Services, South Europe & Africa January-September 2013; Wärtsilä Corporation, Vice President Services, Middle East & Asia 2010-2013; Wärtsilä Italia S.p.A., Executive Vice President 2000-2003; Ciserv Group, President 2001-2006; Wärtsilä Corporation, Vice President Field Service 1997-2009; Wärtsilä Italia S.p.A., Vice President Services 1997-2003; Fincantieri C.N.I. S.p.A., Isotta Fraschini diesel President, Services & Executive Vice President engines business unit, Sales manager 1989-1996. since 1 October 2013. Born 1957, M.Sc. (Eng.). Joined the company in 1996. Päivi Castrén Primary working experience Wärtsilä Corporation, Vice President, Human Resources 2005-2011; Nokia Corporation, Director, Human Resources, Nokia Finland 2002-2005; Nokia Networks, HR Director 2000-2002; Nokia Networks, Networks Systems division, HR Director 1999-2000; Nokia Networks, HR manager 1995-1998; Valmet Paper Machinery, HR manager 1988-1995. Positions of trust Executive Vice President, Human Resources since 2012. Born 1958, M.Sc. (Soc. Sc.). Joined the Confederation of Finnish Industries, EK, Chairman company in 2005. of the Committee of Education, Work and Employment; Confederation of Technology Industries, Chairman of the Committee of Education and Employment; Wilhelm Wahlforss Foundation, Chairman of the Board; AinoActive Oy, Member of the Board. 140 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 GOVERNANCE Kari Hietanen Primary working experience Executive Vice President, Human Resources and Legal Affairs, 2002-2011; Wärtsilä Power Divisions, Group General Counsel 2000-2002; Wärtsilä Diesel Group, General Counsel 1994-1999; Metra Corporation and Wärtsilä Diesel Group, Legal Counsel 1989-1994; Positions of trust Executive Vice President, Corporate Relations and German-Finnish Chamber of Commerce and Legal Affairs since 2012, Company Secretary since Finnish-Korean Trade Association, Deputy 2002. Born 1963, LL.M. Joined the company in Chairman of the Boards; East Office of Finnish 1989. Industries Ltd, Member of the Board; Confederation of Finnish Industries, Chairman of the Trade Policy Committee. Atte Palomäki Primary working experience Nordea Bank AB (publ.), Group chief press officer 2007-2008, Chief communication officer, Finland 2005-2006; Kauppalehti, Senior business correspondent 2002-2005; MTV3, Senior economic correspondent 2000-2002, News producer 1995-2000 and News anchor 1993-1995. Positions of trust Executive Vice President, Communications & Talentum Oyj, Member of the Board; Finnfacts, Branding since 2008. Born 1965, M.Sc. (Pol.). Member of the Advisory Board. Joined the company in 2008. 141 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 GOVERNANCE Vesa Riihimäki Primary working experience Vice President, Power Plant Technology 2004-2009; General Manager, Electrical & Automation Systems 2002-2003; Wärtsilä Finland Oy, Design Manager Power Generation Systems 2000-2002, Wärtsilä NSD Finland Oy, Design Manager, Electrical Systems 1997-2000; Chief Design Engineer, Projects 1993-1997 and Wärtsilä Diesel Oy, Design Engineer, Projects 1992-1993. President, Power Plants & Executive Vice President since 2009. Born 1966, M.Sc. (Eng.). Joined the company in 1992. Marco Wirén Primary working experience SSAB, Executive Vice President and CFO 2008-2013; SSAB, Vice President Business control 2007-2008; Eltel Networks, CFO and VP Business Development 2002-2007; NCC, VP Business Development and Group Controller 1995-2001. Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since 1 August 2013. Born 1966, M.Sc. (Econ.). Joined the company in 2013. Lars Hellberg President, PowerTech & Executive Vice President until 30 September 2013. Raimo Lind CFO, Senior Vice President and Deputy to the CEO until 31 July 2013. Christoph Vitzthum President, Services & Executive Vice President until 30 September 2013. 142 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 GOVERNANCE Corporate Management The company's Corporate Management includes, in addition to the Board of Management, the following directors responsible for corporate functions: Riitta Hovi Deputy General Counsel, Corporate Legal Affairs Born 1960, LL.M. MBA Anu Hämäläinen Vice President, Group Control Born 1965, M.Sc. (Econ.) Philip Maguire Vice President, Group Quality Born 1957, B.Sc. (Hons) in Electrical and Electronic Engineering Johan Jägerroos Vice President, Corporate Internal Audit Born 1965, M.Sc. (Econ.) Esa Kivineva Chief Information Officer (CIO) Born 1961, Ph.D. (Eng.) Markus Pietikäinen Vice President, Group Treasury & Financial Services Born 1975, M.Sc. (Econ.) Business Management teams Each business head is supported by a Business Management team. Power Plants Vesa Riihimäki President, Power Plants & Executive Vice President Born 1966, M.Sc. (Eng.) Tore Björkman Vice President, Sales, Europe and Africa Born 1957, B.Sc. (Mech. Eng.) Minna Blomqvist Vice President, Human Resources Born 1969, M.Sc. (Eng.) 143 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 GOVERNANCE Frank Donnelly Vice President, Sales, Americas Born 1953, B.Sc. (Math.) Jussi Heikkinen Vice President, Marketing & Business Development Born 1955, M.Sc. (Energy and Power Plant Technology) Thomas Hägglund Vice President, Power Plant Technology Born 1962, M.Sc. (Eng.) Antti Kämi Vice President, Project Management Born 1964, M.Sc. (Civil Eng.) Caj Malmsten Vice President, Finance & Business Control Born 1972, M.Sc. (Econ.) Markus Pietikäinen Vice President, Group Treasury & Financial Services Born 1975, M.Sc. (Econ.) Rakesh Sarin Vice President, Sales, Middle East and Asia Born 1955, B.Sc. (Chemical Eng.) Laura Susi-Gamba Vice President, Legal Affairs Born 1963, LL.M. Niklas Åberg Vice President, Quality Management Born 1967, M.Sc. (Eng.) Ship Power Jaakko Eskola President, Ship Power & Senior Executive Vice President and Deputy to the CEO Born 1958, M.Sc. (Eng.) Lars Anderson Vice President, 4-stroke until 31 August 2013 Born 1968, B.Sc. (Mech. Eng.), MBA Arjen Berends Vice President, Finance & Control Born 1968, MBA 144 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 GOVERNANCE Aaron Bresnahan Vice President, Ship Power Sales Born 1969, MBA & MA (Strategic Studies) Per Hansson Vice President, Strategy Born 1967, M.Sc. (Eng.) Roger Holm Senior Vice President, 4-stroke as of 1 September 2013 Born 1972, M.Sc. (Econ.) Sinikka Ilveskoski Vice President, Legal & Contract Management Born 1967, LL.M. Timo Koponen Vice President, Flow & Gas Solutions Born 1969, M.Sc. (Econ.) Juha Kytölä Vice President, Environmental Solutions Born 1964, M.Sc. (Eng.) Arto Lehtinen Vice President, Propulsion Born 1971, M.Sc. (Eng.) Magnus Miemois Vice President, Solutions Born 1970, M.Sc. (Eng.) Minna Rahkamaa Vice President, Human Resources as of 28 February 2013 Born 1968, M.Sc. (Econ.) Mikael Simelius Vice President, Marketing Born 1964, M.Sc. (Econ.) Martin Wernli Vice President, 2-stroke Born 1960, J.D. Attorney at Law Services Pierpaolo Barbone President, Services & Executive Vice President as of 1 October 2013 Vice President, Area South Europe & Africa until 31 October 2013 Born 1957, M.Sc. (Min. Eng.) 145 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 GOVERNANCE Fred van Beers Vice President, Area North Europe Born 1962, B.Sc. (Merchant Eng.), B.Sc./BBA (BtB Marketing) Peter Bjurs Vice President, Finance Born 1965, M.Sc. (Econ.) Javier Cavada Vice President, South Europe & Africa as of 1 November 2013 Born 1975, Ph.D. (Eng.) Stefan Fant Vice President, Contract and Project Management Born 1955, B.Sc. (Mech.) Tomas Hakala Vice President, Area Americas Born 1968, B.Sc. (Mech.) Roger Holm Vice President, Seals & Bearings until 31 August 2013 Born 1972, M.Sc. (Econ.) Christer Kantola Vice President, Solutions Management Born 1952, B.Sc. (Mech.) Michel Kubbinga Vice President, Area Middle East & Asia Born 1960, M.Sc. (Eng.) Ralf Lindbäck Vice President, Legal Affairs Born 1958, LL.M. Stefan Nysjö Vice President, Delivery Management Born 1970, B.Sc. (Mech.) Philip Maguire Vice President, Wärtsilä Group Quality Born 1957, B.Sc. (Hons) in Electrical and Electronic Engineering Nelli Paasikivi Vice President, Strategy, QEHS & Operational Development Born 1968, M.Sc. (Energy) Sini Spets Vice President, Human Resources Born 1974, M.Sc. (Psychology) 146 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 GOVERNANCE PowerTech Roger Holm Head of PowerTech as of 1 October 2013 Senior Vice President, 4-stroke, Ship Power Born 1972, M.Sc. (Econ.) Hannu Mäntymaa Vice President, Wärtsilä Operational Excellence Born 1977, M.Sc. (Eng.) Paolo Tonon Vice President, Research & Development Born 1970, M.Sc. (Eng.) Sergio Razeto Vice President, Product Centre 4-Stroke Born 1950, M.Sc. (Eng.) Stefan Damlin Vice President, Finance & Business Development Born 1968, M.Sc. (Econ.) Kai Kamila Vice President, Human Resources Born 1960, M.Ed. In the latter part of 2013 Wärtsilä initiated steps to integrate PowerTech into Ship Power’s 4-stroke organisation. The new organisational set up became effective in the beginning of 2014. Managing Directors of the subsidiaries The Managing Directors of the Group's subsidiaries are responsible for ensuring that the local resources are correctly dimensioned to meet the needs of the businesses, that the subsidiary's personnel development needs are met, that the subsidiary's operations fulfill the requirements stipulated in the Group's quality system, that these operations comply with the respective country's legal requirements and with good business practice, and that communication in the subsidiary is conducted according to the targets of the Group. 147 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 GOVERNANCE Insider management Wärtsilä complies with the legal provisions applying to the management of insiders, as well as the Guidelines for Insiders approved by NASDAQ OMX Helsinki Exchange for public listed companies and the stipulations and guidelines of the Finnish Financial Supervision Authority. Wärtsilä's permanent insiders comprise the statutory insiders, i.e. the Board of Directors, the President & CEO, the Deputy to the CEO, the Principal Auditor, as well as the members of the Board of Management. Certain members of the Corporate Management and other employees, as required by their duties, also belong to the company's own non-public insider register. When significant projects are at the preparation stage, the company also draws up insider registers for the projects concerned. Insiders are given written notification of their status as insiders as well as instructions on the obligations that apply to insiders. The company's insiders are not permitted to trade in the company's shares for 14 days (however Wärtsilä recommends 30 days) prior to publication of the interim reports or the annual financial statements bulletin. Wärtsilä's insider register is maintained by the parent company's legal affairs function, which is responsible for keeping the information updated. Information on the interests and holdings of the company's permanent insiders and related parties is available on Wärtsilä's website. Audit Internal The Group's internal audit is handled by its Internal Audit unit, which reports to the President and CEO. The purpose of the Internal Audit is to analyse the company's operations and processes, as well as the effectiveness and quality of its supervision mechanisms. The internal auditor also participates, if necessary, in audits undertaken in conjunction with acquisitions and carries out special tasks when needed. The Internal Audit function covers all of the company's organisational levels and subsidiaries. An internal audit is undertaken in the main subsidiaries on an annual basis, and in network companies at 3-year intervals. The Internal Audit function prepares an annual plan under which they independently audit different parts of the company, but it is also empowered to carry out special audits. The annual plan is approved by the Audit Committee, to which the Internal Audit function also reports at regular intervals. If required, the auditors also have the possibility to take direct contact with the Audit Committee or members of the Board of Directors. External The company has one auditor, which shall be an auditing firm authorised by the Central Chamber of Commerce. The auditor is elected by the Annual General Meeting to audit the accounts for the ongoing financial year, and its duties cease at the close of the subsequent Annual General Meeting. The auditor is responsible for auditing the consolidated and parent company financial statements and accounting records, and the administration of the parent company. 148 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 GOVERNANCE Following the closing of the annual accounts, the external auditor submits the statutory auditor's report to the company's shareholders and reports regularly also its findings to the Board of Directors' Audit Committee. An auditor, in addition to fulfilling general competency requirements, must also comply with certain legal independence requirements guaranteeing the execution of an independent and reliable audit. Auditor in 2013 The Annual General Meeting appointed the firm of public auditors, KPMG Oy Ab, as Wärtsilä Corporation's auditor for the year 2013. The lead partner was Virpi Halonen. Auditing fees paid to all the auditors of the Group companies amounted to EUR 2.7 million in 2013. Consultancy fees unrelated to auditing duties paid to the auditors totalled EUR 1.5 million. These latter fees mainly concerned consultation on taxation matters. Internal control Main components of Wärtsilä's internal control Wärtsilä has defined its objectives for internal control according to the international COSO framework. Wärtsilä defines internal control as a process implemented by Wärtsilä's Board of Directors, the Management, the Boards of Directors of Group companies, and other personnel, which is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the achievement of objectives. Internal control covers all the policies, processes, procedures and organisational structures within Wärtsilä that help management, and ultimately the Board, to ensure that Wärtsilä is achieving its objectives, that the business conduct is ethical and in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, that the company's assets, including its brand, are safeguarded, and that its financial reporting is correct. Internal control is not a separate process or set of activities, but is embedded within Wärtsilä's operations. The system of internal control operates at all levels of Wärtsilä. Wärtsilä maintains and develops its internal control system with the ultimate aim of improving its business performance and, at the same time, of complying with laws and regulations in countries where it operates. 149 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 GOVERNANCE Performance management Planning and target setting, an integral part of performance management in Wärtsilä, is a regular management activity and not part of Wärtsilä's internal control system. The establishment of objectives, however, is an important pre-requisite for internal control. Through the performance management process, financial and non-financial targets are set for Wärtsilä annually at the Group level. These Group level targets are then translated into targets for the Businesses, Group Companies, and eventually individuals. The achievement of the annual targets is followed up through monthly management reporting. The performance of the Businesses and the achievement of the annual targets are reviewed on a monthly basis in the respective Management team meetings. The performance and the achievement of the targets of the Group and of the different Businesses are reviewed on a monthly basis by the Board of Management. The respective management teams and the Board of Management also address the reliability of Wärtsilä's financial reporting. Wärtsilä's financial reporting is carried out in a harmonised way in all major Group Companies, using a single instance ERP system and a common chart of accounts. The International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) are applied throughout the entire Group. Wärtsilä's finance and control process is essential for the functioning of internal control. Adequate controls in the financial management and accounting processes are needed to ensure the reliability of financial reporting. The Board of Directors regularly assesses the adequacy and effectiveness of Wärtsilä's internal controls and risk management. It is also responsible for ensuring that the internal control of accounting and financial administration is arranged appropriately. The Audit Committee of Wärtsilä Corporation’s Board of Directors is responsible for overseeing the financial reporting process. The Group Finance & Control function is responsible for notifying relevant levels of management regarding deviations from plans, analysing the underlying reasons, and suggesting corrective actions. Group Finance & Control supports the Businesses in decision-making and analysis to ensure the attainment of financial targets. It maintains and develops the company's performance management processes, so that the management at different levels of the organisation is able to receive timely, reliable and adequate information regarding the achievement of the organisation's objectives. In addition, it is responsible for developing the financial reporting processes and respective controls. Legal and compliance management Legal and compliance management practices and processes occupy a central role in Wärtsilä's system of internal control. It is Wärtsilä's policy to act in accordance with the applicable laws and regulations in all countries where it operates. Legal and compliance management acts predominantly in a proactive manner. Legal Affairs supports the President & CEO and the divisions in analysing and making decisions on matters involving contract policy, risk management and regulatory considerations. Another key activity is to lead compliance management and strengthen and ensure the culture of appropriate conduct and behaviour, both internally and in external business transactions. Compliance management is based on the Code of Conduct and relevant group level policies and directives. Company-wide control mechanisms and processes are a part of the overall internal control system. HR management Human resource management practices and processes play an active role in Wärtsilä's system of internal control. Wärtsilä's key human resource management processes with respect to internal control are compensation and benefits, HR development, recruitment and resourcing management, individual performance management, as well as processes for collecting employee feedback. The HR function is 150 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 GOVERNANCE responsible for maintaining and developing Wärtsilä's HR processes to enable effective internal control, also at the individual level. Other management systems The Board of Management is responsible for developing and implementing Wärtsilä's management system, continuously improving its performance, and ensuring that it operates effectively. The Wärtsilä management system covers all global processes and management procedures within Wärtsilä related to fulfilling customer requirements. The proper functioning of the management system highlighted below ensures, for their part, the attainment of Wärtsilä's internal control objectives. Quality The quality of Wärtsilä's solutions, and thus also quality management, is a top priority for Wärtsilä. Compliance with Wärtsilä's Quality Management System ISO 9001:2000 is compulsory throughout the Group, and compliance with the system is rigorously monitored. Sustainability Wärtsilä is strongly committed to sustainability. Wärtsilä's vision, mission and values, together with a solid financial performance, form the basis for sustainable development within Wärtsilä. Furthermore, significant attention is paid to the social and environmental sustainability of Wärtsilä's operations. Environmental, and occupational health and safety management systems, are in use globally to further develop performance. Risk management Internal control within Wärtsilä is designed to support the company in achieving its targets. The risks related to the achievement of targets need to be identified and evaluated in order for them to be managed. Thus, the identification and assessment of risks is a pre-requisite for internal control within Wärtsilä. Wärtsilä's internal control mechanisms and procedures provide management assurance that the risk management actions are carried out as planned. Wärtsilä has defined and implemented entity level and process level control activities, as well as information system controls. Control activities at different levels are needed to directly mitigate risks at the respective levels. Wärtsilä's risk management processes consist of Group-wide risk assessment and management processes, as well as project-specific risk assessments and project risk management. The Group-wide risk assessment process results in the creation of action plans for the identified and prioritised risks. Each Business reports its main risks to the Board of Management of Wärtsilä, which also follows up the execution of the defined risk management action plans on a regular basis. The Board of Directors of Wärtsilä Corporation is responsible for defining the Group's overall level of risk tolerance, and for ensuring that Wärtsilä has adequate tools and resources for managing risks. The President & CEO, with the assistance of the Board of Management, is responsible for organising and ensuring risk management in all of Wärtsilä's operations. Business management is responsible for defining action plans for managing the most important risks. Wärtsilä's most important strategic, operative and financial risks can be found in the Risks and risk management section. Information management Information management plays a key role in Wärtsilä's internal control system. Information systems are critical for effective internal control as many of the control activities are programmed controls. 151 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 GOVERNANCE Values and the control environment The foundation of Wärtsilä's internal control system is its values: Energy, Excellence and Excitement. Wärtsilä's values are reflected in its day-to-day relations with its suppliers, customers and investors, and also in Wärtsilä's internal guidelines, policies, manuals, processes and practices. The control environment sets the tone for internal control in Wärtsilä, influencing the control awareness of its people. It provides discipline and structure for all the other components of internal control. The elements of Wärtsilä's control environment are included in the corporate culture, the integrity, ethical values and competence of Wärtsilä's personnel, as well as the attention and direction provided to the personnel by the Board of Directors of Wärtsilä. Wärtsilä's values and control environment provide Wärtsilä's Board of Directors and Management the basis for reasonable assurance regarding the achievement of the objectives for internal control. The President & CEO and the Board of Management define Wärtsilä's values and ethical principles (reflected in the Code of Conduct), and set an example for the corporate culture, which together create the basis for the control environment. They are, together with Business management, responsible for communicating Wärtsilä's values to the organisation. Business processes The controls embedded in Wärtsilä's business processes have a key role in ensuring effective internal control in the company. Controls in the business processes help ensure the achievement of all the objectives of internal control within Wärtsilä, especially those related to the efficiency of operations and safeguarding the company's profitability and reputation. Business management is responsible for ensuring that in their area of responsibility, the defined Group level processes and controls are implemented and complied with. Where no Group level processes and controls exist, Business management is responsible for ensuring that efficient Business level processes with adequate controls have been described and implemented. Guidelines and communication Guidelines and manuals The components of Wärtsilä's internal control system, including for example, corporate governance, the management system, the performance management process, as well as the business and other processes, are described in various guidelines and manuals. The key Group level policies and guidelines are compiled in Wärtsilä's Corporate Manual. Wärtsilä's Group level Accounting Manual contains instructions and guidance on accounting and financial reporting to be applied in all Wärtsilä Group companies. The manual supports the achievement of the objectives regarding the reliability of Wärtsilä's financial reporting. Wärtsilä's Group level policies, and any changes to them, shall be approved by a member of the Board of Management. In addition to the Group level guidelines and manuals, the Businesses have issued related guidelines and instructions for their own, specific purposes. The Business level guidelines and manuals are aligned with, and do not contradict, the Group level guidelines and manuals. 152 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 GOVERNANCE Information and communication An effective internal control system needs sufficient, timely and reliable information to enable the management to assess achievement of the company's objectives. Both financial and non-financial information is needed, relating to both internal and external events and activities. Informal means by which employees can provide feedback to management, and to communicate suspected misconduct (e.g. directly to the Compliance, Legal Affairs or Internal Audit function) are used. All external communications are carried out in accordance with the Group Communications Policy. Monitoring Monitoring is a process that assesses the quality of Wärtsilä's system of internal control and its performance over time. Monitoring within Wärtsilä is performed both on an ongoing basis, and through separate evaluations that include internal, external and quality audits. Business management is responsible for ensuring that relevant laws and regulations are complied with in their respective responsibility areas. Wärtsilä's management in turn performs monitoring as part of its regular supervisory activities. The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors assesses and assures the adequacy and effectiveness of Wärtsilä's internal controls and risk management. The Internal Audit function assists the Audit Committee in assessing and assuring the adequacy and effectiveness of Wärtsilä's internal controls and risk management by performing regular audits of Group legal entities and support functions according to its annual plan. Wärtsilä's external auditor and other assurance providers, such as quality auditors, conduct evaluations of Wärtsilä's internal controls. The Group Finance & Control function oversees the financial reporting processes and controls to ensure that they are being followed. It also monitors the correctness of all external and internal financial reporting. The Legal and compliance function monitors the adherence to the compliance policies of the group. The external auditors verify the correctness of the external annual financial reports. Salary and remuneration report 2013 Remuneration of the Board of Directors The Annual General Meeting decides annually on the fees to be paid to the members of the Board of Directors for one term of office at a time. The Annual General Meeting approved the following fees to the members of the Board of Directors for 2013: • to the ordinary members EUR 60,000/year • to the deputy chairman EUR 90,000/year • to the chairman EUR 120,000/year Roughly 40% of the annual fee is paid in Wärtsilä shares. In addition, each member will be paid EUR 400/ board meeting attended, the chairman's meeting fee being double this amount. Each member of the Nomination Committee and the Remuneration Committee will be paid EUR 500/committee meeting attended and each member of the Audit Committee will be paid EUR 1,000/committee meeting attended, the chairman's meeting fee being double these amounts. The nine members of Wärtsilä's Board of Directors 153 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 GOVERNANCE were paid altogether EUR 702,500.00 for the financial period that ended on 31 December 2013. The Board's members were not covered by the company's incentive schemes. Fees paid to the Board of Directors (thousands of euros) Attendance fees Yearly fees Total Board of Directors 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 Mikael Lilius, Chairman 12 18 120 120 132 138 Kaj-Gustaf Bergh, Deputy Chairman 6 10 90 60 96 70 Maarit Aarni-Sirviö 8 8 60 60 68 71 Sune Carlsson 4 0 60 0 64 0 Alexander Ehrnrooth 9 11 60 60 69 71 Paul Ehrnrooth 6 8 60 60 66 68 Gunilla Nordström 4 2 60 60 64 62 Markus Rauramo 14 17 60 60 74 77 Matti Vuoria 6 8 60 90 66 98 Until 7 March 2013 Lars Josefsson 2 10 0 60 2 70 Fees paid in Wärtsilä shares in 2013 Board of Directors No. of shares Mikael Lilius, Chairman 1 281 Kaj-Gustaf Bergh, Deputy Chairman 960 Maarit Aarni-Sirviö 640 Sune Carlsson 640 Alexander Ehrnrooth 640 Paul Ehrnrooth 640 Gunilla Nordström 640 Markus Rauramo 640 Matti Vuoria 640 Board of Directors' share ownership in Wärtsilä on 31 December 2013 Board of Directors No. of shares Mikael Lilius, Chairman 14 451 Change in 2013 1 281 Kaj-Gustaf Bergh, Deputy Chairman 6 742 Change in 2013 960 Maarit Aarni-Sirviö 7 830 Change in 2013 640 Sune Carlsson 640 Change in 2013 640 Alexander Ehrnrooth 3 854 Change in 2013 640 Paul Ehrnrooth 3 828 Change in 2013 640 Paul Ehrnrooth, through controlled corporations 730 000 Change in 2013 0 154 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 GOVERNANCE Gunilla Nordström 1 443 Change in 2013 640 Markus Rauramo 2 554 Change in 2013 640 Matti Vuoria 12 026 Change in 2013 640 Remuneration of the President & CEO and the Board of Management The remuneration paid to the President & CEO and other members of the Board of Management, and the principles underlying it, are determined by the Board of Directors. The remuneration paid to the President & CEO and to the other members of the Board of Management consists of a monthly salary and a bonus. The Board of Directors determines on a yearly basis the terms for the bonus payment. The bonus payments for the President & CEO and the Board of Management are paid based on the achievement of the company's profitability and other financial targets for the financial year. The variable salary can be at most 43% of the maximum total salary for the President & CEO and one third of the maximum total salary for the other members of the Board of Management. Additionally, the Group has a long-term incentive scheme for senior management tied to the development of the company's share price. The President & CEO is eligible to take retirement upon reaching the age of sixty. His pension scheme is determined according to a defined contribution based system. The retirement pension contribution is a relative part of his annual salary. Remuneration paid to the President & CEO if dismissed by the company corresponds to 18 months' salary plus a six months' period of notice salary. The members of the Board of Management have a company specific pension scheme. The optional retirement age of certain Board of Management members is sixty years. Additional pension schemes are based on the retirement scheme of the national social security system to which the person in question belongs and is either defined benefit or defined contribution based. Financial benefits of President & CEO Björn Rosengren: • Salary and other short term benefits 2013: EUR 660 thousand • Bonuses 2013: EUR 300 thousand • Bonus schemes based on share price development: 138 thousand • Optional retirement age: 60 • Period of notice: 6 months • Compensation paid if dismissed by the company: 18 months' salary + 6 months' period of notice salary Further information on Board of Management remuneration can be found in the Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 27 Related party disclosures. Board of Management's share ownership in Wärtsilä on 31 December 2013 Board of Management No. of shares Björn Rosengren 6 000 Change in 2013 0 Jaakko Eskola 0 Change in 2013 0 Pierpaolo Barbone 0 155 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 GOVERNANCE Change in 2013 0 Päivi Castrén 0 Change in 2013 0 Kari Hietanen 144 Change in 2013 0 Atte Palomäki 600 Change in 2013 0 Vesa Riihimäki 0 Change in 2013 0 Marco Wirén 0 Change in 2013 0 Monthly updated information on shares held by the President & CEO and other members of the Board of Management can be found on Wärtsilä's website at www.wartsila.com. Incentive schemes The Board of Directors determines the incentive schemes for the President & CEO and other members of the Board of Management and the principles underlying them. The Board of Directors also decides on other possible long-term incentive schemes for senior management, unless they are by law determined by the Annual General Meeting. The Board of Management decides on bonus schemes for other directors and managers. Short-term management incentive schemes The Group operates a bonus scheme, which is implemented globally in all Businesses. The bonus is based on the Group's profitability and agreed personal targets. Close to 2,000 directors and managers are covered by this bonus scheme. The Group's whiteand blue-collar employees are covered by various bonus or profit-based incentive schemes. These are applied in each country according to that country's legislation, or to agreements concerning profit-sharing schemes. All in all, some 65% of the company's employees are covered by the Group's bonus schemes and various other profit-related incentive schemes. Long-term incentive scheme The Board of Directors has decided on a long-term bonus scheme for senior management tied to the development of the company's share. The yearly bonus scheme applies to approximately 100 directors. The size of the bonus is based on the share price development during a pre-determined timeframe, and an upper limit is set for the bonus. The bonus scheme takes into account 50% of the dividends paid. The 2010 bonus scheme came to a close at the end of 2012 and was paid in April 2013. The 2011 bonus scheme comprises 1,765,250 bonus rights. The bonus payment is based on the share price development during a three-year period on the basis of a share price of EUR 23.34. The bonus cannot exceed EUR 10.00 per bonus right and it takes into account 50% of dividends paid. The 2011 bonus scheme will be due for payment in February 2015. Members of the Board of Management are obliged to use one third of the possible bonus payment to acquire Wärtsilä shares. The 2012 bonus scheme comprises 1,979,000 bonus rights. The bonus payment is based on the share price development during a three-year period on the basis of a share price of EUR 33.28. The bonus cannot exceed EUR 10.00 per bonus right and it takes into account 50% of dividends paid. The 2012 bonus scheme 156 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 GOVERNANCE will be due for payment in February 2016. Members of the Board of Management are obliged to use one third of the possible bonus payment to acquire Wärtsilä shares. Risks and risk management Wärtsilä, such as any company, is exposed to risk through the normal course of its activities. No business can be conducted without accepting a certain level of risk, and any expected gain from a business activity is to be assessed against the risk that activity involves. The purpose of risk management is to ensure that we are able to effectively execute our strategy and to reach our targets, in the short term as well as over the long run. The key is to identify the risks that have the potential to restrain us from reaching our goals, and thereafter to determine whether those risks are within the limits of our risk appetite. In any case, actions need to be taken to avoid, mitigate, transfer, or to purely monitor the risk. For this purpose our structured risk management process offers a set of reactive, proactive, protective, and preventive tools that are used not only to protect us against threats, but also to turn some of the risks into opportunities. Risks can only be managed if they are identified and understood in advance, and plans have been made to manage them. Therefore, risk management is a central part of Wärtsilä's strategic and operational management. Risk management principles Risk management at Wärtsilä is a continuous process of analysing and managing all the opportunities and threats faced by the company in its efforts to achieve its goals, and to ensure the continuity of the business. The basis for risk management is the lifecycle quality of Wärtsilä’s operations and products, and the continuous, systematic, loss-prevention efforts at all levels of the Group based on the principle “everybody is responsible”. In the long-term this is the only way to reduce the total risk related costs. The Board of Directors and the Board of Management decide and give guidelines on strategic matters. The Businesses are responsible for achieving their set strategic goals and for mitigating and managing their risks. The Corporate Risk Management function is part of Group Treasury, which reports to the CFO. The function is responsible for the risk reporting process and conducting risk assessments with the Businesses, as well as with their underlying organisation. It co-ordinates risk management activities within the Group, reviews the business risk profile, prepares the risk management policy, and co-operates with the Businesses in the implementation of risk mitigation work. Furthermore, it develops and manages global and local insurance schemes for insurable risks. The Audit Committee reviews and assesses the adequacy of this risk management. The Internal Audit function is responsible for reviewing the risk management process on an annual basis. 157 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 GOVERNANCE Risk reporting Risk mitigation actions are decided in the normal course of business. At its meetings, the Board of Management conducts annual Management Reviews for each Business, including their risks and risk mitigation. The risk maps of the Group and all Businesses are then presented within the Finance Management Review prior to the budgeting round in the autumn. The risks are identified as being either internal or external, they are quantified in euro, and their probabilities are estimated. The Group risk report is then prepared and presented to the Board of Directors. Risk management is part of the Businesses’ management process and risk management has been integrated into the Business Management teams’ agenda. The Businesses are accountable for organising and reporting on risk management from their underlying geographical business areas, business lines and product centres. All follow-up actions are also the Businesses’ responsibility. Risk categories Wärtsilä defines risk as the effect of uncertainty on our objectives. A failure to capitalise upon an opportunity is also recognised as a potential risk. The magnitude of a risk is determined based on the combination of the probability and the loss exposure of the occurrence. The relevant risks for Wärtsilä have been classified under four categories: strategic, operational, hazard, and financial risks. The outcome or potential loss expectancy is highest with strategic and operational risks and lowest with hazard and financial risks. Risk radars are used to map the primary risks within the risk categories. Through annual risk assessment workshops between the Businesses and the Corporate Risk Management function, Business specific risk radars are generated for the use and evaluation of the Business Management teams, and are reviewed and updated on a regular basis by them. The Business specific radars are consolidated into a single Group Risk Radar, which is presented to the Board of Directors and the Audit Committee once a year. The purpose is to facilitate the discussion on risk and to give a quick overview of where priorities should lie in terms of risk management. In the next chapters Wärtsilä’s current strategic, operational, and hazard risks are discussed in more detail. Financial risks are presented in the notes to the financial statements, note 31. 158 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 GOVERNANCE Risk radar Strategic risks Strategic risk assessment is part of the strategic planning process within the Group. At Wärtsilä, strategic risks are defined as being such that they have a potential for imposing a long-term impact on the business. Business environment risks The business cycles in the global economy, and in customers’ industries, influence the demand for Wärtsilä's products, as well as our financial condition and operating result. The flexible multi-product manufacturing model based on capacity outsourcing, together with a stable business mix with a large share of sales deriving from Services, brings Wärtsilä certain stability in a cyclical market. Important economic matters that indirectly affect Wärtsilä, its clients, and suppliers include inter alia, the liquidity and solvency of financial institutions and thus not only their capability, but also their willingness to extend credit, the counter cyclical stimulus programmes adopted by governments especially in the power and infrastructure sectors, the enhanced activities of multilateral institutions such as the IFC, the availability of export credit schemes and guarantees, and other such factors. However, Wärtsilä’s relatively large order book gives the company time to adapt to market conditions. The implementation of environmental regulations is important for Wärtsilä’s future growth potential. Therefore, possible changes in the legislation timeline and scope are actively monitored. 159 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 GOVERNANCE Market and customer risks In the Power Plants business, lower than expected GDP growth resulted in a decline in market activity during 2013. Macro-economic volatility and significant exchange rate fluctuations in emerging market currencies caused delays in investment decisions. In general, the non-OECD markets remained more active, but in the OECD countries slow growth continued to impact demand. Power Plants has three customer segments: industrial customers, IPPs and utilities. All customer types were represented in the order intake profile, but the share of industrial customers declined compared to the long-term average. Orders were received from all geographic markets. Market activity in the shipping and ship building industry improved during 2013. However, the business environment remains challenging, and concerns over the global economy continue to cause uncertainty. Although the merchant shipping sector in general still suffers from overcapacity, competitive newbuilding prices and the increased fuel efficiency of modern vessels supported investments in merchant vessels. Contracting in the offshore industry and in various areas of specialised tonnage remained active. The shipbuilding market is dominated by Asian yards in South Korea and China. In addition, Brazil is an important market for Wärtsilä’s offshore segment. Wärtsilä is well represented in all the major shipbuilding areas and is active in all the main vessel segments. This mitigates both single customer related, and geography related risks. The Ship Power market still continues to bear some consequences of the financial crisis. This, combined with the overcapacity in the shipping markets, is currently one of the major obstacles to a full recovery. The Services business remained stable during 2013, and its midand long-term activities are expected to grow in line with the development of the existing installed base, as well as with general global economic developments. However, the prevailing conditions of the marine market segment continue to be challenging. Wärtsilä has more than ten thousand individual customers engaging in service and spare part sales annually, and the current active engine base is 182,000 MW. Thanks to this, dependency on any single customer or customer segment is minor. During the last few years, Wärtsilä has increased its focus on credit management processes to better manage the increasing risks resulting from higher leverage and decreasing profitability in certain customer segments. Exposure to individual customers is limited, but an industry-wide impact might also affect the profitability of Wärtsilä’s Services business. Competitive situation and price risk In the liquid fuels based power plant market, Wärtsilä’s main competitors are MAN Diesel, Caterpillar (MAK), and Rolls-Royce. In natural gas based power generation, the main competitors are gas turbine manufacturers, such as GE and Siemens. During the first half of 2013, the overall market size of the natural gas and liquid fuel based power plants declined significantly. In this challenging market environment, Wärtsilä’s market share increased to 5.8%. Wärtsilä’s success in the market can be attributed to its flexible power generation solution, which can be used in a wide range of different applications and power plant sizes. For Ship Power, price competition has continued to be intense. The competitive landscape remained largely unchanged in 2013. The most significant competitors in main engines markets are MAN Diesel, Caterpillar (MAK), and Hyundai Heavy Industries (HiMSEN). Wärtsilä has a strong position in medium-speed engines with a 52% market share in 2013. In low-speed and auxiliary engines Wärtsilä’s market share was 10% and 4% respectively. In propulsion equipment, the competition is more fragmented and varies by product category. One of the main competitors for these products is Rolls-Royce. In environmental solutions, as well as in flow and gas products, the markets are very fragmented. Alfa Laval is one of the competitors in these product areas. The concept of selling packaged solutions, rather than only single products, reduces price volatility. The strategic move to becoming a systems integrator with automation and ship design capability has proven to be very important in the competition for new projects with larger and more value-added 160 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 GOVERNANCE scopes. However, larger projects may increase variations in business volume, depending on the timing of the projects. In the Services business, Wärtsilä has no direct competitors capable of offering a similar portfolio of services from a single source. Excluding the networks of other engine manufacturers, there are few global players in the service market. Increased pressure on operating expenditure, especially in the marine merchant sector, can lead to a further increase in competition for service in that particular segment. Price competition continues to be present, especially among specific customer groups and application types. The size of this group has, however, not changed to any large degree. Political and legislative risks Wärtsilä is present in over 200 locations in nearly 70 countries and has delivered power plants to more than 169 countries. Political developments and changes in legislation can have a significant impact on Wärtsilä’s business. Wärtsilä actively monitors political and legal developments in its markets, and engages in dialogue with various official bodies on projects of importance to Wärtsilä’s operations. Much of this engagement takes place through interest groups and trade organisations. The company monitors political and legislative changes at both the corporate and subsidiary levels. Climate change and sustainability risks Wärtsilä has assessed its sustainability risks, including climate change risks, in both its strategic and operative risk assessments. However, the risks were not found to be significant. The potential business risks related to sustainability, climate change, and Wärtsilä's products are in the areas of regulatory emission restrictions and changes in customer attitudes to using combustion engines and fossil fuels. The risks in environmental legislation changes are related to the complexity of the overall field of different emissions, the balance between commercially available fuels and resulting emissions, available abatement technologies, the impact on overall energy efficiency, and the resulting financial feasibility of the various alternative ways to meet regulatory demands. Being at the forefront of technological developments mitigates sustainability risks and gives Wärtsilä many opportunities arising from tightening environmental regulations. Over the years, Wärtsilä has worked continuously to improve the efficiency of its products while at the same time seeking ways to reduce emissions. The fuel flexibility of Wärtsilä's products enables the utilisation of various fuels, including gas and those from renewable sources, while their operational flexibility enables the installation of large capacity based wind and solar energy systems without hampering the reliability of the electricity grid. Wärtsilä's technology also enables energy to be generated with a minimum use of water. The lack of fresh water is expected to be one of the major challenges facing the world in the future. In shipping, Wärtsilä can reduce the carbon footprint of vessels through optimised ship design, and optimal propulsion solutions. Environmental Solutions offer alternative technologies to reduce SOx emissions and to treat waste and ballast water. In Power Plants, Wärtsilä's Smart Power Generation concept supports the increase in low carbon power generation, including wind, solar and natural gas fired plants. Wärtsilä offers several retrofit solutions for the after-sales market to reduce emissions and to increase fuel efficiency. For more information, please see the separate Sustainability report included in this annual report. Technology risks Wärtsilä aims to increase the competitiveness of its solutions through solid R&D work and innovation. New products are developed based on Wärtsilä’s strategic view of optimising lifecycle value for its customers with modern and sustainable power solutions and efficiency through, for example, environmental technologies, ship design, and electrical & automation solutions. As a technology leader, Wärtsilä also needs to maintain 161 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 GOVERNANCE the cost competitiveness of its products and places high emphasis on product efficiency and emissions control. Operations, risks and opportunities Operational risks Operational risk management is part of the daily work of the Businesses. Opportunities and risks are identified, assessed, and managed on a daily basis and reported to, and managed by, the appropriate management level. On a periodic basis the status of the opportunities and risks are reviewed and appropriate further actions taken. 162 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 GOVERNANCE Risk management process Manufacturing risk Risk assessments have been made for all the main delivery centres, and significant safety and risk mitigation investments have been completed. Wärtsilä utilises management systems for quality, environmental, occupational health and safety, and other systems to improve productivity and safety. Wärtsilä has implemented business continuity plans for its key delivery centres. Wärtsilä constantly analyses its manufacturing footprint and capacity costs, including the supply chain. Supplier and subcontractor risk The centralised Wärtsilä Supply Management (WSM) function is responsible for all strategic sourcing activities. Within that responsibility, WSM manages and controls Wärtsilä’s supplier network to verify that the suppliers’ performance meet Wärtsilä’s expectations. Supplier performance is, therefore, also continuously measured. A key activity in managing business continuity planning is the continuous assessment of business interruption risks, which is made in co-operation with our suppliers. Several supplier risk audits have been completed jointly with the insurer as one means of mitigating risk. These audits are now part of the regular work for the WSM and Risk Management functions. To further mitigate risks, a comprehensive follow-up of suppliers’ creditworthiness has been established. 163 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 GOVERNANCE Wärtsilä Supply Management has developed its activities by creating close collaboration and long-term relationships with its main suppliers. Through these close relationships, WSM secures a common view with its suppliers on values and goals. These shared values and goals support Wärtsilä’s management of strategic risks. In addition, WSM continues its supplier structuring programme in order to create and maintain a sustainable supplier base. As part of that programme, WSM is further developing its global sourcing activities. Furthermore, supplier related risks are also addressed by having double sourcing on key components. Lifecycle quality of products and product liability risk Launching new products always involves risks. In the R&D process, several risk management techniques are applied, including FMEA (Failure Modes and Effects Analysis), a risk elimination tool, and in-house validation testing. Wärtsilä seeks to control quality risks by monitoring the incoming quality from the supply chain, and by designing and manufacturing products with all due care. Wärtsilä applies a GATE model in order to control the product development process. First, only a limited release of new products is allowed, and via the gate approach, full release authority is given to the sales organisations only after testing and further validation has been completed. The 5S (meaning sort, shine, set, standardise and sustain) philosophy is implemented in all production sites to increase quality and to support lean operations. Services is responsible for supporting the customers in all warranty issues, and offers a feedback loop from the field to production and R&D while taking care of customers’ installations throughout their lifecycle. The company makes warranty provisions to cover any costs that may arise after product delivery. The product liability insurance covers unexpected damages. Wärtsilä seeks to continuously improve the quality of its products and services through adoption of best industry practice and good governance, supported by a solid facts base. Leadership at all levels is responsible for the quality of output from their organisations, and is accountable for ensuring that appropriate review and feedback mechanisms are in place. The centralised Wärtsilä Quality function is responsible for coordinating quality activities across the businesses, and for ensuring that senior governance mechanisms are in place and effective. Contractual risks Wärtsilä’s non-service sales consist of projects and equipment supply deliveries of various sizes. The most substantial orders concern turnkey power plants. However, in relation to the total volume of business, the risks from individual projects do not reach significant levels. The lifecycle quality of the products and work, from the initial design, throughout all stages of the production process, to the eventual field service work, plus the use of standard sales contracts including the establishment of a contract review process, together reduce the risk of product liability claims. For Services, the target is to sign long-term service agreements aimed at keeping the customer’s investment productive throughout its lifetime. This enables the customer to focus on his core business while Wärtsilä ensures optimal performance of the installation. Reliable performance and risk management are identified as key needs of our customers. An essential part of a service agreement is adequate preparation prior to the operational phase of the installation, including the recruitment and training of personnel, purchasing of safety stock and tools, establishment of the operational infrastructure, maintenance routines, and occupational health and safety systems. The target is to prevent the unexpected and to ensure cost efficiency and smooth operations for both the customers and Wärtsilä as the service provider. Risk of non-compliance, corruption and fraud Wärtsilä complies with the law and its own internal regulations everywhere the company does business. Wärtsilä's Code of Conduct is the key guideline for all employees globally. Wärtsilä is committed to high 164 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 GOVERNANCE ethical standards and integrity in its Businesses, preventing corruption, and violations of the principles set forth in the Code of Conduct, as well as in Wärtsilä's Anti-Corruption and Compliance Reporting policies. Compliance processes are embedded in all of the Businesses, and the responsibility for compliance and awareness of ethics and integrity is that of all Wärtsilä employees. Wärtsilä is fully committed to compliance with the anti-corruption laws and statutes. Wärtsilä's AntiCorruption Policy absolutely forbids any kind of corruption and bribery, and the top-management of the company has a zero-tolerance policy regarding corruption and fraud. The Compliance function promotes Group wide compliance and continuously strives to raise awareness of the risk of corruption and bribery and other misconduct. It is primarily responsible for creating and enforcing Group level policies and procedures, training programmes, compliance investigations, managing the consequences of misconduct and reporting. Continuous development of Wärtsilä's compliance programme and nurturing the company’s commendable ethical culture are pivotal tasks for the Compliance function. Moreover, Compliance supports and co-operates with the Businesses and other corporate functions in their risk management efforts. While Wärtsilä is aware of the risk of being subject to fraud by external business parties, and that the risk of corruption and fraud is heightened in many markets where the company operates, Wärtsilä maintains its highly ethical practices at all times. Full compliance with its stringent anti-corruption regime, including policies to prevent the corruption and bribery risk of third parties, is demanded by Wärtsilä. Commodity price risk Oil The direct effect of oil price changes on Wärtsilä's production is limited, with their impact being mainly demand related. Higher oil prices represent a risk for global economic growth and increase operating costs, especially in the shipping markets. However, they also stimulate investments in exploration and production for oil and gas, both on land and offshore. Furthermore, high oil prices increase investments in gas carriers, gas based power plants and, increasingly, also in gas fuelled vessels. Low oil prices can delay investment decisions in oil producing countries and regions. Wärtsilä is a global company involved in different shipping and power plant segments where oil price changes can have an opposite impact on demand drivers. This position is further diversified by the increasing importance of natural gas in Wärtsilä's business. Metals Metal prices have an indirect effect on the component costs of our products. Furthermore, some key components are sourced with long-term contracts, and thus raw material price volatility is limited. Electricity Electricity prices have no substantial impact on Wärtsilä’s production costs. In the Power Plants business, high electricity prices support investments in new capacity from utility customers. Lower grid electricity prices do not favour industrial customers’ investments in their own generating capacity. 165 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 GOVERNANCE Hazard risks Occupational health and safety systems, travel safety instructions, and crises management guidelines are aimed at protecting Wärtsilä employees. Appropriate insurances are in place for the personnel, and to emphasise the importance of employee safety, the Board of Management has decided on a corporate level target for zero lost time injuries. A specific Zero Injury project exists for this purpose, and the target is a part of the company’s sustainability programme. Environmental management systems are in place to mitigate environmental hazard risks. Wärtsilä’s Real Estate unit maintains a register of all properties used and gives guidelines for the purchase, sale, rental and security of premises and uses external advisors for environmental audits. None of Wärtsilä’s major production plants are situated in natural disaster areas. Catastrophic peril related scenarios are identified, and where necessary, exposures are mitigated by, for example, elevating sites above the flood risk level or by constructing flood dikes. For Wärtsilä’s main production sites, business impact analyses have been conducted and continuity plans created to cover both property and business interruption risks. The risks that Wärtsilä is unable to influence through its own efforts are transferred whenever possible to insurance companies. Wärtsilä uses appropriate insurance policies to cover indemnity risks related to its personnel, assets, and business interruptions, including supplier triggered interruptions, as well as third-party and product liability. Wärtsilä has established its own captive insurance company, Vulcan Insurance PCC Ltd, as a risk management tool. Information & cyber security related risks Information security risks are continuously identified and mitigation activities have been executed in network security, endpoint protection, and access risk management. The Wärtsilä Security Operations Centre (SOC) and vulnerability scanning capabilities for cyber security threats have been established in 2013. The focus will move towards improving common information security capabilities, such as enabling the use of mobile and cloud technology, continuity, and information risk management for corporate applications. Cyber security risks are extensively assessed, and it appears that information and automation system related risks have exceeded the physical and personnel risks. Therefore, a cyber security strategy has been created and will be implemented throughout the coming years. The strategy addresses both the internal operations and Wärtsilä customer deliveries. 166 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 GOVERNANCE Which insurances cover our business? Financial risks Wärtsilä's financial risks are presented in the notes to the financial statements, Note 31. Wärtsilä's risk profiles & responsibilities Risks Risk profile Policy or other guideline Responsible body Strategic Wärtsilä's strategy and business Wärtsilä Board of Directors risks plan (BoD), Board of Management (BoM) and Wärtsilä's Businesses (Businesses) Business Wärtsilä's strategy and business BoM and Businesses environment plan risk Market and Wärtsilä's strategy and business BoM and Businesses customer risk plan Competitive Wärtsilä's strategy and business BoM and Businesses situation and plan price risk Political and Various guidelines and risk Businesses, R&D, Risk legislative risk management policy management (RM) and Legal functions 167 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 GOVERNANCE Climate QHSE policy, Code of Conduct, Businesses, R&D and change and management systems (ISO Sustainability function sustainability 14001 & OHSAS 18001) risk Technology Patents and industrial rights, Businesses and R&D risk product guarantees function Operational Wärtsilä's strategy and business BoM and Businesses risks plans Manufacturing Production systems, Business Manufacturing and risk Continuity Plan Businesses Supplier and Supplier requirement and Businesses and Supply subcontractor supplier management system, Management risk Business Continuity Plan Lifecycle Management systems (ISO Manufacturing, R&D quality of 9001), safety instruction and function, Businesses, RM products and manuals, risk management and Legal functions product policy, R&D risk elimination liability risk instructions Contractual Standard contracts Legal function and risks Businesses Commodity Production cost control Businesses and Treasury price risk function Data security Data security principles and Businesses and IM fuction risk Cyber Security Strategy NonCode of Conduct, Anti-corruption Businesses and compliance policy, Compliance policy Compliance function risk Hazard risks Risk management policy and Businesses and RM guidelines function Personnel risk Management system ( OHSAS Businesses, Human 18001), travel safety instructions, Resources (HR), RM and crises management guidelines security functions and premises safety plans Natural Crises management guidelines, Businesses and RM fuction catastrophes Business Continuity Plan Fire, cargo Management systems (ISO Businesses, RM and Real and other 14001 & OHSAS 18001), Estate functions accidents premises safety plan Financial Wärtsilä's strategy and business Businesses and Treasury risks plans function Foreign Treasury policy Businesses and Treasury exchange risk function Interest rate Treasury policy Businesses and Treasury risk function 168 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 GOVERNANCE Liquidity and Treasury policy Businesses and Treasury refinancing function risk Credit risk Credit and Treasury policy Businesses and Treasury function Low High 169 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 INVESTORS 170 INVESTORS 178 ANALYSTS 180 INFORMATION FOR 171 SHARES AND SHAREHOLDERS SHAREHOLDERS 171 The Wärtsilä share on the Helsinki Stock 180 Financial information 2014 Exchange 173 Shareholders 181 STOCK EXCHANGE RELEASES 2013 176 WÄRTSILÄ ON THE CAPITAL MARKETS 170 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 INVESTORS Shares and shareholders Wärtsilä Corporation's shares are listed on the NASDAQ OMX Large Cap list on the Helsinki Stock Exchange under the trading code WRT1V. At the end of the financial period 2013 Wärtsilä's total number of shares was 197,241,130 and the share capital entered in the trade register was EUR 336,002,138.50. Wärtsilä has one share series and each share entitles its holder to one vote at the General Meeting and to an equal dividend. Key figures for the Wärtsilä share 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Earnings per share (EPS) EUR 1.98 1.72 1.44 1.96 1.97 Book value of equity per share EUR 9.35 8.95 8.30 8.30 7.59 Dividend per share EUR 1.051 1.00 0.90 1.38 0.88 Dividend per earnings % 53.0 58.1 62.7 70.3 44.4 Dividend yield % WRT1V 2.94 3.06 4.03 4.82 6.23 Price per earnings (P/E) WRT1V 18.1 19.0 15.5 14.6 7.1 Price to book-value (P/BV) WRT1V 3.1 3.7 2.7 3.4 1.9 Adjusted number of shares x 1 000 end of financial year 197 241 197 241 197 241 98 621 98 621 on average 197 241 197 241 197 241 98 621 98 621 1 Proposal of the Board of Directors. The Wärtsilä share on the Helsinki Stock Exchange Wärtsilä's share price has increased by 6.5% during 2013, while the Nasdaq OMX Helsinki Cap index increased by 21.2%. The highest quoted price for Wärtsilä's share during the financial period was EUR 39.00 and the lowest EUR 30.66. The closing price on 31 December 2013 was EUR 35.77 and the volume weighted average price for the year was EUR 35.00. At year-end, Wärtsilä's market capitalisation was EUR 7,055 million. The volume of trades on the Nasdaq OMX exchange was 95,127,366 shares, equivalent to a turnover of EUR 3,328 million. Wärtsilä's shares are also traded on alternative exchanges, such as Chi-X, Turquoise and BATS. The total trading volume on these alternative exchanges was 54,651,206 shares. Further information on share price development can be found on the Wärtsilä IR pages www.wartsila.com/ investors. 171 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 INVESTORS Share price development Traded shares/month Market capitalisation 172 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 INVESTORS The Wärtsilä share on the Nasdaq OMX Helsinki Stock Exchange 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Trading volume MEUR WRT1V 3 328.4 4 380.1 5 016.5 3 912.5 3 215.8 Number of traded x 1 000 WRT1V 95 127 159 853 197 186 98 076 137 102 Stock turnover % WRT1V 48.2 81.0 100.0 99.4 139.0 Average share price EUR WRT1V 35.00 27.31 25.44 19.93 11.73 Trading low/high EUR WRT1V low 30.66 22.30 15.50 14.10 7.91 high 39.00 33.11 29.55 29.63 15.46 Share price at the year-end EUR WRT1V 35.77 32.72 22.32 28.55 14.04 Year-end market capitalisation MEUR 7 055 6 454 4 402 5 631 2 768 Shareholders Wärtsilä had approximately 40,850 shareholders at the end of the financial period 2013. Foreign shareholding, including nominee-registered shares, represented 51% (52) at the end of the period, and Finnish retail investors held 21% of the share capital (21). The largest shareholders were Fiskars Corporation and Investor AB, who merged their Wärtsilä ownership into a joint venture during 2013. The total ownership of the joint company, Avlis AB, and its wholly owned subsidiary, Avlis Invest Ab, was 42,948,325 shares. Further information concerning Wärtsilä shareholder base developments can be found on the IR pages www.wartsila.com/investors. Ownership structure 31 December 2013 173 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 INVESTORS Ownership structure on 31 December 2013 Group Number of shareholders % Number of shares % Private corporations 1 637 4.0 6 081 195 3.1 Banks and insurance companies 98 0.2 8 456 823 4.3 Public sector entities 47 0.1 21 384 321 10.8 Non-profit organisations 877 2.2 18 770 019 9.5 Households 37 875 92.7 41 439 935 21.0 Outside Finland 314 0.8 46 769 706 23.7 Nominee registered 54 339 131 27.6 Total 40 848 100.0 197 241 130 100.0 Division of shares on 31 December 2013 Number of shares Number of shareholders % Number of shares % 1-100 10 699 26.2 603 755 0.3 101-1 000 21 173 51.8 8 651 374 4.4 1 001-10 000 8 102 19.8 22 371 331 11.3 10 001-100 000 787 1.9 19 257 161 9.8 100 001-1 000 000 72 0.2 20 053 063 10.2 1 000 001-10 000 000 12 0.0 18 756 816 9.5 10 000 0013 0.0 53 208 499 27.0 Nominee registered 54 339 131 27.5 Total 40 848 100.0 197 241 130 100.0 Wärtsilä's 50 major shareholders on 31 December 2013, excluding nominee registered Owner Shares % 1 Avlis AB 25 641 347 13.00 2 Avlis Invest AB (a subsidiary of Avlis AB) 17 306 978 8.77 3 Varma Mutual Pension Insurance Company 10 260 174 5.20 4 Ilmarinen Mutual Pension Insurance Company 3 128 914 1.59 5 Svenska Litteratursällskapet i Finland 2 743 352 1.39 6 The Social Insurance Institution of Finland 1 935 910 0.98 7 State Pension Fund 1 800 000 0.91 8 Jenny and Antti Wihuri Foundation 1 263 216 0.64 9 Kuntien eläkevakuutus 1 211 204 0.61 10 Lähitapiola Keskinäinen Eläkevakuutusyhtiö 1 200 000 0.61 11 The Finnish Cultural Foundation 1 166 989 0.59 12 Schweizerische Nationalbank 1 114 212 0.56 13 Mutual Insurance Company Eläke-Fennia 1 104 000 0.56 14 Sigrid Jusélius Foundation 1 170 900 0.54 15 Mandatum Henkivakuutusosakeyhtiö 1 018 119 0.52 16 Sijoitusrahasto Nordea Fennia 870 000 0.44 17 Op-Focus Erikoissijoitusrahasto 805 000 0.41 18 Savox Investments S.A. 730 000 0.37 19 OP-Delta Equity Fund 681 397 0.35 174 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 INVESTORS 20 The Signe and Ane Gyllenberg foundation 674 888 0.34 21 Folketrygdfondet 669 912 0.34 22 Livsränteanstalten Hereditas 605 498 0.31 23 Samfundet Folkhälsan i Svenska Finland rf 581 948 0.30 24 Folkhälsan i Svenska Finland rf Inez och Julius Polins Fond 551 162 0.28 25 Ingman Finance Oy Ab 540 000 0.27 26 Rantanen Tuula Anneli 505 066 0.26 27 Brita Maria Renlund Foundation 500 000 0.25 28 Sijoitusrahasto Nordea Pro Suomi 452 892 0.23 29 Suomi Keskinäinen Henkivakuutusyhtiö 450 000 0.23 30 Sijoitusrahasto Aktia Capital 440 000 0.22 31 Svenska Kulturfonden i Björneborg 394 010 0.20 32 Louise och Göran Ehrnrooths Stiftelse 377 630 0.19 33 Sr Danske Invest Suomi Yhteisöosake 360 714 0.18 34 Sijoitusrahasto SEB Finlandia 342 932 0.17 35 William Thurings Stiftelse 336 300 0.17 36 Ella and Georg Ehrnrooth Foundation 333 280 0.17 37 Blåberg Olli Edvard 320 000 0.16 38 Von Fieandt Johan 308 492 0.16 39 Åbo Akademi Foundation 301 110 0.15 40 Fromond Elsa 300 956 0.15 41 Folkhälsans Forskningssiftelse Kansanterveyden tutkimussäätiö 299 286 0.15 42 Sr Danske Invest Suomi Osake 282 191 0.14 43 Stockmann Marita 271 226 0.14 44 Tallberg Carl Johan 260 581 0.13 45 Nordea Nordenfonden 246 643 0.13 46 Sijoitusrahasto Seligson & Co 246 330 0.12 47 Odin Finland 232 780 0.12 48 Blomberg Anne-Sofie Marie 221 266 0.11 49 Relander Harald 200 000 0.10 50 Keskinäinen Vakuutusyhtiö Kaleva 188 853 0.10 Total 86 847 659 44.03 Changes in ownership – flagging notifications During 2013, Wärtsilä was informed of the following changes in ownership: On 25 September 2013, BlackRock, Inc. decreased its holding in Wärtsilä. Following the transaction BlackRock, Inc. owned 9,824,523 shares or 4.98% of Wärtsilä’s share capital and total votes. On 7 February 2013, Wärtsilä was informed that Fiskars Corporation and Investor AB had completed the legal combination of their Wärtsilä ownership into a joint venture in accordance with a release published on 24 April 2012. At the time of the announcement, the total ownership for the joint company, Avlis AB, and its wholly owned subsidiary, Avlis Invest AB (formerly Instoria AB), was 42,948,325 or 21.77% of Wärtsilä’s share capital and votes. Fiskars owned 59.7% of Avlis AB and Investor 40.3%. 175 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 INVESTORS Management holdings The members of the Board of Directors, the CEO, the CEO's deputy, and the corporations under their control, owned altogether 789,368 Wärtsilä Corporation shares at the end of 2013, which represents 0.4% of the stock and voting rights. The Board of Directors' share ownership in Wärtsilä on 31 December 2013 Authorisations granted to the Board of Directors The Annual General Meeting, held on 7 March 2013, authorised the Board of Directors to resolve to repurchase a maximum of 19,000,000 of the Company's own shares. The authorisation to repurchase the Company’s own shares shall be valid until the close of the next Annual General Meeting, however no longer than for 18 months from the authorisation. The Board of Directors was authorised to resolve to distribute a maximum of 19,000,000 of the Company’s own shares. The authorisation for the Board of Directors to distribute the Company’s own shares shall be valid for three years from the authorisation of the shareholders’ meeting and it cancels the authorisation given by the General Meeting on 8 March 2012. The Board of Directors is authorised to resolve to whom and in which order the Company’s own shares will be distributed. The Board of Directors is authorised to decide on the distribution of the Company’s own shares other than in proportion to the existing pre-emptive right of the shareholders to purchase the Company’s own shares. The Board of Directors' dividend proposal The Board of Directors proposes that a dividend of 1.05 euro per share is to be distributed for the financial period that ended on 31 December 2013. Wärtsilä on the capital markets Investor Relations activities in 2013 Investor interest in Wärtsilä was high in 2013 and the IR team, consisting of Wärtsilä's CEO, CFO, IR Director and IR Officer, participated in 280 investor meetings during the year. Meetings were conducted in the Scandinavian countries, the UK, France, Germany, the Netherlands, Italy, Switzerland, Austria, and in the USA. In addition to one-on-one meetings and conference calls, several group meetings were hosted at Wärtsilä's offices in Helsinki and Vaasa, as well as in Shanghai and Kampen during the year. The IR team also participated in several investor conferences targeting institutional investors, in Finland and abroad. During the year, Wärtsilä's foreign ownership represented 51% (52) of the total shareholder base. The biggest percentage of foreign shares was held by investors in the UK and USA. Wärtsilä's Capital Markets Day was held in November in Helsinki. Presentation topics covered the company's strategic focus areas and growth opportunities for the coming years, and the organisational changes initiated during the year. The event was well-appreciated by more than 65 institutional investors, equity analysts, and bankers in attendance. A further 100 persons participated via webcast. 176 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 INVESTORS Wärtsilä participated in events aimed at domestic private investors during the year, including an Investment Morning organised by the Finnish Foundation for Share Promotion, and a retail investment fair arranged by Arvopaperi. Of Wärtsilä's shareholders, approximately 21% (21) consisted of retail investors during 2013. Wärtsilä's Investor Relations policy The ultimate objective of Wärtsilä's Investor Relations is to produce accurate, sufficient, and up-to-date information about the development of Wärtsilä's business operations, strategy, markets, and financial position. This is to ensure that the capital markets have relevant information concerning Wärtsilä in order to determine the fair value of the company's shares. To achieve this objective, Wärtsilä publishes annually three interim reports, a financial statements bulletin, an annual report, and stock exchange releases. Furthermore, Wärtsilä's management conducts regular discussions with analysts and investors, both in Finland and abroad. Wärtsilä's web pages serve as an archive for all current and historical data on factors affecting the value of our shares. Prospects Guidance on Wärtsilä's prospects is published in the Financial Statements bulletin and in the Interim reports. The most recently published prospects statement is repeated in the Annual Report. The published prospects consist of the net sales and profitability (EBIT%) forecasts, which are approved by the Board of Directors. Wärtsilä does not publish quarterly result forecasts. Should there be a change in business circumstances that could affect the prospects, Wärtsilä will publish changes to the prospects in accordance with prevailing regulations. Analyst reports Wärtsilä will review, upon request by an analyst, his or her earnings model or report only for factual accuracy or information that is in the public domain. Wärtsilä does not comment or take any responsibility for estimates or forecasts published by capital market representatives. Silent period Wärtsilä observes a three-week silent period preceding the publication of its results to prevent revealing unpublished financial information. During this period, the company's representatives do not meet with investors or analysts or comment on the company's financial position. Disclosure policy and financial communications Wärtsilä discloses information on its goals, financial position, and business operations in an open, timely, truthful, and systematic manner so as to enable stakeholders to form a true and fair view of the company. Wärtsilä publishes stock exchange releases, general press releases, and trade press releases. Our subsidiaries publish press releases with local relevance. Stock exchange releases give information on news that could affect the share price. Press releases provide information on business-related news or other news of general interest to our stakeholders. Releases to the trade press provide more detailed information on our products and technologies. All stock exchange releases are published in Finnish, Swedish and English. Press releases are published in English and can also be published in Finnish and Swedish. Trade press releases are only published in English. The stock exchange releases and press releases are available on Wärtsilä's website immediately following publication. 177 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 INVESTORS Contacts Relations with the company's investors and analysts are handled by IR Director Natalia Valtasaari together with the IR team. General inquiries can be sent to investor.relations@wartsila.com. Natalia Valtasaari Director, Investor Relations Tel. +358 (0)10 709 5637 natalia.valtasaari@wartsila.com Katariina Kataja Investor Relations Officer Tel. +358 (0)10 709 5498 katariina.kataja@wartsila.com Alexandra Carlzén Investor Relations Coordinator Tel. +358 (0)10 709 5445 alexandra.carlzen@wartsila.com On maternity leave: Pauliina Tennilä Director, Investor Relations Wärtsilä's corporate communications and media relations are the responsibility of Atte Palomäki, Executive Vice President, Communications & Branding. Atte Palomäki Executive Vice President, Communications & Branding Tel. +358 (0)10 709 5599 atte.palomaki@wartsila.com Analysts To our knowledge at least the following brokers and financial analysts have followed Wärtsilä's development during the last 12 months on their own initiative. They have analysed Wärtsilä and drawn up reports and comments and they are able to evaluate the company as an investment target. Wärtsilä takes no responsibility for the opinions expressed. Company Analyst Contact ABG Sundal Collier AB Anders Idborg anders.idborg@abgsc.se +46 8 566 286 74 Carnegie Investment Bank AB, Timo Heinonen timo.heinonen@carnegie.fi Finland Branch +358 9 6187 1234 178 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 INVESTORS Danske Bank A/S, Helsinki Branch Antti Suttelin antti.suttelin@danskebank.com +358 10 236 4708 Deutsche Bank AG Anette Luomanperä Until 31.12.2013 DNB Bank ASA Christer Magnergård christer.magnergard@dnb.no +47 22 94 82 26 Espirito Santo Nick Wilson nick.wilson@espiritosantoib.co.uk +44 20 3364 6766 Evli Bank plc Elina Riutta elina.riutta@evli.com +358 9 4766 9204 Exane BNP Paribas Alexis Denaud alexis.denaud@exanebnpparibas.com +44 207 039 9488 Fearnley Fonds ASA Rikard Vabo r.vabo@fearnleys.no +47 22 93 60 00 FIM To be confirmed To be confirmed Goldman Sachs International Daniela Costa daniela.costa@gs.com +44 20 7774 8354 Handelsbanken Capital Markets Tom Skogman tom.skogman@handelsbanken.fi +358 10 444 2752 HSBC Bank plc Colin Gibson colin.gibson@hsbcib.com +44 20 7991 6592 Inderes Juha Kinnunen juha.kinnunen@inderes.com +358 40 778 1368 JPMorgan Cazenove Glen Liddy glen.liddy@jpmorgan.com +44 20 7134 4570 Kepler Cheuvreux Johan Eliason jeliason@keplercheuvreux.com +46 8 723 5100 Nordea Markets Jan Kaijala jan.kaijala@nordea.com +358 9 1655 9706 Pareto Öhman Jari Harjunpää jari.harjunpaa@ohmangroup.fi +358 9 8866 6021 Pohjola Bank plc Pekka Spolander pekka.spolander@pohjola.fi +358 10 252 4351 SEB Enskilda, Helsinki Branch Tomi Railo tomi.railo@enskilda.fi +358 9 6162 8727 Swedbank Markets Anders Roslund anders.roslund@swedbank.se +46 8 5859 0093 UBS Deutschland AG Sven Weier sven.weier@ubs.com +49 69 1369 8278 179 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 INVESTORS Information for shareholders Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting of Wärtsilä Corporation will take place on Thursday, 6 March 2014, beginning at 3 p.m., in the Congress Wing of the Helsinki Fair Center, address: Messuaukio 1, 00520 Helsinki, Finland. Right to attend Shareholders registered no later than 24 February 2014 in the company's list of shareholders maintained by Euroclear Finland Ltd have the right to attend the Annual General Meeting. Notification of attendees Shareholders wishing to attend the Annual General Meeting are required to inform the Company thereof no later than 4 p.m. on 3 March 2014 either by letter, e-mail, fax or telephone. Registration: Wärtsilä Corporation Share Register P.O. Box 196 FI-00531 Helsinki Finland Telephone: +358 10 709 5282 Between 9 a.m. and 12 p.m. (noon) on weekdays Fax: +358 10 709 5701 E-mail: yk@wartsila.com Internet: www.wartsila.com/agm_register Letters, e-mails and faxes informing of participation must reach the Company before the notification period expires at 4 p.m. on 3 March 2014. Letters authorising a proxy to exercise a shareholder's voting right at the Annual General Meeting should also reach the Company before the notification period expires. Payment of dividend The Board of Directors proposes that a dividend of 1.05 euro per share be paid for the financial year 2013. The dividend will be paid to the shareholders who are registered in the list of shareholders maintained by Euroclear Finland Ltd on the record date, which is 11 March 2014. The dividend payment date proposed by the Board is 18 March 2014. Stock exchange releases Wärtsilä's stock exchange releases are available in English, Finnish and Swedish on Wärtsilä's website. 180 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 INVESTORS Financial information 2014 Annual Report 2013 The electronic Annual Report 2013 is published in English, Finnish and Swedish at www.wartsilareports.com and is also available on Wärtsilä's website, www.wartsila.com. Interim Reports and Financial Statements Bulletin 2014 • January-March on Thursday, 24 April 2014 • January-June on Friday, 18 July 2014 • January-September on Thursday, 23 October 2014 • Financial Statements Bulletin January-December on Thursday, 29 January 2015 Interim Reports and the Financial Statements Bulletin are available in English, Finnish and Swedish on Wärtsilä's website, www.wartsila.com. Annual summary of stock exchange releases 24 October 2013 Wärtsilä Interim Report January-September 2013 10 October 2013 Wärtsilä’s Interim Report January-September 2013 to be published 24 October 2013 at 8.30 a.m. local time 27 September 2013 Notification in accordance with the Finnish Securities Market Act Chapter 9 § 5: BlackRock, Inc. decreased holding in Wärtsilä Corporation 29 August 2013 Wärtsilä appoints Roger Holm to lead new 4-stroke organisation 18 July 2013 Correction to Wärtsilä´s Interim report January-June 2013 Appointments in Wärtsilä's Board of Management Wärtsilä Interim Report January-June 2013 4 July 2013 Wärtsilä’s Interim Report January-June 2013 to be published 18 July 2013 at 8.30 a.m. local time 25 June 2013 President of PowerTech Lars Hellberg to leave Wärtsilä 181 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 INVESTORS 16 May 2013 President of Services Christoph Vitzthum to leave Wärtsilä 18 April 2013 Interim Report January-March 2013 4 April 2013 Wärtsilä’s Interim Report January-March 2013 to be published 18 April 2013 at 8.30 a.m. local time 15 March 2013 Wärtsilä to set up new manufacturing plant in Brazil 7 March 2013 Constitutive meeting of the Board of Directors of Wärtsilä Corporation Decisions of Wärtsilä's Annual General Meeting 7 March 2013 5 March 2013 Wärtsilä has sold its stake in Sato Oyj 8 February 2013 Wärtsilä Corporation’s annual report 2012 published 7 February 2013 Notification in accordance with the Finnish Securities Market Act Chapter 9 § 5: Fiskars and Investor complete the legal combination of their Wärtsilä holdings 25 January 2013 Marco Wirén appointed CFO and Executive Vice President at Wärtsilä Notice to convene the Annual General Meeting of Wärtsilä Corporation Financial Statements Bulletin January-December 2012 11 January 2013 Wärtsilä’s Financial Statements Bulletin 2012 to be published 25 January 2013 at 8.30 a.m. local time 2 January 2013 Wärtsilä wins EUR 184 million power plant project from Jordan 182 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOARD OF DIRECTORS' REPORT 183 BOARD OF DIRECTORS' 193 R&D, product launches 194 Personnel REPORT 194 Changes in the organisational structure 184 HIGHLIGHTS OF 2013 195 Changes in management 184 STRATEGY 195 Sustainable development 195 Shares and shareholders THE YEAR 2013 196 Decisions by the AGM 185 Market development 197 Risk and uncertainties 187 Order intake and order book 198 Events after the reporting period 188 Net sales and profitability 189 Balance sheet, financing and cash flow 198 MARKET OUTLOOK 191 Capital expenditure 199 PROSPECTS FOR 2014 192 Strategic projects, joint ventures and expansion 199 DIVIDEND PROPOSAL of the network 183 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOARD OF DIRECTORS' REPORT Highlights of 2013 Wärtsilä’s performance in 2013 was impacted by the continued uncertainty in the global economy. In the power plant markets, global economic policies and fluctuations in emerging market currencies delayed customer decision-making. As a result, power generation investments declined for the second consecutive year. Activity in the marine markets on the other hand improved significantly during the year. Competitive new building prices, combined with the increased fuel efficiency of modern vessels, attracted investments in the merchant segment and oil price levels sustained activity in the offshore industry. This resulted in stronger vessel contracting and a more balanced order mix compared to recent years. Due to the continued good demand for power plant related services, service markets remained stable. Wärtsilä’s order intake developed in line with its end markets, with stronger orders in Ship Power partly compensating for the weaker development in Power Plants. Group order intake declined by 1% to EUR 4,872 million. The order book at the end of the review period stood at EUR 4,426 million, a decrease of 1%. Supported by a strong fourth quarter, profitability remained resilient. However, net sales development was slightly weaker than expected due to unfavourable exchange rates and some delayed deliveries at the end of the year. Wärtsilä’s full year net sales decreased by 1% to EUR 4,654 million and profitability reached 11.2%. The cash flow from operating activities developed well, increasing to EUR 578 million during the year. During the year, Wärtsilä continued to develop its business by expanding its product offering and by strengthening its manufacturing capabilities in key emerging markets. Net sales MEUR 2013 2012 Change % Power Plants 1 459 1 498 -3% Ship Power 1 325 1 301 2% Services 1 842 1 908 -3% Other 28 17 Group 4 654 4 725 -1% Strategy Wärtsilä aims to be the leader in complete lifecycle power solutions for the global marine markets and selected energy markets worldwide. We see growth opportunities in gas power plants as part of our Smart Power Generation concept, in gas-fuelled engines and related systems for the marine market, as well as in medium-scale LNG infrastructure development. We also seek growth in environmental solutions, including exhaust gas cleaning systems for SOx removal and ballast water management systems. Our strengths are our technological leadership, an integrated product and service offering, our close and long-standing customer relationships, and our unparalleled global presence. With our production and supply chain management we constantly seek ways to maintain cost efficiency and high quality – often in co-operation with leading industrial partners in our key growth markets. Our strong focus on R&D allows us to stay at the 184 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOARD OF DIRECTORS' REPORT forefront of technology and innovation in our industry. We are determined to capture growth opportunities within our end markets, while maintaining a solid profitability. Wärtsilä’s long-term financial target is to grow faster than global GDP and to maintain its operating profit margin between 14% at the peak of the cycle and 10% at the trough. Furthermore, the target is to maintain gearing below 50%, and to pay a dividend equivalent to 50% of earnings per share. Strategy realisation in 2013 Although overall power plant market activity was on a lower level, there was continued demand for gas based power generation. Gas based orders represented 82% of Power Plants’ order intake. Noteworthy orders included a 274 MW dual-fuel power plant from Jordan and a 220 MW natural gas fuelled power plant from Oregon, USA. In the shipping industry, the regulatory environment is driving interest in gas as a marine fuel. Ship Power received several orders for dual-fuel engines and gas handling systems, including the first order for Wärtsilä’s newly launched 2-stroke, low pressure, dual-fuel engines. Upcoming emission regulations are driving activity in the environmental solutions market. Wärtsilä made good progress in receiving type approvals for its ballast water systems during 2013 and the ordering of exhaust gas cleaning systems continued. In order to strengthen its manufacturing footprint in key emerging markets, Wärtsilä announced the set up of a new, fully-owned manufacturing facility in Brazil to meet increasing market demand, particularly in the offshore market. Wärtsilä also began construction of production facilities for Wärtsilä Yuchai Engine Co. Ltd, the company’s latest joint venture in China. Wärtsilä continued to place strong emphasis on R&D activities during 2013, the key focus areas being efficiency improvement, fuel flexibility, and the reduction of environmental impact. The R&D related expenditure totalled EUR 185 million, which represents 4.0% of net sales. Wärtsilä’s performance in 2013 was largely in line with the company’s long-term targets. Net sales decreased by 1%, while global GDP is estimated to have increased by 2.9%. Profitability reached 11.2%, well within the targeted range. Gearing was 0.15 and the Board of Director's proposed dividend of 1.05 euro per share represented 53% of operational earnings. Long-term financial targets Target Development in 2013 Development in 2012 Net sales growth faster than global GDP 1% decline 12% growth Operating profit margin between 10% and 14% 11.2% 10.9% Gearing below 0.50 0.15 0.32 Dividend payment equivalent to 50% of earnings 53%1 58% 1 Proposal of the Board of Directors. 185 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOARD OF DIRECTORS' REPORT Market development Moderate activity in power generation markets Activity in the overall power generation markets declined during 2013, as macro-economic volatility continued to cause delays in investment decisions throughout the year. Customer decision-making was further impacted by the significant exchange rate fluctuations seen in multiple emerging market currencies during the second and third quarters. Still, economic growth in the emerging markets continued to support demand for new power generation capacity. Wärtsilä’s power plant quotation activity was higher in 2013 than during the previous year. Activity remained focused on natural gas based generation. Power Plants market share During the first half of 2013, global orders for natural gas and liquid fuel based power generation (including all prime mover units of over five MW) totalled 18.8 GW, a decrease of 35% compared to first half 2012 (28.8). Wärtsilä's share represents 5.8% of the market (4.9). Improvement in marine market activity During 2013, the total number of new registered vessel contracts was 2,201. Market activity improved significantly compared to 2012, when the volume for known contracts was 1,090 vessels. Ordering was active in all major vessel segments, resulting in a more evenly spread contracting mix compared to the previous year. Counter-cyclical ordering played an important role in 2013. Competitive new building prices and the increased fuel efficiency of modern vessels attracted investments in merchant vessels. Notable activity was seen in the product tanker, LPG carrier, and large containership segments. The gas carrier market (LNG carriers and LPG carriers) recorded 158 contracts during 2013. The contracting of mobile drilling units was positive, with active ordering of jack-up rigs. Contracting activity in the anchor handling tug supply and platform supply vessel segments was lower than in recent years. China and South Korea captured respectively 41% and 33% of the contracts confirmed during 2013 in terms of compensated gross tonnage, while Japan secured 15%. Ship Power market shares Wärtsilä’s share of the medium-speed main engine market increased to 52% (49% at the end of the third quarter). The market share in low-speed engines remained at 10%, while in auxiliary engines the market share decreased slightly to 4% (10% and 5% respectively at the end of the third quarter). Stable development in the service markets During 2013, the overall service market development was stable. The pick-up in activity during the fourth quarter compensated for the slightly slower beginning of the year. The demand for power plant related services remained at a good level throughout the year, and activity was healthy especially in Africa. The overall marine service activity was satisfactory. At the end of 2013, Wärtsilä’s installed base totalled 182,000 MW. The marine installed base decreased slightly due to the scrapping of merchant vessels with 2-stroke engines. This development was compensated for by the continued increase in the 4-stroke installed base, particularly in power plant installations. 186 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOARD OF DIRECTORS' REPORT Order intake and order book Order intake Wärtsilä’s order intake for the financial period was EUR 4,872 million (4,940), which represents a decrease of 1% compared to the corresponding period in 2012. The book-to-bill ratio was 1.05 (1.05). The Power Plants order intake totalled EUR 1,292 million (1,515), a decrease of 15% compared to the previous year. This development is in line with the decline in the global power generation markets. 82% of the orders received, measured in MW, were for gas based power plants. In 2013, major orders were received for a 274 MW power plant from Jordan and a 220 MW power plant from Oregon, USA. Other important orders were received from Finland, Russia and Indonesia. Ship Power’s order intake increased by 14% to EUR 1,662 million (1,453), reflecting the improvement in the marine market. Ordering was active in the offshore and special tonnage segments, as well as in the merchant segment. In line with the Ship Power strategy, Wärtsilä received several orders for the delivery of integrated solutions, including ship design, propulsion machinery, automation and other equipment. The ordering of environmental solutions picked up somewhat and Wärtsilä was awarded an order for its AQUARIUS UV ballast water management system by Carboflotta Group, as well as exhaust gas cleaning system orders by TT-Line, Color Line and Messina among others. A total of 41 exhaust gas cleaning systems for 17 vessels were ordered during 2013. The interest in gas as a marine fuel continued throughout the year, and Ship Power received many orders for dual-fuel engines and gas related systems. Among these was the strategically interesting contract to supply a comprehensive solutions package, including the cargo handling system, the gas supply system, and the propulsion machinery, for a series of LNG carriers being built for the Danish operator Evergas. The order for Wärtsilä’s new low-speed, low pressure dual-fuel engine to two environmentally advanced tankers was another key achievement. In the offshore segment, notable orders included supplying propulsion solutions for six new offshore pipe laying vessels being built for Subsea 7 and Seabras Sapura, as well as several orders for platform support vessels. The offshore segment represented 42% of the financial period order intake, while the merchant segment’s share was 34% and cruise & ferry accounted for 8%. The special vessels segment's share was 7% and navy represented 6% of the order intake. Other orders accounted for 3%. Services’ order intake decreased by 4% to EUR 1,885 million (1,961). During 2013, Wärtsilä signed important long-term operations and maintenance agreements with power plant customers in Africa, Australia and the USA. Wärtsilä was also awarded a service agreement by Viking Line for maintaining and servicing the gasfuelled passenger ferry Viking Grace. Order intake in joint ventures Order intake in the Wärtsilä Hyundai Engine Company Ltd joint venture company in South Korea, and the Wärtsilä Qiyao Diesel Company Ltd joint venture company in China, producing auxiliary engines, totalled EUR 222 million (242) during the financial period. Wärtsilä’s share of ownership in these companies is 50%, and the results are reported as a share of result of associates and joint ventures. Order book The total order book at the end of the financial period stood at EUR 4,426 million (4,492), a decrease of 1%. The Power Plants order book amounted to EUR 1,367 million (1,561), a decrease of 12%. The Ship Power order book stood at EUR 2,289 million (2,127), which is 8% higher than at the same date last year. The Services order book decreased by 7% to EUR 751 million (804). 187 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOARD OF DIRECTORS' REPORT Net sales and profitability Net sales Net sales decreased by 1% during the financial period, totalling EUR 4,654 million (4,725). The development was slightly weaker than the expected 0-5% net sales growth, mainly due to unfavourable exchange rates and some delayed deliveries during the fourth quarter. Power Plants’ net sales totalled EUR 1,459 million (1,498), a decrease of 3%. Ship Power’s net sales increased by 2% and totalled EUR 1,325 million (1,301). Net sales from the Services business totalled EUR 1,842 million (1,908), a decrease of 3%. The Services’ sales mix saw an increase in revenues from maintenance service and long-term contracts. Of the total net sales, Power Plants accounted for 31%, Ship Power for 28% and Services for 40%. Of Wärtsilä’s net sales for January-December 2013, approximately 59% was EUR denominated, 24% USD denominated, with the remainder being split between several currencies. Group net sales development Operating result and profitability The operating result (EBIT) before non-recurring items was EUR 520 million (517) for the financial period. This represents 11.2% of net sales (10.9), which is in line with the guidance of around 11% profitability. Joint venture profitability developed well, which had a positive impact on the Group’s operating result. Including non-recurring items, the operating result was EUR 500 million (483) or 10.7% of net sales (10.2). The operating result (EBITA) excluding non-recurring items and intangible asset amortisation related to acquisitions was EUR 552 million (552) or 11.9% of net sales (11.7). During the financial period JanuaryDecember 2013, Wärtsilä recognised intangible asset amortisation related to acquisitions of EUR 32 million (35) and EUR 20 million of non-recurring items (34). Non-recurring items related to restructuring measures and discontinued operations. In March, Wärtsilä sold its holding of 1,987,940 shares in Sato Oyj, for EUR 27 million. Wärtsilä recorded a capital gain of EUR 25 million on this sale. The tax on the capital gain is EUR 6 million. Financial items amounted to EUR -19 million (-31). Net interest totalled EUR -14 million (-18). Dividends received totalled EUR 1 million (2). Profit before taxes amounted to EUR 507 million (453). Taxes amounted to EUR 113 million (109), implying an effective tax rate of 22%. The profit for the financial period amounted to EUR 393 million (344). Earnings per share were 1.98 euro (1.72) and equity per share was 9.35 euro (8.95). Return on investment (ROI) was 21.2% (20.4). Return on equity (ROE) was 21.4% (20.1). 188 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOARD OF DIRECTORS' REPORT Result Balance sheet, financing and cash flow For January-December 2013, the cash flow from operating activities was EUR 578 million (153). The improvement in cash flow is mainly due to the favourable development in working capital, which totalled EUR 313 million at the end of the period (465). Advances received at the end of the period totalled EUR 913 million (695). Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the period amounted to EUR 388 million (225). Wärtsilä had interest-bearing debt totalling EUR 665 million (794) at the end of December 2013. The total amount of short-term debt maturing within the next 12 months was EUR 94 million. Funding programmes included Finnish Commercial Paper programmes totalling EUR 800 million, of which EUR 14 million was in use. Net interest-bearing debt totalled EUR 276 million (567). The funding programmes at the end of December 2013 included long-term loans of EUR 571 million, committed undrawn long-term loans totalling EUR 100 million, and unutilised Committed Revolving Credit Facilities totalling EUR 599 million. The solvency ratio was 43.9% (41.3). Gearing decreased to 0.15 (0.32) as a result of good cash flow development. Key figures for the comparison period have been restated due to changes in pension accounting (IAS 19 Employee benefits). The impact is described in the IFRS amendments section. 189 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOARD OF DIRECTORS' REPORT Interest-bearing loan capital MEUR 2013 2012 Long-term liabilities 571 545 Current liabilities 94 249 Loan receivables -1 -2 Cash and cash equivalents -388 -225 Net 276 567 Loans Maturity profiles of long-term loans 190 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOARD OF DIRECTORS' REPORT Committed revolving credit facilities (end of period) Gearing Solvency ratio 191 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOARD OF DIRECTORS' REPORT Capital expenditure Capital expenditure for 2013 was in line with depreciation and amortisations. Gross capital expenditure in the financial period totalled EUR 134 million (513), comprising EUR 5 million (402) in acquisitions and investments in securities, and EUR 129 million (111) in intangible assets and property, plant and equipment. Investments related mainly to product development and expansion of manufacturing capacity in key emerging markets. The comparison period’s gross capital expenditure includes the acquisition of Hamworthy plc. Depreciation, amortisations and impairment amounted to EUR 123 million (139). Gross capital expenditure Strategic projects, joint ventures and expansion of the network Construction of the new production facilities for Wärtsilä Yuchai Engine Co. Ltd, the joint venture owned 50/ 50 by Wärtsilä and Yuchai Marine Power Co. Ltd, is proceeding according to plan. The company will manufacture Wärtsilä 20, Wärtsilä 26 and Wärtsilä 32 medium-speed marine engines to serve the increasingly dominant Chinese shipbuilding industry. Production is planned to begin in mid 2014. The Wärtsilä TMH Diesel Engine Company LLC factory is expected to begin production during the first quarter of 2014. In March, Wärtsilä announced the set up of a new, fully-owned manufacturing facility in Brazil to meet the increasing market demand, particularly in the offshore market. The manufacturing premises will be based on a multi-product factory concept for the assembly and testing of Wärtsilä’s generating sets and propulsion products. In the initial phase, activities will focus on medium sized, medium-speed generating sets and steerable thrusters, with the possibility to flexibly expand the product range to respond to market needs. The value of Wärtsilä’s investment is approximately EUR 20 million and the facility is scheduled to be fully operational by mid 2014. In February, Wärtsilä continued to expand its service network by opening a new service workshop in Niterói, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. 192 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOARD OF DIRECTORS' REPORT Research and development, product launches Research and development Wärtsilä continued to place strong emphasis on R&D activities during 2013, the key focus areas being efficiency improvement, fuel flexibility, and the reduction of environmental impact. The R&D related expenditure totalled EUR 185 million, which represents 4.0% of net sales. During 2013, Wärtsilä was granted a 10-year loan totalling EUR 150 million from the European Investment Bank and a 10-year loan totalling EUR 50 million from the Nordic Investment Bank for research and development financing. With these loans, Wärtsilä will further develop its medium-speed engine technology in terms of efficiency, reliability and environmental performance, as well as for reducing lifecycle costs. Wärtsilä currently has the widest portfolio of exhaust gas cleaning systems for the removal of SOx, and the most extensive reference list on the market. The portfolio consists of open-loop, closed-loop, and hybrid systems. Wärtsilä has to date a total of 88 exhaust gas cleaning systems delivered or on order, for a total of 41 vessels. Progress with regards to type approvals for ballast water management systems continues. In November, the Wärtsilä AQUARIUS UV (ultraviolet) system received United States Coast Guard Alternate Management System acceptance. In addition, Wärtsilä’s AQUARIUS EC (electro-chlorination) system was granted IMO Type Approval in December. Product launches In December, Wärtsilä expanded its engine portfolio with two new auxiliary engines, the Wärtsilä Auxpac 16 and the Wärtsilä Auxpac 32. The new engines offer a high level of reliability and are compliant with the IMO’s Tier II environmental regulations. Their launch is an important step in strengthening Wärtsilä’s presence in the auxiliary engine market. Also in December, Wärtsilä launched its new 2-speed marine gearbox. The product, which will serve vessels with multiple operational modes or reduced transit speeds, offers notable economic and environmental benefits. Compared to a single mechanical propulsion system, a fuel consumption reduction of eight percent was verified with Wärtsilä’s 2-speed gearbox during sea trials. In November, Wärtsilä introduced its new low-speed dual-fuel engine technology. The benefits of this technology include capital expenditure reductions through a substantially simpler and lower cost LNG and gas handling system. Furthermore, the new engines are IMO Tier III emissions compliant in gas mode. The first engine utilising this technology, the Wärtsilä RT-flex50DF, will be available for delivery in the third quarter of 2014. In October, Wärtsilä released its Wärtsilä 20DF dual-fuel engine for sale in the US market. The engine meets the United States Environmental Protection Agency’s strict Tier 4 emissions requirements. A new series of steerable and transverse thrusters was also introduced. The new thrusters have been developed in response to changing market demand, which requires competitive products that are more efficient and that cover a wider power range. Wärtsilä also launched a new Bio Seal Ring™ product for maritime stern tube seal applications. The seal ring is the first in the market that works with environmentally acceptable lubricants for a lifetime of at least five years. A new version of the Wärtsilä 34DF engine was launched in June. The engine offers increased power output and increased efficiency in both liquid and gas operating modes, as well as lower fuel consumption and improved environmental performance. 193 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOARD OF DIRECTORS' REPORT In March, Wärtsilä launched a unique product, the Wärtsilä GasReformer, which uses steam reforming technology to convert associated gas to a quality that can be used as fuel in Wärtsilä’s range of gas fuelled engines. Traditionally such gases would be flared and wasted. Megawatts delivered 2013 2012 Change % Power Plants engines 2 710 3 078 -12% Ship Power, own engines 1 777 1 701 4% Wärtsilä total 4 487 4 778 -6% By licensees 1 430 2 826 -49% By joint ventures 1 135 746 52% Engine deliveries total 7 052 8 350 -16% Personnel Wärtsilä had 18,663 (18,887) employees at the end of December 2013. On average, the number of personnel for January-December 2013 totalled 18,749 (18,930). Power Plants employed 1,053 (932) people. Ship Power employed 3,612 (2,139) people, Services 10,785 (11,163) and PowerTech 2,449 (3,811). The increase in the number of Ship Power employees and decrease in the number of PowerTech employees relates mainly to changes in the organisational set up, which became effective in 2012. Of Wärtsilä’s total number of employees, 20% (19) were located in Finland and 36% (36) elsewhere in Europe. Personnel employed in Asia represented 31% (32) of the total. Personnel 194 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOARD OF DIRECTORS' REPORT Changes in the organisational structure In August 2013, Wärtsilä announced the combination of PowerTech and Ship Power’s 4-stroke organisation into a single business unit. The reorganisation is a continuation of the changes implemented in 2012. It aims to further strengthen competitiveness, and to serve customers more effectively with increased flexibility, faster decision making, and the optimal utilisation of resources. Mr Roger Holm (41), MSc (Econ.), was appointed Senior Vice President, 4-stroke, and a member of the Ship Power management team as of 1 September 2013. Holm also headed the PowerTech organisation until the changes in the organisational structure became effective on 1 January 2014. Changes in management Mr Pierpaolo Barbone (56) M.Sc. (Eng.) was appointed President of Services, Executive Vice President and a member of the Board of Management. Mr Jaakko Eskola (55) M.Sc. (Eng.) was appointed Senior Executive Vice President and Deputy to the CEO. He assumed this responsibility in addition to his existing position as President of Ship Power. Mr Marco Wirén (47), M.Sc. (Econ.), was appointed Chief Financial Officer, Executive Vice President and a member of the Board of Management. The previous heads of Services and PowerTech, Mr Christoph Vitzthum and Mr Lars Hellberg, have left Wärtsilä to pursue careers outside the company. The previous Chief Financial Officer and Deputy to the CEO, Mr Raimo Lind, reached his contractual retirement age and retired in August 2013. Sustainable development Wärtsilä is well positioned to reduce emissions and the use of natural resources, thanks to its various technologies and specialised services. Wärtsilä’s R&D efforts continue to focus on the development of advanced environmental technologies and solutions. The company is committed to supporting the UN Global Compact and its principles with respect to human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. Wärtsilä’s share is included in several sustainability indices. Shares and shareholders During January-December 2013, the volume of trades on the Nasdaq OMX exchange was 95,127,366 shares, equivalent to a turnover of EUR 3,328 million. Wärtsilä's shares are also traded on alternative exchanges, 195 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOARD OF DIRECTORS' REPORT such as Chi-X, Turquoise and BATS. The total trading volume on these alternative exchanges was 54,651,206 shares. Number of shares and Number of shares traded 31.12.2013 votes 1-12/2013 WRT1V 197 241 130 95 127 366 1.1. 31.12.2013 High Low Average 1 Close Share price 39.00 30.66 35.00 35.77 1 Trade-weighted average price Market capitalisation 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 EUR million 7 055 6 454 Foreign shareholders 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 % 51.3 51.0 Flagging notifications During the financial period, Wärtsilä was informed of the following changes in ownership: On 25 September, BlackRock, Inc. decreased its holding in Wärtsilä. Following the transaction BlackRock Inc. owned 9,824,523 shares or 4.98% of Wärtsilä’s share capital and total votes. On 7 February, Wärtsilä was informed that Fiskars Corporation and Investor AB had completed the legal combination of their Wärtsilä ownership into a joint venture in accordance with a release published on 24 April 2012. At the time of the announcement, the total ownership for the joint company, Avlis AB, and its wholly owned subsidiary, Avlis Invest AB (formerly Instoria AB), was 42,948,325 or 21.77% of Wärtsilä’s share capital and votes. Fiskars owned 59.7% of Avlis AB and Investor 40.3%. Decisions taken by the Annual General Meeting Wärtsilä’s Annual General Meeting held on 7 March 2013 approved the financial statements and discharged the members of the Board of Directors and the company’s President & CEO from liability for the financial year 2012. The Meeting approved the Board of Directors’ proposal to pay a dividend of EUR 1.00 per share. The dividend was paid on 19 March 2013. The Annual General Meeting decided that the Board of Directors has nine members. The following were elected to the Board: Ms Maarit Aarni-Sirviö, Mr Kaj-Gustaf Bergh, Mr Sune Carlsson, Mr Alexander Ehrnrooth, Mr Paul Ehrnrooth, Mr Mikael Lilius, Ms Gunilla Nordström, Mr Markus Rauramo and Mr Matti Vuoria. The firm of public auditors KPMG Oy Ab was appointed as the company’s auditor for the year 2013. 196 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOARD OF DIRECTORS' REPORT Authorisation to repurchase and distribute the Company’s own shares The Board of Directors was authorised to resolve to repurchase a maximum of 19,000,000 of the Company’s own shares. The authorisation to repurchase the Company’s own shares shall be valid until the close of the next Annual General Meeting, however no longer than for 18 months from the authorisation. The Board of Directors was authorised to resolve to distribute a maximum of 19,000,000 of the Company’s own shares. The authorisation for the Board of Directors to distribute the Company’s own shares shall be valid for three years from the authorisation of the shareholders’ meeting and it cancels the authorisation given by the General Meeting on 8 March 2012. The Board of Directors is authorised to resolve to whom and in which order the Company’s own shares will be distributed. The Board of Directors is authorised to decide on the distribution of the Company’s own shares other than in proportion to the existing pre-emptive right of the shareholders to purchase the Company’s own shares. Organisation of the Board of Directors The Board of Directors of Wärtsilä Corporation elected Mikael Lilius as its chairman and Kaj-Gustaf Bergh as the deputy chairman. The Board decided to establish an Audit Committee, a Nomination Committee and a Remuneration Committee. The Board appointed from among its members the following members to the Committees: Audit Committee: Chairman Markus Rauramo, Maarit Aarni-Sirviö, Alexander Ehrnrooth Nomination Committee: Chairman Mikael Lilius, Kaj-Gustaf Bergh, Matti Vuoria Remuneration Committee: Chairman Mikael Lilius, Paul Ehrnrooth, Matti Vuoria Risks and business uncertainties In the Power Plants business, uncertainty in the financial markets and significant currency fluctuations may impact financing availability and the timing of bigger projects. Lack of demand for commodities, e.g. minerals, can affect industrial customers’ investment decisions. The business environment for the shipping and shipbuilding industry remains challenging, and concerns over the global economy continue to cause uncertainty. Overcapacity is still a concern, as the large order book accumulated during the shipbuilding boom has been delivered. In addition, financing remains under pressure as banks continue to be cautious. Investments in offshore exploration and production are highly sensitive to changes in oil prices. However, current oil prices continue to support the offshore industry’s operational activities in harsher conditions and deeper waters. Continued risks in the global economy and political instability in certain areas may have a negative impact on Services’ order intake. The challenging conditions in several marine market segments are also seen as a potential risk. 197 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOARD OF DIRECTORS' REPORT The Group is a defendant in a number of legal cases which arise out of, or are incidental to, the ordinary course of its business. These lawsuits concern mainly issues such as contractual and other liability, labour relations, property damage and regulatory matters. The Group receives from time to time claims of different amounts and with varying degrees of substantiation. The claims received in 2013 include two unusually sizable ones. It is the Group’s policy to provide for amounts related to the claims as well as for the litigation and arbitration matters when an unfavourable outcome is probable and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. The annual report's Risk and risk managment section contains a more specific description of Wärtsilä’s risks and business uncertainties. Events after the reporting period On 29 January 2014, Wärtsilä announced plans to realign its organisation to secure future profitability and competitiveness. The Group-wide efficiency programme is expected to lead to a reduction of approximately 1,000 employees globally, of which about 200 are planned to be in Finland. The reductions will impact all businesses and support functions. With these actions Wärtsilä seeks annual savings of EUR 60 million. The effect of these savings is expected to materialise fully by the end of 2014. The non-recurring costs related to the restructuring measures will be EUR 50 million. Of these costs EUR 11 million was recognised in 2013, as certain measures were initiated at the end of the year. Market outlook Power generation markets closely follow global macro-economic development. Uncertainty in the macro economy, combined with slow global growth projections, has impacted the power generation markets, leading to two consecutive years of decline. Based on the forecasted GDP growth in 2014, the overall market for liquid and gas fuelled power generation is expected to improve slightly. Ordering activity remains focused on emerging markets, which continue to invest in new power generation capacity. In the OECD countries, there is still pent-up power sector demand, mainly driven by CO2 neutral generation and the ramp down of older, mainly coal-based generation. The main drivers supporting activity in the shipping and offshore sectors are in place. World seaborne trade and the world economy are showing signs of improvement, which benefits the merchant shipping market. Furthermore, the current oil price level supports activity in the offshore industry, including operations in harsh and deep water areas. The importance of fuel efficiency and the regulatory environment are clearly visible, and the interest in gas as a fuel is increasing. Overall contracting is expected to remain at improved levels, keeping in mind the prevailing overcapacity and the market’s limited capacity to absorb new tonnage. Due to the relatively high level of contracting in the traditional merchant segment during 2013, a small downturn in merchant ordering activity may be seen in 2014. The overall service market outlook remains stable. An increase in the installed base partly balances the slower service demand for older installations and the continued focus of merchant marine customers on reducing operating expenses. The outlook for services to offshore and gas fuelled vessels remains positive. Demand for services in the power plant segment continues to be good. From a regional perspective, the 198 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BOARD OF DIRECTORS' REPORT outlook for the Middle East and Asia is slightly more positive, supported by interest in power plant related services. The outlook is also good in the Americas and Africa. Wärtsilä’s prospects for 2014 Wärtsilä expects its net sales for 2014 to grow by 0-10% and its operational profitability (EBIT% before nonrecurring items) to be around 11%. Board of Directors' dividend proposal The Board of Directors proposes that a dividend of 1.05 euro per share be paid for the financial year 2013. The parent company’s distributable funds total 1,027,025,847.20 euro, which includes 174,475,007.05 euro in net profit for the year. There are 197,241,130 shares with dividend rights. The dividend will be paid to shareholders who are registered in the list of shareholders maintained by Euroclear Finland Ltd on the record date, which is 11 March 2014. The dividend payment date proposed by the Board is 18 March 2014. Earnings/share, dividend/share 199 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 FINANCIALS 200 FINANCIALS 239 22. Provisions 240 23. Financial liabilities 202 FIVE YEARS IN FIGURES 241 24. Other liabilities 203 CALCULATIONS OF FINANCIAL 241 25. Derivative financial instruments RATIOS 243 26. Collateral, contingent liabilities and other commitments CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 243 27. Related party disclosures 204 Consolidated statement of income 244 28. Auditors' fees and services 205 Consolidated statement of comprehensive 245 29. Exchange rates income 245 30. Subsidiaries 205 Consolidated statement of financial position 247 31. Financial risks 207 Consolidated statement of cash flows 250 32. Events after the balance sheet date 208 Consolidated statement of changes in equity PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL 210 Accounting principles for the consolidated STATEMENTS financial statements 250 Parent company income statement Notes to the consolidated financial statements 251 Parent company balance sheet 223 1. Segment information 253 Parent company cash flow statement 224 2. Acquisitions 254 Accounting principles for the parent company 225 3. Long-term construction contracts and operating and maintenance agreements Notes to the parent company financial statements 225 4. Other operating income 255 1. Other operating income 226 5. Material and services 256 2. Personnel expenses 226 6. Employee benefit expenses 256 3. Depreciation and amortisation 226 7. Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 256 4. Financial income and expenses 227 8. Financial income and expenses 257 5. Extraordinary income and expenses 227 9. Income taxes 257 6. Income taxes 228 10. Earnings per share 258 7. Fixed assets 228 11. Intangible assets 258 8. Non-current receivables 230 12. Property, plant & equipment 259 9. Current receivables from Group companies 231 13. Investments in associates and joint ventures 259 10. Prepaid expenses and accrued income 232 14. Available-for-sale financial assets 259 11. Shareholders' equity 233 15. Inventories 260 12. Liabilities 233 16. Financial assets and liabilities by 261 13. Accrued expenses and deferred income measurement category 261 14. Liabilities to Group companies 235 17. Other receivables 261 15. Collateral, contingent liabilities and other 235 18. Cash and cash equivalents commitments 235 19. Deferred taxes 262 16. Related party loans and other commitments 236 20. Pension obligations 262 17. Auditor's fees and services 238 21. Equity 200 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 FINANCIALS 262 PROPOSAL OF THE BOARD 265 QUARTERLY FIGURES 2012-2013 263 AUDITOR´S REPORT 201 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 FINANCIALS Five years in figures Restated MEUR 2013 2012 2011* 2010* 2009* Net sales 4 654 4 725 4 209 4 553 5 260 of which outside Finland % 99.0 98.8 99.3 99.4 99.3 Exports from Finland 2 306 2 349 2 458 2 584 3 114 Personnel on average 18 749 18 930 17 708 18 000 18 830 of which in Finland 3 662 3 599 3 421 3 326 3 506 Order book 4 426 4 492 4 007 3 795 4 491 From the consolidated statement of income Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 123 139 113 116 165 Share of result of associates and joint ventures 22 9 8 5 6 Operating result before non-recurring items 520 517 469 487 638 as a percentage of net sales % 11.2 10.9 11.1 10.7 12.1 Operating result 500 483 445 412 592 as a percentage of net sales % 10.7 10.2 10.6 9.1 11.2 EBITA 552 552 485 503 672 as a percentage of net sales % 11.9 11.7 11.5 11.0 12.8 Financial income and expenses -19 -31 -16 -13 -34 as a percentage of net sales % -0.4 -0.7 -0.4 -0.3 -0.6 Net income from available-for-sale financial assets 25 1 149 Profit before taxes 507 453 429 548 558 as a percentage of net sales % 10.9 9.6 10.2 12.0 10.6 Profit for the financial period 393 344 293 397 396 as a percentage of net sales % 8.5 7.3 7.0 8.7 7.5 From the consolidated statement of financial position Non-current assets 1 935 2 000 1 577 1 483 1 548 Current assets 3 274 3 036 3 023 3 213 3 108 Total equity attributable to equity holders of the parent company 1 844 1 766 1 636 1 638 1 496 Non-controlling interests 40 26 30 26 16 Interest-bearing debt 665 794 652 628 664 Non-interest-bearing liabilities 2 660 2 451 2 282 2 404 2 479 Total equity and liabilities 5 209 5 036 4 600 4 696 4 655 Gross capital expenditure 134 513 187 98 152 as a percentage of net sales % 2.9 10.9 4.4 2.2 2.9 Research and development expenses 185 188 162 141 141 as a percentage of net sales % 4.0 4.0 3.8 3.1 2.7 Dividends paid 207** 197 178 173 173 Extra dividend 99 Dividends total 207** 197 178 271 173 Financial ratios Earnings per share, basic and diluted (EPS)*** EUR 1.98 1.72 1.44 1.96 1.97 Dividend per share*** EUR 1.05** 1.00 0.90 1.38 0.88 Dividend per earnings % 53.0** 58.1 62.7 70.3 44.4 Interest coverage 17.2 13.9 14.6 18.9 16.4 Return on investment (ROI) % 21.2 20.4 20.4 26.0 29.9 Return on equity (ROE) % 21.4 20.1 17.5 25.0 29.2 Solvency ratio % 43.9 41.3 41.3 40.8 40.0 Gearing 0.15 0.32 0.04 -0.09 0.28 Equity per share*** EUR 9.35 8.95 8.30 8.30 7.59 Working capital (WCAP) EUR 313 465 235 118 486 * The figures in the comparison years 2009–2011 have not been restated according to the revised IAS 19. 202 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 FINANCIALS ** Proposal of the Board of Directors. *** Free share issue approved by Wärtsilä Corporation’s Annual General Meeting on 3 March 2011 increased the total number of Wärtsilä shares to 197,241,130. The figures in the comparison years have been adjusted to reflect the increased number of shares. Calculations of financial ratios Return on investment (ROI) Profit before taxes + interest and other financial expenses x 100 Total equity and liabilities – non-interest-bearing liabilities – provisions, average over the financial year Return on equity (ROE) Profit for the financial year x 100 Equity, average over the financial year Interest coverage Profit before taxes + depreciation, amortisation and impairment + interest and other financial expenses Interest and other financial expenses Solvency ratio Equity x 100 Total equity and liabilities – advances received Gearing Interest-bearing liabilities – cash and cash equivalents Equity Earnings per share (EPS) Profit for the financial year attributable to equity holders of the parent company Adjusted number of shares, average over the financial year Equity per share Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent company Adjusted number of shares at the end of the financial year Dividend per share Dividends paid for the financial year Adjusted number of shares at the end of the financial year Dividend per earnings Dividend per share x 100 Earnings per share (EPS) Effective dividend yield Dividend per share x 100 Adjusted share price at the end of the financial year Price/earnings (P/E) Adjusted share price at the end of the financial year Earnings per share (EPS) 203 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 FINANCIALS Price/carrying amount per share (P/BV) Adjusted share price at the end of the financial year Equity per share Working capital (WCAP) (Inventories + trade receivables + current tax receivables + other non-interest-bearing receivables) – (trade payables + advances received + pension obligations + provisions + current tax liabilities + other non-interest-bearing liabilities) Non-recurring items Non-recurring items are related to restructuring measures and one-time charges for events or activities, which are not part of the normal business operations EBITA Operating result – non-recurring items – intangible asset amortisation related to acquisitions Consolidated statement of income Restated MEUR Note 2013 % 2012 % Net sales 1, 3 4 654 100.0 4 725 100.0 Change in inventories of finished goods & work in progress 187 -30 Work performed by the Group and capitalised 19 15 Other operating income 4 85 68 Material and services 5 -2 696 -2 527 Employee benefit expenses 6 -1 104 -1 094 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 7 -123 -139 Other operating expenses -543 -543 Share of result of associates and joint ventures 13 22 9 Operating result 500 10.7 483 10.2 Dividend income 8 1 2 Interest income 8 3 4 Other financial income 8 15 9 Interest expenses 8 -17 -22 Other financial expenses 8 -22 -25 Net income from available-for-sale financial assets 14 25 1 Profit before taxes 507 453 Income taxes 9 -113 -109 Profit for the financial period 393 8.5 344 7.3 Attributable to: Equity holders of the parent company 10 391 339 Non-controlling interests 3 5 393 344 204 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 FINANCIALS Earnings per share attributable to equity holders of the parent company: Earnings per share (basic and diluted), EUR 1.98 1.72 The notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Consolidated statement of comprehensive income Restated MEUR 2013 2012 Profit for the financial period 393 344 Other comprehensive income, net of taxes: Items that will not be reclassified to the statement of income: Remeasurement of defined benefit liability -9 -2 Tax on items that will not be reclassified to the statement of income -1 1 Total items that will not be reclassified to the statement of income -10 -1 Items that may be reclassified subsequently to the statement of income: Exchange rate differences on translating foreign operations -72 -14 Available-for-sale financial assets measured at fair value 1 3 transferred to the statement of income -25 -1 Cash flow hedges measured at fair value -22 9 transferred to the statement of income -2 9 Tax on items that may be reclassified to the statement of income: Available-for-sale financial assets transferred to the statement of income 6 Cash flow hedges measured at fair value 7 -2 transferred to the statement of income 1 -2 Total items that may be reclassified to the statement of income -107 1 Other comprehensive income for the financial period, net of taxes -117 Total comprehensive income for the financial period 276 344 Total comprehensive income attributable to: Equity holders of the parent company 275 339 Non-controlling interests 2 5 276 344 The notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 205 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 FINANCIALS Consolidated statement of financial position, assets Restated MEUR Note 31.12.2013 % 31.12.2012 % Non-current assets Goodwill 11 914 942 Intangible assets 11 321 317 Property, plant and equipment 12 434 456 Investment properties 12 15 14 Investments in associates and joint ventures 13 103 90 Available-for-sale financial assets 14, 16 15 44 Interest-bearing investments 16 1 1 Deferred tax assets 19 128 112 Other receivables 17 5 24 1 935 37.2 2 000 39.7 Current assets Inventories 15 1 367 1 322 Interest-bearing receivables 16 1 1 Trade receivables 16 1 146 1 128 Current tax receivables 33 27 Other receivables 17 339 334 Cash and cash equivalents 18 388 225 3 274 62.8 3 036 60.3 Total assets 5 209 100.0 5 036 100.0 The notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Consolidated statement of financial position, equity and liabilities Restated MEUR Note 31.12.2013 % 31.12.2012 % Equity Share capital 21 336 336 Share premium 21 61 61 Translation differences 21 -85 -12 Fair value reserve 21 -13 21 Actuarial gains and losses -43 -34 Retained earnings 1 587 1 393 Total equity attributable to equity holders of the parent company 1 844 35.4 1 766 35.1 Non-controlling interests 40 0.8 26 0.5 Total equity 1 884 36.2 1 791 35.6 206 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 FINANCIALS Liabilities Non-current liabilities Interest-bearing debt 16, 23 571 545 Deferred tax liabilities 19 84 95 Pension obligations 20 107 99 Provisions 22 40 38 Advances received 86 88 Other liabilities 24 4 3 892 17.1 868 17.2 Current liabilities Interest-bearing debt 16, 23 94 249 Provisions 22 204 228 Advances received 827 607 Trade payables 16, 23 375 385 Current tax liabilities 81 40 Other liabilities 24 853 868 2 434 46.8 2 377 47.2 Total liabilities 3 325 63.8 3 245 64.4 Total equity and liabilities 5 209 100.0 5 036 100.0 The notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Consolidated statement of cash flows Restated MEUR Note 2013 2012 Cash flow from operating activities: Profit for the financial period 393 344 Adjustments for: Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 7 123 139 Financial income and expenses 8 19 31 Gains and losses on sale of fixed assets and other changes -29 -16 Share of result of associates and joint ventures 13 -22 -9 Income taxes 9 113 109 Cash flow before changes in working capital 598 598 Changes in working capital: Assets, non-interest-bearing, increase (-) / decrease (+) -64 -234 Inventories, increase (-) / decrease (+) 15 -88 -6 Liabilities, non-interest-bearing, increase (+) / decrease (-) 211 -38 Changes in working capital 60 -278 Cash flow from operating activities before financial items and taxes 658 320 207 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 FINANCIALS Financial items and taxes: Interest and other financial income 23 14 Interest and other financial expenses -7 -71 Income taxes paid -97 -110 Financial items and paid taxes -81 -167 Cash flow from operating activities 578 153 Cash flow from investing activities: Acquisitions 2 -392 Investments in associates and joint ventures 13 -1 -7 Investments in available-for-sale financial assets 14 -4 -3 Investments in property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 11, 12 -129 -111 Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 7 12 Proceeds from sale of shares in associates and joint ventures 13 23 Proceeds from sale of available-for-sale financial assets 14 34 3 Loan receivables, increase (-) / decrease (+), and other changes 13 2 Dividends received 1 2 Cash flow from investing activities -79 -471 Cash flow after investing activities 499 -318 Cash flow from financing activities: Contribution by non-controlling interests 16 Proceeds from non-current borrowings 23 153 158 Repayments and other changes in non-current loans 23 -157 -92 Loan receivables, increase (-) / decrease (+) 4 Current loans, increase (+) / decrease (-) -135 69 Dividends paid -202 -186 Cash flow from financing activities -324 -47 Change in cash and cash equivalents, increase (+) / decrease (-) 176 -365 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the financial year 225 592 Exchange rate changes -13 -2 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the financial year 388 225 The notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 208 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 FINANCIALS Consolidated statement of changes in equity Noncontrolling Total Total equity attributable to equity holders of the parent company interests equity Fair Actuarial Share Share Translation value gains and Retained MEUR capital premium difference reserve losses earnings Total Equity at 31 December 2011 336 61 2 5 1 233 1 636 30 1 666 Change in accounting policy (IAS19) -33 -33 -33 Equity at 1 January 2012, restated 336 61 2 5 -33 1 233 1 604 30 1 633 Translation differences -14 -14 -14 Available-for-sale financial assets net change in fair value, net of taxes 3 3 3 transferred to the statement of income, net of taxes -1 -1 -1 Cash flow hedges net change in fair value, net of taxes 7 7 7 transferred to the statement of income, net of taxes 7 7 7 Defined benefit plans -1 -1 -1 Other comprehensive income -14 16 -1 1 1 Profit for the financial period 339 339 5 344 Total comprehensive income for the financial period -14 16 -1 338 340 5 344 Total transactions with the owners of the company dividends paid -178 -178 -9 -186 Equity at 31 December 2012 336 61 -12 21 -34 1 393 1 766 26 1 791 209 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 FINANCIALS Noncontrolling Total Total equity attributable to equity holders of the parent company interests equity Fair Actuarial Share Share Translation value gains and Retained MEUR capital premium difference reserve losses earnings Total Equity at 1 January 2013 336 61 -12 21 -34 1 393 1 766 26 1 791 Translation differences -73 -73 -1 -74 Available-for-sale financial assets net change in fair value, net of taxes 1 1 1 transferred to the statement of income, net of taxes -19 -19 -19 Cash flow hedges net change in fair value, net of taxes -14 -14 -14 transferred to the statement of income, net of taxes -2 -2 -2 Defined benefit plans -9 -9 -9 Other comprehensive income -73 -34 -9 -116 -1 -117 Profit for the financial period 391 391 3 393 Total comprehensive income for the financial period -73 -34 -9 391 275 2 276 Total transactions with the owners of the company dividends paid -197 -197 -4 -201 contribution by non-controlling interests 16 16 Equity at 31 December 2013 336 61 -85 -13 -43 1 587 1 844 40 1 884 Additional information on share capital, translation difference and fair value reserve is presented in Note 21. Equity. 210 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 FINANCIALS Accounting principles for the consolidated financial statements Basic information Wärtsilä Corporation is a Finnish listed company organised under the laws of Finland and domiciled in Helsinki. The address of its registered office is John Stenbergin ranta 2, 00530 Helsinki. Wärtsilä Corporation is the parent company in Wärtsilä Group. Wärtsilä is a global leader in complete lifecycle power solutions for the marine and energy markets. By emphasising technological innovation and total efficiency, Wärtsilä maximises the environmental and economic performance of the vessels and power plants of its customers. In 2013, Wärtsilä’s net sales totalled EUR 4.7 billion with approximately 18,700 employees. The company has operations in over 200 locations in nearly 70 countries around the world. Wärtsilä is listed on the NASDAQ OMX Helsinki, Finland. These consolidated financial statements were authorised for release by the Board of Directors of Wärtsilä Corporation on 28 January 2014, after which, in accordance with the Finnish Corporate Act, the shareholders have a right to approve or reject the financial statements in the Annual General Meeting. The Annual General Meeting also has a possibility to decide upon changes in the financial statements. Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) by applying IAS and IFRS standards and their SIC and IFRIC interpretations, which were in force as at 31 December 2013. International Financial Reporting Standards refer to the standards, and their interpretations, approved for application in the EU in accordance with the procedures stipulated in the EU’s regulation (EC) No. 1606/2002 and embodied in Finnish accounting legislation and the statutes enacted under it. The notes to the consolidated financial statements also comply with the Finnish accounting and corporate legislation. Reporting is based on the historical cost convention. Exceptions are the available-for-sale financial assets, the financial assets and liabilities at fair value through the statement of income, hedged items under fair value hedging and the cash-settled share-based payment transactions which are measured at fair value. The figures are in millions of euros. IFRS amendments Of the amended International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and interpretations mandatory as of 1 January 2013 the following are applicable on the Group reporting: • Amendment to IAS 19 Employee benefits: The amendment eliminates the possibility to use the corridor approach in recognising the actuarial gains and losses from defined benefit plans. In the corridor approach the actuarial gains and losses were recognised only when they exceeded by more than 10% the greater of the present value of the defined benefit obligation and the fair value ofthe plan assets. The excess was recognised in the statement of income over the expected average remaining working lives of employees participating in the plan. 211 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 FINANCIALS The revised IAS 19 standard requires the actuarial gains and losses to be recognised immediately in the statement of other comprehensive income. This change in accounting principles leads to faster recognition of actuarial gains and losses than the corridor approach. As a result of the change the Group now determines the net interest expense on the net defined benefit plan by applying the discount rate used to measure the defined benefit obligation. Previously the Group applied a long-term rate of expected return on the plan assets. The Group reports the service cost in employee benefit expenses and the net interest in financial expenses. The amendments to IAS 19 have been applied retrospectively. The impact on comparison figures presented in the condensed statement of financial position, condensed statement of income andstatement of other comprehensive income in this annual report are the following. The impact on the equity in the opening balance 2012 was EUR -33 million. Pension obligations increased by EUR 43 million and working capital reduced by EUR 43 million. The impact on profit for the reporting period 2012 was EUR 0 million. A table showing the impact is presented below. Balance according to Effect of the the new change in Reported accounting accounting 31 December 2012 balance policy policy Assets Deferred tax assets 104 112 8 Other non-current assets 34 24 -9 Equity 1 824 1 791 -33 Liabilities Pension obligations 65 99 34 Deferred tax liabilities 98 95 -3 Consolidated statement of income 2012 Employee benefit expenses -1 096 -1 094 2 Operating result 481 483 2 Financial income and expenses -45 -46 -1 Profit for the financial period 344 344 • IFRS 13 Fair value Measurement: The standard defines fair value. It sets out in a single standard a framework for measuring fair value and requirements for disclosures about fair value measurements. The standard does not introduce any new requirements to measure at fair value. It provides guidance for fair value measurement required or permitted by other standards. The adaption of the revised standards and interpretations have an effect on the information reported. Management judgement and use of estimates The preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the valuation of the reported assets and liabilities and other information, such as contingent assets and liabilities and the recognition of income and expenses in the statement of income. Although these estimates and assumptions are based on management’s best knowledge of current events and actions, actual results may differ from the estimates. The most important items in the consolidated statements, which require management’s judgements and which may include uncertainty, comprise the following: 212 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 FINANCIALS Sales revenue is typically recognised when the product or service has been delivered, its value has been determined and it is probable that the trade receivable will be collected. These estimates affect the amount of sales revenue recognised. Revenue from long-term projects and long-term operations and maintenance agreements is recognised according to their percentage of completion when the profit on the project or agreement can be reliably determined. The percentage of completion and the profit are based on management’s estimates as to the realisation of the project or agreement. These estimates are reviewed regularly. Recognised sales revenue and costs recorded are adjusted during the project when assumptions concerning the outcome of the entire project are updated. Changes in assumptions relate to changes in the project’s or agreement’s schedule, scope of supply, technology, costs and any other relevant factors. Warranty provisions are recorded on the recognition of sales revenue. The provision is based on the accumulated experience of the level of warranty needed to manage future and current cost claims. Products can contain new and complex technology that can affect warranty estimates with the result that earlier recognised provisions are not always sufficient. The Group is a defendant in several legal cases arising from its business operations. A provision for a court case is recorded when an unfavourable result is probable and the loss can be determined with reasonable certainty. The final result can differ from these estimates. The recoverable amounts of goodwill are determined for all cash-generating units annually, or more often if there is an indication of an impairment, where its value in use is determined. The value in use is determined using estimates of future market development, such as growth and profitability as well as other significant factors. The most important factors underlying such estimates are the net sales growth in the market area, the operating margin, the useful life of the assets, future investment needs and the discount rate. Changes in these assumptions can significantly affect the expected future cash flows. Estimates of pension obligations regarding defined benefit plans are based on actuarial estimates of factors including future salary increases, discount rates and return on plan assets. Changes in these assumptions can significantly affect the Group’s pension obligations and pension costs. Principles of consolidation Subsidiaries The consolidated financial statements include the parent company Wärtsilä Corporation and all subsidiaries in which the parent company directly or indirectly holds more than 50% of the voting rights or in which Wärtsilä is otherwise in control on the reporting date. Being in control means the power to govern the financial and operating policies of the company to obtain benefits from its activities. Acquired and established companies are accounted for using the purchase method of accounting. Accordingly, the purchase price and the acquired company’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities are measured at fair value on the date of acquisition. In the acquisition of non-controlling interests, if the Group already has control, the non-controlling interest is measured either at fair value or at the noncontrolling interests’ proportionate share of the identifiable net assets. The difference between the purchase price, possible equity belonging to the non-controlling interests and the acquired company’s net identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities measured at fair value is goodwill. Goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually. The purchase price includes the consideration paid, measured at fair value. The consideration does not include transaction costs, which are recognised in the statement of income. The transaction costs are expensed in the same reporting period in which they occur, except the costs resulting from issued debt or equity instruments. Any contingent consideration (additional purchase price) related to the combination of businesses is measured at fair value on the date of acquisition. It is classified either as a liability or equity. Contingent consideration classified as a liability is measured at fair value on the last day of each reporting period, and the 213 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 FINANCIALS resulting loss or gain is recognised through profit or loss. Contingent consideration classified as equity is not remeasured. For the acquisitions occurred before 1 January 2010, the accounting principles valid at the time of the acquisition have been applied. The acquired subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the day the Group has control, and disposed subsidiaries until the control ends. All intragroup transactions, dividend distributions, receivables and liabilities as well as unrealised margins are eliminated in the consolidated financial statements. In the consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income, non-controlling interests have been separated from the profit and the total comprehensive income for the financial period. In the consolidated statement of financial position, non-controlling interests are shown as a separate item under equity. Associated companies and joint ventures Companies, in which the Group usually holds voting rights of between 20% and 50% and on which the Group has a significant influence but no control over the financial and operating policies, are consolidated as associated companies. In joint ventures, the Group has joint control with another party, established by contractual agreement. Associated companies and joint ventures are included in the consolidated financial statements using the equity method from the date the Group’s significant influence or joint control commences until the date it ceases. The Group’s share of the associated company’s or joint venture’s profit for the financial period are shown as a separate item before the Group’s operating result, on the line Share of result of associates and joint ventures. The Group’s share of the associated company’s or joint venture’s changes recorded in other comprehensive income is recorded in the Group’s other comprehensive income. Wärtsilä’s proportion of the associated company’s or joint venture’s post-acquisition accumulated equity is included in the Group’s equity. If the Group’s share of the associated company's or joint venture's losses exceeds its interest in the company, the carrying amount is written down to zero. After this, losses are only recognised if the Group has incurred obligations from the associated company or joint venture. Translating the transactions in foreign currencies The items included in the financial statements are initially recognised in the functional currency, which is defined for each group company based on its primary economic environment. The presentation currency of the consolidated financial statements is the euro, which is also the functional and presentation currency of Wärtsilä Corporation. Foreign subsidiaries The income and expenses for statements of income and statements of comprehensive income of foreign subsidiaries are translated into euros at the quarterly average exchange rates. Statements of financial position are translated into euros at the exchange rates prevailing at the end of the reporting period. The translation of the profit for the financial period and other comprehensive income using different exchange rates in the statement of comprehensive income and the statement of financial position causes translation differences, which are recognised in equity and in other comprehensive income as change. Translation differences of foreign subsidiaries’ acquisition cost eliminations and post-acquisition profits and losses are recognised in other comprehensive income and are presented as a separate item in equity. The goodwill generated in the acquisition of foreign entities and their fair value adjustments of assets and liabilities are considered as assets and liabilities of foreign entities, which are translated into euros using the exchange rates prevailing at the end of the reporting period. 214 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 FINANCIALS Transactions in foreign currencies Transactions denominated in a foreign currency are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rate prevailing at the dates of the transactions. Receivables and liabilities are translated at the exchange rate prevailing at the end of the reporting period. Exchange rate gains and losses related to trade receivables and liabilities are reported on the applicable line in the statement of income and are included in operating result. Exchange rate differences related to financial assets and financial liabilities are reported as financial items in the statement of income. Net sales and revenue recognition Sales are presented net of indirect sales taxes and discounts. Sales are recognised when the significant risks and rewards connected with ownership have been transferred to the buyer. This typically means that revenue recognition occurs when a product or service is delivered to the customer in accordance with the terms of delivery. Revenue from long-term construction contracts and long-term operating and maintenance agreements is recognised in accordance with the percentage of completion method when the outcome of the contract can be estimated reliably. The percentage of completion is based on the ratio of costs incurred to total estimated costs to date for long-term construction contracts, whereas for long-term operating and maintenance agreements it is calculated on the basis of the proportion of the contracted services performed. When the final outcome of a long-term project cannot be reliably determined, the costs arising from the project are expensed in the same reporting period in which they occur, but the revenue from the project is recorded only to the extent that the company will receive an amount corresponding to actual costs. Any losses due to projects are expensed immediately. Employee benefits Pension and other long-term employee benefits Pension plans Group companies in different countries have various pension plans in accordance with local conditions and practices. These pension plans are classified either as defined contribution or defined benefit plans. The fixed contributions to the defined contribution plans are expensed in the year to which they relate. The Group has no legal or constructive obligation to pay further contributions if the fund does not hold sufficient assets to pay employee benefits. All other plans are defined benefit plans. Defined benefit plans are funded through contributions to pension funds or pension insurance companies. Defined benefit plans may be unfunded or wholly or partly funded. The present value of the obligation arising from the defined benefit plans is determined per each plan using actuarial technique, the projected unit credit method. The Group recognises the defined benefit obligation net of fair value of the plan assets at the measurement date. Actuarial gains and losses and other remeasurements of the net defined benefit obligation are recognised immediately in the statement of other comprehensive income. Current service cost is the present value of the post employment benefit, which is earned by the employees during the year. The Group determines the net interest expense on the net defined benefit plan by applying the discount rate used to measure the defined benefit obligation. Service cost is recognised in employee benefit expenses and the net interest in financial expenses. The defined benefit plans are calculated by qualified actuaries. 215 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 FINANCIALS Other long-term employee benefits In addition to defined benefit plans, Wärtsilä has other long-term employee benefits. They are presented separately from the defined benefit plans. Similarly to the accounting for a defined benefit plan, for any other long-term benefit the Group recognises a liability for the obligation net of the fair value of plan assets, if any. Changes in other long-term employee benefits are recognised in profit or loss. Share-based payments The company’s bonus programme, which is fixed to share value, is measured at the fair value of the share on the reporting date and reported in the statement of income for the term-to-maturity of the bonus programme. Goodwill and other intangible assets Goodwill Goodwill is the difference between the aggregate of the acquisition-date fair value of the consideration transferred and the acquirer’s share of the company’s net identifiable assets and liabilities measured at fair value on the acquisition date. The consideration transferred is measured at fair value, including also the acquirer’s previously held equity interest. Research and development costs Research costs are expensed in the reporting period during which they occur. Development costs are capitalised when it is probable that the development project will generate future economic benefits for the Group and when the related criteria, including commercial and technological feasibility, have been met. These projects involve the development of new or significantly improved products or production processes. Earlier expensed development costs are not capitalised. Capitalised development costs are measured at cost less accumulated amortisations and impairment. Capitalised development costs are amortised and the cost of buildings, machinery and facilities for development depreciated on a straight-line basis over their expected useful lives, 5-10 years. Amortisations are started when the asset is finished and can be taken into use. Before that, the asset is tested for impairment annually. Grants received for research and development are reported as other operating income. Other intangible assets Other intangible assets are recorded at cost if the cost is reliably measurable and the future economic benefits for the Group are probable. Wärtsilä’s other intangible assets include patents, licenses, software, customer relations and other intellectual property rights that can be transferred to a third party. These are measured at cost, except for intangible assets identified in connection with acquisitions, which are measured at the fair value at the acquisition date. The cost of intangible assets comprises the purchase price and all costs that can be directly attributed to preparing an asset for its intended use. Other intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives. Intangible assets, for which the time limit for the right of use is agreed, are amortised over the life of the contract. Intangible assets identified in connection with acquisitions are amortised over their delivery times or estimated useful lives. The general guidelines for scheduled amortisation are: • Software 3–7 years 216 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 FINANCIALS • Development expenses 5–10 years • Other intangible assets 5–20 years The estimated useful lives and the residual values are reviewed at least at the end of each financial year, and if they differ significantly from previous estimates, amortisation periods are adjusted accordingly. A gain or loss arising from the sale of intangible assets is recognised in other operating income or other operating expenses in the statement of income. Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment acquired by the Group are measured in the statement of financial position at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. The cost of an asset includes costs directly attributed to preparing an asset for its intended use. Grants received are reported as a reduction in costs. The property, plant and equipment of acquired subsidiaries are measured at their fair value at the acquisition date. The borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the asset acquisition, construction or production and to completion of the asset for its intended use or sale requiring necessarily a considerable length of time will be capitalised in the statement of financial position as part of the cost of the asset. Other than directly attributable borrowing costs are expensed in the period in which they are incurred. Subsequent expenditure is included in the cost of an asset only if the future economic benefits for the Group are probable and the costs are reliably measurable. Expenditure related to regular, extensive inspections and maintenance is treated as an investment, capitalised and depreciated during the useful life. All other expenditure such as ordinary maintenance and repairs is recognised in the statement of income as an expense as incurred. Depreciation is based on the following estimated useful lives: • Buildings 10–40 years • Machinery and equipment 5–20 years • Other tangible assets 3–10 years Depreciation is charged to the statement of income on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets. Land is not depreciated, as its useful life is considered as infinite. The estimated useful lives and the residual values are reviewed at least at the end of each financial year, and if they differ significantly from previous estimates, depreciation periods are adjusted accordingly. A gain or loss arising from the sale of property, plant and equipment is recognised in other operating income or other operating expenses in the statement of income. Impairment of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment The carrying amounts of assets are reviewed regularly for signs of possible impairment. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated. The recoverable amount is estimated annually also for the goodwill whether or not there are signs of impairment. In order to define a possible impairment, the Group’s assets are divided up into the smallest possible cash-generating units which are mainly independent of other units and the cash flows of which are separately identifiable and to a large extent independent of the cash flows of other similar units. An impairment loss is recorded when the carrying amount of an asset is greater than its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less costs to sell and its value in use. The value 217 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 FINANCIALS in use is based on the expected discounted future net cash flows resulting from the asset or cash-generating unit. A pre-tax rate which reflects the markets’ position on the time value of money and asset-specific risks is used as the discount rate. An impairment loss is recognised immediately in the statement of income. In connection with the recognition of the impairment loss, the useful life of the amortisable / depreciable asset is reassessed. An earlier impairment loss recognised for an asset other than goodwill is reversed if the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount change. However, reversal of impairment shall not exceed the asset’s carrying amount less impairment loss. An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed under any circumstances. Determination of the fair value of assets acquired through business combinations In significant business combinations, the Group has used external advisors when estimating the fair values of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets. For property, plant and equipment, comparisons have been made of the market prices of similar assets, and the depreciation of the acquired assets due to aging, wear and other similar factors has been estimated. The fair value measurement of intangible assets is based on estimates of the future cash flows associated with the assets. Investment properties Properties that are not used in the Group’s operating activities or that are held to earn rental income or for capital appreciation, or both, are classified as investment properties. Investment properties are presented in the statement of financial position on a separate line in non-current assets and measured at cost less accumulated depreciations and impairment. A gain or loss arising from the sale of investment properties is recognised in other operating income or other operating expenses in the statement of income. Leases Leases related to property, plant and equipment in which all material rewards and risks of ownership have been transferred to the Group are classified as finance leases. Assets acquired under a finance lease are recognised as property, plant and equipment at the lower of the fair value of the leased asset and the estimated present value of the underlying lease payments. The corresponding rental obligation, net of finance charge, is included in interest-bearing debt with the interest element of the finance charge being recognised in the statement of income over the lease period. Assets acquired under a finance lease are depreciated over their estimated useful lives in accordance with the same principles that apply to Group’s other similar property, plant and equipment. The shorter alternative of the following is selected: either the useful life of the leased asset or the lease term. Leases in which the rewards and risks of ownership have not been transferred to the Group are classified as operating leases. Rental payments under operating leases are charged in the statement of income on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Inventories Inventories are carried at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Costs include allocated purchasing and manufacturing overhead costs in addition to direct manufacturing costs. Inventory valuation is primarily based on the weighted average cost. 218 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 FINANCIALS Financial assets and liabilities Financial assets Financial assets are classified into the following categories: financial assets at fair value through the statement of income, investments held to maturity, loans and receivables and available-for-sale financial assets. Financial assets are classified on the basis of their purpose of use upon initial recognition. At the end of the reporting period, the Group assesses whether objective indication exists of impairment of an individual financial asset other than those measured at fair value through the statement of income. There is impairment in a financial asset if objective indication exists thereof and if it has an effect on expected future cash flows from the financial asset that can be reliably evaluated. A significant decline in a counterparty’s result, a debtor’s breach of contract and, for equity instruments, a significant or persistent decline in value below its cost, for example, can be considered as objective indication of impairment. Financial assets at fair value through the statement of income The financial assets at fair value through the statement of income category includes derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting and are not financial guarantee agreements as well as other financial assets recognised at fair value through the statement of income, which are financial assets held for trading. Derivatives are initially recognised at cost in the statement of financial position and are thereafter measured at their fair value at the end of each reporting period. Realised and unrealised gains and losses from changes in fair values are recognised in the statement of income in the period in which they have arisen. Derivatives held for trading, as well as financial assets maturing within 12 months after the end of the financial period, are included in current assets. Investments held to maturity Investments held to maturity are financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that mature on a fixed date and which the Group has the positive intention and ability to hold until maturity. They are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, less any impairment losses. Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets that have fixed or determinable payments and that are not quoted on active markets. They arise when the Group provides a loan or delivers products and services directly to a debtor. Loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method. They are included in non-current receivables, unless they have a maturity of less than 12 months from the reporting date. Such items are classified as current receivables. Trade receivables are recognised at their anticipated realisable value, which is the original invoiced amount less an estimated valuation allowance for impairment. Trade receivables are measured individually. Credit losses are expensed immediately when indication exists that the Group is not able to collect its trade receivables according to initial agreements. Examples of events giving rise to impairment include a debtor’s serious financial problems, a debtor’s probable bankruptcy or other financial arrangement. The Group may sell undivided interests in trade receivables on an ongoing and one-time basis to other lending institutions. Financial assets sold under these arrangements are excluded from trade receivables in the Group’s consolidated statement of financial position at the time of payment from acquirer, considering that substantially all risks and rewards have been transferred. If acquirer has not settled the payment to the extent that the ownership, risk and control over the receivable have been substantially transferred then such financial assets sold are re-recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position at the end of the reporting period. 219 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 FINANCIALS Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivative financial assets allocated to this category. They are included in non-current assets unless the Group intends to dispose of the investment within 12 months from the reporting date. Wärtsilä’s investments in other companies are classified as available-for-sale financial assets, including investments in listed and unlisted shares. Listed shares are measured at fair value, based on their market value. Unlisted shares for which the fair value cannot be reliably measured are valued at cost less impairment. Changes in the fair value of shares measured at fair value are recognised in other comprehensive income and reported in fair value reserve in equity with the tax impact, until the shares are disposed of or written down, at which point the accumulated fair value changes are released from equity to the statement of income. Gains and losses on disposal and impairments of shares that are attributable to operating activities are included in operating income, while gains and losses on disposal and impairments of other shares are included in financial income and expenses. Cash and cash equivalents Cash comprises cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks and similar investments. Cash equivalents comprise short-term highly liquid investments that are subject to only minor fluctuations in value. Cash equivalents have a maturity of up to three months on the date of acquisition. Credit accounts related to the Group cash pool accounts are included in current financial liabilities. Financial liabilities The Group’s financial liabilities are classified either into financial liabilities recognised at amortised cost or financial liabilities recognised at fair value through the statement of income. Financial liabilities are classified as current unless the Group has the unconditional right to defer the payment of the debt to at least 12 months from the end of the reporting period. Financial liabilities (or parts thereof) are only derecognised once the debt has extinguished, i.e. once the contractually specified obligation is discharged or cancelled or expires. Financial liabilities recognised at amortised cost The loans raised by the Group are included in financial liabilities recognised at amortised cost. They are measured at their initial recognition at fair value using the effective interest rate method. After the initial recognition, loans are measured at amortised cost. Interests on loans are expensed through the statement of income over the maturity of the debt using the effective interest rate method. Financial liabilities recognised at fair value through the statement of income In the Wärtsilä Group, financial liabilities recognised at fair value through the statement of income include derivatives that are not eligible for hedge accounting. Realised and unrealised gains and losses from changes in fair values of derivatives are recognised in the statement of income in the period in which they have arisen. Derivatives and hedge accounting Derivatives are measured at fair value. Gains and losses from fair value measurement are treated as determined by the purpose of the derivatives. The effects on results of changes in the value of derivatives that are eligible for hedge accounting and that are effective hedging instruments are presented consistently with the hedged item. 220 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 FINANCIALS For derivatives eligible for hedge accounting, the Group documents the relationship between each hedging instrument and the hedged asset upon entering into a hedging arrangement, along with the risk management objective and the strategy applied. Through this process, the hedging instrument is linked to the relevant assets and liabilities, projected business transactions or binding contracts. The Group also documents its ongoing assessment of the effectiveness of the hedge regarding to the relationship between a change in the derivative’s fair value and a change in the value of the hedged cash flows or transactions. Hedging of sales and purchases Wärtsilä hedges its sales and purchases in foreign currencies with foreign exchange derivatives or currency options. Certain foreign exchange derivatives are eligible for hedge accounting. Changes in the fair value of derivative contracts designated to hedge future cash flows are recognised in other comprehensive income and presented in the fair value reserve in equity, provided that the hedging is effective. The ineffective portion is immediately recognised in the statement of income in the reporting period. Changes in fair value due to interest rate differences are recognised in the statement of income. Any gain or loss in the fair value reserve accumulated through other comprehensive income is reported as an adjustment to net sales or material and services in the same period as any transactions relating to the hedged obligations or estimates. Currency forwards are measured at forward rates at the end of the reporting period and currency options at their market value at the end of the reporting period. Hedges of net investments in foreign operations (equity hedging) Equity in foreign subsidiaries situated outside the euro zone and goodwill amounts in foreign currency may be hedged against exchange rate fluctuations, mainly through foreign exchange derivatives using the equity hedging method to reduce the effect of exchange rates on the Group’s equity. Wärtsilä decided to discontinue hedging the net assets in its foreign subsidiaries and joint ventures in June 2012. Until that, the changes in the fair values of instruments determined as equity hedging were recognised in other comprehensive income, provided that the hedging was effective, and the ineffective portion of the change in the fair value of the hedge and the interest rate difference were immediately recognised in the statement of income in the financial items. Currency forwards were valued at existing forward rates at the end of the reporting period and currency options at their market value at the end of the reporting period. Derivatives not included in hedge accounting For derivatives not included in hedge accounting, changes in fair value are immediately recognised in financial income or expenses in the statement of income. For example, interest rate swap hedges belong to this group. The fair value of interest rate swaps is calculated by discounting the future cash flows. Fair value hierarchy Financial instruments measured at fair value are classified according to the following fair value hierarchy: instruments measured using quoted prices in active markets (level 1), instruments measured using inputs other than quoted prices included in level 1 observable either directly or indirectly (level 2) and instruments measured using inputs that are not based on observable market data (level 3). Financial instruments measured at fair value include financial assets and liabilities at fair value through the statement of income and available-for-sale financial assets. Provisions and contingent liabilities Provisions are recognised in the statement of financial position when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. Provisions can arise, for example, from warranties, environmental risks, litigation, foreseeable losses on projects and restructuring costs. The amount to be recognised as provisions corresponds to the 221 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 FINANCIALS management’s best estimate of the expenses that will be necessary to meet the existing obligation at the end of the reporting period. Estimated future warranty costs relating to products supplied are recorded as provisions. The amount of future warranty costs is based on accumulated experience. Provisions for restructuring costs are made once the restructuring plan has been approved and the implementation started or the personnel concerned have been informed of the terms. The plan must indicate which activities and personnel will be affected and the timing and cost of implementation. Contingent liabilities are possible obligations resulting from previous events, the existence of which will only be ascertained once the uncertain event that is beyond the Group’s control materialises. Existing obligations that are not likely to require the fulfilment of a payment obligation or the amount of which cannot be reliably determined are also considered contingent liabilities. Contingent liabilities are presented in the notes. Income taxes The statement of income includes taxes on the Group’s consolidated taxable income for the reporting period in accordance with local tax regulations, tax adjustments for previous reporting periods and changes in deferred taxes. Tax effects related to transactions recognised through the statement of income and other events are recognised in the statement of income. Tax effects related to transactions or other events to be presented as components of other comprehensive income or directly in equity are also recognised, respectively, in other comprehensive income or directly in equity. Deferred tax liabilities and assets are calculated on temporary differences arising from the difference between the tax basis of assets and liabilities and the carrying values using the enacted tax rates at the end of the reporting period. The statement of financial position includes deferred tax liabilities in their entirety and deferred tax assets at their estimated probable amount. Dividends The dividend proposed by the Board of Directors is deducted from distributable equity when approved by the company’s Annual General Meeting. Adoption of new and updated IFRS standards In 2014, the Group will adopt the following new and amended standards and interpretations issued by the IASB. • IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements, IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements and IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities as well as the related amendments to IAS 27 and IAS 28 (effective for periods beginning or after 1 January 2014): The standards will have no significant impact on the Group's consolidated financial statements. IFRS 12 will expand the information, which Wärtsilä discloses about interests in other entities. • Amendments to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014): The amendments provide clarifications on the application of requirements for offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities on the statement of financial position. The amended standard is to be applied retrospectively. The amendments are not expected to have a significant impact on the Group’s consolidated financial statements. 222 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 FINANCIALS The standards have been approved for application in the EU. 1. Segment information In 2013, the business of Wärtsilä consists of one business area, the Power Business. The Power Business is subdivided into two mutually supportive market areas, Ship Power and Power Plants. These offer customers the same product concept modified for specific applications. The main products for both these markets are gas and diesel engines and related services. The market segments are highly dependent on each other. In the Power Business, the design-related research and development and manufacturing required for the engines sold to both markets take place in the same R&D centres and factories. The manufacturing process is the same for each market. Similarly, the same Group companies are responsible for the distribution of these products and the services related to them. Capacity costs cannot be reliably allocated to the two different markets. These costs are significant and vary between the two units in different years. Customers in both markets are capital-intensive corporations with global operations. The development of the two market areas is strongly linked to global economic trends. As geographical information, Wärtsilä reports the geographical areas Finland, other European countries, Asia, the Americas and other continents. In the geographical information net sales is split by the customer’s destination and non-current assets by origin. Geographical information 2013 Other European The MEUR Finland countries Asia Americas Other Total Net sales 44 1 285 1 759 1 068 498 4 654 Non-current assets* 306 1 292 125 57 7 1 787 2012 Other European The MEUR Finland countries Asia Americas Other Total Net sales 54 1 148 2 009 994 520 4 725 Non-current assets* 267 1 362 134 50 7 1 819 * Non-current assets consist of goodwill, intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, investment properties and investments in associates and joint ventures. Business area information Internal management reporting is used to monitor the development of operations on the basis of market-based business areas. Reporting serves internal goal setting and budget control and is thus a management tool rather than an actual external economic indicator. Wärtsilä’s highest operative decision maker (CODM, Chief Operating Decision Maker according to IFRS 8) is the President and CEO with the support of the Board of Management and, in some cases, the Board of Directors. The President and CEO assesses the Group’s financial position and its development as a whole, not based on the results of the business areas. As the Group’s level of integration is high, the reported indicators from business areas do not give a true picture of the business areas’ financial position and development. It is also considered that they are of limited value to an external reader due to poor comparability, for example. Against this background, Wärtsilä’s business cannot be divided into separate operating segments with individual reporting. During the financial year 1 January–31 December 2013 and 1 January–31 December 2012, Wärtsilä did not have any individual significant customers or countries according to the definition of IFRS 8. Net sales MEUR 2013 2012 Power Plants 1 459 1 498 Ship Power 1 325 1 301 Services 1 842 1 908 Other 28 17 Total 4 654 4 725 223 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 FINANCIALS 2. Acquisitions Acquisitions 2013 In 2013, there were no acquisitions. Acquisitions 2012 Overall impact on performance Recognised in the On full-year pro forma MEUR statement of income 2012 performance Net sales 331 4 750 Operating result 38 482 Hamworthy plc On 31 January 2012 Wärtsilä acquired all the shares of and obtained control of Hamworthy plc, listed on the London Stock Exchange-AIM, through a recommended cash offer. The total consideration of the transaction was EUR 456 million, 825 pence in cash for each Hamworthy share. Hamworthy is a global provider of specialist equipment and services to the marine, oil & gas and industrial sectors. The acquisition of Hamworthy will enable Wärtsilä to strengthen its position as a total solutions provider, and to be the most valued partner for its customers with a complete range of products, integrated solutions, and services to the marine and offshore industries. The combination of Wärtsilä’s and Hamworthy’s strengths will speed up and ease the means for customers to reduce operating costs and achieve compliance with environmental legislation. The following tables summarise the consideration paid for Hamworthy, the cash flow from the acquisition and the amounts of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed recognised at the acquisition date. Total consideration MEUR Cash 456 Total consideration transferred 456 Cash flow from the acquisition MEUR Consideration paid in cash 456 Cash and cash equivalents of the acquired companies -67 Total cash flow from the acquisition 389 The assets and liabilities arising from the acquisition at fair value MEUR Intangible assets 118 Property, plant and equipment 19 Inventories 91 Trade and other receivables 81 Cash and cash equivalents 67 Total assets 376 Provisions 33 Trade payables and other liabilities 156 Deferred tax liabilities 35 Total liabilities 224 Total net assets 152 Goodwill 304 The fair values of acquired identifiable intangible assets at the date of acquisition (including technology, customer relationships and trademarks) amounted to EUR 116 million. 224 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 FINANCIALS The fair value of current trade receivables and other receivables is approximately EUR 81 million and includes trade receivables with a fair value of approximately EUR 49 million. The fair value of trade receivables does not include any significant risk. The goodwill of EUR 304 million reflects the value of know-how and expertise in marine, oil & gas and industrial sectors. The combined resource and competence base creates an exciting platform for long term growth in the offshore, marine gas and environmental solutions markets to the benefit of shareholders, customers and employees alike. The goodwill recognised for Hamworthy is not tax deductible. The Group incurred during 2012 acquisition-related costs of EUR 3 million related to external legal fees and due diligence costs. The costs have been included in the other operating expenses in the consolidated statement of income. The total acquisition-related costs are EUR 3 million. In the eleven months to 31 December 2012 Hamworthy contributed net sales of EUR 331 million and operating result of EUR 38 million to the Group’s results. If the acquisition had occurred on 1 January 2012, management estimates that consolidated net sales would have been EUR 4,750 million, and consolidated operating result for the period would have been EUR 482 million. In determining these amounts, management has assumed that the fair value adjustments, that arose on the date of acquisition would have been the same if the acquisition had occurred on 1 January 2012. Other acquisitions On 1 April 2012 Wärtsilä acquired the business of MMI Boiler Management Pte Ltd., a Singapore based company specialising in the service and maintenance of boilers for marine and industrial applications. The purchase price is approximately EUR 3 million resulting in a goodwill of approximately EUR 1 million. 3. Long-term construction contracts and operating and maintenance agreements Net sales recognised for the financial year MEUR 2013 2012 From long-term constructions contracts 845 782 From long-term operating and maintenance agreements 303 271 Long-term construction contracts in progress MEUR 2013 2012 Aggregated amount of costs incurred and recognised profits 1 891 1 776 Advances received at 31 December 1 576 1 581 Receivables from the revenue recognition netted with the advances received at 31 December 315 196 4. Other operating income MEUR 2013 2012 Gains on sale of shares 8 Gains on sale of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 4 4 Government grants 8 7 Sale of by-products 1 1 Sale of scrapped material 4 4 Income related to cancelled orders* 47 26 Other 21 17 Total 85 68 * Expenses related to cancelled orders are recorded on respective expense accounts. 225 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 FINANCIALS 5. Material and services MEUR 2013 2012 Purchases during the financial year -1 454 -1 447 Change in inventories -112 57 External services -1 130 -1 138 Total -2 696 -2 527 6. Employee benefit expenses Restated MEUR 2013 2012 Wages and salaries 903 887 Pension costs Defined benefit plans 9 21 Defined contribution plans 65 60 Other compulsory personnel costs 127 126 Total 1 104 1 094 Management remuneration is specified in Note 27. Related party disclosures. Long-term incentive plan Wages and salaries include bonus salaries paid, based on the bonus scheme 2010 and a provision for expenses arising from bonus schemes 2011 and 2012, totalling EUR 13 million (6). These bonus schemes are tied to the price development of the company’s share. The 2010 bonus scheme comprised 1,606,000 bonus rights, the 2011 bonus scheme comprises 1,765,250 bonus rights and the 2012 bonus scheme 1,979,000 bonus rights. The bonus payment for the bonus scheme 2010 was based on the share price development during a two-year period on the basis of a share price of EUR 30.01 with the maximum bonus amount per bonus right being EUR 7.50. In the 2011 bonus scheme and 2012 bonus scheme, the bonus payment is based on the share price development during a three-year period. For the bonus scheme 2011 the basis of a share price is EUR 23.34 and for the bonus scheme 2012 EUR 33.28. Both bonus schemes 2011 and 2012 are taking into account a 50% dividend payout. The paid bonuses in bonus scheme 2011 and bonus scheme 2012 cannot exceed EUR 10.00 per bonus right. 2013 2012 Personnel on average 18 749 18 930 Personnel at the end of the year 18 663 18 887 7. Depreciation, amortisation and impairment MEUR 2013 2012 Intangible rights 5 5 Other intangible assets 53 56 Buildings and structures 12 14 Machinery and equipment 50 56 Other tangible assets 3 4 Impairments 4 Total 123 139 226 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 FINANCIALS 8. Financial income and expenses Restated MEUR 2013 2012 Dividend income on available-for-sale financial assets 1 2 Interest income on loans and receivables 3 Interest income on financial assets at fair value through the statement of income 9 3 Interest income on investments held to maturity 4 Changes in fair values of financial assets/liabilities at fair value through the statement of income 6 Exchange rate differences* 2 Other financial income 5 Total financial income 20 16 Interest expenses on financial liabilities recognised at amortised cost -17 -22 Interest expenses on financial liabilities at fair value through the statement of income -5 -7 Net interest from defined benefit plans -3 -1 Changes in fair values of financial assets/liabilities at fair value through the statement of income -2 Write-down of loan receivables -2 Exchange rate differences* -9 Other financial expenses -13 -5 Total financial expenses -39 -47 Total financial income and expenses -19 -31 * In 2013, the result from the ineffective portion of cash flow hedges, EUR 1 million, was included in other financial income in the consolidated statement of income. In 2012, the result from the ineffective portion of cash flow hedges was not significant. 9. Income taxes Restated MEUR 2013 2012 Income taxes for the financial year -130 -101 for prior financial years 2 1 Change in deferred tax origination and reversal of temporary differences 9 -6 change in Finnish tax rate 2 change in tax rates in other countries 4 -2 Total -113 -109 Profit before taxes 507 453 227 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 FINANCIALS Tax calculated at the domestic corporate tax rate 24.5% -124 -111 Effect of changed tax rates 6 -2 Effect of different tax rates in foreign subsidiaries 6 2 Effect of income not subject to tax and non-deductible expenses -7 5 Utlilisation of previously unrecognised tax losses carried forward 14 7 Unrecognised taxes on losses carried forward -10 -5 Other taxes* -10 -15 Other temporary differences 10 9 Income taxes for prior financial years 2 1 Tax charge in the consolidated statement of income -113 -109 Effective tax rate (%) 22.3 24.1 * Other taxes consist mainly of witholding taxes not utilised and taxes not related to income. Income taxes related to other comprehensive income are presented in Consolidated statement of comprehensive income. Changes in deferred tax assets and liabilities are presented in Note 19. Deferred taxes. Wärtsilä is subject to tax audits in some countries, which can result in tax reassessment decisions and obligations to pay additional taxes and related payments. In the opinion of the management, the taxes have been reported properly. 10. Earnings per share Earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit for the financial period attributable to shareholders by the weighted average number of the shares outstanding. During the financial years there were no programmes with dilutive effect. Restated MEUR 2013 2012 Profit for the financial period attributable to equity holders of the parent company 391 339 Thousands of shares Weighted average number of shares outstanding* 197 241 197 241 Earnings per share (basic and diluted), EUR 1.98 1.72 * Additional information on the number of shares is presented in Note 21. Equity. 11. Intangible assets Impairment testing of goodwill Goodwill from acquisitions is allocated to the Group’s cash-generating units (CGUs). CGUs are the lowest level of assets for which there are separately identifiable cash flows. Currently Wärtsilä identifies 2 (2012: 2) separate independent cash inflow CGUs to which goodwill can directly be linked as per the below table. Cash-Generating Units Goodwill MEUR 2013 2012 Hamworthy 304 311 Power Business, other 609 631 Total 914 942 228 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 FINANCIALS The recoverable amounts from the CGUs are determined based on value-in-use calculations. The calculations are on a discounted cash flow method basis, derived from the order book and 5-year cash flow projections from management approved strategic plans. The estimated performances of the CGUs are based on utilisation of the existing property, plant and equipment in their current condition with normal maintenance capital expenditure, excluding any potential future acquisitions. Cash flows beyond the 5-year period are calculated using the terminal value method. The terminal growth rate used in projections is based on management’s assessment on conservative long term growth. The terminal growth rate used is 2%. The key driver for the valuation is the growth in the global economy and in particular the development of the global power market, the global shipbuilding industry and the demand for related services. The projected development of total costs in the market affects the profitability, whereas no single cost item is considered to have a material impact. The valuation driver for the new equipment sales is the growth in the global economy, whereas for after sales the drivers are also the demand for related services and the projected development in labour cost. The applied discount rate is the weighted average pre-tax cost of capital (WACC) as defined by Wärtsilä. The components of the WACC are risk-free rate, market risk premium, industry specific beta, cost of debt and debt equity ratio. When defining the WACC for 2013, it has been considered that the general interest rate is currently on a lower level. Wärtsilä has used a WACC of 8.4% (2012: 8.8%) in the calculations. As a result of the impairment test, no impairment loss for any of the CGUs was recognized for the financial years ended 31 December 2013 and 2012 respectively. The recoverable amounts from all CGUs exceeded their carrying values remarkably. Sensitivity analysis Sensitivity analyses have been carried out for the valuation of the recoverable amounts for each CGU by changing the assumption used in the calculation. A change in an assumption that would cause the recoverable amount to equal the carrying amount is presented in the table below. Change Pre-tax discount rate: Hamworthy increase more than 15% Power Business, other increase more than 25% Terminal growth rate: Hamworthy decrease more than 15% Power Business, other decrease more than 50% Profitability: Hamworthy decrease more than 60% Power Business, other decrease more than 80% The Group estimates that no theoretically possible change in the assumptions can cause the carrying amount to exceed the recoverable amount in any of the CGU's. As a result of the performed impairment tests, there is no need for write-downs of the goodwill in a particular CGU. In management’s opinion, the changes in the basic assumptions shall not be seen as an indication that these factors are likely to materialise. The sensitivity analyses are hypothetical and should therefore be treated with caution. 2013 Construction in progress and Other Intangible advances intangible MEUR rights paid assets Goodwill Total Cost at 1 January 2013 92 33 601 947 1 673 Changes in exchange rates -2 -14 -29 -45 Additions 35 18 53 Disposals and reclassifications 4 6 6 16 Cost at 31 December 2013 96 72 610 918 1 696 Accumulated amortisation and impairment at 1 January 2013 -56 -352 -4 -414 Changes in exchange rates 8 9 Accumulated amortisation on disposals and other changes 1 1 Amortisation during the financial year -5 -53 -58 Accumulated amortisation and impairment at 31 December 2013 -61 -396 -4 -462 Carrying amount at 31 December 2013 35 72 215 914 1 235 229 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 FINANCIALS Development costs for internally generated assets amounting to EUR 33 million (24) were capitalised during the financial year, and the carrying amount was EUR 99 million (66). Amortisations related to the purchase price allocations from acquisitions were EUR 33 million (35) and the carrying amount of them was EUR 156 million (190). 2012 Construction in progress and Other Intangible advances intangible MEUR rights paid assets Goodwill Total Cost at 1 January 2012 80 25 452 621 1 177 Changes in exchange rates 7 18 26 Acquisitions 1 118 307 426 Additions 22 18 1 41 Disposals and reclassifications 11 -14 7 3 Cost at 31 December 2012 92 33 601 947 1 673 Accumulated amortisation and impairment at 1 January 2012 -51 -298 -4 -352 Changes in exchange rates -2 -3 Accumulated amortisation on disposals and other changes 2 2 Amortisation during the financial year -5 -56 -61 Accumulated amortisation and impairment at 31 December 2012 -56 -352 -4 -414 Carrying amount at 31 December 2012 35 33 249 942 1 259 12. Property, plant & equipment 2013 Construction in progress Land Buildings Machinery and Other and and and advances tangible Investment MEUR water structures equipment paid assets properties Total Cost at 1 January 2013 29 319 782 46 62 14 1 250 Changes in exchange rates -1 -9 -20 -2 -1 -33 Additions 8 3 29 33 2 76 Disposals -1 -13 -9 -1 -22 Reclassification -3 8 17 -41 1 -16 Cost at 31 December 2013 32 307 800 38 62 15 1 254 Accumulated depreciation and impairment at 1 January 2013 -149 -586 -46 -780 Changes in exchange rates 4 16 1 21 Accumulated depreciation on disposals 11 8 19 Depreciation during the financial year -12 -50 -3 -66 Accumulated depreciation and impairment at 31 December 2013 -147 -612 -48 -806 Carrying amount at 31 December 2013 32 160 188 38 15 15 449 230 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 FINANCIALS Value of finance-leased assets included in carrying amount 1 1 Investment properties include land areas not used by the Group. Their estimated fair value is around EUR 28 million (29). During the year, investment properties were sold totalling EUR 3 million (4) generating a gain of EUR 2 million (2). 2012 Construction in progress Land Buildings Machinery and Other and and and advances tangible Investment MEUR water structures equipment paid assets properties Total Cost at 1 January 2012 30 294 745 38 70 9 1 186 Changes in exchange rates 2 2 3 Acquisitions 13 6 19 Additions 4 26 34 1 6 70 Disposals -1 -19 -1 -1 -22 Reclassification 7 24 -26 -8 -3 Cost at 31 December 2012 29 319 782 46 62 14 1 250 Accumulated depreciation and impairment at 1 January 2012 -134 -530 -51 -714 Changes in exchange rates -1 -2 -2 Accumulated depreciation on disposals 14 1 15 Depreciation during the financial year -14 -56 -4 -74 Reclassification -9 7 -1 Impairments -1 -3 -4 Accumulated depreciation and impairment at 31 December 2012 -149 -586 -46 -780 Carrying amount at 31 December 2012 29 171 196 45 17 14 470 Value of finance-leased assets included in carrying amount 1 1 13. Investments in associates and joint ventures MEUR 2013 2012 Carrying amount at 1 January 90 87 Investments 1 7 Share of result 22 9 Dividends -7 Translation differences -3 2 Disposal of shares -15 Carrying amount at 31 December 103 90 In 2013, no shares in associates or joint ventures were sold. In 2012, EUR 8 million gain was recognised in the consolidated statement of income related to the sale of the associated company MW Power Oy's shares. 231 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 FINANCIALS Summary of financial information (100%): 2013 Profit for the Net financial MEUR Holding % Assets Equity Liabilities sales period Joint ventures Wärtsilä Qiyao Diesel Company Ltd. China 50.0 36 25 11 31 2 Wärtsilä Hyundai Engine Co Ltd. South Korea 50.0 332 125 207 272 53 Wärtsilä TMH Diesel Engine Company LLC Russia 50.0 28 21 7 2 -1 Repropel Sociedad de reparacao de helices Portugal 50.0 1 1 1 Associated companies Wärtsilä Land & Sea Academy, Inc. Philippines 40.0 -2 2 Cosco-Shipyard Total Automation Co Ltd. China 40.0 5 3 2 7 Neptun Maritime AS Norway 40.0 1 1 1 Qingdao Qiyao Wärtsilä MHI Linshan Marine Diesel Co Ltd. China 33.8 199 42 157 36 -17 2012 Profit for the Net financial MEUR Holding % Assets Equity Liabilities sales period Joint ventures Wärtsilä Qiyao Diesel Company Ltd. China 50.0 38 26 11 43 4 Wärtsilä Hyundai Engine Co Ltd. South Korea 50.0 280 83 197 176 18 Wärtsilä TMH Diesel Engine Company LLC Russia 50.0 23 22 1 Repropel Sociedad de reparacao de helices Portugal 50.0 1 1 1 1 Associated companies Wärtsilä Land & Sea Academy, Inc. Philippines 40.0 -2 2 1 Cosco-Shipyard Total Automation Co Ltd. China 40.0 5 2 2 5 Neptun Maritime AS Norway 40.0 2 1 2 Qingdao Qiyao Wärtsilä MHI Linshan Marine Diesel Co Ltd. China 33.8 223 61 162 86 -8 WD Power Investment Ky Finland 21.7 2 2 14. Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets includes listed and unlisted shares. The listed shares are measured at fair value, and the valuation is included in fair value reserve. For the unlisted shares the fair value cannot be measured reliably, in which case the investment is carried at cost. MEUR 2013 2012 Carrying amount at January 1 44 39 Acquired shares 4 3 Fair value adjustments* -24 3 Disposal of shares -9 -1 Carrying amount at December 31 15 44 232 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 FINANCIALS 2013 2012 MEUR Cost Market value Cost Market value Listed shares (level 1) Lyxor ETF MSCI Emerging Markets 2 2 Unlisted shares (level 3) Sato Oyj 2 26 Other shares 15 15 16 16 Total shares 15 15 20 44 In 2013, EUR 25 million gain was recognised in the consolidated statement of income related to the sale of Sato Oyj shares. In addition, Lyxor ETF MSCI Emerging Markets shares were sold in 2013, but the impact was not significant. In 2012, EUR 1 million gain was recognised in the consolidated statement of income related to the sale of Ekokem Oy Ab shares. * Additional information on fair value adjustments is presented in Note 21. Equity. 15. Inventories MEUR 2013 2012 Materials and consumables 420 532 Work in progress 873 685 Finished products 47 48 Advances paid 28 57 Total 1 367 1 322 In 2013, EUR 12 million (23) impairment for obsolete inventories has been recognised in the consolidated statement of income. 16. Financial assets and liabilities by measurement category 2013 Financial assets/ Carrying liabilities Financial amounts at fair liabilities of the Cash flow value Availablemeasured statement and net through the for-sale at of financial investment statement Loans and financial amortised position Fair MEUR hedges of income receivables assets cost items value Non-current financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets 15 15 15 Interest-bearing investments 1 1 1 Other receivables 5 5 5 233 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 FINANCIALS Current financial assets Interest-bearing receivables 1 1 1 Trade receivables 1 146 1 146 1 146 Derivatives 20 20 20 Other receivables 10 10 10 Cash and cash equivalents 388 388 388 Carrying amount by category 20 10 1 541 15 1 586 1 586 Non-current financial liabilities Interest-bearing debt 571 571 576 Current financial liabilities Interest-bearing debt 94 94 94 Trade payables 375 375 375 Derivatives 21 21 21 Other liabilities 13 13 13 Carrying amount by category 21 1 053 1 074 1 079 2012 Financial assets/ Carrying liabilities Financial amounts at fair liabilities of the Cash flow value Availablemeasured statement and net through the for-sale at of financial investment statement Loans and financial amortised position Fair MEUR hedges of income receivables assets cost items value Non-current financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets 44 44 44 Interest-bearing investments 1 1 1 Other receivables 22 22 22 Current financial assets Interest-bearing receivables 1 1 1 Trade receivables 1 128 1 128 1 128 Derivatives 16 16 16 Other receivables 12 12 12 Cash and cash equivalents 225 225 225 Carrying amount by category 16 12 1 377 44 1 449 1 449 Non-current financial liabilities Interest-bearing debt 545 545 555 Current financial liabilities Interest-bearing debt 249 249 249 Trade payables 385 385 385 Derivatives 9 9 9 Other liabilities 11 11 11 Carrying amount by category 9 1 190 1 199 1 209 Fair values of available-for-sale financial assets per hierarchies is presented in Note 14. Available-for-sale financial assets. Other financial assets and liabilities are included in level 2. Additional information on financial liabilities is presented in Note 23. Financial liabilities. 234 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 FINANCIALS 17. Other receivables Restated MEUR 2013 2012 Derivatives 20 16 Interest and other financial items 10 12 Insurance receivables 5 5 Rental accruals 5 4 Project accruals 19 16 Accruals from long-term contracts 152 142 Other accruals 28 29 Loan receivables 5 22 Defined benefit plan 2 VAT receivables 45 61 Other 55 48 Total 344 358 Non-current 5 24 Current 339 334 18. Cash and cash equivalents MEUR 2013 2012 Cash and bank balances 373 217 Current deposits 15 8 Total 388 225 19. Deferred taxes Change in deferred taxes during 2013 Recognised in the Other consolidated compre1 January statement of hensive Translation 31 December MEUR 2013 income income differences Acquisitions 2013 Deferred tax assets Tax loss carryforwards 28 11 -2 36 Pension obligations 17 1 19 Provisions 20 -1 -1 18 Intragroup margin in inventories 6 -1 6 Other temporary differences 42 7 5 -3 50 Total 112 16 6 -6 128 235 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 FINANCIALS Deferred tax liabilities Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment 53 -9 -2 43 Fair value reserve 15 -8 6 Other temporary differences 27 10 2 -3 36 Total 95 1 -6 -6 84 Net deferred tax assets/ liabilities 17 15 12 45 Change in deferred taxes during 2012 Recognised in the Other consolidated compre1 January statement of hensive Translation 31 December MEUR 2012 income income differences Acquisitions 2012 Deferred tax assets Tax loss carryforwards 45 -17 28 Pension obligations 12 4 1 17 Provisions 19 20 Intragroup margin in inventories 7 6 Other temporary differences 43 -1 -1 -4 4 42 Total 127 -18 -1 5 112 Deferred tax liabilities Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment 31 -10 31 53 Fair value reserve 11 3 15 Other temporary differences 25 -1 -1 1 4 27 Total 67 -10 3 1 35 95 Net deferred tax assets/ liabilities 60 -8 -4 -1 -30 17 At 31 December 2013, the Group had temporary differences on which no deferred tax assets were booked totalling EUR 21 million (35), as it is uncertain if they will be realised. Most of them were related to cumulative losses. Comparison figures have been restated due to changes in pension accounting. 20. Pension obligations Restated MEUR 2013 2012 Net defined benefit assets at 31 December 2 Net defined benefit liabilities at 31 December 104 77 Liability for other long term employee benefits at 31 December 3 22 Wärtsilä has defined benefit plans for its employees mainly in Europe and Asia. The major plans are located in Switzerland, the Netherlands, Great Britain, Sweden and Norway. The Swiss defined benefit plans account for 59% of the Group's total defined benefit obligations and 71% of plans' 236 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 FINANCIALS assets. Most of the plans provide lifetime pension to the members at the normal retirement age. However, there are also plans, which provide lump sum payment at the retirement date. Most of these defined benefit pension plans are managed by pension funds, and their related assets are not included in the Group's assets. The plans' assets are typically invested according to the investment strategies approved by the funds' Board of Trustees or in some cases they are completely administered by insurance companies. Group companies make their payments to pension funds in accordance with the local legislation and practice. Authorised actuaries in each country have performed the actuarial calculations required for the defined benefit plans. The Swiss Plans Wärtsilä operates two defined benefit plans in Switzerland in accordance with the local pension laws and regulations. The plans provide benefits to the members in the form of a pension payable after retirement. The level of benefits provided depends on the accrued retirement savings capital, which is a result of contributions paid up to retirement plus respective interest. The plans are run as a pension fund by the Board of Trustees separately from the company. Contributions to the plans are paid both by the employees as well as by the employers based on a percentage of the insured salary as defined in the pension fund regulations. Contributions of the employers vary depending on the age of the employee and cover on average two thirds of the total contributions. The investment strategy for a pension fund's asset is the responsibility of the Board of Trustees. Assets are invested in accordance with the strategy for different investment categories as defined by local laws. In addition to investment strategy, other risks of the plan are longevity of plan members as well as death or disability of employees before their retirement. The pension plan is reinsured for the risk of death and disability as of 31 December 2013. Inflationary increases for pensions in payment are at the discretion of the Board of Trustees when benefits paid by the plan are exceeding the minimum level required by law. MEUR 2013 2012 Present value of unfunded defined benefit obligations 65 44 Present value of funded defined benefit obligations 311 338 Fair value of plan assets -272 -307 Net liability in balance sheet 104 75 Present value of defined benefit Fair value of plan % obligations assets Switzerland 59 71 Other Europe 37 25 Asia 4 4 Total 100 100 Present value of defined benefit Fair value of plan Net defined benefit MEUR obligation assets liability Balance at 1 January 2012 319 -269 50 Changes in exchange rates 4 -3 1 Other adjustments 28 -10 18 Recognised in the statement of income: Current service cost 21 21 Interest cost (+) / interest income (-) 9 -7 2 Remeasurements recognised in other comprehensive income: Return on plan assets, excluding interest income -15 -15 Experience adjustments -3 -3 Changes in demographic assumptions 1 1 Changes in financial assumptions 18 18 Contribution paid by the plan members 3 -3 Contribution paid by the employer -16 -16 Benefits paid -17 16 -1 Balance at 31 December 2012 382 -307 75 Balance at 1 January 2013 382 -307 75 Changes in exchange rates -14 10 -4 Other adjustments 18 3 21 Recognised in the statement of income: Current service cost 15 15 Past service cost -5 -5 Gains (-) / losses (+) on curtailments and settlements -30 29 -1 237 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 FINANCIALS Interest cost (+) / interest income (-) 11 -8 3 Remeasurements recognised in other comprehensive income: Experience adjustments 10 10 Changes in demographic assumptions 6 6 Changes in financial assumptions 2 2 Contribution paid by the plan members 4 -4 Contribution paid by the employer -13 -13 Benefits paid -22 17 -5 Balance at 31 December 2013 376 -272 104 The EUR 1 million gain on settlement and EUR 5 million credit to past service costs relate to the defined benefit plan amendmend in Norway. One defined benefit plan was terminated and the pension coverage was transferred to defined contribution plan. Plan assets invested in: 2013 2012 Shares and other Equity instruments (%) 28 26 Bonds and other Debt instruments (%) 43 46 Property (%) 18 18 Other assets (%) 11 10 The main actuarial assumptions at the reporting date are (expressed as weighted averages): 2013 2012 Discount rate (%) 2.68 2.38 Future salary increase (%) 1.94 1.70 Future pension growth (%) 0.78 0.53 At 31 December 2013 the weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation was 14 years. The Group expects to contribute EUR 9 million to the plans during next year. Assumptions regarding future mortality are set based on actuarial advice in accordance with the published statistics and experience in each country. These assumptions translate into a weighted average life expectancy in years for a pensioner at the retirement age as follows: Plan participants retiring at the end of the financial year: Male 20.2 Female 22.8 Plan participants retiring 20 years after the end of the financial year: Male 21.6 Female 24.2 The following table presents a sensitivity analysis for each significant actuarial assumption showing how the defined benefit obligation would have been affected by changes in the relevant actuarial assumption that were reasonably possible at the end of the financial year. This sensitivity analysis applies to the defined benefit obligation only and not to the net defined benefit pension liability in its entirety. Sensitivity analysis Effect to defined benefit obligation, Change in assumption MEUR Discount rate increase 1% -50 Discount rate decrease 1% 45 Future salary increase increase 1% 13 Future salary increase decrease 1% -11 Future pension growth increase 1% 32 Future pension growth decrease 1% -7 238 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 FINANCIALS 21. Equity Equity consists of share capital, share premium, translation difference, fair value reserve and retained earnings. Share capital and number of shares MEUR Number of shares Share Share Share capital and votes capital premium Total 1 January 2012 197 241 130 336 61 397 31 December 2012 197 241 130 336 61 397 31 December 2013 197 241 130 336 61 397 Wärtsilä share does not have a nominal value. Translation difference Translating foreign subsidiaries' financial statements by using different exchange rates in the statement of comprehensive income and in the statement of financial position causes translation differences, which are recognised in equity. Translation differences of foreign subsidiaries’ acquisition cost eliminations and post acquisition gains and losses are also presented in equity. The change in translation differences is recognised in other comprehensive income. Fair value reserve Fair value reserve includes the change in the fair value of available-for-sale financial assets. Also the change in fair value in derivative financial instruments is included in fair value reserve, if the hedging is effective and eligible for hedge accounting. The change in items included in fair value reserve are recognised in other comprehensive income. Availablefor-sale Cash flow financial MEUR hedges assets Total Difference between fair value and carrying amount at 1 January 2012 -14 21 8 Deferred tax liabilities/assets 3 -5 -2 Fair value reserve at 1 January 2012 -11 16 5 Transferred to the statement of income, net of taxes 7 -1 6 Fair value adjustments 9 4 13 Deferred tax liabilities/assets -2 -1 -3 Fair value reserve at 31 December 2012 3 18 21 Transferred to the statement of income, net of taxes -2 -19 -21 Fair value adjustments -19 1 -18 Deferred tax liabilities/assets 6 6 Fair value reserve at 31 December 2013 -13 -13 Parent company's distributable funds After the balance sheet date, the Board of Directors proposed that a dividend of 1.05 euro per share be paid for the financial year 2013, total dividend payable being EUR 207 million. The remaining part of the retained profits will be carried further in the unrestricted equity. For the profit for the financial year 2012, a dividend of EUR 1.00 per share was distributed, totalling EUR 197 million and the rest of the retained profits were carried further in the unrestricted equity. Additional information on equity is presented in notes to the parent company financial statements, in Note 11. Shareholders' equity. 239 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 FINANCIALS 22. Provisions 2013 Onerous Other MEUR Litigation Warranties contracts Restructuring provisions Total Provisions at 1 January 2013 17 180 24 14 31 266 Changes in exchange rates -2 -2 -1 -5 Additions 2 56 17 6 18 98 Used provisions -5 -71 -10 -8 -10 -104 Released provisions -1 -4 -1 -5 -11 Provisions at 31 December 2013 13 162 25 11 33 244 Non-current 40 Current 204 2012 Onerous Other MEUR Litigation Warranties contracts Restructuring provisions Total Provisions at 1 January 2012 11 167 22 18 49 267 Changes in exchange rates 1 1 Acquisitions 6 11 10 1 28 Additions 3 49 10 8 18 89 Used provisions -3 -47 -16 -13 -30 -109 Released provisions -1 -3 -5 -10 Provisions at 31 December 2012 17 180 24 14 31 266 Non-current 38 Current 228 The Group is a defendant in a number of legal cases which arise out of, or are incidental to, the ordinary course of its business. These lawsuits concern mainly issues such as contractual and other liability, labour relations, property damage and regulatory matters. The Group receives from time to time claims of different amounts and with varying degrees of substantiation. The claims received in 2013 include two unusually sizable ones. It is the Group’s policy to provide for amounts related to the claims as well as for the litigation and arbitration matters when an unfavourable outcome is probable and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. 23. Financial liabilities 2013 Current Non-current MEUR < 1 year 1–3 years 3–5 years > 5 years Total Loans from pension insurance companies* 37 62 18 117 Loans from other financial institutions* 35 146 177 167 525 Finance lease liabilities* 1 1 Other interest-bearing loans* 22 23 Trade payables 375 375 Derivatives 21 21 Other liabilities 13 13 Total 504 208 195 167 1 074 240 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 FINANCIALS * Estimated interest expenses, total 9 14 11 11 45 Estimated contractual cash flows 513 222 206 178 1 119 2012 Current Non-current MEUR < 1 year 1–3 years 3–5 years > 5 years Total Loans from pension insurance companies* 61 92 57 22 231 Loans from other financial institutions* 37 99 140 133 408 Finance lease liabilities* 1 2 Other interest-bearing loans* 152 2 154 Trade payables 385 385 Derivatives 9 9 Other liabilities 11 11 Total 655 192 199 155 1 199 * Estimated interest expenses, total 16 22 12 8 58 Estimated contractual cash flows 671 214 211 163 1 257 Fair values of financial liabilities are presented in Note 16. Financial assets and liabilities by measurement category. 24. Other liabilities MEUR 2013 2012 Project costs 527 558 Personnel costs 164 157 Derivatives 21 9 Interest and other financial items 13 11 Other accruals 50 53 VAT liabilities 12 14 Other 70 68 Total 856 871 Non-current 4 3 Current 853 868 25. Derivative financial instruments The Group applies hedge accounting to significant foreign currency forward contracts. Detailed financial information is presented in Note 31. Financial risks. of which of which MEUR 2013 closed 2012 closed Nominal values of derivative financial instruments (level 2) Interest rate swaps 125 20 241 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 FINANCIALS Inflation hedges 9 Currency forwards transaction risk 1 545 534 1 182 341 Currency options, written 82 Currency options, purchased 7 223 Total 1 686 534 1 507 341 Fair values of derivative financial instruments (level 2) Interest rate swaps 1 Currency forwards transaction risk -1 4 Currency options, purchased 3 Total -1 7 Foreign currency forward contracts fall due during the following 12 months. Interest rate swaps are denominated in euros and their average interestbearing period is 54 months. Normally the Group's derivatives are done under International Swaps and Derivatives Association's Master Agreements (ISDA). In case of an event of default under these Agreements the non-defaulting party may request early termination and set-off of all outstanding transactions. These Agreements do not meet the criteria for offsetting in the statement of financial position. The following table sets out the carrying amounts of recognised financial instruments that are subject to the above Agreements. MEUR 2013 2012 Gross fair values of derivative financial instruments subject to ISDAs Assets Interest rate swaps 1 Currency forwards 19 14 Currency options 8 Total 20 22 Liabilities Currency forwards -21 -6 Total -21 -7 Net fair values of derivative financial instruments subject to ISDAs Assets 15 18 Liabilities -15 -3 Total -1 15 Currency distribution of currency forwards and currency options Order Net MEUR book loans Currency forwards USD 728 56 NOK 286 59 CHF 71 23 SGD 7 JPY 25 3 GBP 24 5 SEK 21 10 Other* 90 34 Currency options USD 7 Total 1 251 197 242 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 FINANCIALS * Other does not include any material single currencies. 26. Collateral, contingent liabilities and other commitments 2013 2012 Debt in the Debt in the statement of statement of financial financial MEUR position Collateral position Collateral Mortgages given as collateral for liabilities and commitments Loans from pension institutions 11 15 Other commitments 22 26 15 13 Total 22 26 26 28 Chattel mortgages and other pledges given as collateral for liabilities and commitments Loans from credit institutions 25 12 29 18 Other commitments 13 15 Total 25 25 29 34 MEUR 2013 2012 Guarantees and contingent liabilities on behalf of Group companies 665 433 on behalf of associated companies 7 9 Total 672 442 Nominal amounts of rents according to leasing contracts Payable within one year 27 23 Payable between one and five years 78 44 Payable later 26 10 Total 131 76 27. Related party disclosures Related parties comprise the Board of Directors, the President and CEO, the Board of Management as well as the associated companies and the joint ventures. Management remuneration Benefits booked in the statement of income TEUR 2013 2012 President and CEO Salaries and other short-term benefits 660 614 Bonuses 309 70 Share based bonuses 608 424 Statutory pension costs 99 86 Voluntary pension costs 152 152 243 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 FINANCIALS Deputy of President and CEO Salaries and other short-term benefits 359 597 Bonuses 95 110 Share based bonuses 157 212 Statutory pension costs 54 84 Voluntary pension costs 391 371 Other members of the Board of Management Salaries and other short-term benefits 2 144 2 748 Bonuses 808 1 239 Share based bonuses 1 326 1 639 Statutory pension costs 311 386 Voluntary pension costs 993 864 8 466 9 596 Board of Directors at 31 December 2013 Mikael Lilius, chairman 132 138 Kaj-Gustaf Bergh, deputy chairman 96 68 Maarit Aarni-Sirviö, member 68 71 Sune Carlsson, member 64 Alexander Ehrnrooth, member 69 71 Paul Ehrnrooth, member 66 68 Gunilla Nordström, member 64 62 Markus Rauramo, member 74 77 Matti Vuoria, member 66 98 Board of Directors, until 7 March 2013 Lars Josefsson, member 2 70 Board of Directors, until 8 March 2012 Bertel Langenskiöld, member 4 703 729 Management remuneration, total 9 169 10 325 The holdings of Wärtsilä shares of the President and CEO, and the members of the Board of Directors and Board of Management at the year end were 790,112 shares (793,089). The President and CEO and some of the members of the Board of Management are entitled to retire on reaching 60 years of age. The Group has no loan receivables from the executive management or the Board of Directors. No pledges or other commitments have been given on behalf of management or shareholders. Business transactions with the associated companies and joint ventures MEUR 2013 2012 Sales to the associates and joint ventures 74 62 Purchases from the associates and joint ventures 30 54 Receivables from the associates and joint ventures 15 16 Advances paid to the associates and joint ventures 5 8 Payables to the associates and joint ventures 6 9 Detailed financial information on the associated companies and joint ventures is presented in Note 13. Investments in associates and joint ventures. 244 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 FINANCIALS 28. Auditors' fees and services The following remuneration was paid to auditors and accounting firms for audit based on applicable legislation and for other services. In 2013, the AGM appointed the firm of public auditors KPMG Oy Ab as Wärtsilä Corporation's auditor. Auditors' fees KPMG Others MEUR 2013 2012 2013 2012 Audit 2.5 2.2 0.2 0.2 Tax advisory 0.6 1.2 0.1 0.1 Other services 0.7 0.2 0.1 Total 3.9 3.9 0.3 0.3 29. Exchange rates In the consolidated financial statements there are nearly 60 currencies consolidated. The most essential currencies are presented here. Closing rates Average rates 31 December 2013 31 December 2012 2013 2012 United Arab Emirates AED Dirham 5.06530 4.84576 4.88796 4.74957 BRL Brazil Real 3.25760 2.70360 2.86681 2.50970 CHF Switzerland Franc 1.22760 1.20720 1.23092 1.20530 CNY China Yuan Renminbi 8.34910 8.22070 8.16549 8.10942 DKK Danish krone 7.45930 7.46100 7.45792 7.44376 GBP United Kingdom Pound 0.83370 0.81610 0.84925 0.81110 INR India Rupee 85.36600 72.56000 77.87525 68.62947 JPY Japan Yen 144.72000 113.61000 129.65950 102.62121 NOK Norway Krone 8.36300 7.34830 7.80507 7.47547 SAR Saudi Arabian Riyal 5.17204 4.94801 4.99087 4.84951 SEK Sweden Krona 8.85910 8.58200 8.65050 8.70672 SGD Singapore Dollar 1.74140 1.61110 1.66181 1.60617 USD United States Dollar 1.37910 1.31940 1.32814 1.28560 30. Subsidiaries Geographical area Company name Location Share % Europe Wärtsilä Technology Oy Ab Finland 100.0 Wärtsilä Finland Oy Finland 100.0 Wärtsilä Projects Oy Finland 100.0 Wärtsilä Solutions Oy Finland 100.0 IPP3 Investment Oy Finland 100.0 Wärtsilä Sweden AB Sweden 100.0 Cedervall & Söner AB Sweden 100.0 245 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 FINANCIALS Wärtsilä Norway AS Norway 100.0 Wärtsilä Ship Design Norway AS Norway 100.0 Wärtsilä Moss AS Norway 100.0 Wärtsilä Oil & Gas Systems AS Norway 100.0 Wärtsilä Danmark A/S Denmark 100.0 Wärtsilä Svanehøj A/S Denmark 100.0 Wärtsilä Italia S.p.A. Italy 100.0 Wärtsilä France S.A.S. France 100.0 Wärtsilä Switzerland Ltd. Switzerland 100.0 Wärtsilä Netherlands B.V. The Netherlands 100.0 Wärtsilä Kampen Real Estate B.V. The Netherlands 100.0 Wärtsilä Ibérica S.A. Spain 100.0 Cedervall Espana S.A. Spain 100.0 Wärtsilä Portugal Lda. Portugal 100.0 Wärtsilä Deutschland GmbH Germany 100.0 Wärtsilä Serck Como GmbH Germany 100.0 Wärtsilä UK Ltd. Great Britain 100.0 Wärtsilä Hamworthy Ltd. Great Britain 100.0 Wärtsilä Valves Ltd. Great Britain 100.0 Wärtsilä Water Systems Ltd. Great Britain 100.0 Wärtsilä Greece S.A. Greece 100.0 Wärtsilä Polska Sp.z.o.o. Poland 100.0 Wärtsilä Ship Design Poland Sp.z.o.o. Poland 100.0 Wärtsilä Baltic Design Centre Sp.z.o.o. Poland 100.0 Wärtsilä-Enpa A.S. Turkey 51.0 Wärtsilä BLRT Estonia Oü Estonia 51.0 Wärtsilä Vostok, LLC Russia 100.0 Wärtsilä Hungary Kft Hungary 100.0 Wärtsilä Ukraine LLC Ukraine 100.0 Wärtsilä Cyprus Limited Cyprus 100.0 Wärtsilä Ship Design Serbia doo Serbia 83.0 The Americas Wärtsilä North America, Inc. USA 100.0 Wärtsilä Defence Inc. USA 100.0 Wärtsilä Hamworthy Inc. USA 100.0 Wärtsilä Canada Inc. Canada 100.0 Wärtsilä de Mexico SA Mexico 100.0 Wärtsilä Caribbean, Inc. Puerto Rico 100.0 Wärtsilä Dominicana Inc. Dominican Republic 100.0 Wärtsilä Guatemala S.A. Guatemala 100.0 Wärtsilä Chile Ltda. Chile 100.0 Wärtsilä Ecuador S.A. Ecuador 100.0 Wärtsilä Brasil Ltda. Brazil 100.0 Wärtsilä Colombia S.A. Colombia 100.0 Wärtsilä Peru S.A.C. Peru 100.0 Wärtsilä Argentina S.A. Argentina 100.0 Wärtsilä Venezuela, C.A. Venezuela 100.0 Antigua Energy Operators Ltd. Antigua and Barbuda 100.0 Wärtsilä Panama Services S.A. Panama 100.0 Wärtsilä Operations Guyana Inc. Guyana 100.0 Wärtsilä Uruguay S.A. Uruguay 100.0 Asia Wärtsilä China Ltd. Hong Kong 100.0 Wärtsilä-CME Zhenjiang Propeller Co. Ltd. China 55.0 Wärtsilä Services (Shanghai) Co. Ltd. China 100.0 Wärtsilä Propulsion (Wuxi) Co. Ltd. China 100.0 Cedervall Zhangjiagang Marine Products Co. Ltd. China 100.0 Wärtsilä Suzhou Ltd. China 100.0 246 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 FINANCIALS Wärtsilä Ship Design (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. China 95.0 Wärtsilä Yuchai Engine Co. Ltd. China 50.0 Wärtsilä Singapore Pte Ltd. Singapore 100.0 Wärtsilä Ship Design Singapore Pte Ltd. Singapore 100.0 Wärtsilä Pumps Pte Ltd. Singapore 100.0 Wärtsilä Japan Ltd. Japan 99.7 Wärtsilä India Ltd. India 100.0 Wärtsilä Vietnam Co Ltd. Vietnam 100.0 Wärtsilä Korea Ltd. South Korea 100.0 Wärtsilä Hamworthy Korea Ltd. South Korea 100.0 Wärtsilä Taiwan Ltd. Taiwan 100.0 Wärtsilä Philippines Inc. Philippines 100.0 PT. Wärtsilä Indonesia Indonesia 100.0 Wärtsilä Lanka Ltd. Sri Lanka 100.0 Wärtsilä Pakistan (Pvt.) Ltd. Pakistan 100.0 Wärtsilä Bangladesh Ltd. Bangladesh 100.0 Wärtsilä Azerbaijan LLC Azerbaijan 100.0 Wärtsilä Power Contracting Saudi Arabia Ltd. Saudi Arabia 60.0 Wärtsilä Gulf FZE United Arab Emirates 100.0 Wärtsilä LLC United Arab Emirates 100.0 Wärtsilä Ships Repairing & Maintenance LLC United Arab Emirates 100.0 Wärtsilä Hamworthy Middle East (FZE) United Arab Emirates 100.0 Wärtsilä (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd Malaysia 100.0 Wärtsilä Doha WLL Qatar 100.0 Other Wärtsilä Australia Pty Ltd. Australia 100.0 Wärtsilä New Zealand Ltd. New Zealand 100.0 Wärtsilä PNG Ltd. Papua New Guinea 100.0 Wärtsilä Egypt Power S.A.E Egypt 100.0 Wärtsilä South Africa (Pty) Ltd. South Africa 100.0 Wärtsilä Eastern Africa S.A. Kenya 100.0 Wärtsilä Uganda Ltd. Uganda 100.0 Wärtsilä West Africa S.A. Senegal 100.0 Wärtsilä Central Africa Ltd. Cameroon 100.0 Wärtsilä West Africa Guinea Guinea 100.0 Wärtsilä Tanzania Ltd. Tanzania 100.0 Wärtsilä Mocambique LDA Mozambique 100.0 Wärtsilä Marine & Power Services Nigeria Limited Nigeria 100.0 A complete list of shares and securities in accordance with the Finnish Accounting Ordinance is included in the official financial statements of the parent company prepared with the Finnish Accounting Standards (FAS). 31. Financial risks General Wärtsilä has a centralised Group Treasury with two main objectives: 1) to arrange adequate funding for the Group’s underlying operations on competitive terms and 2) to identify and evaluate the financial risks within the Group and implement the hedges for the Group companies. The objective is to hedge against unfavorable changes in the financial markets and to minimise the impact of foreign exchange, interest rate, credit and liquidity risks on the Group’s cash reserves, profits and equity. The Financial Risk Policy is approved by the Board of Directors. The Treasury employs only such instruments whose market value and risk profile can be reliably monitored. 247 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 FINANCIALS Foreign exchange risk Foreign exchange exposures are monitored at the Business level and then netted and hedged at the Group level. All fixed sales and purchase contracts are hedged. The estimated future commercial exposures are evaluated by the Businesses, and the level of hedging is decided by the Board of Management. Hedge accounting in accordance with IFRS is applied to most of the hedges of these exposures. The hedges cover such time periods that both the prices and costs can be adjusted to new exchange rates. These periods vary among Group companies from one month to two years. The Group also hedges its position of the statement of financial position, which includes receivables and payables denominated in foreign currencies. The Group does not expect significant losses from foreign exchange rate changes in 2014. The cancellation of orders could lead to ineffective currency hedge. Approximately 59% (59) of sales and 56% (56) of operating costs in 2013 were denominated in euros. The Group’s profits and competitiveness are also indirectly affected by the home currencies of its main competitors: USD, GBP, JPY and KRW. The instruments, their nominal values and currency distribution used to hedge the Group’s foreign exchange exposures are listed in Note 25. Derivative financial instruments. Some Group companies in countries whose currencies are not fully convertible like Brazil and China have unhedged, intercompany loans nominated either in EUR or USD. Total amount of the loans is EUR 99 million (49). Since Wärtsilä has subsidiaries and joint ventures outside the euro zone, the Group’s equity, goodwill and purchase price allocations are sensitive to exchange rate fluctuations. At the end of 2013, the net assets of Wärtsilä’s foreign subsidiaries and joint ventures outside the euro zone totalled EUR 831 million (769). In addition, goodwill and purchase price allocations from acquisitions nominated in foreign currencies amounted to EUR 551 million (596). Wärtsilä decided to discontinue hedging the net assets in its foreign subsidiaries and joint ventures in June 2012. Until that, the changes in the fair values of instruments determined as equity hedging were recognised in other comprehensive income, provided that the hedging was effective, and the ineffective portion of the change in the fair value of the hedge and the interest rate difference were immediately recognised in the statement of income in the financial items. IFRS hedge accounting has been applied to EUR 784 million (733) currency forwards. 10% change in the exhange rates would cause from these currency forwards an approximately EUR 61 million (55) net of tax impact on the equity. In 2013, EUR -14 million (7) fair value adjustments related to cash flow hedges were recognised in equity. EUR 2 million (-7) of the fair value adjustments were transferred from equity to the statement of income as net sales or operating expenses during 2013. The result from ineffective portion of the cash flow hedges, EUR -1 million, has been booked in financial items and specified in Note 8. Financial income and expenses. Currency distribution 2013 Operating Trade Trade % Net sales costs receivables payables EUR 59 56 63 78 USD 24 7 22 3 NOK 3 11 3 5 GBP 2 3 1 2 CHF 1 2 1 3 Other EU currencies 2 2 SGD 1 3 2 1 SAR 2 1 BRL 1 2 1 1 INR 1 1 1 CNY 1 3 1 1 JPY 1 1 Other currencies 5 8 5 3 Total 100 100 100 100 Interest rate risk Wärtsilä is exposed to interest rate risk primarily through market value changes to the net debt portfolio (price risk) and also through changes in interest rates (re-fixing on rollovers). Wärtsilä hedges interest rate exposure by using derivative instruments such as interest rate swaps, futures and options. Changes in the market value of these derivatives are recognised directly in the statement of income. Interest rate risk is managed by constantly monitoring the market value of the financial instruments and by using sensitivity analysis. Interest-bearing loan capital at the end of 2013 totalled EUR 665 million (794). The average interest rate was 1.7% (2.0) and the average re-fixing time 17 months (21). At the end of 2013, a one percentage point parallel decrease/increase of the yield curve would have resulted in a EUR 14 million (14) increase/decrease in the value of the net debt portfolio, including derivatives. Wärtsilä spreads its interest rate risk exposure by taking both fixed and floating rate loans. The share of floating rate loans as a proportion of the total debt can vary between 30–70%. At the end of 2013 the floating rate portion of total loans was 41% (49) after adjustment for interest rate derivatives. A one percentage point change in the interest level would cause a EUR 3 million (4) change in the following year’s interest expenses of the debt portfolio, including derivatives. Additional information related to loans can be found in Note 16. Financial assets and liabilities by measurement category and Note 23. Financial liabilities. 248 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 FINANCIALS Liquidity and refinancing risk Wärtsilä ensures sufficient liquidity at all times by efficient cash management and by maintaining sufficient committed and uncommitted credit lines available. The existing funding programmes include: • Committed Revolving Credit Facilities totalling EUR 599 million (554) • Finnish Commercial Paper programmes totalling EUR 800 million (700) The average maturity of the long-term debt is 44 months (44) and the average maturity of the confirmed credit lines is 37 months (29). Additional information in Note 23. Financial liabilities. The Group had cash and cash equivalents totalling EUR 388 million (225) at the year end as well as EUR 599 million (554) non-utilised committed credit facilities. Commercial Paper programme utilisation amounted to EUR 14 million (141). Wärtsilä minimises its refinancing risk by having a balanced and sufficiently long loan portfolio. Revolving credit facilities MEUR Available (end of Year Maturing the year) 2013 599 2014 30 569 2015 160 409 2016 99 310 2017 100 210 2018 160 50 2019 50 Credit risk The responsibility for managing the credit risks associated with ordinary commercial activities lies with the Businesses and the Group companies. Major trade and project finance credit risks are minimised by transferring risks to banks, insurance companies and export credit organisations. The credit risks related to the placement of liquid funds and to trading in financial instruments are minimised by setting explicit limits for the counterparties and by making agreements only with the most reputable domestic and international banks and financial institutions. The Group companies deposit the maximum amount of their liquid financial assets with the centralised treasury (Wärtsilä Group Treasury) when local laws and central bank regulations allow it. The Group’s funds are placed in instruments with sufficient liquidity (short-term bank deposits or Finnish Commercial Papers) and rating (at least single-A rated instruments or other instruments approved by the Group’s CFO). These placements are constantly monitored by Wärtsilä Group Treasury and Wärtsilä does not expect any future defaults from the placements. Aging of trade receivables 2013 2012 Trade of which Trade of which MEUR receivables impaired receivables impaired Not past due 648 1 746 Past due 1–30 days 161 135 Past due 31–180 days 171 4 165 2 Past due 181–360 days 113 9 73 5 Past due 1 year 114 46 70 53 Total 1 207 61 1 189 60 In 2013, EUR 13 million (8) provisions for doubtful receivables have been recognised in the consolidated statement of income. The Group sells trade receivables in an amount that is currently not significant compared to the trade receivables as a whole. Sold receivables have been de-recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position. Trade payables The Group has a Supplier Chain Financing program in an amount that is currently not significant compared to trade payables as a whole, and such supplier invoices are presented as trade payables in the consolidated statement of financial position. 249 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 FINANCIALS Equity price risk Wärtsilä has equity investments totalling EUR 12 million (11) in power plants companies, most of which are located in developing countries and performing well according to expectations. Additional information in Note 14. Available-for-sale financial assets. Capital risk management Wärtsilä’s policy is to secure a strong capital base to keep the confidence of investors and creditors and for the future development of the business. The capital is defined as total equity including non-controlling interests and net interest-bearing debt. The target for Wärtsilä is to maintain gearing below 0.50 and to pay a dividend equivalent to 50% of operational earnings per share. Restated MEUR 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 Interest-bearing liabilities, non-current 571 545 Interest-bearing liabilities, current 94 249 Cash and cash equivalents -388 -225 277 569 Loan receivables -1 -2 Net interest-bearing debt 276 567 Total equity 1 884 1 791 Gearing 0.15 0.32 In the capital management Wärtsilä also follows the solvency development: Equity and liabilities 5 209 5 036 Advances received -913 -695 4 296 4 341 Solvency ratio, % 43.9 41.3 32. Events after the balance sheet date On 29 January 2014, Wärtsilä announced plans to realign its organisation to secure future profitability and competitiveness. The Group-wide efficiency programme is expected to lead to a reduction of approximately 1,000 employees globally, of which about 200 are planned to be in Finland. The reductions will impact all businesses and support functions. With these actions Wärtsilä seeks annual savings of EUR 60 million. The effect of these savings is expected to materialise fully by the end of 2014. The non-recurring items related to the restructuring measures will be EUR 50 million. Of these costs EUR 11 million was recognised in 2013, as certain measures were initiated at the end of the year. 250 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 FINANCIALS Parent company income statement (FAS) MEUR Note 2013 2012 Other operating income 1 71 71 Personnel expenses 2 -41 -38 Depreciation, amortisation and impairments 3 -10 -11 Other operating expenses -87 -88 Operating result -67 -66 Financial income and expenses 4 Income from financial assets 107 197 Interest income and other financial income 34 41 Exchange gains and losses -1 -27 Interest expenses and other financial expenses -29 -31 111 180 Result before extraordinary items 44 113 Group contribution 5 161 160 Result before appropriations and taxes 205 273 Change in depreciation difference 3 -2 Result before taxes 208 271 Income taxes 6 -33 -19 Result for the financial period 174 253 Parent company balance sheet (FAS) MEUR Note 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 ASSETS Fixed assets 7 Intangible assets Other long-term expenditure 15 20 Construction in progress 5 3 20 23 251 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 FINANCIALS Tangible assets Land and water 8 7 Buildings and structures 1 1 Machinery, equipment and other tangible assets 1 1 Construction in progress 3 4 13 13 Financial assets Shares in Group companies 450 450 Other shares and securities 2 6 452 456 Total fixed assets 485 492 Non-current receivables Receivables from Group companies 8 44 320 Loan receivables 2 15 46 335 Current receivables Receivables from Group companies 9 2 042 1 929 Other receivables 1 2 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 10 33 43 2 076 1 974 Cash and bank balances 243 103 Total current assets 2 365 2 411 Assets 2 850 2 903 MEUR Note 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity 11 Share capital 336 336 Share premium reserve 61 61 Retained earnings 853 797 Result for the financial period 174 253 Total equity 1 424 1 447 Accumulated appropriations Depreciation difference 8 10 Provisions 22 15 252 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 FINANCIALS Liabilities 12 Non-current Loans from credit institutions 469 346 Loans from pension insurance companies 80 117 Liabilities to Group companies 14 53 549 517 Current Loans from credit institutions 31 28 Loans from pension insurance companies 37 51 Trade payables 5 6 Liabilities to Group companies 14 697 649 Other current liabilities 15 141 Accrued expenses and deferred income 13 62 39 848 915 Total liabilities 1 397 1 431 Equity and liabilities 2 850 2 903 Parent company cash flow statement (FAS) MEUR 2013 2012 Cash flow from operating activities: Result before extraordinary items 44 113 Adjustments for: Depreciation and amortisation 10 11 Gains and losses on sale of intangible and tangible assets -25 -1 Financial income and expenses -85 -179 Cash flow before changes in working capital -57 -55 Changes in working capital: Assets, non-interest-bearing, increase (-) / decrease (+) 184 -34 Liabilities, non-interest-bearing, increase (+) / decrease (-) 28 -14 212 -48 Cash flow from operating activities before financial items and taxes 154 -103 Interest and other financial expenses -16 -68 Dividends received from operating activities 82 195 Interest and other financial income from operating activities 46 48 Income taxes paid -6 -29 106 146 253 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 FINANCIALS Cash flow from operating activities 260 43 Cash flow from investing activities: Investments in tangible and intangible assets -7 -14 Proceeds from sale of investments 29 1 Proceeds from sale of tangible and intangible assets 9 Loan receivables, increase (-) / decrease (+) and other changes 13 2 Dividends received 1 Cash flow from investing activities 35 -1 Cash flow after investing activities 295 42 Cash flow from financing activities: Loans receivables, increase (-) / decrease (+) -52 -527 Current loans, increase (+) / decrease (-) -86 -49 Proceeds from non-current borrowing 153 150 Repayments and other changes of non-current loans -132 -83 Group contributions 160 273 Dividends paid -197 -178 Cash flow from financing activities -155 -413 Change in cash and bank balances, increase (+) / decrease (-) 140 -371 Cash and bank at beginning of period 103 474 Cash and bank at end of period 243 103 Accounting Principles for the Parent Company The financial statements of the parent company, Wärtsilä Corporation, have been prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Finnish Accounting Standards (FAS). The preparation of the financial statements requires management, in compliance with the regulations in force and good accounting practice, to make estimates and assumptions that affect the measurement and timing of the reported information. Actual results may differ from these estimates. Transactions denominated in foreign currencies Business transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the transaction date. Receivables and payables on the balance sheet date are valued at the exchange rates prevailing on that date. Open hedging instruments of foreign currency based items, including interest components, are valued at the balance sheet date. Exchange gains and losses related to business operations are treated as adjustments to other operating income and operating expenses. Exchange gains and losses related to financing operations are entered under financial income and expenses. 254 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 FINANCIALS Research and development costs Research and development costs are expensed in the financial period in which they occur. Receivables Receivables are valued to acquisition cost or to a lower probable value. Fixed assets and depreciation and amortisation Fixed assets are valued in the balance sheet at their direct acquisition cost less accumulated depreciation. Certain land areas also include revaluations. Depreciation and amortisation is based on the following useful lives: Other long-term expenditure 3–10 years Buildings 20–40 years Machinery and equipment 5–20 years Leasing Lease payments are treated as rentals. Extraordinary income and expenses Extraordinary income and expenses consist of items, such as Group contributions, that fall outside the ordinary activities of the company. Provisions Provisions in the balance sheet comprise those items which the company is committed to covering either through agreements or otherwise, but which are not yet realised. Changes to provisions are included in the income statement. Income taxes Income taxes in the income statement include taxes calculated for the financial year based on Finnish tax provisions, as well as adjustments to taxes in prior years. Taxes allocated to extraordinary items are shown in the notes to the financial statements. Dividends Dividends proposed by the Board of Directors are not recorded in the financial statements until they have been approved by the Annual General Meeting. 255 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 FINANCIALS 1. Other operating income MEUR 2013 2012 Rental income 1 1 Services to Group companies 69 69 Other operating income 2 Total 71 71 2. Personnel expenses MEUR 2013 2012 Wages and salaries 34 32 Pension costs 6 5 Other compulsory personnel costs 2 1 Total 41 38 Salaries and remunerations paid to senior management The President and CEO and his deputy and members of the Board of Directors 2 2 The President and CEO and some of the members of the Board of Management have the right to retire at the age of 60 years. The Company's Board of Directors decides the remunerations of the President and CEO and his immediate subordinates. Personnel on average during the year 320 311 3. Depreciation and amortisation MEUR 2013 2012 Depreciation and amortisation according to plan Other long-term expenditure 10 11 Total depreciation according to plan 10 11 Tax depreciations 7 14 Depreciation difference 3 -2 Depreciation difference Depreciation difference on 1 January 10 8 Change in the depreciation difference -3 2 Depreciation difference on 31 December 7 10 256 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 FINANCIALS 4. Financial income and expenses MEUR 2013 2012 Dividend income From Group companies 82 195 From other companies 1 Total 82 196 Other interest income From Group companies 29 35 From other companies 1 Total 29 36 Other financial income From Group companies 4 3 From other companies 12 8 Total 16 11 Exchange gains and losses -1 -27 Interest expenses To Group companies -6 -9 To other companies -12 -15 Total -18 -24 Other financial expenses To Group companies -12 -4 To other companies -12 -9 Total -24 -13 Net income from sales of shares and securities 25 1 Financial income and expenses, total 111 180 5. Extraordinary income and expenses MEUR 2013 2012 Group contributions received 161 160 6. Income taxes MEUR 2013 2012 Income taxes for the financial period -33 -19 Total -33 -19 Income taxes on extraordinary items 39 39 257 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 FINANCIALS 7. Fixed assets Intangible assets Other longterm Construction MEUR expenditures in progress Total 2013 Total 2012 Acquisition cost at January 1 135 3 139 140 Additions 2 3 5 11 Disposals -12 Reclassifications 3 -2 1 Acquisition cost at December 31 140 5 145 139 Accumulated amortisation at January 1 -115 -116 -107 Accumulated amortisation on disposals and other changes 3 Amortisation during the financial period -10 -10 -11 Accumulated amortisation at December 31 -125 -126 -116 Carrying amount at 31 December 2013 15 5 20 Carrying amount at 31 December 2012 20 3 23 Tangible assets Land Buildings Machinery Other and and and Construction tangible MEUR water structures equipment in progress assets Total 2013 Total 2012 Acquisition cost at January 1 7 11 11 4 2 35 33 Additions 1 1 3 Reclassifications -1 -1 -1 Acquisition cost at December 31 8 11 11 3 2 35 35 Accumulated depreciation at January 1 -10 -11 -1 -23 -23 Accumulated depreciation at December 31 -10 -11 -1 -23 -23 Carrying amount at 31 December 2013 8 1 3 1 13 Carrying amount at 31 December 2012 7 1 4 1 13 Shares and securities Shares in Receivables Shares in Group from Group other MEUR companies companies companies Total 2013 Total 2012 Acquisition cost at January 1 450 6 456 457 Additions Disposals -4 -4 -1 Acquisition cost at December 31 450 2 452 456 Carrying amount at 31 December 2013 450 2 452 Carrying amount at 31 December 2012 450 6 456 258 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 FINANCIALS 8. Non-current receivables MEUR 2013 2012 Receivables from Group companies Loan receivables 44 320 Total 44 320 9. Current receivables from Group companies MEUR 2013 2012 Trade receivables 3 4 Loan receivables 2 007 1 911 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 32 13 Total 2 042 1 929 10. Prepaid expenses and accrued income MEUR 2013 2012 Derivatives 26 16 Other financial items 5 9 Income and other taxes 15 Other 2 2 Total 33 43 259 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 FINANCIALS 11. Shareholders' equity MEUR 2013 2012 Share capital Share capital on January 1 336 336 Share capital on December 31 336 336 Share premium reserve Share premium reserve on January 1 61 61 Share premium reserve on December 31 61 61 Retained earnings Retained earnings on January 1 1 050 974 Dividends paid -197 -178 Result for the financial period 174 253 Retained earnings on December 31 1 027 1 050 Total shareholders' equity 1 424 1 447 Distributable equity 1 027 1 050 Free share issue approved by Wärtsilä Corporation’s Annual General Meeting on 3 March 2011 increased the total number of Wärtsilä shares to 197 241 130. 12. Liabilities MEUR 2013 2012 Non-current Interest-bearing 549 517 Total 549 517 Current Non-interest-bearing 98 65 Interest-bearing 750 849 Total 848 915 260 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 FINANCIALS Debt with maturity profile 2013 Current Long-term MEUR < 1 year 1-5 years > 5 years Total Loans from financial institutions 31 310 159 499 Loans from pension institutions 37 80 117 Total 68 390 159 617 2012 Current Long-term MEUR < 1 year 1-5 years > 5 years Total Loans from financial institutions 28 225 121 375 Loans from pension institutions 51 110 8 168 Total 79 335 129 543 13. Accrued expenses and deferred income MEUR 2013 2012 Income and other taxes 12 Derivatives 27 13 Personnel costs 17 13 Interest and other financial items 4 9 Other 4 4 Total 62 39 14. Liabilities to Group companies MEUR 2013 2012 Other long-term liabilities 53 Trade payables 5 6 Other current liabilities 668 630 Accrued expenses and deferred income 24 14 Total 697 702 261 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 FINANCIALS 15. Collateral, contingent liabilities and other commitments 2013 2012 Debt in Debt in MEUR balance sheet balance sheet Guarantees and contingent liabilities On behalf of Group companies 665 433 On behalf of associated companies 7 9 Total 672 442 Future nominal lease payments Payable within one year 2 3 Payable after one year 21 1 Total 23 4 16. Related party loans and other commitments There are no loans receivables from senior management and the members of the Board of Directors. No pledges or other commitments were given on behalf of senior management or shareholders. In Note 27 in Consolidated financial statements, related party disclosures are specified. Related parties comprise the Board of Directors, the President and CEO, the Board of Management as well as the associated companies and joint ventures. In Notes 9 and 14 in Parent Company financial statement, receivables and liabilities from Group companies are specified. 17. Auditor's fees and services The following fees were paid to auditors and accounting firms for audits and other services. In 2013, the AGM appointed the firm of public accountants KPMG Oy Ab as Wärtsilä Corporation's auditor. Auditor's fees TEUR 2013 2012 Audit 177 178 Tax advisory 136 281 Other services 289 107 Total 602 566 262 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 FINANCIALS Proposal of the Board The parent company’s distributable funds total 1,027,025,847.20 euro, which includes 174,475,007.05 euro in net profit for the year. There are 197,241,130 shares with dividend rights. The Board of Directors proposes to the Annual General Meeting that the company’s distributable earnings be disposed of in the following way: EUR A dividend of EUR 1.05 per share be paid, making a total of 207 103 186.50 That the following sum be retained in shareholders’ equity 819 922 660.70 Totalling 1 027 025 847.20 No significant changes have taken place in the company’s financial position since the end of the financial year. The company’s liquidity is good and in the opinion of the Board of Directors the proposed dividend will not put the company’s solvency at risk. Helsinki, Finland, 28 January 2014 Mikael Lilius Kaj-Gustaf Bergh Maarit Aarni-Sirviö Sune Carlsson Alexander Ehrnrooth Paul Ehrnrooth Gunilla Nordström Markus Rauramo Matti Vuoria Björn Rosengren, President and CEO 263 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 FINANCIALS Auditor's report To the Annual General Meeting of Wärtsilä Corporation We have audited the accounting records, the financial statements, the report of the Board of Directors, and the administration of Wärtsilä Corporation for the year ended 31 December, 2013. The financial statements comprise the consolidated statement of financial position, consolidated statement of income, statement of comprehensive income, statement of changes in equity and statement of cash flows, and notes to the consolidated financial statements, as well as the parent company’s balance sheet, income statement, cash flow statement and notes to the financial statements. Responsibility of the Board of Directors and the President and CEO The Board of Directors and the President and CEO are responsible for the preparation of consolidated financial statements that give a true and fair view in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the EU, as well as for the preparation of financial statements and the report of the Board of Directors that give a true and fair view in accordance with the laws and regulations governing the preparation of the financial statements and the report of the Board of Directors in Finland. The Board of Directors is responsible for the appropriate arrangement of the control of the company’s accounts and finances, and the President and CEO shall see to it that the accounts of the company are in compliance with the law and that its financial affairs have been arranged in a reliable manner. Auditor’s Responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the financial statements, on the consolidated financial statements and on the report of the Board of Directors based on our audit. The Auditing Act requires that we comply with the requirements of professional ethics. We conducted our audit in accordance with good auditing practice in Finland. Good auditing practice requires that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements and the report of the Board of Directors are free from material misstatement, and whether the members of the Board of Directors of the parent company or the President and CEO are guilty of an act or negligence which may result in liability in damages towards the company or have violated the Limited Liability Companies Act or the articles of association of the company. An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the report of the Board of Directors. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation of financial statements and report of the Board of Directors that give a true and fair view in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the company’s internal control. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements and the report of the Board of Directors. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion. Opinion on the consolidated financial statements In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position, financial performance, and cash flows of the group in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the EU. 264 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 FINANCIALS Opinion on the company’s financial statements and the report of the Board of Directors In our opinion, the financial statements and the report of the Board of Directors give a true and fair view of both the consolidated and the parent company’s financial performance and financial position in accordance with the laws and regulations governing the preparation of the financial statements and the report of the Board of Directors in Finland. The information in the report of the Board of Directors is consistent with the information in the financial statements. Other opinions We support the adoption of the financial statements. The proposal by the Board of Directors regarding the treatment of distributable funds is in compliance with the Limited Liability Companies Act. We support that the Board of Directors of the parent company and the President and CEO be discharged from liability for the financial period audited by us. Helsinki, January 28, 2014 KPMG Oy Ab Virpi Halonen Authorized Public Accountant 265 WÄRTSILÄ CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT 2013 FINANCIALS Quarterly figures 2012–2013 Condensed Statement of Income Restated Restated Restated Restated MEUR Q4/2013 Q3/2013 Q2/2013 Q1/2013 Q4/2012 Q3/2012 Q2/2012 Q1/2012 Net sales 1 411 1 209 1 152 882 1 533 1 087 1 099 1 005 Other operating income 29 18 31 7 12 11 35 10 Expenses -1 226 -1 071 -1 046 -793 -1 343 -958 -990 -889 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment -29 -30 -32 -32 -38 -33 -35 -33 Share of result of associates and joint ventures 7 4 6 5 7 3 -1 1 Operating result 191 130 110 69 171 110 108 94 Financial income and expenses -11 -4 -5 1 -9 -11 -11 -1 Net income from available-for-sale assets 25 1 Profit before taxes 181 126 104 96 162 99 98 93 Income taxes -33 -31 -25 -23 -37 -23 -22 -27 Profit for the financial period 147 95 79 73 124 77 77 66 Earnings per share, EUR 0.74 0.48 0.39 0.37 0.62 0.38 0.38 0.33 Order intake 1 351 1 097 1 071 1 352 1 357 1 275 1 198 1 109 Order book, at the end of the financial year 4 426 4 568 4 763 4 998 4 492 4 724 4 515 4 409 Number of personnel, at the end of the year 18 663 18 776 18 620 18 674 18 887 18 961 19 161 19 073 266
