FROM LANDING TO TAKE OFF: WE CARE! SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 TABLE OF CEO Statement 4 CONTENTS Introduction to our S ­ ustainability Report 2014  6 Mission ­Statement6 Economic Sustainability7 Facts & ­Figures8 Milestones8 Headcount Reporting 9 Products and Services  11 HUB & Base Management  15 Governance  16 Responsibilities  17 Environ­mental Sustainability  18 Environmental Policy  19 Main Activities 19 2 Human Rights & Labour Principles  20 Society & Sustainability  21 Code of Conduct 22 Fair Competition  22 Anti-Corruption  22 Web-based training  23 Social Sustainability23 Equal ­Opportunities & Recruitment Policy  24 Retention  24 Compensation & Benefits  25 Employee Relations  26 Swissport Health M­ anagement & Pension Scheme26 Training  27 Organisational ­Structure 30 ­ esponsibility & Sustainability31 Product R Global S ­ tandards – Local ­Champions 34 Performance Management  35 Our Stakeholders 35 Customer ­Dialogue36 Local ­Contributions36 Awards & Recognition  37 About this Report  38 3 CEO This report is designed to show a snapshot of the Swissport world, providing you with an insight into our understanding of sustainable practices and what makes us who we STATEMENT are. We operate in a challenging industry, where the only real constant is change. Therefore, it is imperative to our customers that Swissport is able to navigate these challenges on their behalf in order to keep their operations and their businesses running smoothly. Swissport International Ltd. and all its subsidiaries (collectively, “Swissport”) have a commitment to the highest ethical standards. Yet, as we continue to grow and expand our business we will face challenging ethical dilemmas. We have set the bar high for all our activities to support our mission of “providing the aviation industry with consistent and tailor-made solutions around the globe for a better customer experience”. Swissport’s ethical and behavioural principles, which apply throughout all the countries in which we are active, are enshrined and explained in our Code of Conduct (the “Code”), which is intended to serve as a guide to Corporate and employee ethical ­be­haviour. Along with the Code, our Core Values – People, Professionalism and Partnership – form a strong foundation for our actions. This provides a consistent guideline for how we work with our clients, each other, and our business partners and communities. Aviation has been and will always be a very dynamic and cyclical business. This is why it is so important that its various players maintain great flexibility in responding to the industry’s constant shifts and realign their processes as swiftly as possible to the many changed and changing conditions. “During 2013 some confidence returned to the ­challenging cargo markets, although not to any significant degree. Load factors were weak at 45,3 %, while capacity outstripped growth, the 2 % growth in Freight Tonne ­Kilometres in 2013 was mainly achieved in the last 6 months of the year, after a period of stagnation. A trend of accelerated growth and confidence in air freight has marked the beginning of 2014. Air traffic between regions of the world on the other hand experienced continuous growth for the most part, although the rate of growth decreased.” (IATA Annual review 2014). The key success factor in such a difficult market environment is increased competitiveness. We have also had to face challenges: set-backs such as the loss of business, pricing pressure, increased labour costs and volume volatility in certain countries. 4 We were very pleased to have concluded the acquisition of Servisair, the biggest step taken by Swissport in 2013. The acquisition is an essential part of Swissport’s growth strategy. Our customers benefit from the enlarged global network, the increased portfolio of valueadded services, the combined operational excellence and the consistent service quality worldwide. The integration of Servisair into Swissport is developing according to plan with a completion expected within 2014. It is important though that we do not rest on our successes, and that we have developed methods and tools for continuous improvement, working with our customers in a collaborative way to ensure that we always strive to be the best and offer innovative and optimal solutions to all of our customers – existing and new – across all of our many and diverse operations. For the coming period Swissport will be putting a particular tactical and strategic focus on achieving and maintaining profitable and sustainable growth. To underline our commitment to sustainable practice, Swissport joined the United Nations Global Compact in 2011, expressing our support of the Ten Principles in the areas of ­human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. We are, and we will continue to be, committed to making the UN Global Compact and its Ten Principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of Swissport. In addition to the above-mentioned fundamentals, Swissport also has a Group Environmental Policy which was established in and has been valid since 2007. It is my expectation that all employees will commit to the highest standards of business conduct and will act with complete integrity. You can be assured that all members of the Board and the Group Executive Management have made the same commitment. This ­Sustainability Report gives us the opportunity to share a little bit of our vision with you. Per H. Utnegaard President & CEO Swissport International Ltd. 5 INTRODUCTION The Swissport Sustainability Report 2014 summarizes the world of Swissport and its global operations from a sustainability perspective. The report enables stakeholders and readers to TO OUR get an overview of the impacts, risks and opportunities Swissport has identified as material in terms of sustainability. ­SUSTAINABILITY Given the nature of our business, social sustainability and its sub-categories labour ­practices and decent work, human rights, product responsibility, and society are the most REPORT 2014 material factors identified by Swissport. Environmental sustainable practices are an increasingly important area to consider for all companies in all industries. Swissport and the aviation industry are no exception. Due to Swissport’s business nature, the operation of ground service equipment (“GSE”) has been identified as the main source of environmental impact which can be influenced by the ­organization. The actions taken to cope with this impact are further disclosed in this report. Sustainable economic growth has always been and remains a strategic focus for Swissport. Since Swissport is a service provider and does not own any production plants or airports, we focus on our indirect economic impact on society by ensuring a fair and safe working environment for our locally hired staff, by full compliance with local legal and tax regulations and various contributions to local societies where Swissport operates. Examples of these contributions to local communities are disclosed further in this report. MISSION To provide the aviation industry with consistent and tailor-made solutions around the globe, for a better customer experience. ­STATEMENT Swissport is a people-focused organisation– only with our people will we achieve our goals and our vision. As such, we focus on the principles of sustainability and compliance, living by our Corporate Core Values: ·· People ·· Professionalism ·· Partnership The ongoing professional development of the people within Swissport ensures that: ·· We show respect towards our people and their values; we do not compromise on safety and work with enthusiasm and enjoyment. ·· We are pioneers; working constantly towards achieving sustainable results, we creatively explore new options and improved solutions. ·· Continually striving to exceed the expectations of our clients and our commitments, we deliver excellent service; in any place, at any time. Swissport is the biggest global airport and aviation service provider in terms of quality, reliability, safety, innovation and network coverage. Offering a comprehensive range of services, Swissport is able to provide an “all-inclusive” service package in addition to ­managing integrated collaboration models. ·· Ground Handling ·· Cargo Services ·· Executive Aviation ·· Fuelling Services ·· Aircraft Maintenance ·· Aviation Security 6 “ At Swissport, we are working hard to ensure that we reach our goal of sustainable economic growth. Sustainable economic growth is not just concerning financial ECONOMIC results at Swissport, it is also about ensuring a stable and safe workplace for our local staff at our local operations. In order to achieve the goal of sustainable SUSTAINABILITY ­economic growth, Swissport is focused on consolidating and strengthening our ” ­market position to ensure we are constantly driving industry innovation in key areas such as service, quality and reliability.  Per H. Utnegaard, CEO & President Closing the acquisition of Servisair was a big strategic step towards a stronger position in the competitive landscape for Swissport, giving us stronger market presence in critical markets in the UK, US and Canada. The integration of Servisair into Swissport started beginning of January 2014 with a completion expected within 2014. With the closing, Swissport, owned by PAI Partners, now employs more than 55,000 ­personnel, and the company’s network exceeds 255 stations in 44 countries. Swissport’s expanded and comprehensive service offering compliments more than 700 customers, which equates to more than 3.9 Mio flights and 224 Mio passengers served per annum. An estimated 4 Mio tons of cargo are moved and 120 warehouses are operated worldwide throughout the combined network. Swissport is recognized as the benchmark in terms of value for money, customer dedication, and cost management. The company has established a global reputation for being a valued business partner, not only because of our financial resources and modern ground support equipment, but also due to our intangible assets, particularly management expertise and a brand name that stands for superior quality. Overall responsibility for the strategy and development of the economic impacts and ­market presence lies with the CEO together with the CFO of Swissport. The Swissport Formula describes “how we do things at Swissport” – it is an organizationwide established set of policies, practices and standards ensuring sustainable economic growth and continued success in all the markets were Swissport is present. Efficient and secure operations form a sustainable basis for development and provide customer confidence and peace of mind, in addition to reducing costs. With the Swissport Formula, ­customers and employees experience the benefits of global alignment, standardization and consistency every day. Swissport does not disclose financial results to a full extent; however the facts and figures provided in this report show a good overview of the economic performance and world wide market presence of Swissport. It is important to add that Swissport as a ground handling service provider does not own or run any production plants or airports that could have a significant indirect economic impact on the environment or society. As a consequence of this, the indirect economic impacts of Swissport’s operations are not deemed material. However Swissport recognizes that as a global company operating on local levels, we have a responsibility towards the local communities. So we ensure a fair and safe working environment for our locally hired staff and our full compliance with local legal and tax regulations as well as various positive contributions to local communities as disclosed later in this report. 7 FACTS & 2013 Revenue (not normalised) CHF 3.0 billion ­FIGURES Countries 45 Employees > 55,000 Flights handled (movements) > 3.9 million Cargo handled (tonnes) > 4.1 million Warehouses > 120 Airports served > 263 Customer airlines > 700 Passengers handled (departures) > 224 million Countries Continent Countries Stations South America 6 36 Africa 8 33 Asia & Middle East 3 8 North America 2 65 Central America & the Caribbean 7 18 Europe 19 105 MILESTONES 2013 ·· Swissport announces acquisition of Servisair and continues to improve its worldwide service offering; customers benefit from the enlarged global network, the increased service portfolio, combined operational excellence and consistent service quality worldwide ·· Swissport acquires a 10 % stake in each of Scandinavian Airlines System’s (SAS) three ground handling companies ·· Swissport cooperates with “Service-VS”, the ground handling operator at Vnukovo Airport in Russia ·· Swissport acquires a majority stake in InterAirport Services (IAS) in Costa Rica ·· Swissport wins ACW award for Air Cargo Handling Agent of the Year for the fifth consecutive year ·· Swissport wins the Ground Handling category of the Cargo Airline of the Year Awards 2013 ·· Swissport is voted Best Cargo Handler in Africa for the second time in a row by ­readers of The STAT Trade Times Magazine ·· Swissport is certified as the first Preferred Handling Partner (PHP) of Etihad Cargo 8 Swissport’s headcount reporting is consolidated on a monthly basis for all the legal and operating entities of the Swissport Group with a majority participation of Swissport HEADCOUNT (> 50 % Swissport participation). It includes a consolidated overview over all headcount, male / female ratios and the allocation of permanent and temporary contracts. The headREPORTING count report also shows the headcounts per division and per continent, for managing the business effectively. It forms the basis for calculating HR-related performance indicators. Total Headcount as of 31.12.2013: 56 830 Full-time/Part-time Permanent/Temporary Employment Employment Total Permanent Total Full-time Total Temporary Total Part-time 8% 31% 69% 92% Male/Female Headcount per Workforce Category Employment Direct Operation Total Male Ops Supervision Total Female 3% 2% 0% Support Functions Station Mgmt 10% 31% 69% 85% 9 Headcount per Continent Headcount per Business Line North America Passenger Services Ramp Services South America Cargo Warehouse Cargo Office 3% Europe Aviation Security 1% 2% 0% 3% Executive Aviation Asia Aircraft Maintenance 4% 3% 12% 4% Africa 26% 31% 8% 43% 16% 44% Ground Handling The award-winning Swissport Ground Handling business currently provides passenger PRODUCTS and ramp handling at over 192 stations worldwide and serves in excess of 224 million ­passengers per annum. Today, Swissport is recognised as the biggest independent global AND SERVICES ground services provider with the largest number of hub and Low Cost Carrier base ­operations globally. Innovation Swissport has the advantage of being able to exchange expertise and share best practices from all over the world – the benefit of which is seen in the Swissport Formula. Due to our global presence, operational practices and service innovations are being developed and implemented on an ongoing basis. Process and service optimisation, through the use of information technology, has been crucial to the success of Swissport. Our vast reach and network enables rapid adoption of the latest technologies, which deliver efficiency and cost-effective operations on site. Using the benefit both of our experience and proprietary software for resource optimisation enables Swissport to develop rapid turnaround times without sacrificing quality of service. Processes are documented and described in detailed operations manuals to ensure safe handling according to the ISAGO authority. Our aim is to serve our airline customers in the most effective way while also being cognisant of the individual needs and requirements of each of our customers. Outlook Swissport is monitoring automation developments in the area of ground-service provision very closely. We constantly strive to reduce our production costs with the early integration of newly created features within our scope of activities. The automation process is already well developed in the area of passenger handling, including: ·· Fully automated passenger handling at check-in ·· Automated boarding processes Swissport also supports working groups with our know-how in order to advance the same kind of automation in other areas, such as: ·· Self-service devices at Lost & Found counters ·· Checked-baggage screening ·· Central load control Our well-established operational monitoring tools allow us to test every change in ­procedure and verify the impact of any deviation to the running process. Swissport is an organisation that is actively shaping the future for the benefit of our customers. 11 Cargo Swissport is the world’s biggest Cargo Services provider, offering award-winning Cargo Handling at more than 109 airports worldwide, and handling in excess of 4.1 million tonnes annually. The cargo organisation is set up to allow global, regional and local representation at both sales and operational levels through its Customer Relationship Management (CRM) process, which is designed to improve the customer experience. Swissport Cargo is in the process of rolling out new technologies to improve operational capabilities and allow the customer to experience cost savings throughout the contract period, and we have linked this process to Cargo 2000 (C2K) measurements across our network. Our size and scope allows Customers to manage multiple operations through a single point of contact, one common Service Level Agreement (SLA) and one invoice if necessary, saving on administration costs. Innovation With daily monitoring of the key business drivers and shipment tracking in line with Cargo 2000 (C2K) standards, we have a transparent overview of our services that ensures service quality and enforces operational excellence. Implementation of hand-held terminals reduces human error and ensures efficient operation, which allows our customers to also benefit from reduced handling and associated costs. Daily follow-ups on hours worked, volumes handled, door waiting times and many other measures ensure a scorecard approach to daily activity which further supports the Cargo operations and helps to deliver efficient operations. Swissport will continue to improve technology and interfaces for its customers and has many new and exciting advancements in production to minimise cost and improve operational readiness. We are also committed to improving the look and feel of our facilities, as well as to grow and develop new operations worldwide. Some benefits of this approach to innovation include: ·· Cargospot: The system used to manage our Cargo business, interfacing with any ­airline system. ·· Freightfinder: Using the latest technology, Freightfinder allows you to track and trace your freight in any of our warehouses worldwide. ·· Hand-Held Terminals: Swissport’s customers benefit from real-time status updates so shipments can be tracked and traced in our warehouses. ·· Volume Scanning Devices: Allow our customers to calculate the volume of shipments with accuracy. ·· SHIELD Document Imaging System: Capturing the entire flight pouch digitally solves the problem of missing documents. 12 Outlook The continued drive to grow with our customers and to ensure that we continue to deliver the highest quality handling in the most cost-efficient way is our prime focus in 2014. By leveraging the use of system-management and implementing innovative, solid operational and financial processes together with our customers, we will continue to enhance our prime position in cargo handling services. Our Global Account Management Team allows customers to benefit from full access to Swissport’s specialist resources, including the latest industry information and cutting-edge operating solutions designed to optimise the efficiency of customers’ handling processes. This specialised team provides our customers with peace of mind and an established confidential relationship to explore and develop new opportunities and strategies. This single point of contact allows quality consistency, open communication and increased transparency in the handling process. We tailor operations to the needs of our customers and create a suite of reports based on their information requirements, both at operational and sales levels. The acquisition of Flightcare in 2012 has enabled our cargo product entry into the important Spanish market; this is further enhanced by the opening of new operations in Japan and Denmark. Executive Aviation Swissport Executive Aviation (SEA) & PrivatPort provide exclusive ground handling services to the international community of operators and executives who utilise private or corporate jets in up to 78 stations worldwide. The mission is to make arrivals, stopovers and departures as convenient and smooth as possible for passengers and crew, providing a customised spectrum of aircraft care services. These bespoke service requirements are offered by professionals with good expertise, exceptional skills in servicing and understanding the importance of the business aviation world. The dedicated teams are hand-picked for their commitment to the job and are highly committed to their assignment, delivering assistance beyond expectation. Fuelling Swissport Fuelling Services is an international company that provides high quality, independent aviation fuel handling on behalf of airlines, airports and fuel suppliers. We provide a full service solution with regards to our clients’ fuelling needs including both on and off airport fuel storage and distribution systems. Swissport Fuelling Services has a proven track record in demonstrating a full understanding of the requirements and responsibilities of maintaining aviation fuel systems, with a focus on safety, cost control, inventory management and a clear emphasis on environmental compliance and responsibility. Swissport Fuelling Services provides our customers with safe, efficient, independent into-plane fuelling services whilst leading the industry in on-time performance. Our expertise and knowledge in this specialist field also assists our clients in the design, construction and commissioning of aviation fuelling facilities and related structures. Swissport Fuelling Services operates to the highest industry standards in Health, Safety and Environment. Our policies and procedures have been developed in accordance with the Air Transport Association (ATA) 103 Specification and the Joint Inspection Group (JIG) Guidelines for Aviation Fuel Quality Control & Operating Procedures. 13 Aircraft Maintenance Swissport Aircraft Maintenance, the recipient of the prestigious FAA Certificate of Excellence Diamond Award, is a quality provider of third-party line maintenance services operating at 27 airports in the USA and in four other countries globally, providing line maintenance support to major commercial airlines on both a scheduled and on-call basis, ensuring that all capital-intensive equipment operates and performs flawlessly. Swissport’s A & P Mechanics has the training, knowledge and expertise to meet our customers’ demands. Ground Support Equipment (GSE) Maintenance Swissport GSE and ULD Maintenance Services operate at over 45 airports in 13 countries, managing and maintaining a fleet of more than 4,000 units. Our commitment is to offering superior and consistent standards and dedication throughout our network: providing reliable, comprehensive and cost-effective GSE maintenance, minimising downtime and ­maximising productivity. Swissport Maintenance Services is committed to working within the industry towards the research and development of efficient, safe, ergonomic and environmentally friendly Ground Services Equipment. Aviation Security Swissport Aviation Security (Checkport) provides security services for more than 40 customers in over 10 countries worldwide. The team working within the organisation is highly trained in both security and vulnerability assessments, providing complete solutions for our customers. Swissport Aviation Security customers have the flexibility to choose the solution fit for them; be it on a local or a global level, the Checkport entities guarantee full ­flexibility for the procurement of security services. Our services and expertise in this specialised field are based on more than 20 years’ experience within Aviation Security with a clear focus on, and commitment to quality solutions and integrated products for the client’s convenience. Working with Swissport allows our clients to purchase security services via ground handling and cargo and benefit from the synergies realized by the integration of security tasks in existing processes, such as: ·· Check-In Security Combined Check-In and Security Services ·· Gate Security Combined Gate and Security Services ·· Cabin Clean & Search Combined Cleaning and Security Services 14 Outsourcing continues to play an important role in the aviation and airport services industry. As airlines continue to focus on profitability, they are increasingly focusing on their HUB & BASE core business: passenger transportation. While the Swissport service portfolio can begin from a single station, true partnership comes when Swissport provides the full management MANAGEMENT of our airline partner’s hub or base operations. Swissport HQ assumes professional project leadership from appointment through to the operational start, providing total reassurance for our customers during transition. Experienced field managers from our global network support the implementation on site. This solution encompasses vast commercial expertise from more than 700 customer airlines. Quality reassurance is given to our customers via the operational and leadership training of local staff and management. Commissioning Swissport with hub operations is both financially and operationally sensible for our customers. Swissport has earned our customers’ trust for hub management through our proven track record in best practice, quality and industry-leading processes and procedures in addition to our commitment to continuous innovation in service provision. Swissport is well positioned to manage the sensitive responsibility for hub management for our customers – success stories include Munich – the regional fleet of Lufthansa, Helsinki – Finnair, Larnaca – Cyprus Airways, Johannesburg – South African Airways, Sao Paolo and Rio – Gol / Cargo: 3 stations for United in the USA. 15 GOVERNANCE Group Executive Management (GEM) President & CEO Per H. Utnegaard* EVP EA & LATAM EVP North and Global EVP Central & SVP and Head America, Japan Commercial Eastern Europe of Global Cargo & Korea Juan José Philipp Joeinig* Nils Pries Knudsen Joe Phelan* Andrés Alvez* EVP Human EVP Legal & Risk EVP Finance & Resources, SVP Group Management CFO Communications Services Johannes Alvaro Gómez-Reino* & Marketing Luzius Wirth C. Spindler* Peter Moser* * GEM Members 16 Topic Lead / responsibility General strategy of Swissport Chairman of the Board and Board RESPONSIBILITIES members, CEO / GEM members Strategy of Divisions / subsidiaries Division Head / Unit Head or business lines Financial results / investor relations CEO / CFO Acquisitions & mergers CEO / CFO / BOD / Investment Committee Press releases & articles / media contacts / VP Corp. Communications & Marketing CD & CI New operations & major contracts Division Head / Unit Head Environmental & political issues CEO / Legal / Corp. Communications & Marketing or Legal department / Division Heads Crisis Communication CEO / Corp. Communications & Marketing / GEM members (Group emergency guidelines), Risk Manager Swissport Local activities on station level Local Management Labour issues Local CEO with Human Resources Overall responsibility for the development and implementation of equal opportunity initiatives rests with the Chief Executive Officer of the company. It is the responsibility of each manager to ensure that the associated policies and procedures are published and communicated to all staff within their area of responsibility. It is also the responsibility of each manager to ensure that effective monitoring takes place to provide assurance that the policies & procedures are being adhered to. Furthermore, it is the responsibility of every staff member to ensure that their actions adhere to the associated policies and procedures that apply in their place of work. Failure to do so could lead to disciplinary action, including dismissal. In general, all Swissport policies and procedures are designed to comply with local law, represent the best human resource management practices, encourage and respect diversity and ensure equal opportunities, foster a team approach to business success, offer development and secure employment, and provide competitive remuneration and other terms and conditions. These policies, processes and guidelines are in place to provide guidance, structure and alignment for the various HR activities. Group Executive Management Meetings (GEMM) take place on a monthly basis to review the business performance including economic, environmental, and social performance in order to assess risks and opportunities, and general compliance with the principles, guidelines and international agreed standards. This ensures that any fluctuation in country or operational performances can be identified immediately; actions and improvements can be implemented and reviewed monthly. In addition, the divisional EVPs and the Group CEO visit the key countries several times a year to conduct in-depth business reviews. These reviews are supported and rounded-off by internal safety and management audits, external audits (e.g. ISO / ISAGO and / or airline audits) as well as independent internal corporate group audits, which report directly to the Board of Directors. All Governance mechanisms, processes and procedures are compliant with the general norms. Currently, the Group Executive Management has only male members. This fact has been addressed regularly and seriously. Swissport wants to reiterate that this has been and will be addressed in any recruitment and is not the result of discrimination. All 6 members of the Board of Directors are dependent (PAI or Swissport), except the Chairman Dr Staehlin. 100 % of the members of the GEM are in the age group of 35 – 60 and none of the members are of any minority group. 17 ENVIRON­ “ Swissport International Ltd has been a participant of the UN Global Compact for more than three years. This membership stands for our continued efforts in MENTAL ­environmental sustainability. We are, and we will continue to be committed to ” ­making environmental sustainable practices a part of our strategy, culture and day SUSTAINABILITY to day operations of our company.  Per H. Utnegaard, CEO & President According to the United Nations Global Compact Principles, businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges, undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility and encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. We strive to continually improve our environmental management system, with the goal of improved environmental performance. For Swissport, corporate social responsibility focuses on safeguarding society and mankind by preserving our living conditions, as well as ensuring safety for our employees. We achieve environmental quality by proactively, systematically and fully integrating environmental considerations into the planning and execution of our work. Our environmental protection activities are focused on our ground service equipment (GSE). The Swissport Group has issued an Environmental Policy which sets the goals of minimizing negative environmental impact, endeavour for continuous improvement for our services and for more effective production processes with customer adapted solutions, to be economical with raw material, materials and energy, to increase awareness of environmental issues among all employees to a level where environmental considerations become one`s own responsibility and finally to foster low-emission service vehicles and ground service equipment. Overall responsibility for the development and implementation of environmental initiatives rests with the Chief Executive Officer of the company. It is the responsibility of each manager to ensure that the associated policies and procedures are published and communicated to all staff within their area of responsibility. Employee behaviour is guided through awareness training and regular briefings. Typically, the operational areas interface directly with the airport infrastructures. Swissport has to make use of the locations, assigned infrastructures and processes prescribed by the local authorities. Swissport is using safety analysis and review systems to identify, control, or reduce environment, safety, and health risks through engineering and administrative controls. We strive to continually improve our environmental management system, with the goal of improved environmental performance. In addition to this we are evaluating our environmental performance through periodic reviews and audits to ensure that our conduct is consistent with these principles. Swissport is compliant with all local environmental laws, regulations and standards. In the period covered by this report, Swissport was neither involved in any rulings, nor made liable as a result of environmental non compliance. 18 Swissport has made an effort to identify our main environmental impact areas as below. Guidelines are given to all operations on the design of operational and managerial proceENVIRON­ dures. The Swissport environmental policy focuses on the following core impact areas: Operational Managerial Behaviour MENTAL POLICY GSE Maintenance GSE Purchasing GSE Usage Anti/ De-Icing Stationary Purchasing Office Electricity Waste Management Office Airconditioning Lavatory Services Waste Recycling Fuelling In addition to complying with all applicable environmental laws and regulations, Swissport is committed to: ·· making environmental concerns an integral part of our planning and decision-making process and committing sufficient resources to implementing effective environmental programmes; ·· practising sound environmental management of all Swissport-operated facilities and properties and all natural resources under our management; educating employees to be accountable for environmental management and encouraging them to seek innovative ways to improve the environmental aspects of our operations; ·· minimising, mitigating or restoring any adverse environmental impacts caused by our operations; maintaining open relationships with our customers, employees and government agencies to meet their information needs with regards to environmental issues; ·· continually improving our environmental programmes; ·· ensuring the proper handling and disposal of all wastes, and minimising their creation while pursuing opportunities to prevent pollution and recycle and reuse waste materials; ·· evaluating our environmental performance through periodic reviews and audits to ensure that our conduct is consistent with these principles. GSE Due to Swissport’s business nature, the operation of ground service equipment (GSE) has MAIN been identified as the main source of environmental impact, which could be influenced by the organisation. Within our own organisation, Swissport maintains continuous contact ACTIVITIES with major GSE manufacturers worldwide to evaluate adequate equipment with minimal environmental impact. For example, Swissport has been operating electrically powered GSE for many years wherever possible and available. Some electrical ground-service equipment reduces fuel usage by 30 – 40 %. In the Swissport de-icing business, the use of glycol is strictly monitored. Swissport constantly strives for an optimisation of glycol use and glycol recovery by using state-of-the-art technology. A glycol mix is a Swissport standard for optimised glycol usage, i.e. to reduce the use of glycol to the minimum necessary. Fuelling Swissport’s Fuelling operation is fully committed to meeting its customers’ fuelling and fuel storage needs in a manner consistent with a clean environment. We believe it is both good business practice and our duty to protect the natural resources of the communities which we serve while maintaining outstanding service to our customers. In keeping with this belief, it is our policy to conduct our business in an environmentally responsible manner that protects the public, our customers, our employees and the environment. To ensure minimum spilling of fuel, a “zero-drop” compliance and incentive in the fuelling service has been implemented, both for environmental and for safety reasons. 19 Green Logistics The majority of the GSE is leased, hence there is minimal logistics required for transportation of GSE from one location to another. When GSE transportation is required, the method of transportation depends on various factors, such as distance and volume for example. In most cases, the logistic suppliers transport GSE by boat. Duty travel by air is kept at the lowest possible level – a policy with top management attention. Car-sharing options and discounted rates for public travel or hire cars are offered in order to reduce the personal need for a car. Video conferencing, WebEx, Skype and telephone conferencing are oftenused alternatives to business travel. Video conferences are preferred to face-to face meetings when possible. Conference calls reduce travel costs and the environment impact related to travel, such as fuel. Regarding employees’ individual transport, financial incentives for public transport offers are in place. In Head Office, public transport is subsidized with CHF 50 per employee and per month. Various similar initiatives are in place around the globe. HUMAN RIGHTS “ As a member of the UN Global Compact, Human Rights are an important topic for Swissport. We constantly strive to ensure that all Swissport operations and & LABOUR ­significant suppliers are in compliance with the Human Rights. It is an organizationwide goal with top management focus that Swissport is seen as a company with the PRINCIPLES ” highest ethical standards. This is reflected in our Code of Conduct and our Core Values.  Dr. Johannes Spindler – EVP General Counsel & General Secretary According to the United Nations Global Compact Principles, businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights, and make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Furthermore, businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining, the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour, the effective abolition of child labour and the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. As a service provider and therefore a human workforce business, Swissport has a big responsibility towards its employees. Swissport is fully committed to these principles. Swissport is actively supporting and respecting the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights through various policies and certification requirements. This is a subject of priority throughout the organization and has lead to the absence of any significant incidents or violations of non-compliance with the internationally proclaimed human rights including, freedom of association or collective bargaining, child labour, compulsory labour and indigenous rights by Swissport or any significant suppliers during the reporting period. If such a case of non-compliance should occur, Swissport is prepared to take all measures necessary outlined in the Code of Conduct in order to deal with the violation. With a large workforce of more than 55’000 employees worldwide, uniform suppliers are our most relevant supplier with regards to human rights protection. In order to ensure compliance with our standards on a global level, all significant suppliers engaged by Swissport are required to show certificates of compliance with relevant and prioritized human rights, including non-discrimination, child labour, forced and compulsory labour, security practices, and Indigenous rights. In addition to this we recognize the legitimate role of responsible trade unions and employee representatives. Swissport establishes appropriate mechanisms to enable the effective representation of staff. The overall responsibility for environmental, political, and labour issues lies with the CEO; the responsibility is further divided to the Legal department and Corporate HR. 20 For all its employees, Swissport maintains and promotes a corporate culture and behaviour in which honesty; integrity and respect for the law are viewed as essential to achieving our desired success. In relation to human rights the Code of Conduct states: ·· the recognition of internationally proclaimed human rights ·· respect for other cultures and opinions ·· professional behaviour and observance of the rules of good business practice and of internal and external rules and regulations ·· protection against discrimination Any and all of the employees are personally obliged to abide by the Swissport Code of Conduct. They are prompted to report any evidence of possible violation of the Swissport Code of Conduct to their superior or, if appropriate, to the General Counsel or to the ­Chairman of the Audit Committee. As a last resort, if the employee fears retaliation, he or she has the possibility of contacting the Swissport Whistle-blower hotline. Swissport is an advocate of fair and open competition and is constantly working against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. All directors, officers and SOCIETY & ­employees of the Swissport Group are required to abide by the Swissport Anti-Corruption guidelines and the Competition Law guidelines, regardless of their place of work. SUSTAINABILITY Each individual Swissport employee is obliged to follow the Competition Law guidelines and Swissport has issued Anti-Corruption guidelines which are based on the Anti-Corruption rules set forth in the 1997 OECD Convention on Combating Bribery of Foreign Public Officials in International Business Transactions, the 1999 Criminal Law Convention of the Council of Europe on Corruption and the 2003 United Nations Convention against corruption. Overall responsibility for issues regarding Fair Competition and Anti Corruption lies with the CEO and EVP General Counsel, the responsibility is further divided to division heads within the company. All directors, officers and employees are prompted to report any corrupt practice of which they become aware (including attempts thereof) to their superior or to the Group General Counsel. Disciplinary actions (including termination without notice) will be taken against those directors, officers and employees who do not comply with Anti-Corruption rules and Competition Law. In the period covered by this Sustainability report, Swissport was neither involved in any rulings, nor made liable in relation to corruption or anti-competitive behaviour. Code of Conduct The Code of Conduct and its supporting policies (Anti-Corruption guidelines and Competition Law guidelines) apply and form the guiding principles of our behaviour. The Code of Conduct states: ·· behaviour with integrity and in compliance with the law ·· the recognition of internationally proclaimed human rights ·· respect for other cultures and opinions ·· responsibility towards society ·· care for the environment ·· loyalty towards the Swissport Group ·· fair, courteous and respectful behaviour towards colleagues, superiors, subordinates, customers, shareholders, authorities, business partners and the public ·· professional behaviour and observance of the rules of good business practice and of internal and external rules and regulations ·· protection from discrimination ·· promote an open, transparent and constructive business style. Since constant awareness is the best prevention of all, Swissport urges all its employees to report any violation of the Swissport Code of Conduct. Such reporting should primarily be addressed to the superior or the local HR manager. If the superior is part of the issue then the employee should directly address it to the Head of the business unit. As a last resort, if the employee fears retaliation and / or if he / she wants to report on a confidential basis he / she has the possibility of contacting the Swissport Whistle-blower e-mail hotline or the Swissport Whistle-blower telephone hotline, where all communications will be treated in strict confidence, and will not result in any disciplinary action against the person making them in a good faith and intention, even if the alleged violation proves unfounded in the subsequent internal investigation. In contrast, however, any violation of the Code of ­Conduct by the person making such communications, and any intentionally falsified claim of such violation (such as malicious and improper accusations) will result in disciplinary action. Fair Competition Competition law may on no account be violated. Any such violation may result in substantial fines for Swissport and in fines or prison sentences for its employees. In particular, price-fixing among competitors (verbal, written or in any other form), market allocation and any other practices which may inhibit free competition are strictly prohibited. Anti-Corruption Swissport’s Anti-Corruption guidelines summarise the relevant statutory provisions in Switzerland. Under Swiss law – like in most of the developed countries – corrupt practices are subject to criminal prosecution if they are carried out not only in Switzerland but also abroad. Therefore, when doing business abroad, all directors, officers and employees of the Swissport Group must comply with both the Swiss rules and any applicable local rules. Since the international anti-corruption treaties adopted over the last few years have provided for a certain harmonisation of the national legal rules, the Swiss rules are in line with those of most of the developed countries. However, since there are slight differences from country to country, it is required to assess the applicable national rules with the support of a local lawyer in each particular case which raises anti-corruption issues. 22 Web-Based Training A web-based training on the three modules “Code of Conduct”, “Competition Law” and “Anti-Corruption guidelines”, was rolled out for the Head Office in 2013. A further roll-out of the web-based training to senior managers on a global level is planned. It consists of three modules, with an approximate duration of 1.5 hour. “ Labour practices and decent work are perhaps the most material aspect of ­Swissport’s operation. We focus on our people at every level of our company, since SOCIAL people are our key to success. We are constantly working together locally and globally, top management to ground level, to ensure that all procedures related to SUSTAINABILITY ” this aspect are of the highest standards. We strive for excellence in everything we do, labour practices and decent work is no exception.   Peter Moser – EVP Human Resources, Marketing & Communications HR management is at the core of our business and the Swissport HR strategy builds upon the global business strategy. Both the Swissport business and the HR strategy are based on our shared corporate vision and mission “to provide the aviation industry with consistent and tailor-made solutions around the globe, for a better customer experience” and our commitment to our Corporate Core Values “People, Professionalism and Partnership”. As a service provider and therefore a people’s business, Swissport has a big responsibility towards its employees. Therefore, Swissport is fully committed to ensuring fair and equal employment opportunities, diversity and no discrimination, as well as full compliance with health and safety regulations. Swissport believes that good people-management practice generates a working environment where employees are committed and dedicated to giving their best. We also believe in the importance of listening to staff and using staff knowledge in solving business issues. The Corporate HR team works closely with line management and the worldwide HR Community to develop and implement valuable programmes, tools, processes and procedures to support Swissport managers in their daily work for more efficiency, better management and leadership in order to achieve our shared goal of excellence. Swissport is dedicated to supporting all employees in reaching their full potential through a wide variety of training and development techniques and continuous performance management. The Swissport training program provides level-adequate training from base to top. The various training programs will be further disclosed in this report. In addition to this, Swissport does not compromise on occupational health and safety, and has implemented several training programmes and guidelines to ensure the safety of our employees. Swissport’s operational procedures aim at the health and safety of the employees, in particular at the reduction of work accidents. Despite the wide spread of its stations (255 stations in 44 countries on five continents) Swissport strives to apply worldwide the same standardized operational procedures which are based on high national standards. Swissport is dedicated to aligning, regularly reviewing and continuously improving its standardized processes and procedures across the entire organization. The operational ­procedures are reviewed by the management of the Swissport Group periodically and are improved continuously. Swissport is certified for management system ISO 9001. 23 EQUAL Swissport’s recruitment policy can be summarised in two words: Objectivity and Equality. Swissport cares for its employees as they are the most valuable contributors to success. ­OPPORTUNITIES Therefore, Swissport is committed to making an effort when recruiting new staff where human resources specialists and line management are involved. We are looking for moti& RECRUITMENT vated, committed and dedicated colleagues who are skilled and bring the experience or willingness to learn and who are proud to work for Swissport. We invest in our people and POLICY do not treat them as a cost. Swissport wants to be and remain an “Employer of Choice” in our industry. Therefore, Swissport adheres to all national laws relating to the recruitment of staff, and to any of the more-stringent requirements of its own internal policies (e.g. equal opportunities, employee advancement, etc.). No job applicant will be discriminated against or treated less favourably based on gender, race, colour or ethnic origin, marital status, religion or any other category protected by law. Any such discriminatory behaviour will constitute gross misconduct under our Code of Conduct. The company also recognises that, as an employer, we fully comply with all legislation that renders certain types of discrimination unlawful. RETENTION Swissport is not only fully committed to finding the right people for the right job at the right time, we are also dedicated to providing an attractive work environment and company culture where our employees feel respected and appreciated for the great work they are performing every day. Retention of our dedicated staff and talents is key to our success. Swissport is working on various retention measurements and means to ensure that we can say “able to go, but happy to stay!” One way of better understanding the reasons why we lose good people, is to ask them. Therefore, Swissport introduced a structured exit interview for voluntary leavers in management in order to find out about the “real” reasons for a resignation. The analysis and derived intelligence will help us in identifying any issues – individual or systematic – as soon as possible and will allow us to address them in a quick and appropriate way. Further to structured exit interviews, Swissport has engaged in a study of general retention means for senior management and its current situation. Findings on the reasons for leaving and motivators are essential for us to understand the needs and requirements of our senior management in order to address them appropriately and effectively. 24 Employment terms and conditions, competitive salary packages and incentive systems are in local responsibility and always in compliance with local legal requirements. Swissport is COMPEN­ committed to having a fair and equal payment structure and to “pay for performance”. In 2013, Swissport initiated a project, “Position Benchmark Analysis”, to benchmark internal SATION & positions and to ensure a coherent and consistent way to handle Compensation & Benefits for exempt employees. The project provides the following benefits: BENEFITS ·· Establish internal fairness in positions globally ·· Enhance simplicity and transparency ·· Assist with global reward strategies, i.e., Executive Bonus Plan ·· Provide data to assist with the identification of attendees for global strategic management meetings ·· Support succession planning and talent management ·· Support international assignments ·· Support mergers and acquisitions Further to a competitive and fair base salary for all employees, some positions are also ­entitled for a variable component of their compensation. Rules and qualifications for such executive and local bonus schemes are clearly outlined and communicated and form a fair and market-consistent portion of the overall package. For the senior management and ­executives of Swissport who participate in the Executive Bonus Plan, there is a direct link between company performance and variable compensation. Additional fringe benefits such as flight discounts, subsidies for public transport and health programmes, discounted ­memberships and alike are available in various locations over the world. 25 EMPLOYEE Swissport is fully committed to information sharing with employees and provides business news and performance updates to staff on a regular basis. We recognise the legitimate role ­RELATIONS of responsible trade unions and employee representatives. Swissport establishes appropriate mechanisms to enable the effective representation of staff. Swissport believes that good people-management practice generates a working environment where employees are committed and dedicated to giving their best. We also believe in the importance of listening to staff and using staff knowledge in solving business issues. SWISSPORT Swissport Health Management and Pension Schemes are in local responsibility and always in compliance with local legal requirements. In Switzerland, around 300 employees reHEALTH ceived advice or assistance during 2013. The majority of insurees with long-term illnesses and accident victims were able to return to work at Swissport. In cases where Swissport is ­MANAGEMENT unable to offer continued employment, the Health Management team endeavours to find solutions with third parties. The number of insurees with long-term illnesses remained sta& PENSION ble in the year under review. The Board of Trustees recognizes the importance of the Health management services and SCHEME decided to increase the provided funds for health management service from CHF 225 000 to CHF 275 000 on an annual basis for the next three years. The Swissport pension scheme for Switzerland has increased its focus on sustainable investments for the pension fund. In 2013, the fund was able to increase their equity based sustainable investments to CHF 72 million. In addition to existing products, a further CHF 37 million were invested in the index product “IPF World ex CH Index Responsible Class N”, issued together with ZKB. The CEO of Swissport and the entire Group Executive Management are committed to the development of all employees: endorsing that each individual has the relevant knowledge, TRAINING skill and proficiency to deliver the highest standards of work consistently and safely in the workplace. Swissport recognises that training and development is fundamental to maintaining and continually improving operational performance, and an integral part of the organisation in the achievement of our strategy and goals. Therefore, Swissport is striving for excellence at all levels in the organisation. Swissport is dedicated to supporting all employees in reaching their full potential through a wide variety of training and development techniques and continuous performance management. The Swissport training programme provides level-adequate training from base to top – for all operations staff, to supervisory and first-line management, as well as middle and senior managers. All staff levels are in scope for technical and developmental training as reflected in the Training Pyramid represented below: Target Group Content DASM* Senior Management Talent Leadership Essentials Programme Management Training Middle Management Advanced Active Advanced Leadership & Leadership (AAL) Functional skills First-Line Management Management & Basic Active Leadership (AL) Leadership skills Technical Training Supervisory Staff Active Supervision (AS) Operations Steering Operation Operations Staff Technical Training Execution *DASM: Development Assessment Swissport Management Standard Training Programme The Swissport Standard Training Programme (STP) is applicable to all Swissport stations, unless overruled by local laws, regulations or written carrier-specific instructions. Station management shall ensure conformity with local laws, regulations and specific carrier requirements. For that purpose, station management will establish supplementary local documentation to the STP. The technical training material follows a modular approach and covers generic trainings such as human factors, fire prevention or active supervision, health and safety, dangerous goods and security, as well as all training and qualification needs for the execution of operational core services offered by Swissport. 27 Technical Training The Swissport personal development and training programme pursues the global standardisation of trainings worldwide. Therefore, Swissport is responsible for the development and maintenance of the globally binding Standard Technical Training Programme (STP) and the corresponding technical training material, with the support of expert know-how from the business divisions and from Swissport field locations. The target groups are employees working in operations and supervisory staff. It is a priority for Swissport to ensure that all employees have a sound basic knowledge of their duties in the work place. For this reason, Swissport has developed a Technical Training Policy to achieve safe, smooth and efficient handling, and which contains the following principles: ·· One global Swissport Standard Technical Training Programme that is binding on all operational units to ensure consistent, high-quality technical training to Swissport’s operational staff. ·· The Swissport Standard Technical Training Programme shall be established in a­ ccordance with internal requirements as specified in the Swissport Operations ­Manual and Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) as well as with industry ­regulations, laws, regulatory and customer requirements. ·· Local station, regional and / or business unit management (as appropriate) shall ensure conformity with local laws, country regulations and specific carrier requirements, and will establish supplementary local documentation (if applicable). ·· Local supplements are defined as training material additional to the corporate training material in order to fulfil any local requirements that are not covered by corporate material. ·· Training delivery and compliance remains a local responsibility. This includes the establishment and implementation of local supplements to the corporate training, the training record control and the establishment of local training development for local implementation plans. ·· The Swissport Standard Technical Training Programme should include innovative learning elements, such as e-Learning modules and online testing, as well as ­interactive training solutions. Organisational Structure For the development of corporate technical training standards and to monitor implementation, Swissport has a functional training organisation in place under the leadership of the Corporate Training Manager, where all business divisions are represented. Additionally, all relevant corporate functions – such as Human Resources, Supply Management and IT – are also represented in this group. Functional Training Group Working Groups develop standards by sharing best practices. The development and review of the technical training materials and the revision of the Swissport standard training programme ensure compliance with industry regulations. They also monitor the implementation of the Swissport Standard Technical Training Programme and act as an entry point for updates and alerts on regulatory changes across all stations. This way it is ensured that best practices are captured and transferred into the Technical Training Materials. 28 Management Training Our shared goal at Swissport is excellence. We strongly believe in quality, customer orientation and delivering top-class services at all levels. To ensure excellence in anything we do, we need to ensure that we have excellent training and development in place for our staff. One of Swissport Formula key initiatives created in 2010 is to provide Management & Leadership training to our management. As a consequence, two management training programmes – Active Leadership (AL) and Advanced Active Leadership (AAL) – have been created and customised to the different management levels in our organisation while at the same time following the same principles and guidelines to guarantee standardised quality levels worldwide for optimised effectiveness. Active Leadership (AL) The ultimate objective of this programme is to: “Introduce and develop skills enabling delegates to appropriately manage and lead teams in ways that engage employees and secure commitment to improved performance, revenue generation and customer satisfaction.” This training is followed by all first-line management, and is focused on the following ­topics: ·· Performance Management / Goals and target setting ·· Basic Customer Service culture ·· Conflict resolution / managing conflicts ·· Employee direction and motivation ·· Basic influencing skills ·· Time management and delegation ·· Teamwork and collaboration ·· Basic communication skills Advanced Active Leadership (AAL) The ultimate objective of this programme is to: “Build on existing management and operational capabilities to advance leadership and functional skills in order to ensure a high level of employee engagement and commitment.” This training is addressed at operations and station managers, and is focused on the following topics: ·· Commercial / Financial awareness ·· Advanced Customer Service culture ·· Introduction to Project Management ·· Attendance management ·· Employee direction and motivation ·· Influencing skills ·· Leadership ·· Managing change 29 Development Assessment Swissport Management Swissport’s skills gap analysis is called Development Assessment Swissport Management (DASM). The DASM project was launched in 2009 and conducted over the duration of 2.5 years for all senior management positions at Swissport worldwide. The project goal was to gain a holistic and fair assessment of our senior management group to understand both Swissport’s strengths and shortcomings in order to accelerate them and to address them respectively. Process definition, roll-out and support, as well as the facilitation of feedback and debriefs, including all preparation, information and communication, is owned and driven by Corporate Human Resources in close collaboration with the HR Community and with regular discussion and approval from the Group Executive Management team. In order to be effective, development support and development actions have to be based on a thorough needs analysis. Hogan assessments have not only been used for this skills gap analysis, but have also established as mandatory part of the selection and recruitment process for senior management at Swissport worldwide, as well as for supporting hiring and promotion decisions. In order to support individuals in their development, Swissport has various tools on hand: ·· Individual Development Plans (focusing on behavioural development) ·· Goal planning and competency assessment (focusing on professional development) ·· Think Box – a personal development tool providing online coaching, e-learning, book and article tips, an online development plan, videos, online training sessions and much more in cooperation with Hogan ·· Targeted Trainings (Finance for Non-Finance Managers, Empathy, Listening skills etc.) based on general or individual findings from Hogan and LVI analyses ·· Individual Coaching ·· Mentoring ORGANISAThe Corporate HR team works closely with line management and the worldwide HR Community to develop and implement valuable programmes, tools, processes and procedures to TIONAL support Swissport managers in their daily work for more efficiency, better management and leadership in order to achieve our shared goal of excellence. Swissport is presently operat­STRUCTURE ing on five continents in a variety of different legal environments. This requires local ­experts for all human-related matters. Therefore, Swissport strongly believes in a decentralized approach for its operational HR matters. Nonetheless, Swissport’s unique strength lies in our standardised approach to operations which certainly also includes best practice ­processes and procedures in HR. This guarantees best-in-class service to our customers. Hence, there is a strong link between the local HR teams and the Corporate HR team at Head Office – the Swissport worldwide HR Community. The Swissport worldwide HR Community represents all the Senior HR leaders of our countries and the Corporate HR team. The Senior HR leaders have two important roles: 1. Full HR responsibility for their countries and regions for all operational needs and issues. 2. Collaboration on, and implementation of, global HR projects in line with our functional HR strategy and the defined strategic initiatives. 30 Global and regional meetings of the entire or parts of this group take place regularly to facilitate an exchange of current HR issues, collaboration and shared project work. It is important to understand that the Swissport worldwide HR community is collaborating on a regular basis and in different projects. As all members of this community are senior HR professionals and leaders in their countries, we have a vast variety of skills and expertise that we can widely utilise. Projects are not solely run out of the Head Office, but rather led by individual HR leaders (based on their knowledge and expertise) and accompanied and coordinated by Corporate HR. This ensures full buy-in and smooth roll-out and local implementation. In most cases, our HR colleagues are supported by their local human resources, payroll and tax specialists to ensure smooth and effective human resources operations and employee relations. “ Swissport takes great pride in our safety management system and managing our responsibility towards our products and services. We focus on the safety and PRODUCT quality of our services at every level of our company. It is a consistent goal for ­Swissport to have the lowest possible rates of injuries and we are constantly ­RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY ” ­working together to ensure that all procedures meet the highest standards. We do not compromise on safety.  Luzius Wirth – SVP Group Services Offering a wide range of ground handling services, Swissport recognizes its important role of managing product responsibility in a manner which is consistent with the core value of professionalism. The Swissport Health & Safety Management System incorporates all aspects of operational and managerial activities that could have a potential impact on safety. Swissport recognizes its responsibility towards employee and customer health and safety, product responsibility and legal regulations. For new locations, implementation and usage of the Swissport Health & Safety Management System is guaranteed from the first day of operation. Swissport operates a Safety Management System (“SMS”) to comply with ICAO, IATA Civil Aviation and Airports Authorities requirements. The SMS includes organization-wide policies regarding product damage, third party damage and injuries, as well as internal and external communication regulations. In addition to this, all Swissport employees are required to follow the communication policies including “General Communications Policy”, “Who is Who” and “The Social Media Policies” when communicating either “on behalf of”, or “about” Swissport in public forums. The communication policies of Swissport are developed by Corporate Communications & Marketing. The successful implementation of these policies has lead to an absence of reported incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing and communication during the reporting period. The overall responsibility of health and safety, product responsibility and regulations lies with the CEO. The responsibility is further divided to the Risk Management team of Swissport, Corporate Communications, and the Legal department. Swissport is using the AQD (Aviation Quality Database) to report and record all incidents and accidents. AQD has been rolled out and implemented in all stations across the entire global network. Risk assessment and investigation processes with root cause analysis are fully built in. Swissport has received several certifications and awards for product responsibility related performance: Cargo 2000(C2K) ISAGO, ATA 103 Specification, JIG Guidelines for aviation fuel quality control and operating procedures, FAA Certificate of excellence diamond award. 31 Safety Management System The Swissport Health & Safety Management System incorporates all aspects of operational and managerial activities that could have a potential impact on safety. The Health & Safety, Crisis Management and Environmental Management policies all operate in alignment with one another to ensure that Swissport’s staff work in an environment that has safe and environmentally aware processes, especially when unexpected events occur. All Swissport entities are required to adhere to the standards given in this policy to ensure a safe working environment for their staff and customers, and to avoid damage to property. Description and Key Features Organisation · Definition of accountabilities · Definition of responsibilities · Functional organisation · Tasks for safety functions Risk Assessment · Severity rating · Probability rating · Risk analysis process and requirements Training · Training and instruction requirements Reporting and occurrence categories · Employee injuries · Aircraft damage · Third-party damage and injuries · GSE damage · Dangerous goods incidents · Cargo damage Information / Communication · Internal communication regulations · Communication regulations to customers and authorities Occurrence Management · Investigations · Root cause analysis · Findings and actions Audits and Controls · Audits · Checks · Review Performance Measurement · Statistics · Performance indicators · Corporate dashboard Swissport is using the AQD (Aviation Quality Database) to report and record all incidents and accidents. AQD further provides statistics to monitor actual performance and trends throughout the network. Regular case analysis is used to review existing operational procedures. 32 Operational Risk Management Swissport has set up its operational safety risk management in line with the ICAO recommendations for the establishment of a safety management system. All occurrences recorded in AQD are being risk rated through the combination of defined severity and probability coding. Records are either based on incident and accident history as well as on information on “near miss” situations and ground-safety reports. Together with structured information on operational phases and contributing factors, the database provides all the necessary information about the Swissport Group risk register, which is automated and continuously updated. With regards to Health & Safety, all Swissport employees working on the ramp near to aircraft, in cargo warehouses or in another potentially hazardous environments are fully equipped with personal protective clothing (security vests, helmet, gloves, etc.), which is mandatory for them to wear as we do not compromise on safety. For the same reason, the standard training programmes which are applied in all stations worldwide include safety aspects of the working environment, in particular the use of protective clothing as well as the special behaviour on the ramp aiming at minimising the risk of working accidents. The operational procedures are reviewed by the management of the Swissport Group periodically and are improved continuously. Health & Well-being Health and Safety is not only a matter of protective equipment, but also of different programmes that support a healthy lifestyle. Various stations of the Swissport Group run such programmes: “Fit on Ground” (exercise programme), “Tao” (relaxation and massage) and other local Human Resources programmes for health and well-being. Such programmes are addressed in all local Human Resources management and operational quality and safety agendas. GLOBAL Swissport is dedicated to aligning, regularly reviewing and continuously improving its standardised processes and procedures across the entire organisation. Local implementation ­STANDARDS – of all standardised processes and procedures are crucial to our success in providing the customer with best-in-class services every day, every time and everywhere. The Swissport LOCAL Formula is a proven model of standardizing managerial and operational processes. This enables Swissport to deliver the highest service quality for our customers and to apply the ­CHAMPIONS same proven standards in all our Ground Handling and Cargo operations all over the world. The Swissport Formula has been derived from the best practices not only from our operation, but also from comparative industries. It ensures pro-active management at all operational levels and is focused on a KPI-driven performance culture, optimised resource utilisation, technical and managerial training and efficient operational processes. This approach enables continuous improvement in the stations through a change of mind-set and behaviour. The Swissport Formula aims to change the company culture from a local understanding of the “Swissport way of doing things” to a global approach. The tried and trusted procedures are reinforced with the Swissport core values. Efficient and secure operations form a sustainable basis for development and provide customer confidence and peace of mind, in addition to reducing costs. With the Swissport Formula, customers and employees experience the benefits of global alignment, standardisation and consistency every day. Collaboration across the entire organisation is crucial for successful local implementation of our global standards. Therefore, Swissport is structured as a matrix organisation. The functional communities and cross-functional teams are collaborating in a strong relationship to ensure full alignment and implementation of our standardised best-in class processes in the local stations. Good relationships are absolutely crucial in creating buy-in, ensuring a smooth roll-out and delivering the same message across the organisation. Taking over the management of a new and large operation in a totally new environment requires the skills and knowledge of a seasoned and successful management team that is able to fully ensure best quality service delivery to our customer from day one. Swissport prefers to use existing internal knowledge from the organisation to recruit a new management team to lead the new operation. The management team usually exists of a locally hired HR director with long-standing expertise in working with unions and local, specific labour-related issues. In preparation for the take-up of the new operation, the key members of the management team are identified during the succession management process as ideal candidates for such an assignment. Action plans include early communication, preparation of professional and smooth transfers for individuals and their families, but also individual and cultural preparations and advance meetings and location visits. Performance Management is one of the most important competencies in Swissport. Our Performance Development Review System for all senior managers worldwide is another PERFORMANCE example of worldwide alignment and transparency with local implementation. Not only has the worldwide HR community ensured a consistent and smooth roll-out of the system to MANAGEMENT the entire organisation, but we have also been working continuously in setting even higher standards. This led to the implementation of a HR system to support the workflow and enable management and HR to closely manage and monitor the entire process. On top, an up-skilling training was developed and is rolled-out via the HR community to support our managers in providing high-quality performance appraisal, feedback and development sessions. The train-the-trainer approach ensures a consistent and strong message to be ­delivered by all trainers at the same time. As a next step, the performance management process was amended and extended to the group of operational managers at Swissport. An initial pilot roll-out to selected countries took place in 2014 following a similar process to ensure full coverage and local implementation worldwide. After a review phase later in 2014, a further roll-out to other countries is planned. As well as continuously reviewing and improving our processes, Swissport HR has also included the reviewed and optimised Swissport recruitment process in this supporting HR system in a few pilot countries. A further roll-out to selected countries will be conducted in the following years. This will further support and professionalise Swissport’s efforts in getting the best people on board. A global approach in rolling out the same HR system solution ensures a fully aligned process, but at the same time still allows for the required flexibility to embed process steps for local legal compliance or cultural specialities. Swissport engages with a range of stakeholders on a regular basis. It is our declared goal to be a reliable, professional and recognised partner in the creation of values and results for all OUR our stakeholders – internally and externally. Our key stakeholders are identified by analysing those groups that are intrinsically affected by, or could have an effect on, our operation. STAKEHOLDERS ·· Customers Airlines ·· Airports ·· Airport authority (private and governmental) ·· IATA and other international associations in the aviation industry ·· Shareholders ·· Management ·· Staff ·· Trade Unions and work councils ·· Communities ·· Suppliers ·· Passengers 35 CUSTOMER Swissport intends to deliver the best service and improve operational processes by developing and introducing state-of-the-art technology to our customers. We do not rest on our ­DIALOGUE successes and have developed methods and tools for continuous improvement, working with our customers in a collaborative way to ensure that we always strive to be the best and offer innovative and optimal solutions to all of our customers – current and new – across all of our many and diverse operations. We believe that technology has to increase value externally and internally at the same time as reducing cost. In order to achieve this, Swissport meets with airlines to review processes and identify cooperation (potential for outsourcing of “non-core” activities and usage of technology), follows industry trends by visiting industry conferences, analyses and benchmarks competitors and also stays in contact with external partners. This is our understanding of true partnership: one of our core values. Swiss­ port carefully observes market trends. It is obvious that these trends show a clear need for modifications to the current business model and increase the importance of technology: Swissport’s IT is eager to continuously improve the infrastructure and applications landscape to support the business processes. LOCAL Swissport takes pride in contributing to our local communities all over the world, and several local stations have implemented projects, contributions and initiatives both environ­CONTRIBUTIONS mental and social related to this. Swissport plays its part in conserving Kenya’s elephants On 4 March 2014, Swissport Kenya received a special request to waive the handling and storage charges on a consignment of powdered milk meant for baby elephants from Mr Rob Brandford, a Director of The David Sheldrick Wildlife Trust (DSWT). The powdered milk was a charitable donation by the manufacturer Nestlé UK and had been shipped to Kenya free of charge by British Airways. The milk had a specialist formula and is the only viable alternate milk for an orphaned infant elephant that no longer has access to its poached mother’s milk. Swissport Kenya gladly obliged to this request, wanting to play our part in this worthy cause of saving the Kenyan elephant. DSWT on their part generously extended an opportunity to 25 members of staff to visit the orphanage so that they may provide us with a chance to see the orphans project first hand, hear from the elephant caretakers about the elephants in their care and how they need our help and witness how important the powdered milk is to the elephants. Swissport environmental awareness-Lets do it Cyprus As part of our corporate social responsibility, a team of Swissport Larnaca employees successfully helped to clean a part of the salt lake area in Larnaca in collaboration with the nationwide cleaning campaign “Let’s Do it Cyprus!”, which took place on our island for the second time on 6 April 2014. “Let’s do it Cyprus!” is part of the campaign “Let’s do it World!” a global cleaning campaign that aims to relieve the world’s natural locations from trash. It is the largest voluntary program and largest citizens’ movement that has ever been organized in the world. More than 9’000 volunteers, including our Swissport employees, joined forces at more than 700 clean-up points around the island on Sunday. All goals were surpassed and some 25 tons of rubbish were picked up from the countryside and parks. 36 Swissport Spain participates in environmental initiative Swissport Spain took the initiative to participate in an environmental project organised by the Madrid government called Madrid Compensa. Through this voluntary programme, any company is able to offset the greenhouse gas effects caused by its activities. The participation of Swissport Spain in this initiative was driven by Technical Area Manager Mr Javier Collado and his team. We had the opportunity to plant some trees and to compensate, for the emissions caused by our ground support equipment. Swissport would like to thank Javier and his team for their contribution and commitment to the environment enhancing our company’s reputation. AWARDS & RECOGNITION FUELHANDLER OF THE YEAR 2013 Ground Handling Award 2013 at the Swissport Fuelling Services Sky Harbor prestigious Cargo Airline of the Year International Airport (PHX), Phoenix, Awards 2013 AZ Air Cargo Handling Agent of the Year 2014 for the sixth year in succession at the World Air Cargo Awards 2014 37 ABOUT THIS This is Swissport International Ltd.’s second Sustainability Report for the reporting period which includes complete information on the year 2013 and beginning of 2014 for all of REPORT Swissport International Ltd and its subsidiaries (collectively “Swissport”). The next report is planned for 2015 covering data for the year 2014. Since the date of the previous report (08.2013), Swissport has increased its focus on sustainability. This is reflected in this report by the disclosures on Swissport’s Management Approach to each category. Any re-statement of information from the previous report is mainly concerning facts, figures and headcount reporting. This is due to the acquisition of Servisair which had a significant impact on Swissport’s operations. The same basis for reporting is used in this report as in the previous sustainability report, and Swissport has not detected any new boundaries of the report. Swissport’s Sustainability Report was created and defined in accordance with version G3.1 of the Global Reporting Initiative Guidelines and with the “Communication on Progress” requirements of UN Global Compact. The core values and the introduction at page 2 form the basis of this report and are to be considered as guidelines with regards to those aspects and indicators identified being material to Swissport. The reporting was based on the main subject areas set out in the GRI Guidelines. The present structure allows us to address specific information to key stakeholder groups identified by the organization: Airlines, employees, shareholders. The report covers at least 20 fully reported performance indicators in relation to Economic (EC), Environmental (EN), Human Rights (HR), Labour (LA), Social (SO) and Product Responsibility (PR) indicators and a corresponding disclosure of Swissport`s management approach to each of the categories. Unless otherwise stated, figures, facts and manager statements are valid for Swissport on a worldwide basis and are measured and displayed in a manner which is according to the GRI protocol. All indicators, facts and figures are based on internal measured data. Our report has been verified by GRI to fulfil all requirements for application level B. The GRI certificate on page 39 and the attached GRI 3.1 index from page 40 ff. illustrate all the reported indicators and their corresponding location in the report. Swissport International Ltd. Flughofstrasse 55 CH-8152 Opfikon SWITZERLAND www.swissport.com 38 39 G3.1 Content Index – GRI Application Level C STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART I: Profile Disclosures REPORT FULLY ON THE BELOW SELECTION OF PROFILE DISCLOSURES OR PROVIDE A REASON FOR OMISSION Explanation for Profile Level of Reason for Disclosure Location of disclosure the reason for Disclosure Reporting omission omission 1. Strategy and Analysis Statement from the most senior decision-maker in 1.1 Fully pp. 4–5 the organisation. 2. Organisational Profile 2.1 Name of the organisation. Fully p. 36 2.2 Primary brands, products, and / or services. Fully pp. 10–13 Operational structure of the organisation, including main 2.3 Fully p. 6 & pp. 15–16 divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries and joint ventures. p. 36 About this report http://www.swissport.com/ 2.4 Location of the organisation’s headquarters. Fully corporate/contacts/ headquarters/ Number of countries where the organisation operates, and names of countries with either major operations or that are 2.5 Fully p. 7 specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. http://www.swissport.com/ 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. Fully corporate/ownership/ Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors 2.7 Fully pp. 7–8, p. 14 served and types of customers / beneficiaries). 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation. Fully p. 6 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, 2.9 Fully p. 7 structure or ownership. 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. Fully pp. 34–35 40 Explanation for Profile Level of Reason for Disclosure Location of disclosure the reason for Disclosure Reporting omission omission 3. Report Parameters Reporting period (e.g. fiscal / calendar year) for information 3.1 Fully 2012 provided. 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). Fully Aug 2013 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) Fully Annual p. 36 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. Fully About this report The core values on page 4 form the basis of this report. We do not report The reporting was based on fully on this the main subject areas set disclosure item out in the GRI Guidelines. Proprietary 3.5 Process for defining report content. Partially as the The present structure makes information information is it possible to address specific proprietary. information to key stakeholder groups: Airlines, employees, shareholders. Boundary of the report (e.g. countries, divisions, subsidiaries, 3.6 leased facilities, joint ventures, and suppliers). See the GRI Fully p. 6 Boundary Protocol for further guidance. State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the p. 36 3.7 Fully report (see completeness principle for explanation of scope). About this report Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can 3.8 Fully p. 6 significantly affect comparability from period to period and / or between organisations. Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-state3.10 Fully p. 38 ment (e.g. mergers / acquisitions, change of base years / periods, nature of business, measurement methods). Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the 3.11 scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the Fully p. 38 report. Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in 3.12 Fully This detailed content index the report. 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement We do not report this information as we have been Governance structure of the organisation, including committees unable to gather 4.1 under the highest governance body responsible for specific Partially pp. 15–16 Does not exist the data. We will tasks, such as setting strategy or organisational oversight. be able to report this information in 2014. Chair of the board of directors Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is 4.2 Fully is an independent member of also an executive officer. the B.O.D. For organisations that have a unitary board structure, state the 4.3 number and gender of members of the highest governance body Fully p. 16 that are independent and / or non-executive members. p. 21 Employees have the Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide 4.4 Fully possibility to address their recommendations or direction to the highest governance body. concerns as provided in local co-determination laws. 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation. Fully p. 33 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with 4.15 Fully p. 33 whom to engage. 41 STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART III: Performance Indicators REPORT FULLY ON 10 CORE OR ADDITIONAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS – AT LEAST 1 FROM EACH DIMENSION (ECONOMIC, ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL) Level of Indicator Disclosure Location of disclosure Reporting Economic Economic performance Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations EC1 Not and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the EC2 Not organisation’s activities due to climate change. EC3 Coverage of the organisation’s defined benefit plan obligations. Not No financial assistance has been received from the government EC4 Significant financial assistance received from the government. Fully during the reporting period. Market presence Range of ratios of standard entry-level wage by gender EC5 compared to the local minimum wage at significant locations Partially of operation. Swissport’s definition of local depends on many factors, i.e. Trading blocks, and government regulations. In addition to trading regulations and location, the factors Policy, practices and the proportion of spending on EC6 Fully influencing Swissport suppliers: engage suppliers based on costs locally-based suppliers at significant locations of operation. and efficiency. There are no global policies established for granting locally based suppliers. Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior manageEC7 ment hired from the local community at significant locations of Fully pp. 31–32 operation. Indirect economic impacts Development and impact of infrastructure investments and EC8 services provided primarily for public benefit through Not commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. Understanding and describing significant indirect economic EC9 impacts, including the extent of the impacts. 42 Level of Indicator Disclosure Location of disclosure Reporting Environmental Materials EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. Not EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. Not Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. Not EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. Not Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency EN5 improvements. Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energyEN6 based products and services, and reductions in energy Fully p. 17 requirements as a result of these initiatives. Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and EN7 Partially p. 18 reductions achieved. Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. Not EN9 Water sources significantly affected by the withdrawal of water. EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. Biodiversity Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or EN11 adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value Not outside protected areas. Description of significant impacts of activities, products and EN12 services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high Not biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN13 Habitats protected or restored. Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing EN14 impacts on biodiversity. Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation EN15 list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by the level of extinction risk. Emissions, effluents and waste EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. Not EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. Not Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions EN18 achieved. EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. Not NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and EN20 Not weight. EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. Not EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. Not p. 18 Swissport significant spills are defined as spilling volume that EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. Fully needs to be reported to the government officials. During the reporting no spills have been recorded. Weight of transported, imported, exported or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention EN24 Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and the percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. Identity, size, protected status and biodiversity value of water EN25 bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the reporting organisation’s discharges of water and run-off. Products and services Initiatives to mitigate the environmental impacts of products EN26 Partially p. 17 and services, and the extent of impact mitigation. Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that EN27 Not are reclaimed by category. 43 Level of Indicator Disclosure Location of disclosure Reporting Environmental Compliance Monetary value of significant fines and total number No fines or non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with the EN28 of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with Fully law received during the reporting period. environmental laws and regulations. Transport Significant environmental impacts of transporting products EN29 and other goods and materials used for the organisation’s Fully p. 18 operations, and transporting members of the workforce. Overall Total environmental protection expenditures and EN30 investments by type. Social: Labour Practices and Decent Work Employment Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, LA1 Partially pp. 8–7 and region, broken down by gender. Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee LA2 Not turnover by age group, gender and region. Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided LA3 Fully p. 22 to temporary or part-time employees, by major operations. Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by LA15 Not gender. Labour / management relations The majority of the workforce (95 %) is non-managerial and therefore theoretically subject to CLAs. Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining LA4 Fully Half of US, all of Canada and all of Europe would be covered agreements. by CLAs which would roughly amount to 50 % of the total workforce Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational LA5 changes, including whether it is specified in collective Not agreements. Occupational health and safety Health and Safety functions in Swissport have the following Percentage of the total workforce represented in formal joint structure showing the minimum standard: management-worker health and safety committees that help to 1 Manager Corporate LA6 Fully monitor and advise on occupational health and safety 1 Manager per each Division programmes. 1 Manager per each Country 1 Health & Safety Officer per each Station Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days and LA7 absenteeism and the number of work-related fatalities by Not region and by gender. Education, training, counselling, prevention and risk-control LA8 programmes in place to assist workforce members, their Not families, or community members regarding serious diseases. Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with LA9 Not trade unions. Training and education Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and LA10 Not by employee category. Programmes for skills management and lifelong learning that pp. 23–28 LA11 support the continued employability of employees and assist Fully To some extent Swissport offer those made redundant for them in managing career endings. operational reasons help in finding a new job. Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and LA12 Not career development reviews, by gender. Diversity and equal opportunity Composition of governance bodies and the breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age LA13 Not group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. Equal remuneration for women and men Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by LA14 Partially p. 21 employee category, by significant locations of operation. 44 Level of Indicator Disclosure Location of disclosure Reporting Social: Human Rights Investment and procurement practices The percentage and the total number of significant investment agreements and contracts that include clauses incorporating HR1 Not human rights concerns, or that have undergone human rights screening. The percentage of significant suppliers, contractors and other All significant suppliers engaged by Swissport are required to HR2 business partners that have undergone human rights screening, Fully show certificates of compliance with relevant human rights. and actions taken. pp. 19–20 A web-based training on the elements of the Code of Conduct Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures was rolled out for the head-office late 2013. The web based HR3 concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to Fully training consists of three modules, with a duration of 1.5 hour. operations, including the percentage of employees trained. Corporate head-office employs 140 people and accounts for 0.35 % of the total workforce Non-discrimination HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken. Fully No incidents reported during the reporting period Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective HR5 Not bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and the actions taken to support these rights. Child labour Operations and significant suppliers identified as having a HR6 significant risk for incidents of child labour, and the measures Not taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labour. Forced and compulsory labour Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labour, HR7 Not and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labour. Security practices Percentage of security personnel trained in the organisation’s HR8 policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. Indigenous rights Total number of incidents of violations involving the rights of HR9 Fully No incidents reported during the reporting period indigenous people and the actions taken. Assessment Percentage and total number of operations that have been HR10 Not subject to human rights reviews and / or impact assessments. Remediation Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed HR11 Not and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms. 45 Level of Indicator Disclosure Location of disclosure Reporting Social: Society Local communities Percentage of operations with implemented local community SO1 Not engagement, impact assessments and development programmes. Operations with significant potential or actual negative impact SO9 Not on local communities. Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations SO10 with significant potential or actual negative impact on local Not communities. Corruption Percentage and total number of business units analysed for SO2 Not risks related to corruption. pp. 19–20 A web-based training on the elements of the Code of Conduct Percentage of employees trained in the organisation’s was rolled out for the head-office late 2013. The web based SO3 Fully anti-corruption policies and procedures. training consists of three modules, with a duration of 1.5 hour. Corporate head-office employs 140 people and accounts for 0.35 % of the total workforce SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. Fully p. 20 Public policy Public policy positions and participation in public policy SO5 Not development and lobbying. Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political SO6 Not parties, politicians and related institutions, by country. Anti-competitive behaviour Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, SO7 Fully p. 20 Code of Conduct. Fair Competition anti-trust and monopoly practices and their outcomes. Compliance Monetary value of significant fines and the total number of No fines or non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with the SO8 non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and Fully law received during the reporting period. regulations. 46 Level of Indicator Disclosure Location of disclosure Reporting Social: Product Responsibility Customer health and safety Lifecycle stages in which the health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, and the PR1 Partially pp. 28–30 percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures. The total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety PR2 Fully None reported during the reporting period. impacts of products and services during their lifecycle, by type of outcome. Product and service labelling Type of product and service information required by PR3 procedures, and the percentage of significant products and Partially p. 28 services subject to such information requirements. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations None reported during the reporting period PR4 and voluntary codes concerning product and service Fully information and labelling, by type of outcome. Practices related to customer satisfaction, including the results PR5 Fully pp. 34–35 of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. Marketing communications Programmes for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary PR6 codes related to marketing communications, including Not advertising, promotion and sponsorship. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, None received during the reporting period PR7 Fully including advertising, promotion and sponsorship by type of outcome. Customer privacy Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches PR8 Fully None received during the reporting period. of customer privacy and losses of customer data. Compliance Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with No fines or non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance PR9 laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of Fully with the law received during the reporting period. products and services. 47 SWISSPORT INTERNATIONAL LTD. GROUND HANDLING, CARGO SERVICES, AIRCRAFT MAINTENANCE, FUELING SERVICES, EXECUTIVE AVIATION, AVIATION SECURITY P.O. BOX, 8058 ZURICH-AIRPORT, SWITZERLAND P: +41 43 815 00 00 F: +41 43 321 29 02 CONTACT@SWISSPORT.COM WWW.SWISSPORT.COM
