Making a difference Deloitte Croatia UNGC Communication on Progress 2014 1 Contents 3 Basic data 4 About Deloitte 4 Statement of continued support to UNGC 5 Principles 1 and 2 7 Principles 3, 4 and 5 9 Principle 6 11 Principle 7 12 Principles 8 and 9 14 Principle 10 16 Availability of Communication on Progress 17 About Deloitte 18 Notes 2 Making a difference Deloitte Croatia UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2014 Basic data Company: Deloitte Address: Radnička cesta 80, 10 000 Zagreb Country: Croatia Contact: Ana Cofek, Marketing & Corporate Communication Manager e-mail: acofek@deloittece.com Phone: +385 1 2351 900 Membership date: 13th July, 2007 Number of employees: 150 Sector: Professional services Making a difference Deloitte Croatia UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2014 3 About Deloitte About Deloitte Central Europe Deloitte is the brand under which tens of Deloitte Central Europe is a regional thousands of dedicated professionals in organization of entities organized under independent firms throughout the world the umbrella of Deloitte Central Europe collaborate to provide audit, consulting, Holdings Limited, the member firm in financial advisory, risk management, tax Central Europe of Deloitte Touche and legal services to selected clients. Tohmatsu Limited. Services are provided These firms are members of Deloitte by the subsidiaries and affiliates of Touche Tohmatsu Limited (DTTL), a UK Deloitte Central Europe Holdings Limited, private company limited by guarantee. which are separate and independent Each member firm provides services in a legal entities. particular geographic area and is subject to the laws and professional regulations The subsidiaries and affiliates of Deloitte of the particular country or countries in Central Europe Holdings Limited are which it operates. DTTL does not itself among the region’s leading professional provide services to clients. DTTL and services firms, providing services through DTTL member firm are separate and more than 4,400 people in 34 offices in distinct legal entities, which cannot 17 countries. obligate the other entities. DTTL and each DTTL member firm are only liable About Deloitte Croatia for their own acts or omissions, and not those of each other. Each of the member In Croatia, the services are provided by firms operates under the names Deloitte Ltd. and Deloitte Advisory Deloitte , Deloitte & Touche , Deloitte Services Ltd. (jointly referred to as Touche Tohmatsu , or other related “Deloitte Croatia”) which are affiliates of names. Each DTTL member firm is Deloitte Central Europe Holdings Limited. structured differently in accordance with Deloitte Croatia is one of the leading national laws, regulations, customary professional services organizations in the practice, and other factors, and may country providing audit, tax, consulting, secure the provision of professional risk services, financial advisory and legal services in their territories through services through around 150 national subsidiaries, affiliates, and/or other and specialized expatriate professionals. entities. 4 Making a difference Deloitte Croatia UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2014 Statement of continued support for the UN Global Compact As Office Managing Partner in Deloitte Croatia, I hereby confirm our continued support for the Global Compact. I find the Global Compact to be a valuable tool when working towards upholding social and environmental ethics throughout all links of our work. For Deloitte and Deloitte Advisory Services Rick Olcott, Partner Making a difference Deloitte Croatia UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2014 5 Principle 1 Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2 Business should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Our commitment or policy Deloitte recognizes that we have a responsibility to uphold human rights in the workplace and to use our influence and reach to foster support for human rights more broadly within society at large. We work to address human rights issues within our community. In the workplace, human rights take the form of nondiscrimination and diversity in personnel practices, professional development that aids employability, and maintaining work-life balance. Recruiting and retention activities reflect a desire to hire professionals who share Deloitte’s values and commitment to responsible business. 6 Making a difference Deloitte Croatia UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2014 Actions implemented Health and well-being Child support initiative The health and well-being of Each employee, regardless of gender, employees is of great concern to receives financial support in the form Deloitte, and Deloitte have put a of a bonus for a new-born baby. This programme in place to help our programme was introduced in employees stay healthy. All Deloitte September 2007. Croatia employees have additional health-care coverage which including systematic check-ups and consultations with specialists. Measurable results or outcomes Date of completion Percentage of Activity participants Health programme On-going 100% 4,93% (100% new Child support On-going parents) Making a difference Deloitte Croatia UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2014 7 Principle 3 Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 Business should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5 Business should support the effective abolition of child labour Our commitment or policy Deloitte’s Shared Values and Ethical Principles prescribe that all interaction between Deloitte and its employees must be characterized by integrity, trust, and mutual respect. 8 Making a difference Deloitte Croatia UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2014 Actions implemented Deloitte Croatia made a financial contribution to the ‘Partners in good’ foundation. The foundation’s mission is to encourage people to create a society in which everyone has equal opportunities to achieve personal development. Deloitte Croatia, together with Deloitte Central Europe, made donations to areas of Croatia, BiH and Serbia that were severely impacted by recent flooding. Making a difference Deloitte Croatia UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2014 9 Principle 6 Business should support the elimination and discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Our commitment or policy A part of Deloitte’s global vision – being the Standard of Excellence among professional services firms – is a desire to become the employer of choice for the most talented experts around the world. Women make up close to 45 percent of Deloitte member firms’ global workforce. Deloitte’s global goal is to increase the percentage of women among directors and partners. Deloitte is committed to establishing programmes in order to develop, mentor and prepare women to be the next generation of global leaders. Elements of future programmes will include:  Learning and leadership development opportunities designed specifically for women  Building global networks both internally and externally  More consistent and comprehensive work/life balance structure Among Deloitte Croatia’s current employees, approximately 60 percent are women. 10 Making a difference Deloitte Croatia UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2014 SheXO Club – programme dedicated to networking of business woman In 2012 Deloitte Croatia launched a ‘SheXO Club’ for successful women in business with a variety of backgrounds, focus areas and interests. In the past two years, the club has become a networking platform for successful businesswomen. Since it was established, 6 meetings have been held in Croatia covering such topics as personal development, work-life balance, and health. Moreover, club members participated in a SheXO Survey which looked at the position and roles of both men and women in the Croatian business community. Making a difference Deloitte Croatia UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2014 11 Principle 7 Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Green Frog award In order to promote environmental responsibility, Deloitte Croatia partners with Deloitte Hungary to give an annual Green Frog Award to companies which publish the best annual environmental or sustainability report. We hope that the award will increase awareness about environmental reporting and become a symbol of promoting an environment-conscious culture among companies in the region. We believe that companies’ annual financial statements should not be limited solely to the financial implications of their business. Presently companies prepare environmental and sustainability reports on a voluntary basis. Green Mark Deloitte Croatia received a Green Mark from Croatian Energy Forum for its continued support of sustainable and environmentally friendly business practices. 12 Making a difference Deloitte Croatia UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2014 Principle 8 Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9 Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Our commitment or policy We believe that each company has a responsibility to minimize the impact of its business on the environment. Deloitte Croatia carries out a number of activities under the “Green Dot” umbrella that are aimed at improving our relationship to the environment. Making a difference Deloitte Croatia UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2014 13 “Green Dot” programme Activities implemented include:  Bins for collecting waste paper in all copy rooms and open office spaces  Sorting recyclable materials: paper, glass, PET, toners; 2 special bins  Recycling printer toners  Two-sided printing set as default option for all printers that have this possibility  Introducing the message “Please consider environment before printing this e-mail” as an obligatory part of all e-mails  Implementing light sensors in our office Measurable results or outcomes Date of Percentage of participants Activity completion Waste paper bins On-going 13 collection units Sorting recyclable materials On-going 100% Toner recycling On-going 100% Two-sided printing On-going 90% of printers “Green” e-mail message On-going 90% Light sensors On-going 70% of office space 14 Making a difference Deloitte Croatia UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2014 Principle 10 Business should work against corruption in all forms, including extortion and bribery Our commitment or policy At the heart of our business culture In particular, the principles offer are the Ethical Principles, adopted by guidance about appropriate ethical each of Deloitte’s member firms and and professional conduct covering linking directly to Deloitte’s Global areas that are critically important to Shared Values. These nine principles the member firms’ clients, their define the standards of ethical people and society. The principles behaviour that unite all the people of are: Honesty and Integrity; Ethical DTT’s member firms. Behaviour; Competence; Objectivity; Confidentiality; Fair Business Practices; Responsibility to Society; Respect and Fairness; Accountability and Decision-making. Making a difference Deloitte Croatia UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2014 15 Actions implemented Educational programme on the Ethical Principles of the member firms of Deloitte The educational programme on the Ethical Principles is mandatory for all employees. It is an online e-learning and intranet which uses examples and scenarios from real life, as well as a resource on ethical business that can be used by our experts at any time. Deloitte also regularly confirms that employees abide by independence and compliance rules, ensuring that our business practice is carried out according to accepted rules and procedures. Independence Compliance Confirmation Completing an Independence Compliance Confirmation is mandatory for all employees. Maintaining compliance with the member firm’s independence policies is an important part of a Deloitte’s professional responsibilities. Measurable results or outcomes Date of completion Percentage of Activity participants Ethics education December 2013 100% Independence training December 2013 100% 16 Making a difference Deloitte Croatia UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2014 Availability of COP How does Deloitte Croatia intend to make this Communication on Progress available to the stakeholders? Internal and external stakeholders The Communication on Progress will be available on the website of Deloitte Croatia. Internal stakeholders The submission of the Communication on Progress will be communicated to all employees in an internal newsletter. Making a difference Deloitte Croatia UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2014 17 Notes 18 Making a difference Deloitte Croatia UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2014 Deloitte refers to one or more of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited, a UK private company limited by guarantee (“DTTL”), its network of member firms, and their related entities. DTTL and each of its member firms are legally separate and independent entities. DTTL (also referred to as “Deloitte Global”) does not provide services to clients. Please see www.deloitte.com/hr/about for a more detailed description of DTTL and its member firms. Deloitte provides audit, tax, consulting, financial advisory and legal services to public and private clients spanning multiple industries. With a globally connected network of member firms in more than 150 countries and territories, Deloitte brings world-class capabilities and high-quality service to clients, delivering the insights they need to address their most complex business challenges. Deloitte's more than 200,000 professionals are committed to becoming the standard of excellence. In Croatia, the services are provided by Deloitte Ltd. and Deloitte Advisory Services Ltd. (jointly referred to as “Deloitte Croatia”) which are affiliates of Deloitte Central Europe Holdings Limited. Deloitte Croatia is one of the leading professional services organizations in the country providing services in audit, tax, consulting, risk services and financial advisory services, through around 150 national and specialized expatriate professionals. © 2014 Deloitte Croatia Making a difference Deloitte Croatia UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2014 19
