Sustainability Report 2013 Outokumpu Sustainability Report 2013 CEO's foreword CONTENTS CEO’s CEO’s foreword 1 foreword Highlights 2013 2 T Sustainable Stainless 4 Product properties 6 he year 2013 saw the dawn Product life cycle 8 of a new era for Outokumpu. With the acquisition of InSafe use of stainless 9 oxum, our business grew to Product and application development 9 a larger scale; our portfolio, Our impact on the environment 10 our geographical reach and our responsibilities as a new global market leader Environmental goals and results 14 in stainless steel. We captured this comMaterials efficiency 15 mitment in our new vision of “a world Material balance 18 that lasts forever”. Energy efficiency 19 Sustainability plays a central role in our Climate change 22 business, as it has always done. Not just Emissions, effluents and waste 25 out of duty as market leader; we also see Water 29 it as a key driver for our long-term competiBiodiversity 30 tiveness and growth. Sustainability goes to the heart of our mission to create advanced Sustainable Supply Chain 31 materials that are efficient, long-lasting and Environmental investments and expenditures 33 recyclable; materials like our fully recyclaOur people 34 ble stainless steel. As a material, stainless Focus on company turnaround 36 steel is also strong, corrosion-resistant, durable and hygienic; in many ways, it is the Goals and results 38 perfect answer to global challenges such as Diversity and equal rights 38 resource scarcity, urbanization, and global Open communication in integration and climate and water challenges. As good as stainless steel is, we constantly seek to inmanaging change 39 novate – to find better forms, better applicaTraining and development 40 tions and better ways to produce it. Compensation and benefits 40 content of our material to more than 85%, solid technical expertise. We are more comPerformance management 40 Over the years, our dedication to innovation well over the industry average of 60%. We mitted than ever to operating in an ethically has yielded results, also in sustainability. also managed to successfully ramp up our sound manner through responsible business Safe working environment 42 The carbon footprint of our products today recent investments; our new ferrochrome practices across the entire value chain. Health 44 is more than 50% lower than in the 1990’s. facility in Tornio, Finland and new steel mill Safety 44 We have improved our energy efficiency by in Calvert, Alabama, USA. Combined, these Our track record and market leadership puts Outokumpu and society 46 utilizing the best available technology in proinvestments also included environmental inus in a unique position to take the industry duction. And we have significantly reduced vestments totaling 120 million euros. forward. As a frontrunner in sustainability Risks and stakeholders 48 the amount of waste that ends up in landthinking, we aim to capitalize on the opporCustomers 49 fill. Our long-standing program for occupaWe are proud that our work in sustainabiltunities this offers for the good of the planet Suppliers 50 This Sustainability Report Based on the divestment of tional health and a safe workplace stretches ity has been recognized by independent inand our own business success. This, in a Current and future employees 50 includes reporting of our Terni remedy assets and to embrace suppliers and contractors. We ternational institutions. In 2013, the Dow nutshell, is why sustainability is embedded economic, environmental VDM business, the sustaincontinue to pursue transparency, learning Jones Sustainability Index listed Outokumpu in our DNA. Investors and analysts 51 and social responsibility. ability reporting is aligned from dialogue with customers, investors, for the seventh consecutive year and curLocal communities 51 Please check our Annual with the financial reporting non-governmental organizations and local rently ranks us as the sole stainless steel The new era for Outokumpu gives us the Associations and federations 53 Report 2013 for Financial for 2013. Hence, the Suscommunities. manufacturing company in the Index. This chance to show others the way forward in Statements and Corporate tainability Report for 2013 kind of recognition from our stakeholders sustainability for the stainless steel indusPublic sector, sponsoring and NGOs 54 Governance Statement. covers mainly Outokumpu During 2013, the tough business environspurs us on to further innovation in our comtry. Together with our customers and partReporting on sustainable development 56 continuing operations unment and lower market demand made it difmitment to responsible operations and susners, we have the opportunity to create and Focus on material issues 58 less otherwise stated in ficult for us to achieve capacity utilization tainable production, from supply chain right utilize even better materials for a sustainGRI and UN Global Compact 59 the report. Please see rein our mills. Despite challenging times, we through to delivery. able future. porting principles for dewere able to further reduce our carbon proReporting principles 65 tailed information. file and improve energy efficiency. In the We continue to build on our strong heritage Mika Seitovirta, CEO Independent Assurance Report 67 new Outokumpu, we increased the recycled in sustainability, high product quality and 1 Outokumpu Sustainability Report 2013 HIGHLIGHTS 2013 Outokumpu Sustainability Report 2013 HIGHLIGHTS 2013 Firm steps forward 4. New environmental product declarations Outokumpu has implemented “Customer first” thinking in our 5. Renewal of our ethical statement and Code of Conduct Outokumpu has had a public, Board of Directors-approved Achieving great results and new milestones during 2013 reconfirms sustainability work for a long time. It is over a decade since Ethical Statement since 2005. This statement sets the basis that we are stronger together than separate. Now we are even more the first Outokumpu Environmental Product Declaration (EPD) was published. During 2013, we widened our range of EPDs. for our ethically sound, responsible operations. These principles are implemented through various corporate policies convinced about our bright future and the benefits of building on The two latest additions to our EPD family are the Long Products EPD and the Stainless Rebar EPD. such as: Policy on Sustainable Development and Corporate Responsibility; Code of Conduct; Environment, Health, and the strengths of the new combined Group. This we learned already Environmental product declarations are built on life-cycle Safety Policies. In a December 2013 meeting, the Ethical Statement was revised by the Board. during the first year, after a great deal of dedicated work. data and help in calculating sustainability performance over a product’s life cycle. Outokumpu has published EPDs to The Outokumpu Code of Conduct was published for the first demonstrate the good performance of its products from this time in August 2008, and this policy was updated in June perspective. EPDs help our customers to quantify the envi2013 with the view of reflecting some recent developments ronmental performance of their solutions, for example when within the organization. The aim of Outokumpu’s Code of Con1. New sustainability KPIs 2. Improved environmental designing for green buildings or infrastructures. duct is to ensure that all Outokumpu employees live up to Outokumpu’s ethical standards and assist Outokumpu emDuring 2013, we launched new Sustainability Key Performance performance ployees in different situations by setting examples and giving Indicators (KPIs) to secure the continual improvement and practical guidance. more frequent systematic monitoring of the progress. The KPIs Our stainless steel recycled content rose clearly above 85%. are recycled content, energy efficiency and carbon efficiency. Energy efficiency was improved to 10% against baseline and our In addition, the KPIs also indicate financial savings against a carbon profile was reduced in line with our long-term target. target baseline, making the economic benefits of sustainability Outokumpu rated as more concrete. a sustainable company Recycling content (Baseline 80%) by Dow Jones and CDP Energy efficiency Outokumpu was included in the Dow (baseline 2007–2009) Jones Sustainability Index for the seventh consecutive year. In the latest Emissions CO2 2013 ranking, we were the best sole (baseline 2007–2009) stainless steel manufacturing company and identified as one of the top three in the steel sector globally. 6. British Medical Journal published Outokumpu was also rated by the Car3. Cross-auditing of Outokumpu’s Chief Medical Officer bon Disclosure Project (CDP) and included in both CDP Leadership indexes. Outokumpu locations Markku Huvinen’s long-term study In the Nordic 260 report in 2013, Outokumpu was, for the first time, awarded The new Outokumpu started officially in January 2013; the Group had The British Medical Journal has published an article based on a 30-year study by inclusion in the Carbon Performance evolved into the biggest and an even more globally present stainless Outokumpu which reports the findings on cancer incidence among ferrochrome and Leadership index and, for the fourth steel company after completing the major acquisition at the end of stainless steel production workers in Kemi and Tornio, Finland. The study shows time, inclusion in the Carbon Disclosure 2012. In order to establish a harmonized clear picture about the state that there is no added risk of cancer to individuals working in steel mills and living Leadership Index. of environmental issues and to assess environmental risks across the nearby. This study is unique in many ways. First of all due to its long-term (1967– operative sites, it was decided to perform an intensive site auditing 2011) follow-up period and completeness (it includes all employees and cancer Outokumpu is currently included in sevproject during 2013. The auditing was conducted in a way that experts cases). It has been conducted in co-operation with academics and health authorieral other sustainability and corporate from different business units and steel mills together with Group functies with reference to official national statistics. Now this study has been scrutiresponsibility indexes and ratings, intions participated in audits of other units than the ones they operated nized by scientific peer review and published; therefore, it is also publicly available. cluding: oekom Prime, the Nasdaq OMX themselves. This allowed the extra positive outcome of sharing best CRD Global Sustainability Index, Ethibel practices and building up awareness and competences across Outoregister, inclusion in the RobecoSAM kumpu. Sustainability Yearbook and Silver Class Sustainability Award 2014. 2 3 Outokumpu Sustainability Report 2013 Sustainable Stainless Outokumpu Sustainability Report 2013 Sustainable Stainless Sustainable Stainless As a material, stainless steel is strong, corrosion-resistant, durable and hygienic: in many ways, it is the perfect answer to global challenges such as resource scarcity, urbanization, and global climate and water challenges. Stainless steel offers properties for superior life cycle Global megatrends such as addressing humanity’s growing demand for clean energy and pure water put higher expectations on material properties. Renewable energy solutions such as solar power, biofuels and wind power require materials that can be sustainably sourced with low life-cycle costs. In applications such as these, stainless steel is often the optimal choice. We build the future from the past Steel is the world’s most recycled material. Estimates indicate that the current end-of-life recycling rate for stainless steel is some 82%. In global terms, approximately 60% of the raw material used in making new stainless steel is recycled steel. In Outokumpu’s manufacturing operations, the average recycled content for all stainless steel products produced by the Group in 2013 was well over 85%. The most important raw materials used by Outokumpu in ­producing stainless steel are recycled stainless and carbon steels. Together with metals recovered from waste products and by-products of the production process, they enable the recycled content of stainless steel produced by the Group to be raised significantly higher than the Global megatrends such global industry average of 60%. In addition to recycled steel, alloying elements, including iron-containing alloys and other metals such as as addressing humanity’s chromium, nickel and molybdenum, are also required. growing demand for clean Stainless steel is fully recyclable and suffers no degradation during reprocessing. Its constituents (including iron, nickel and chromium) energy and pure water can therefore be reused indefinitely in producing new stainless steel. These excellent recycling characteristics mean that stainless steel is put higher expectations well positioned to meet the demands of a future sustainable society. Outokumpu recognizes that recycling and the life-cycle approach are on material properties. important elements in achieving sustainable operations. 4 5 Outokumpu Sustainability Report 2013 Sustainable Stainless Outokumpu Sustainability Report 2013 Sustainable Stainless Product properties After the initial investment in resources and energy to manufacture do not affect the taste of food and drink and are easy to clean and disstainless steel, the use phase, in which the material is utilized in end infect, which is why stainless steel is the preferred material in the food Achieving results through co-operation products such as home appliances, interior design or kitchen equipprocessing industry. In 2013, the Council of Europe published a Techniment, demonstrates many sound sustainable characteristics. cal Guide on Metals and alloys used in food contact materials and arOutokumpu also cooperates with and supports customers and staketicles, setting very stringent substance release limits to safeguard the holders by providing information about the sustainable and environmenSince only extremely low levels of metal ions are released from exposed health of EU citizens. The stainless steel industry has initiated tests on tal properties of our stainless steels. For example when the Swedish enstainless products in most normal environments, no harmful impact on stainless steels with respect to these new guidelines. The project is still vironmental assessment system for building and construction products, the environment results. In addition to its corrosion resistance, stainongoing in 2014, but preliminary results confirm the suitability of stainBASTA, needed information on the health and environmental properties less steel also has good mechanical properties, and these can be exless as a food contact material. of stainless steels, Outokumpu was able to provide that information. As ploited by manufacturing lighter components and products without coma result of that information exchange, BASTA was able to make an aspromising safety requirements. In addition to its excellent recyclability sessment of stainless steels resulting in new guidelines on stainless and the high levels of recycling achieved, Outokumpu stainless steel has Strong, light and safe steels and the acceptance of many stainless steel grades that were not other properties that support a sustainable society. included in the database before. The high-strength stainless steels in Outokumpu’s portfolio offer economic benefits: less material is required for a specific level of perforThe forever material mance, and fewer resources are therefore consumed in its production. High-strength steels can also absorb larger amounts of collision energy, The durability of stainless steel has a positive impact on life-cycle costs. improving safety levels in vehicles and other structural designs. The fact that only minimal maintenance is required is good for both the environment and society. The combination of corrosion resistance and durability increases product lifetime. One result of increased durabilNo. 1 in recycling ity is that unnecessary replacements and repairs, and the consequent need for virgin resources, can be avoided during the product life-cycle In order to improve sustainability, it is important to take steps during and recycling phases. the design phase of products that aid efficient recycling in the end-oflife phase. The environmental and sustainability benefits associated Durability is becoming an important aspect of sustainable construction. with recycling, including the conservation of non-renewable resources, For example, in the LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Derelated energy savings, the avoidance of undesirable emissions and sign) green building rating system, a minimum of 60 years is considered reduced levels of waste, affect the whole of society. Stainless steel is as a reference for life cycle assessments. When the correct steel grade 100% recyclable when the product has reached the end of service life. is chosen, stainless steel easily fulfills this requirement. One of the The life time can be very different depending on what kind of products most famous examples of long-lasting steel panels in construction is the we look at. For buildings, we talk about several decades, while a dishupper part of the Chrysler building, built in 1930. Also, when a Buddhist washer might last about ten years, and for mobile phones the service chedi (stupa) in Chonburi, Thailand was constructed, it was designed life might be measured in months. Whatever the product, it is seldom to last 1 000 years and Outokumpu stainless steel reinforcement bars the stainless steel that limits the service life. were chosen for critical parts. Although stainless steel is 100% recyclable, there is always some loss during the collecting and sorting process, which is why the world averWhen cleanliness counts age end-of-life recycling rate for stainless steel has been estimated at 82%, a number few other materials can match. Stainless steel has a long history of use in applications where cleanliness and maintaining high levels of hygiene are important. Good examA key to the outstanding performance in recycling is the high value of ples are the medical and food-processing sectors. Stainless steel is the the material and the fact that stainless steel is not downgraded when preferred choice for hospital equipment and surgical instruments as it recycled. Instead, recycled steel is also the main raw material when new can be easily cleaned and sterilized without degradation. For the same advanced stainless steel is produced in Outokumpu melt shops. reason, much of the equipment used in pharmaceutical applications and food preparation is also manufactured out of stainless steel. The quantities of metal ions released from stainless steel surfaces are not Added value toxic to humans or the environment, and do not have a negative effect on indoor air quality in buildings. Outokumpu supports customers by providing relevant information on the selection and use of different stainless steel grades. Outokumpu has, The unique properties of stainless steel have also helped make the profor example, registered materials in the IMDS database for the automocess of desalination – producing potable water from seawater – ecotive sector. The Group is also ready to provide useful information on how nomically viable. Many arid areas of the world now enjoy the benefits to take advantage of stainless steel’s unique properties in forms of susthat follow from the availability of clean water. Stainless steel surfaces tainable construction. 6 7 Outokumpu Sustainability Report 2013 Sustainable Stainless Outokumpu Sustainability Report 2013 Sustainable Stainless Product life cycle Safe use of stainless A life-cycle analysis reveals the environmental impact of a product over environmental impact of the manufacturing process. As recycled mateBillions of people come into contact with stainless steel on a daily baThe Safety Information Sheets published by Outokumpu help customers its entire life. The strengths of stainless steel are particularly visible rial is a scarce resource and the metallurgical properties of some alloysis, and the lack of any resulting harmful effects is strong evidence of handle our stainless steel products in a safe manner. Health and safefrom a life-cycle perspective. The life cycle efficiency of Outokumpu’s ing elements are always required, achieving 100% recycled material conthe material’s non-toxic properties. ty issues are important not only during the manufacturing of stainless stainless steels is based on twofold excellence. First are the material’s tent in the production process is currently not possible. Outokumpu has, steel, but also when the Group’s customers are further processing Outoexcellent properties during the use phase. Second is the fact that by however, succeeded in raising the input of recycled material to levels To underwrite this fact, Outokumpu and other companies in the induskumpu stainless steel, when products made out of stainless steel are producing it with the lowest possible environmental impact and embedthat are well above the industry average. try have invested considerable effort and resources in studying safety being used, and when end-of-life steel is being recycled. ded energy, we can further improve the life-cycle impact to a level that aspects connected with the use of stainless steel. Outokumpu has also is very hard to match. The Group’s efficient energy usage, choice of sustainable electricity invested in the testing of specific materials for their safety in food conSince stainless steel is inert and non-reactive when employed correctly, sources and efficient use of raw materials in production also make imtact and drinking water applications. Stainless steel in its manufactured the potential impact on people’s health and safety is extremely limited. In general terms, the material’s properties also enable lower life-cycle portant contributions to reducing life-cycle impacts. Outokumpu has forms – as delivered to Outokumpu customers – is inert and non-toxic. This is one of the reasons why stainless steel is so widely used in medicosts which are combined with reduced environmental impact. For the chosen to publish Environmental Product Declarations (EPDs) for its On the other hand, industrial processes involving the material, such as cal appliances and in manufacturing the equipment and tools employed last eight years, Outokumpu has been involved in Ecocycle, a wideproducts, in order to communicate life cycle information to our customwelding or pickling, can release substances or fumes that could be hazin the food processing industry. ranging research project being carried out in Sweden that has studied ers in a standardized and verified manner. In addition to our existing ardous if inhaled for substantial periods of time. each aspect of steel’s life-cycle with a view to defining the potential EPD for flat products, two new declarations have been launched in 2013 for improving environmental performance. The Project final report was for stainless steel rebar and stainless steel long products. In addition to published in 2013. Among the results were new insights into how to inthe EPD, our rebar products have Sustainable Constructional Steel Cercrease the yield and avoid wasting valuable metals. The results also tification according to the CARES sustainability scheme. Product and application demonstrated that the use of advanced high-strength steels can lead to substantial environmental improvements, by utilizing their properties to decrease the need for raw material for example. development Life-cycle studies and related analyses have shown that raising the level of recycled content (recycled steels and recovered metals) in stainless steel production is one of the most efficient ways of reducing the overall Directions to Outokumpu’s product development are given by global automotive industry. It has similar corrosion resistance but better deeptrends like economic and population growth, mobility, urbanization, clidrawability than the standard 304 grade. The austenitic 4420 grade is Life-cycle of steel products mate change and limited resources. We work closely together with our acid-resistant and is suited, for example, for heavy industries, such as customers in order to align our product development with customers’ construction, pulp and paper, or structures, piping or water treatment Alloys & Virgin materials current and future needs. The development of long-lasting, sustainapplications. Compared to the 316L, it has improved corrosion resisable material solutions providing advantages over the whole product life tance and higher strength. All the new steel grades offer tangible benNew metal to Recycled Content >80% cycle is the key focus. The product development involves development efits to our customers, for example in corrosion resistance, strength stainless stock of new steel grades, new surface finishes and improvement of existing and formability, and deliver lifecycle advantages compared to traditional steel grades. stainless steel grades and other materials. ction Intergrated FeCr Production rodu Fabric 1. Exploration u’s p steel atio Outokumpu’s R&D teams work closely together with our sales organizap ss n 2. Mining & Concentration um inle tion and customers. Our R&D experts provide our customers with techniok sta 3. Production of ferrochrome t Ou of cal support and advice related to material selection, fabrication and material performance in customers’ applications. u ct od Pr The highlights of Outokumpu’s new product launches in 2013 include Recycled steel new formable duplex steels FDX 25™ and FDX 27™, the high-strength, White goods and 13 corrosion-resistant austenitic grade Outokumpu 4420, high-chromium other appliances years ferritic grade Outokumpu 4622, and EDX 2304™, an enhanced duplex 18 grade 2304 developed for offshore industry. Other examples of new Metal industry years product innovations include the GritLine surface finish and austenitic and machinery End of life grades H500, H800 and H1000 for lightweight applications. 23 recycling rate 82% Transport e Us years FDX is a product family exhibiting a unique combination of price-stable Rec yc Food processing 23 alloying with high strength and substantially improved formability. FDX li ng &r and kitchenware years is a totally new material solution for applications where the formability e c ov er y of current duplex grades has not been sufficient. The new grades comBuilding and construction 50 years plement Outokumpu’s already strong duplex offering. The ferritic 4622 grade is Outokumpu’s first high-chromium ferritic grade. It is suitable for demanding applications including façades, elevators, catering or the 8 9 Outokumpu Sustainability Report 2013 Our impact on the environment Outokumpu Sustainability Report 2013 Our impact on the environment Our impact on the environment Stainless steel is 100% recyclable, hygienic and corrosionresistant and the environmental impacts resulting from its use are almost non-existent. On the other hand, its production – both the manufacturing and reprocessing stages – does have an impact on the environment. The most substantial environmental impacts which result from the stainless steel production process include emissions of dust and particles into the air, discharges of water from production plants, and the high levels of direct and indirect energy consumption during production. Landfill waste is also created during the production process. Because the life-cycle of stainless steel products is very long and the recycling rate the highest among metal products the environmental impacts have to be analyzed always per life span, not only related to the production phase. The use of steel in the modern society minimizes emissions by creating efficiency in e.g. transport, construction, industries and energy production. Due to these facts, steel products are solutions in climate compact and the protection of the environment. Environmental data and reporting for 2013 covers Outokumpu’s stainless steel, ferrochrome and mining operations in the continuing operations of the combined company of Outokumpu and Inoxum. Unless otherwise stated, the environmental data for 2012 and 2011 has been restated to reflect Outokumpu’s continuing operations. Outokumpu’s way of managing The use of steel in the modern environmental issues society minimizes emissions Outokumpu’s firm objective is to minimize the environmental burden by creating efficiency in e.g. of the Group’s operations as much as is economically and technically feasible. The basis of this work is the Environment, Health, Safety transport, construction, industries and Quality (EHSQ) Policy. This policy was renewed in July 2012 by the CEO according to feedback from internal units and customers. and energy production. All Outokumpu’s production sites employ either Environmental Management Systems (EMS) or risk-based management systems, which 10 11 Outokumpu Sustainability Report 2013 Our impact on the environment Outokumpu Sustainability Report 2013 Our impact on the environment help in avoiding spills and accidents that could be harmful to humans lenges and needs for sustainable products and solutions. During 2013, In the new Outokumpu, our next challenging task is to collect and comThe main new or upcoming items of legislation which have been idenor to the environment. All these Group systems operate in accordance Outokumpu focused increased attention on life-cycle-oriented environbine LCI data from the former Inoxum units for new declarations. The tified include: implementation of the Industrial Emissions Directive in with the Group EHSQ policy and ISO 14 001, the international standard mental management. The importance of life-cycle data, both for internal availability of robust and verified data is the starting point for managing the European Union together with binding Best Available Techniques for environmental management systems. Typically energy efficiency is use in highlighting areas where improvements are required and for extersustainability throughout a product’s life-cycle. Outokumpu’s environ(BAT) requirements; the renewed EU Climate and Energy package and integrated into environmental management system, although many of nal purposes in communications with customers and other stakeholders, mental and energy reporting, data management and analysis are supEU Emissions Trading rules and similar initiatives in the US and China; Group’s sites also have certified ISO 50 001 standards for energy efhas already been recognized. ported by an Energy & Environment Reporting (EER) system which pronew European legislation related to chemicals and product safety esficiency. Additionally sites comply with the ISO 9 001 quality standard, vides internal reporting and analysis tools for all the Group’s production pecially in Europe; the EU’s initiatives on air quality policy and national Outokumpu production sites also have safety management system in As a sector leader Outokumpu continued to publish life-cycle inventory sites. emissions ceilings (the EU Air Policy Review Package); the International accordance with Outokumpu’s Minimum Requirements for Occupational data in own Environmental Product Declarations (EPDs) for Outokumpu’s Maritime Organization’s decision on the sulphur content of marine fuels Safety Management. Some sites are also certified according to the OHmain stainless steel products. These are public documents which deand the EU Sulphur Directive, effective as of 2015, as well as national SAS (ISO) 18 001 occupational safety standard. scribe the main environmental effects and energy needs of the Group’s Emerging legislation and public initiatives energy, waste and other environmental taxations and water and air qualstainless steel grades throughout their supply chain. In 2013 a new Safeity targets in our main production countries. The EHSQ Group perspective is aligned with the Group’s management ty Information Sheet of our products and EPDs for long products were One element in operational environmental management is maintaining process and annual planning. Outokumpu’s aim is also to harmonize published. We started a new project to gather similar data and make an an awareness of emerging legislation. Outokumpu continuously moniThe EU classification of the metal nickel as a suspect carcinogen is a and integrate internal EHSQ management systems as much as possible EPD for our long products and re-bar. Also the update of existing EPDs tors and evaluates legislative initiatives and evaluates their impact on concern for austenitic stainless steel business. This non-scientific clasand is reasonable. E.g. EMEA operations in Finland and the Netherlands according to the new company production data including former Inoxum the Group’s operations. These are discussed regularly in internal Envisification as a criterion to exclude substances from use is included in operate under integrated environmental and quality certifications. sites started. New life-cycle inventory (LCI) data for ferrochromium prodronmental Network meetings. Outokumpu also participates in commuthe EU Ecolabel Regulation. The derogation is possible and already apucts were updated in 2012. nicating the effects of emerging legislation and aims to supply decision proved for certain product groups (mobile phones, laptops/computers) Operational efficiency of Outokumpu’s EHSQ and energy management makers with both industry-specific and expert information. Emerging but needs intensive communication. The impact of all these initiatives systems and certification is monitored using both internal and external In 2013 “Outokumpu Sustainability Label” and “Info Box” for products legislation has also been identified as a sustainability issue of material on Outokumpu’s operations is analyzed as part of the Group’s annual audits and ensured by co-operating with certification bodies. The numand offering process was completed as a pilot project. Statement on importance to the Group. During 2013, we identified the main legislaenvironmental risk rating process. ber of non-conformities and corrective actions in EHSQ and energy manrecycled content over 80% for our products against standard EN ISO tive initiatives and their probable financial impact; both these activities agement systems found by external auditors in our units are regularly 14021:2011 was made by KPMG. Based on the externally verified methand impacts have been integrated into the Group’s risk management The follow-up of site environmental permit status and legal compliance monitored. In 2013, these non-conformities were typically minor and od of calculation we have made statement of recycled content a stanprocesses and Group EHS experts continue to communicate and gather is a routine in the quarterly internal Environmental Network meetings. corrective actions were made as soon as possible. The Group also prodard packaging wraps item. data in legislative issues together with industrial organizations. In 2013, the Environmental Network decided to organize environmental vides the relevant authorities with reports on Outokumpu’s operations in status audits at every production site, not only to ensure the reported all the countries in which we operate. compliance and data but also to map improvements and the best practice transfer possibilities. This was done Group-wide and results were Outokumpu has a long tradition of internally steering environmental pergood. The sites generally comply well with permit requirements. Audit formance: the first Group-wide internal Environmental Committee was targets were achieved and now the environmental status of each proestablished in 1969. At the Group level, together with new business duction site is well known and comparable. Similar audits will be done units from Inoxum, this activity continued in 2013 under the name Outowithin every five years at production sites. kumpu Environmental Network, which meets regularly each quarter to manage and steer environmental operations and share best practices. During 2013, many of production sites got new environmental permits It also has clear responsibilities and mandates according to the internal or updates. E.g. new air permit was issued for Wildwood, FL, US. Tornio, EHSQ Manual. A similar network was established to coordinate the EuroFinland got a permit for the construction of a fuel storage field and to fill pean CO2 Emission Trading. The EHSQ Group perspective is aligned with and build a former water area. Avesta is waiting for e.g. final permit conthe Group’s management process and annual planning. During 2013 our ditions for the acid regeneration plant. As an action to reduce impacts special challenge was to integrate the former Inoxum production sites of the upcoming sulphur emission regulation Outokumpu is participating into internal reporting, and the Energy & Environment Reporting system the liquid natural gas (LNG) terminal project in Tornio harbor, for which (EER) and to implement common environmental data reporting based on Environmental Impact Assessment was done in 2013. Krefeld started GRI guidelines. the first steps in legal environmental procedures to close the melt shop. The environmental permit of the Tornio site has been appealed by the Information on life-cycles and Swedish authorities despite the fact that permit conditions related to emissions of mercury, sulphur dioxide and nitrogen oxides were strict. footprints demands reliable data The decision is expected to come in 2014. However, this process did not affect on daily processes or the ramp-up of ferrochrome production. The Stainless steel’s very low environmental impact during its use, its durabilmelt shop in Sheffield, the UK, continued the new permitting process by ity and minimal maintenance requirements are widely recognized. And, at making BAT gap analyses in 2013. At some European sites, risk assessthe end of their life cycle, stainless steel products are also fully recyclament updates were done regarding the EU Seveso Directive. ble. Outokumpu’s aim is to improve levels of sustainability at each phase of stainless steel products’ life-cycle, from production through to reuse, Despite the binding EU directive and starting of new Emission Trading and to secure a sustainable supply chain all the way from suppliers of reperiod 2013–2020, the EU Commission and authorities did not allocate cycled steel to the production of stainless steel products. the final amounts of Emissions Allowances during 2013 for the most European industry and manufacturing units. This delay is not acceptable Many applications that employ stainless steel already have a beneficial and was caused by the authorities and delays in EU Commission’s acimpact by reducing the total environmental burden exerted by human sotions. However, our operations under the EU Emissions Trading Scheme ciety. On a global scale, current trends towards achieving sustainability (ETS) will continue to receive free emissions allowances allocated acand reducing the extent of climate change are strong. cording to efficiency-based benchmarks and historical activity. The coming allocation is foreseen to be sufficient or slightly short of the estimatEnvironmental management has to be able to answer both these chaled need for our operations during the 2014. 12 13 Outokumpu Sustainability Report 2013 Our impact on the environment Outokumpu Sustainability Report 2013 Our impact on the environment Environmental goals and results Group-wide results 2013 Based on the outcome of Group-wide targets for 2013, environmental Site-specific results 2013 »» Kemi mine: Reuse of 500 000 tonnes of barren rock and 2 500 work once again yielded great results. tonnes of fly ash in 2013. The target for fly ash utilization was achieved and the final amount was over 4 000 tonnes. The target »» No significant environmental incidents: The target was achieved of no for reusing rock at mine was not achieved. The result was 175 633 Target-setting is part of our continual improvement ideology and includOutokumpu is committed to the long-term target of reducing the Group’s significant environmental incidents involving Outokumpu operations tonnes. ed in environmental and energy management systems. Outokumpu sets carbon emissions profile (indirect and direct emissions) by 20% per during 2013. This demonstrates the excellent standards maintained »» Tornio: Operational use rate of air-emission reduction equipment at both Group-wide and site-level environmental targets. Group-wide tartonne produced by 2020. The setting of this challenging target is a clear in our operations. processes over 99% was not achieved, there were eight dates when gets are common targets that affect most Outokumpu sites. Targets at demonstration of Outokumpu’s desire to improve the Group’s energy ef»» Climate change: Reduction of emissions was in line with Outokumpu’s operational level was below 99%. production sites are more specific. ficiency, to contribute to reducing global emissions of carbon dioxide, long-term target of achieving a 20% reduction in direct and indirect »» Calvert: Concept for on-site briquetting solution is ready, enabling reand to participate in the transformation to a low-carbon society. CO2 emissions by 2020, against the program baseline 2007–2009. cycling of rolling, annealing and pickling side streams directly on the Annual routines at all Outokumpu production locations include the setThe Group’s total carbon profile per tonne of steel produced was resite, without external treatment. ting and monitoring of independent environmental targets. These proAs with almost all corporate programs, environmental target setting and duced by some 6.5% compared to baseline figures. Program baseline »» Avesta: Reduction of direct process-related CO2 emissions by 9% cesses are built into the Group’s environmental management systems associated long-term goals will naturally be affected by the combination years were recalculated, and the historical data of the former Inoxum against 2012. This target was achieved, the overall reduction was and key targets are also set at Group level. Having concrete, measurof operations with Inoxum. The baseline for long-term targets was kept units was combined with the old Outokumpu baseline. The main con9.4%. able targets for our operations is a way of focusing attention on specific the same, the 2007–2009 period. Progress and reported 2013 results tributors to this achievement were improved energy efficiency, lower »» Degerfors: Improvement of energy efficiency according to long-term environmental and energy aspects throughout Outokumpu. include all current production units and program. We have retained our specific emissions and sourcing less carbon-intensive electricity as target, 7% against 2012. way of working in which setting ambitious targets is part of our culture. well as low-emission transports. »» Energy efficiency: The target of achieving a further reduction of 1% in energy consumption per tonne of stainless steel processed (with 2007–2009 as the base period) was achieved. Energy efficiency improved by more than 2% compared to 2012. Total cumulative imEnvironmental goals and targets provement achieved during Group’s low carbon program in energy efficiency against the program baseline was 10%, equaling some 813 GWh annually. Group-wide goals for 2014 Site-specific goals for 2014 »» Materials efficiency: Further reduction in the amount of waste landfilled per produced tonne of stainless steel produced. Material ef»» No significant environmental incidents. »» Kemi mine: Reuse over 250 000 tonnes of lumpy rock and side rock ficiency was improved against the baseline, and we especially man»» Climate change: Reduction of emissions in line with Outokumpu’s from the Kemi concentrating plant to the underground mine. aged to utilize higher share of steel-making slag. long-term target of achieving a 20% reduction in direct and indirect »» Avesta: Increase energy efficiency by 2% per processed tonne. CO2 emissions by 2020, against the program baseline 2007–2009. »» Sheffield melt shop: Increase material efficiency by reducing waste Annual progress of this target is followed as an internal quarterly KPI, landfilled 2% per produced tonne. the target for 2014 is split into separate energy efficiency and CO2 »» San Luis Potosí: Reduce fresh water consumption to 1,50 m3/tonne Materials efficiency target. processed and reduce waste to landfill below 74 kg/tonne processed. −−Energy efficiency: A further reduction of 1% in energy consump»» Calvert: Develop solution for on-site melt shop dusts recovery protion per tonne of stainless steel processed (with 2007–2009 as the cess. base period). −−Direct CO2 emissions from production operations reduced by 1% per tonne of stainless steel processed (with 2007–2009 as the base period). Outokumpu’s ultimate target is zero-waste stainless steel production. The recycling of waste »» Increasing the utilization of recycled input (recycled and recovered Materials which result from the Group’s production activities are studsteels and alloys) by 1% per tonne of crude stainless steel. ied to find ways in which they can be fully recycled, reused or sold as bymaterials is a priority »» Materials efficiency: Further reduction in the amount of waste landproducts. filled per tonne produced. Slag, dust, scales and other production-related material streams are In general terms, all of Outokumpu manufacturing processes are develunavoidable to a certain extent in steel processing. These material oped in ways that allow valuable metal content to be retrieved from any streams also contain valuable metals and recovery of these metals reresulting material streams. Outokumpu’s strategy is to improve producduces landfilling of waste and makes sense in both ecological and ecotion processes through R&D projects, continuous improvement tools like nomical terms. Dust and scales collected from stainless steel manufacbusiness excellence projects or by research programs which are often turing operations are considered by Outokumpu to be significant waste carried out together with external partners like universities or technology streams. Wherever practical, these waste materials are collected and companies. recycled to recover the valuable alloying elements they contain – these include nickel, chromium and molybdenum. Considerable research and Outokumpu’s aims are two-fold when improving the Group’s material efdevelopment effort has been invested by Outokumpu in methods of reficiency. The first is minimizing the initial use of virgin materials, either covering and re-using these metals as they can then be used as substiby increasing the input of recycled materials or by overall material retutes for virgin raw materials in Group processes. quirements in production. The second aim is reduction of the quantities of waste sent to landfill after processes. By paying special attention to waste management and segregation techniques, many waste fractions resulting from production operations are now recycled and the amounts of waste sent to landfill have consequently been reduced at many Group sites. 14 15 Outokumpu Sustainability Report 2013 Our impact on the environment Outokumpu Sustainability Report 2013 Our impact on the environment Recovering and re-using valuable Steel slag transformed into by-products reduce the volume of waste sent to landfill, the Sheffield, UK operations »» In the UK trials to dry and melt the filter press cake material from ASR have being working with Harsco to commission a dry material picking acid neutralization in the SMACC EAF are on-going. metals from side streams in practice In stainless steel making, slag is essential production material; it is also line to sort fine materials such as slag and refractories to increase met»» Steel slag as a raw material in concrete and for use in backfilling by far the biggest material side stream from operations. Outokumpu has al recovery and divert recyclable materials away from landfill. This has mine workings. One example of sustainable operating practices used to minimize emisinvested more than EUR 10 million in developing slag-based products allowed the UK facility to reduce the waste to landfill even more during »» Tests to evaluate fine steel slag as a material for neutralizing agent. sions into the environment is our efficient filtering techniques. We colduring the last decade. On site we also have external contractors who 2012 and 2013. Compared to the situation in 2006, the total amount »» Pelletizing slags and ashes into liming pellets for the forestry purlect more than 99% of the dust generated by Outokumpu’s steel prohave invested significant amounts to be able to process our slags acof waste sent to landfill in 2013 was down by two thirds. Development poses. duction operations. Dust generated by the company’s melt shops is cording to Outokumpu quality requirements. work is continuing, with the aim of eventually achieving the complete uti»» Developing a method of manufacturing briquettes in an electric-arc recycled, with collected dust fractions that have the highest metal conlization of all by-products and waste materials produced by Outokumpu. furnace to recover metals from internal waste streams. tent being used without further treatment and the remainder passing The resulting products are employed in construction projects and used »» Use of shredded car tyres in steel making. The project was conducted through a metal-recovery process. When necessary, specialist recovery for neutralization purposes in industrial applications. In road construcin 2013. Its aim was to investigate whether used tyres can replace techniques are employed. tion, for example, slag products can replace virgin materials such as Improved waste utilization and less virgin reductants in electric arc furnaces. crushed stone aggregate. »» Closure of tailings sand ponds at the Kemi mine with innovative strucIn the UK, the in-house metal-recovery facility is located on site and landfill waste requires knowledge tures made from a variety of residuals from a pulp and paper mill, uses direct-current electric-arc melting to recover alloying metals such a power plant and the ferrochrome plant (for example gas cleaning as chromium and nickel. Other Outokumpu residues requiring treatment By products utilization is standard sludge). Pilot-scale structures were built in 2012 and the project is are transported to external facilities located at Sweden, France and the Investing in research projects continuing. USA, close to our melting operations. The same facility is also used to operating procedures at our melt shops »» Two major projects concerning the metal recovery of slag. For stainrecycle metal oxide residue material recovered from the Avesta acid-reAlmost all significant waste streams resulting from Outokumpu’s producless steel the project is ready and the metal recovery rate of slag generation plant in Sweden. For example, in northern Finland, where frost resistance is a very importion processes are studied with the aim of reducing their environmental treatment process was increased significantly. For ferrochromium tant property of road foundations, the technical performance offered by impact and eventually diverting all streams from landfill. Environment-reslag treatment the project is still on-going and it will continue in For example, in Outokumpu’s North American production facilities, mill slag-based materials is actually better than that of natural alternatives. lated research projects during 2013 included: 2014. scale, shot dust and other metallic residues are all sent off site for reSince the 1970s, all ferrochromium slag from Outokumpu operations in »» Studies in German facilities to increase the recovery rate of nickel melting. Refractory elements from furnaces are recycled with any reFinland has been sold for road construction purposes, typically some »» The treatment process of steel slag has been modified in Tornio and from waste water neutralization sludge. The aim of this project “REcoverable metals being first reclaimed before the refractory is crushed 300 000 tonnes annually. the metal yield was improved during 2013. CONI” is to improve the recovery rate of nickel out of neutralization and utilized as aggregate in concrete. General waste from offices and »» The Wildwood site, FL, US, is working on a process improvement in sludge to >90%. canteens is collected and sent off site to be converted to electricity via In 2013, 271 000 tonnes of steel slag was used for construction projthe pickling shop to eliminate or reduce the need for sand blasting waste-to-energy plants. From an environmental perspective, this susects: this equals some 90% of the total amount of slags. In 2013, all certain steel grades. This will create a cost savings and reduce the tainable waste-disposal solution is superior to landfill as it is a source steel slag was CE-marked as aggregate products from the Tornio facility. landfill burden. of clean energy, conserves land and also lowers the risk of groundwater contamination. Other materials such as old electrical materials and light At the Outokumpu Nirosta melt shops in Germany, almost all (over 95%) bulbs are also recycled off site. of the slag was used for construction purposes as earlier, e.g. for landfill Material flow in the Kemi-Tornio area ceilings and certain other applications. Improving waste handling The Calvert facility in North America has commissioned a slag processEmissions Emissions ing plant to process this material for metal recovery. Waste from Outokumpu production units is sent to appropriate treatment facilities or to landfill sites licensed to accept such materials. Both Some slag from the AOD converter at Avesta has been used to make Other Recycled steel + Steel products raw material other raw material hazardous and non-hazardous wastes are involved, and pre-treatment concrete products such as ‘mega blocks’. These blocks are easily Ferrochrome Steel of the waste material is completed whenever this is required. Hazardous formed into walls for storage and segregation and have been used both Mine plant mill wastes generated by the Group’s operations in 2013 totaled 145 609 internally and externally. Chrome Mineral-based Ferrochrome concentrate products tonnes (including all utilized waste streams labelled as hazardous, such as dust collected and recovered and recycled on site due to valuable metal content). Of this amount, 48 231 tonnes was exported from the Special local waste reduction program Mineralbased Recyclable materials country of origin to be treated and its metal content to be recovered. All Tailings sand Waste products Waste such materials are treated, reused or disposed of in accordance with At the Sheffield melt shop in the UK, a material efficiency program has current legislation and best practices. Hazardous waste consisting of been running now for six years. Over this period, two leading schemes oily wastes, acid regeneration and hydroxide sludge generated by the have allowed the amounts of waste sent to landfill to be significantly Group’s operations in 2013 totaled 39 763 tonnes. All such materials reduced. The first of these uses processed slag as a replacement for are treated, reused or disposed of in accordance with current legislation virgin aggregate. In 2013, over 90% of the slag produced in the UK was and best practices. used in road construction. When used in an asphalt mix, slag offers increased grip values, a decrease in rut formation, reduced occurrence of aquaplaning and improved resistance to abrasion. Secondly, waste volumes have been reduced by crushing refractory bricks no longer suitable for use in making steel to produce a substitute for lime. To further 16 17 Outokumpu Sustainability Report 2013 Our impact on the environment Outokumpu Sustainability Report 2013 Our impact on the environment Material balance Energy efficiency Materials used, tonnes 2013 2012 2011 The steel industry is energy intensive and Outokumpu’s steelmaking and Large, energy-specific investments are, however, not the only way of imRecycled steel 2 111 093 2 328 984 2 099 568 rolling processes are no exception. Achieving the highest possible level proving energy efficiency within the Group. The systematic monitoring Recovered metals 148 329 130 780 159 517 of energy efficiency is very important for the Group. and analysis of energy consumption plays a very important role, as does Ferrochrome 434 191 456 683 479 572 life-cycle analysis when purchases of new electrical equipment are beNickel alloys 202 118 210 041 210 086 Outokumpu’s aim is to minimize total energy usage and the related enviing considered. Outokumpu provides its production personnel with trainronmental impact. Even though significant amounts of energy are used ing in energy efficiency. Other alloys 122 836 126 212 130 607 in its production, stainless steel is an enabler for more energy-efficient solutions that save energy during the use phase. Steel grades whose To meet long-term targets for improvements in energy efficiency, OutoAdditives, tonnes production consumes more energy than others can sometimes be the kumpu maps energy efficiency initiatives and investment proposals in Slag formers 384 028 376 967 400 177 most efficient solution when viewed from a life-cycle perspective. Imorder to quantify their improvement potential and any associated costs. Melt shop process gases 313 804 308 578 314 391 provements in energy efficiency are, in many cases, based on the use of This mapping process supports the optimization of energy efficiency Pickling acids bought 37 703 31 249 33 884 stainless steel. In the energy industry, in transportation, and in building investments at Group level, the original aim was a 5% improvement in Pollution prevention materials 46 107 45 363 44 930 and architecture, the use of stainless steel is essential as its energy efOutokumpu’s energy efficiency by 2020. This target was achieved alPackaging materials used for final products 20 498 20 237 20 088 ficiency offers a way of satisfying new stricter standards and achieving ready during 2013. The process of mapping and identifying potentials is society’s targets. Some biofuel applications which require specific levels continuing in 2014. Our aim is to combine business-level programs and of corrosion resistance, for example, would not be possible in practice proceed with the Group-level program sharing best practices and impleEnergy 8 131 7481 7190 without the use of stainless steel. menting projects harvesting the most feasible identified potentials. Electricity, GWh 4 715 3 940 4 018 Propane, GWh 1 015 1 151 1 147 Outokumpu manufacturing sites use a range of fuels including direct enImprovements in energy efficiency achieved by Outokumpu during 2007– Carbon monoxide gas, GWh 541 342 397 ergy sources such as natural gas, propane, heavy fuel oil and electric2013 totaled 10%, equivalent to annual savings of some 813 GWh. Natural Gas, GWh 1 705 1 844 1 408 ity. Energy use by the Group totaled 29 million GJ (8.1 million megawatt The proportion of low-carbon electricity obtained from renewables and Diesel, light and heavy fuel oil, other GWh 155 204 221 hours) in 2013 of which electricity consumption totaled 16.9 million GJ nuclear power was 72%. Read more about Outokumpu’s investments on (4.7 million megawatt hours). Total energy consumption increased by p. 33. 8%, compared to the previous year of the combined entities of old OutoOutput, tonnes kumpu and Inoxum, due to the ferrochrome expansion. Total annual Origin of electricity 2013 Steel 2 598 006 2 686 262 2 804 877 energy consumption by Outokumpu is approximately equivalent to the % amount of energy consumed by 245 000 Scandinavian households. The Renewable sources 38 electricity consumption compares to about 35% of the annual output of Emissions to air, tonnes Nuclear 34 a modern 1 600 MW nuclear power plant. Carbon dioxide * 1 274 515 1 083 978 1 102 434 Fossiles and turf 28 Nitrogen oxides 2 634 2 362 2 229 Energy used 2013 Sulphur oxides 348 446 382 GWh Electricity Fuel energy Total Dust 447 524 463 EMEA 3 457 2 084 5 541 Sustainable power solutions Ozone-depleting substances 0 0 0 Carbon dioxide per tonne of steel 0.49 0.40 0.39 Specialty Stainless 664 659 1 323 Outokumpu’s Energy function is responsible for the Group’s energy stratAmericas 502 444 946 egy and procurement of the electrical energy employed in Outokumpu’s Other 92 229 321 operations. The primary objective is to secure predictable, competitive Emissions to water, tonnes and stable prices for the Group’s future power supply. Other important Metals 44 50 52 Total 4 715 3 416 8 131 tasks carried out by the Energy function include the management and Nitrates 1 810 1 662 1 589 optimization of Outokumpu’s physical energy portfolio and energy-production assets, participating in new low-carbon energy projects, promotHazardous waste, tonnes Outokumpu’s approach to energy efficiency is long-term and the target ing low-carbon fuel energy sources, and providing support for OutokumOily sludge to the treatment 16 582 18 901 18 299 is continuous improvement. Energy efficiency is a component in the enpu companies in their energy-related activities Hydroxide sludge landfilled 73 639 66 280 89 863 vironmental management systems at Group mills. Major Outokumpu production sites also have long-term, prioritized energy efficiency investSteel making dust to recovery 57 274 48 597 52 294 ment plans. In overall terms, the largest energy-saving potential lies in the recovery of waste heat, improved process integration and improved Wastes and by-products, tonnes efficiency in using raw materials. Steel Slag, total 906 143 821 086 844 417 Slag utilized 735 087 586 321 627 492 E.g. in Degerfors, Sweden, investments of new oxygen plant and new Slags utilization rate (recovery, reuse, recycling) 81.1% 71.4% 74.3% cooling water capacity (6.5 million euros) for new batch furnaces were taken into use. Long Product unit ASR in the UK installed a new mill wa*Other Green House Gas are not relevant to Outokumpu, typically below 100 t. CO2 eqv. annually. ter cooling tower (250 000 euros) and at the melt shop in Sheffield, the UK, the new EAF transformer regulator and control system was installed Environmental data and reporting for 2013 covers Outokumpu’s stainless steel, ferrochrome and mining operations in the continuing operations of the combined (2 million euros). All these investments will reduce energy use. company of Outokumpu and Inoxum. Unless otherwise stated, the environmental data for 2012 and 2011 has been restated to reflect Outokumpu’s continuing operations. 18 19 Outokumpu Sustainability Report 2013 Our impact on the environment Outokumpu Sustainability Report 2013 Our impact on the environment Energy sources in 2013 Price of electricity Tornio Manga LNG project Voluntary energy efficiency agreements In 2013 the average system price of electricity in Nord Pool, the NorIn 2013, Outokumpu and Ruukki Metals Oy, the energy company EPV Outokumpu has participated in voluntary national energy efficiency dic Power Exchange, was 38.1 euros per MWh. The strong hydrological Electricity 58% Energy Ltd and the gas company Gasum Oy agreed on a project to utilize agreements in Finland, Sweden and the UK for many years. The Tornio situation and lower consumption kept power prices at low levels and Natural Gas 21% liquefied natural gas (LNG) in industrial processes, energy production site joined the Finnish program at the beginning of the 1990s. Energy the monthly average system price in July was the lowest monthly price Propane 12.5% and shipping. The project development company Manga LNG Oy was essavings in electricity, heat and fuel achieved during 2013 totaled 1 299 since 2000. During the third quarter, the difference between the system Carbon monoxide gas 6.7% tablished in late 2013 to prepare the contracts needed for the construcGWh. To ensure that systematic improvements in energy efficiency conprice and the price in Finland was very large. Primarily because of the Light and heavy fuel oil, tion of an LNG terminal, gas procurement and logistics. LNG can replace tinue to be achieved, Outokumpu sites in Finland signed new energy-effiweak hydrological situation and cold weather, market prices in the first others 1.9% fossil fuels in industrial use and energy production and substantially reciency agreements in December 2007 covering the 2008–2016 period. quarter were at high levels. During the year, the improved hydrological duces particle, NOx, SOx and CO2 emissions compared to current levels. For example, the Group’s Tornio operations decided in 2011 to align situation, reduced fuel and EU prices and a mild autumn brought power their internal targets and action programs in an agreement aimed at prices to lower levels. According to the plan, reception, unloading and bunkering facilities, achieving annual savings of 150 GWh by 2016. an LNG vaporising facility and one 50 000 m3 storage tank will be conOutokumpu’s power procurement is executed using a long-term procurestructed at the terminal, located in the harbor area in Outokumpu’s inIn Sweden, Outokumpu is also participating in the second round of the ment strategy, in which the Group’s aim is to achieve predictable, comdustrial site in Röyttä, Tornio. For gas deliveries, a pipeline will be built PFE (Programmet för energieffektivisering i energi intensiv industri) petitive and stable prices for electricity. Outokumpu’s electrical power to the Röyttä industrial site. In addition, a truck loading facility for LNG agreement from 2009 to 2014. The target in this second period is to portfolio is managed by engaging in trading activities in the Nordic powtrucks will be built. From the Tornio terminal, the LNG will be delivered achieve annual savings in electricity consumption of 11 GWh. In the first er market, through bilateral long-term supply agreements with power by trucks or railroad to customer terminals and consumption destinaround, which ended in the summer of 2009, annual savings of 8 GWh utilities, and by making investments in low-carbon power-generation caRosatom Overseas CJSC as a power plant supplier. According to the tions in Northern Finland and Sweden. The investment decision will be were achieved. In connection with energy issues, Outokumpu usually pacity. plans, infrastructure work at the site begins in 2015 and is expected made during 2014. The building phase of the terminal is 2014–2017, works closely with national organizations – with Motiva in Finland and to last approximately two to three years. The construction of the plant and LNG deliveries will commence by 2018. Jernkontoret forum in Sweden. Nordic daily spot prices 2013 would begin after the infrastructure work and the power plant would start commercial operations in 2024. The local water is used as own renewable energy source in Dahlerbrück, At Outokumpu Germany sites certification for the ISO 50 001 energy €/MWh Germany. Outokumpu Dahlerbrück site owns a small hydroelectric power efficiency management system has been carried out during 2012. In 60 plant which was built in 1920 and is protected due to its cultural hisrelation to this voluntary certification all these sites now have routines 50 Hydropower torical value. It has two turbines with a capacity of 200 kW and 110 for annual energy efficiency work, including monitoring progress, implekW. The power generation is dependent on the water level of the River menting and identifying improvement possibilities. 40 Since 2005, Outokumpu has had a 104 MW share of Norwegian hydroVolme. The site gets 10% of its electricity from the plant. The power power capacity in Rana, Norway through a long-term leasing agreement plant was renewed three years ago. 30 which is valid until 2020. In 2013, Outokumpu’s consumption of electricity from renewable hydropower sources totaled approximately 440 GWh. 20 10 Wind power 0 1/1 2/1 3/1 4/1 5/1 6/1 7/1 8/1 9/1 10/1 11/1 12/1 Outokumpu is a minority shareholder in Rajakiiri Oy, a wind power company. Rajakiiri installed eight shoreline wind turbines with a total capacSource: Nord Pool Spot AS, www.nordpoolspot.com. ity of 28.8 MW in Tornio in 2010, and commercial production of electricity started at the end of that year. The technical availability of the wind turbines has been excellent during their first years of operation. In 2013, Rajakiiri continued a feasibility study including safety inspecOutokumpu participates in lowtions and applications for permits to expand the current wind power facarbon electricity production cility by 4–5 new turbines located close to the ones already operating in Tornio. The related investment decision will be made in 2014 after the feasibility and permitting processes have been carried out. Rajakiiri also Outokumpu’s aim is to have access to additional low-carbon power prohas plans for an offshore wind farm and some potential new onshore duction sources in the future. To achieve this, the Group participates sites suitable for new wind power installations. in new power plant projects and by entering into agreements with parties in the power market. By participating in new power plant projects, Outokumpu can also promote competition in Nordic power markets and Combined Heat and Power contribute to adequate power production capacity being constructed in the future. Outokumpu has a minority stake in a Combined Heat and Power (CHP) plant in Tornio. This plant delivers heat to the production facilities in Tornio, and a proportion of the fuel used is carbon monoxide gas created Nuclear power as a by-product of the ferrochrome production process. The CHP plant has also acquired a local heating business in Tornio. This acquisition will Outokumpu has a minor 0.3% share in the Olkiluoto 3 nuclear power lead to better optimization of the CHP plant, improvements in energy plant project by Teollisuuden Voima Oyj (TVO). Construction of the power efficiency and a reduction in the level of CO2 emissions in the Tornioplant in Finland is currently ongoing. In addition, Outokumpu has a miHaparanda region. Read more about energy and emissions trading on nor 0.7% share in the TVO’s Olkiluoto 4 project. Outokumpu has a 12.5% p. 22. share in the Fennovoima nuclear project. In 2013, Fennovoima selected 20 21 Outokumpu Sustainability Report 2013 Our impact on the environment Outokumpu Sustainability Report 2013 Our impact on the environment Climate change nancial cost on production emissions and the indirect costs of emisThe European Commission plans to set up a framework for the trading sions trading are reflected through higher electricity prices. Indirect period stretching over 2020–2030 already during 2014. Direct and inextra electricity costs for Outokumpu were during the previous EU Emisdirect costs of emissions trading have become an important factor in sion Trading period 2005–2013 some EUR 45 million per annum. These the competitiveness of European steel manufacturing. According to a two elements raise Outokumpu’s marginal production costs in relation recent study from the European Steel Association (EUROFER), “A Steel to our global competitors. Outokumpu emphasizes the need for global Roadmap for a Low carbon Europe 2050”, the estimated achievable reOutokumpu’s energy and CO2 emissions resulting from business travel by Outokumpu personnel regulation in efforts to transfer to low-carbon forms of society. EU Comduction potential in general is 10–20% for the European steel industry. in 2013 totaled 4 849 tonnes (includes business air travel and company mission’s decision to “set-a-side” and postpone auctioning of emission This roadmap also concludes that steel is an answer for the climate low-carbon program cars). To compensate for emissions resulting from business air travel in allowances during this emission trading period 2013–2020 would inchallenge not part of the problem, this is especially true for stainless accordance with guidelines in the energy and low-carbon program that crease these costs further are harmful for whole European manufactursteel. By using stainless steel, the life cycle of final product can be In the past ten years, Outokumpu has reduced significantly the Group’s reflect such activity, an investment will be made in environmental projing and electricity intensive industry. made very efficient and steel’s 100% recyclability reduces the climate direct carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions per tonne of stainless steel proects that lead to emissions reductions. The level of such investments burden further during subsequent life cycles. duced. Outokumpu targets to further reduce the Group’s specific carbon will depend on the price of emission allowances, the total number of kiMajor emissions of greenhouse gases by Group operations are twofold: emission profile in stainless steel production by 2020, as announced lometers travelled and specific emissions by air carriers. During 2013, a direct releases of CO2 from the company’s sites as a result of combusting Outokumpu views the possible consequences of climate change as a in the Group’s energy and low-carbon program in 2010. When assessproject in order to improve production of pressurized air and optimize air fossil fuels and process-related emissions from Outokumpu’s steelmakmatter of serious concern and wishes to make a contribution to global ing and measuring the Group’s carbon profile, we utilize a method of condition and cooling at Tornio was completed. These energy efficiency ing operations. Outokumpu’s CO2 emissions in 2013 totaled 1 274 515 efforts aimed at mitigating associated effects. Outokumpu has succalculation which focuses on factors that Outokumpu can manage and investments save annually over 8 000 MWh of energy. The annual retonnes. Outokumpu’s emissions trading activities fully comply with the cessfully reduced impact to climate change in form of direct and indicontrol. duction in CO2 amounts to some 1 600 tonnes. relevant EU laws and regulations, with agreed procedures and with the rect emissions. Still there are future commercial challenges that the Group’s trading and risk policies. Carbon dioxide emissions under the EU Group may face in connection with implementing measures to reduce The targets set in Outokumpu’s energy and low-carbon program highETS continued to be at lower than normal levels in 2013 due to reduced emissions of carbon dioxide, new situations which arise as a result of light not only specific reductions but also the Group’s production efEmissions trading levels of production, which totaled approximately 1 030 000 tonnes. climate change may also present business opportunities. ficiency, as emissions are calculated per tonne of stainless steel produced. These targets connect our materials and energy efficiency and Outokumpu’s main production operations in terms of energy consumpFollowing the Inoxum acquisition, Outokumpu had in total seven active supply chain management to the Group’s business targets. The figure tion and carbon emissions are located in Europe. More than 80% of the sites (excluding Terni and VDM business units) operating under ETS Climate change risks for monitoring progress is a three-year moving average that is compared Group’s direct emissions fall under the CO2 Cap and Trade system. The from the beginning of 2013. These Outokumpu sites remain in the systo baseline figures from the 2007–2009 period. The targets of the enEuropean Union Emissions Trading Scheme (EU ETS) places a direct fitem. The preliminary allocation for the year 2013 is estimated to be The risk of climate change induced by human activity and its possible ergy and low-carbon program represent optimal Group-wide environmensufficient for Group operations during 2013. consequences has attracted increasing attention within Outokumpu in tal objectives for both Outokumpu and combating climate change. They Carbon profile recent years. Outokumpu has established a long-term program, implealso support the Group’s strategic goals and their achievement is supmenting serious actions as our response. The issue is a regular item in ported by different energy and quality programs. As the targets are both 1.2 The EU Emissions Trading Scheme the Group’s long-term strategic planning. quantitative and a clear demonstration of our long-term commitment in this area, they encourage continuous improvement. Target 2020 2013–2020 and after 1.0 –20% Regulatory risks In terms of current capacity and production after the Inoxum acquisition, 0.8 The EU Emissions Trading Scheme (ETS) continued, with the current the annual reduction in CO2 emissions being targeted is approximately trading period being 2013–2020 according to the decision made by The greatest uncertainty for Outokumpu in connection with emissions450 000 tonnes by 2020, a total reduction of 3 000 000 tonnes over 0.6 the European Commission (EC) and the European Parliament. During related regulatory measures stems from the EU Emissions Trading the 2010–2020 program period. During 2013, Outokumpu recalculated this third emissions trading period, 2013–2020, the ETS will become Scheme (EU ETS) and related consequences affecting Outokumpu’s 0.4 the target baseline and emission reductions for the new combined group. a more restrictive system. Both the cap on total annual emissions in business. The current outcome is that the Group’s European production Combining with Inoxum makes our long-term climate target very challeng0.2 Europe and the proportion of free emissions allocations will gradually units are at a competitive disadvantage in relation to stainless steel ing; nevertheless we are committed to achieving the overall reductions. be reduced. Auctions will be the main form of issuing allowances. Outoand ferrochrome producers located outside Europe. 0 kumpu’s operations under ETS will continue to receive free emissions Baseline 11 12 13 2020 allocations according to efficiency-based benchmarks and historical EU ETS is regional so-called “cap and trade” system that sets total cap Our actions and the results achieved Direct emissions Indirect emissions, activity. for industrial emission. This total cap is levied through market based Transport & business travel trading. As emissions allowances that remain unused can be traded on Indirect emissions, electricity Primary actions included in the program consist of making further imAs emissions are correlated with production activity and capacity utilifinancial markets, the system is designed to create a financial incentive provements in energy efficiency, increasing the proportion of low-carbon zation rates our position in the long term is difficult to foresee. Current for companies to restrict their emissions of carbon dioxide. Conversely, electricity and targeting efficiency improvements through optimal levels estimates indicate that the Group will not be short of allowances during if the level of a company’s carbon dioxide emissions exceeds the rights of production. An internal air-travel compensation scheme has been imthe initial years of the trading period and that the situation within Group it possesses, corresponding allowances must be purchased. Outokumplemented for business travel, and sustainable aspects are gradually beCarbon profile 2011–2013 companies will probably vary more than before. One important issue for pu’s production sites in Finland, Germany, Sweden and the UK fall withing integrated into our logistics and transportation solutions. These acOutokumpu has been to qualify for a free allocation of emissions allowin the scope of the EU ETS scheme. tions involve Outokumpu operations in all locations and business areas. ances during 2013–2020 by being part of an industry sector in which Direct emissions 54.5% there is a significant risk of carbon leakage. According to an EC deciEven though Outokumpu was granted emissions allowances at no cost Outokumpu’s carbon profile consists of direct emissions from producIndirect emissions, sion, all of Outokumpu ETS operations currently qualify. All seven Outoin the 2008–2012 trading period, the EU ETS will become a more retion operations, indirect emissions from electricity consumed and the electricity 38.8% kumpu sites covered by the emissions trading system have applied for strictive system in the third emissions trading period (2013–2020). emissions resulting from the transportation of products and business Indirect emissions, free allocations for the upcoming trading period and are in full compliBoth the cap on total annual emissions in Europe and the quantity of travel, expressed as a quantity per tonne of stainless steel produced. Transport & business travel 6.7% ance with authority requirements. emissions allowances allocated at no cost will gradually be reduced After 2013, the Group’s carbon profile was 6.5% lower than the proand auctions will become the main method for obtaining such allowancgram’s baseline average for 2007–2009. This result is primarily due to The renewed ETS directive states that member states can compensate es. To dissuade companies who currently operate inside the EU from lower specific emissions in production and improvements in energy effor CO2-related increases in electricity prices. As Outokumpu has four moving to countries where emissions reduction targets are not in place, ficiency. Also emissions from transportation were lower. On the other electricity-intensive installations in four different EU countries, this is industry sectors which feature high levels of carbon leakage will conhand, indirect emissions from electricity consumption were somewhat an important aspect. Outokumpu considers it to be an important cortinue to receive free emissions allowances. As the iron and steel indushigher than in the previous year. rection mechanism for the most profound flaw in the ETS system. try has been identified as one of the sectors in which the risk of carbon 22 23 Outokumpu Sustainability Report 2013 Our impact on the environment Outokumpu Sustainability Report 2013 Our impact on the environment Emissions, effluents and waste leakage is high, Outokumpu sites will continue to receive free emissions Weather-related risks allowances during the 2013–2020 period, with the amount being based on historical activity levels and efficiency-based benchmarks. Extreme weather conditions associated with the effects of climate change could have an indirect impact on Outokumpu’s business and opAn example of realized regulatory risk are the two 2013 decisions by EU, erations. Physical risks due to changes in the climate system and weaththe so-called “backloading” decision and the “cross sectoral correction er patterns can cause damage to property or the loss of production as a factor” decision. Backloading alters the allocation and auctioning timeconsequence of flooding, tornados or hurricanes may be exacerbated in One of Outokumpu’s operating principles is to use best available techimpact on the environment. Outokumpu is not a party into any signifitables and reduces the amount of allowances supplied to the markets. the future. Normal measures designed to mitigate operational risk relatniques (BAT) to reduce emissions and minimize harmful environmental cant juridical or administrative proceeding concerning environmental isThe cross sectoral correction factor cuts the amounts of emission aled to climate change have however already been incorporated into the impacts which could result from the Group’s operations. In this context, sues, nor is it aware of any realized environmental risks that could have lowances allocated to operators for free and increases costs of compliGroup’s risk management and related policies. Currently, Outokumpu’s BAT means the best available pollution prevention technology from both a material adverse effect on the corporation’s financial position. ance. production facilities, a tube mill in Florida, and melt shop and cold rolltechnical and economic perspectives. ing mill in Alabama are located in areas, which are defined as “regional All the Group sites affected submitted applications in the course of hotspots”. These sites are moderately exposed to severe weather and Employing BAT solutions means that the latest technology will be used Radioactive material detected before 2013 and fully comply with authority requirements. The delays in agreehigh winds either from the hurricane potential or the effects of regular to keep emissions from Outokumpu’s operations at the lowest achieving system definitions, international negotiations which remain unresevere thunderstorms and tornados common to this geographical area. able level. Outokumpu continuously develops Group processes and polit entered the production process solved and the clear risk of both extensive bureaucracy and emissionsThe Group has general instructions and tools for implementing plans to lution-prevention techniques to maintain high levels of emissions control related regulations continue to foster increased levels of uncertainty in ensure business continuity within production facilities. As a result of exalso in the future. Outokumpu is also an active participant in the proAs recycled steels are used in Outokumpu’s manufacturing process, racarbon markets. Also, proposed alterations to the ETS system, such as treme weather conditions Mexico is also highly exposed to landslides, cess of updating the reference documents (BREF) which specify related dioactive material can enter the stainless steel production chain. While interfering with the auctioning timetable and agreed total emission gap, predominantly triggered by excessive rainfall. Theoretically, San Luis Potechnologies, helping to set the high standards applicable within the Eusuch radiation usually derives from naturally-occurring sources, the decrease the trustworthiness of emission markets. tosí is also exposed to landslides, although to a lesser extent. ropean Union. source of radiation in some cases consists of components from items of measuring equipment extensively used by heavy industry. The amounts In the future, emissions reduction targets (e.g. the EU Climate and Enof radioactive isotopes involved are small, with maximum quantities ergy package) will become more stringent and Outokumpu continues New opportunities Efficient systems help prevent spills measured in grams, and sources of this type are normally detected bepreparations for conducting the Group’s operations in a more restrictive fore they enter the Outokumpu production process. Major Outokumpu environment in this connection. To manage related risks and prepare for Even though the unpredictable consequences of climate change may be and instances of non-compliance sites prescreen recycled steel for radioactivity using special radiation expected developments connected with emissions trading, Outokumpu associated with significant future challenges, new business opportunimonitoring equipment. During 2012 the internal guidelines for radioachas an internal Emission Trading Network, which includes representaties for Outokumpu may also result. The sustainable nature of stainless All Outokumpu’s production sites employ either Environmental Managetivity control were updated and a harmonized revision was prepared durtives from all Outokumpu operations affected by the system. The resteel assists both the Group’s customers and society at large in conment Systems (EMS) or risk-based management systems which help ing 2013. sponsibilities of this network include providing assistance in defining structing low-carbon solutions. Stainless steel’s remarkable physical avoid spills and accidents that could be harmful to humans or to the enOutokumpu’s emissions management strategy and securing its impleproperties make a significant contribution to achieving improved levels vironment. All of these Group systems operate in accordance with ISO In 2013, one incident which involved radioactive material entering an mentation. of efficiency in the transportation, energy, construction and manufactur14 001, the international standard for environmental management syselectric arc furnace despite the presence of alarm systems occurred at ing sectors, as well as in the household goods segment. Products manutems. Outokumpu’s facilities in Tornio in Finland. The radioactive material confactured by Outokumpu are also important in tackling global challenges cerned was identified as americium-241, an isotope employed in meaCost-related risks such as the need for clean water supplies. In 2013, emissions and discharges were generally at normal levels and surement instruments. All dust and slag from the affected melt were in compliance with environmental permits, but some spills and instancseparated and levels of radioactivity measured, and the radioactive maFrom a Group perspective, identifying and controlling the cost of complies of non-compliances did occur. Environmental compliance data for terials were stored separately in accordance with guidelines provided by ance with emissions allowance schemes is crucial. Both forecast and Carbon funds 2013 shows that there were total of 20 environmental non-compliances the appropriate national authorities. The dose rate associated with the realized emissions as well as the allowances granted are monitored by or breaches of permitted limits. radioactive material encountered in this case was not at a level harmful Outokumpu on a regular basis. The Group has also taken action to reIn order to decrease the cost of compliance to ETS, Outokumpu has also to humans. duce the costs associated with emissions regulation compliance by eninvested in the Testing Ground Facility (TGF), a Nordic carbon fund manThe main breaches were spills or occasional metal content in waste watering into financial arrangements such as swapping EU emissions allowaged by the Nordic Environmental Finance Corporation. States and comter. This type of incidents occurred at Avesta and Degerfors (Sweden), ances for Certified Emissions Reductions (CERs) and investing in carbon panies can invest in the carbon fund, which purchases emission reducTornio (Finland), at ASR (UK), SKS (China), Wildwood (FL, US) and in Investments in technology are funds. During 2013 cost related risks were managed through utilizing tion units for its investors from projects that benefit the environment. New Castle (IN US). At Tornio a total of five breaches occurred in 2013, CERs and emission reduction units (ERUs) for compliance instead of EuThe fund closed its operations during 2013 according to the original three of them being a slight exceeding of the zinc limit value in waste reducing levels of dust emissions ropean emissions allowances (EUAs). plan. Outokumpu still expects to receive some ERUs, which Outokumwaters. A comprehensive development program has been started to pu use for compliance instead of EUAs. In 2013, Outokumpu received avoid similar breaches in the future. One breach was due to the operaDust of different types has traditionally formed the most significant As production of both stainless steel and ferrochrome is energy-inten12 000 tonnes of emission reduction units from TGF (2012: 13 000 tion ratio of dust cleaning unit and one an occasional suspended solids emissions resulting from operations by the steel industry. The majorsive, Outokumpu’s operations are sensitive to changes in the cost of tonnes excluding former Inoxum sites). The TGF emission reduction units discharge. At the Calvert melt shop (AL US) the SO2 emission value was ity of Outokumpu’s particles emissions originate from the Group’s melt electricity. Power companies transfer the costs associated with their received will be used to cover the actual carbon dioxide emissions in above the limit value. Local air quality related issues were also reported shops in Finland, Sweden, Germany and the USA. Even though total proown emissions allowances to the prices they charge for electricity, and 2013. from Krefeld, Germany. This exceeding of the ambient air limit value will duction of stainless steel has increased since 2000, levels of dust emismarginal cost pricing means that all forms of electrical power production ceaser due to the closure of the melt shop. On all these occasions, the sions from the Group’s operations have declined significantly. are therefore affected by these allowance-related costs. Even though environmental authorities were informed and no environmental damage much of the electricity purchased by Outokumpu is of the low-carbon vawas reported. At Outokumpu’s new Calvert facility in Alabama, US some USD 160 milriety, costs of this type have a negative impact on the Group’s financial lion was invested for environmental purposes of which EUR 52 million performance and these effects are not mitigated by no-cost allocations In 2013, the Mexinox plant had no environmental non-compliances, was invested to minimize airborne emissions, mainly dust. There are of emissions allowances. Risks connected with the future cost of emisThe Group’s SKS site in Shanghai, China has been operated since 2001 now several new baghouses to capture dust emissions, SCR units to sions allowances also add an element of uncertainty to the planning of without a single permit breach, but during 2013 there was one occareduce NOx emissions and various scrubbers. The Calvert cold anneal new investment projects and may affect future investment decisions. sional incident related to a waste water limit value. pickling line (CAPL) and hot anneal pickling line (HAPL) have the newest mist eliminators/drop separators for their furnaces sections (scrubs parFrom the year 2013 we can summarize that emissions into the air and ticulates), acid scrubbers for their acid bath fumes (scrubs acids out of discharges into water remained within permitted limits and the breachthe air and other gases NOx, HF, SO2). Also, the HAPL has a mini-bages that occurred were temporary, were identified and had only a minimal house to filter dust in the shot blasting section. 24 25 Outokumpu Sustainability Report 2013 Our impact on the environment Outokumpu Sustainability Report 2013 Our impact on the environment At Tornio, more than EUR 60 million was invested in environmental appliStrategic chromite ore – sustainable Selective Catalytic Reduction (SCR) technologies in processes. Our to recycled steel. cations during construction of the new ferrochrome sintering and meltShanghai SKS unit at China has started similar technology based “CLEAing line that was ramped up during 2013. Most of these investments mining NOX” project in order to minimize NOx emissions. Degerfors adjusted Air quality monitoring and controlling conducted at many Outokumpu were made to prevent emissions into the air, but steps were also taken also operations to reduce NOx emissions according to new production production sites enable the Group to correctly assess and determine to reduce emissions into water. The largest individual investments were The Kemi chrome mine is the only mine of its type located within the volumes and permit limits. the environmental impact of production and other operations. At the dust-filtering units, gas scrubbers and a new unit for handling process European Union. As the ore-bearing minerals are very stable and chemiSheffield melt shop, for example, the monitoring of particle levels – water. The year 2013 showed that these investments were also efficals are not used in the beneficiation process, mining operations have Emissions of sulfur dioxide (SO2) from the FeCr sintering plant at TorPM10, PM2 and PM1 – has now been conducted for the last ten years. cient; the emissions from the new sintering and ferrochromium plant only a minor effect on local water quality. Metal discharges from minnio Finland will also be reduced. A project to utilize alkaline water in gas The results obtained show that during 2013, levels of particle emissions were lower than what was expected. ing activities are small, and their effect is only observable as slightly scrubbers is ongoing. The water being used comes either from the slag were below the required limits for 98% of the time with only minor deviaelevated concentrations of nitrogen, solids, calcium and iron in waterhandling unit or from lime milk tanks. The new process was taken in tions occurring close to plant buildings, and with no exceptions occurIn Degerfors, Sweden, during 2013 investments in a new oxygen gas courses. The largest emissions into the air result from the transportaservice during the summer of 2013 and has cut annual SO2 emissions ring outside the site boundary. plant, new water treatment plant (EUR 6.5 million) for new batch furnaction of ore and waste rock, from operations in the product loading area substantially. es (EUR 11.3 million) and upgrading of a walking hearth furnace (EUR and from piles of concentrate. All mining operations are now carried out In Tornio the latest local ambient air quality study (diffuse emissions, 1.5 million) will decrease local emissions and discharges. The Avesta underground after a shift from open-pit to underground operation was Fugitive dusting is one environmental impact associated with outdoor PM10) results showed that European air quality guideline or limit valplant in Sweden started a project with a consultant to optimize the procompleted during 2005. Even though dust emissions into the air have slag treatment. In Tornio, Finland, a decision to invest EUR 1 million to ues were not exceeded. The emissions concentrations measured were duction and energy use during hot rolling which will also have impact on therefore become minimal (totaling approximately less than half a tonne reduce this dusting was made by our sub-contractor. well below guideline and limit values. In conclusion, the Finnish Meteoemission decreases. in 2013), the effect of particulate emissions on air quality is still monirological Institute stated that “the air quality in Tornio is very similar tored regularly by studying levels of suspended particulate matter. The Continuous improvement in the monitoring of Outokumpu’s production to any other small or medium-size town in Finland”. During 2013 these Particle emissions to air results of the monitoring showed that the emissions situation has reoperations reduces risks to the environment. Particle emissions from measurements have been continued at two measurement points, one mained stable and that concentrations of dust in air at and around the the steel melt shop in Tornio, for example, have been monitored nonlocated in Sweden and the other in Finland. Both measurement points tonnes 600 site are low. stop since the beginning of 2007. The detailed daily emissions data obare about five kilometers away from the mill. The results (which are in tained from the monitoring system allow potential filter leakages to be full view of everyone via the internet) have so far been very similar to the 500 At the Kemi chrome mine, piles of barren rock, former open-pit mining rapidly identified so that immediate remedial action can be taken. The previous ones. Air quality in the area is generally at a good level and the activities and the beneficiation and clarification basins all have longGroup’s new ferrochrome sintering and melting plant is also equipped effect of Outokumpu’s dust emission is hardly visible. 400 term effects on the landscape. Tailings basins are landscaped when with continuous dust measurement units. In a similar manner, the parthey are full. Barren rock is used in backfilling underground workings. As ticle filter system in the Sheffield melt shop stops the melting process 300 the concentration processes at the mine employed are based on graviif particle emissions are too high, giving environmental protection the Energy efficiency goes hand in hand 200 metric separation, only water and small amounts of flocculant are used. highest priority. All these process control measures can be seen to repwith air emission reductions Of the total amount of water used 95% was recycled rainwater. Noise resent industry best practice. 100 generated by blasting operations is almost inaudible, even within the At Avesta, actions to optimize operation of the main walking beam furmine area. According to environmental impact assessments carried out, Outokumpu does not utilize mercury in our production operations. Nevnace at the hot rolling mill have increased thermal efficiency by approxi0 the only significant noise-related effects result from the increased levels ertheless, our main raw material – recycled steel – may sometimes mately 20%. The recovery of heat from furnace exhaust gases at the 11 12 13 of road traffic involved in transporting concentrate from the mine to the contain small amounts of mercury. Our products are mercury-free: all production sites in Tornio and Avesta also reduces Outokumpu’s total Tornio ferrochrome plant. These effects have been further mitigated by mercury possibly coming with recycled steels is emitted in our melting energy consumption, and emissions of nitrogen oxides, CO2 and sulfur a new road close to Tornio plant that was taken into use in 2010, miniprocess. The steel melt shops in Tornio and Avesta use continuous meadioxide are correspondingly lower as the amounts of fuel required to mizing any potential disturbance to residential areas. surement of mercury emission levels. During 2013 the measurements generate heat are reduced. Successful implementation of a variety of Melting shop particle emissions have revealed some potential sources of mercury in the scrap. The overenergy efficiency measures has also reduced the Group’s specific CO2 In May, there was very heavy flooding in the streams nearby the mine, all emission was lower than in the earlier years, showing that the Euroemissions. grams/tonne 100 causing a rise in water-levels in measuring wells. One monitoring station pean mercury ban in most articles is having an effect, but with a delay 90 at the well was submerged and destroyed. Even though there was lot of In Dillenburg, Germany, the two energy efficiency projects completed 80 water coming into the mine area and tailing ponds during a short time, in 2013 (RTL hall and air compressors) will create some 4 200 MWh no other difficulties were faced. natural gas and 390 MWh of electricity savings per year plus, of course, 70 emission savings. Similarly, as part of internal saving projects at SKS in 60 Shanghai, China, there are several energy saving projects ongoing. The 50 40 Reductions in emissions new water crystallizer investment at Mexinox in San Luis Potosí, Mexico, Nitrogen oxides to air will also decrease energy consumption a lot and CO2 emissions even 30 by 95%. In total, a spending of EUR 6.5 million on energy improvement 20 Air quality is top priority tonnes measures in 2006–2013 at the SMACC melt shop in Sheffield, UK, has 10 3 000 resulted in energy savings of 6% in specific energy. 0 Dust emissions from Outokumpu’s operations typically contain small 2 500 09 10 11 12 13 quantities of metals (including iron, chromium and nickel), most of which 2009–2012 Outokumpu stand alone. are present in harmless forms. Chromium, for example, is usually found 2 000 Waste water in its trivalent form and not in the hazardous hexavalent form. In recent years, the Group has supported many studies investigating the effects 1 500 All our waste water is treated before discharge, either at our own faciliof metal emissions on both human health and the natural environment. ties or by the local municipal facility. In Calvert, AL, US, the investments 1 000 Dust emissions by Outokumpu in 2013 totaled 447 tonnes, 18% less to clean and recycle water and to reduce the waste water load totaled than in 2012. This was mainly due to the improved operation of dustIncreased levels of stainless steel production in 2013 resulted in Outo500 EUR 63 million. This consists of water treatment and acid regeneration filter unit in Tornio. Since the dust-filtering system is extremely efficient, kumpu’s emissions of nitrogen oxides (NOx) being at a higher level plants and storm water drainage. The acid regeneration plant (ARP) is normally catching 99% of dust emissions, even a brief malfunctioning (2 634 tonnes) than in 2012 (2 362 tonnes). To minimize NOx emis0 based on Pyromars technology and used to reclaim the waste nitric acid leads to high increase in total emissions. sions, the Group’s production sites in Avesta and Nyby in Sweden and 11 12 13 and hydrofluoric acid for re-use. Tornio in Finland have started to use the latest burner technology and 26 27 Outokumpu Sustainability Report 2013 Our impact on the environment Outokumpu Sustainability Report 2013 Our impact on the environment Water In Dillenburg, Germany, the planned expansion of the municipal wasteOutokumpu owns and manages landfill sites at some production sites water treatment plant seems to be a cost-efficient way of arranging the in Finland, Germany, Sweden and the UK. Operations in these locations de-nitrification instead of having our own treatment plant. This is why meet stringent EU and national requirements. In addition to the actively the cold rolling plant decided to finance the expansion of the municipal used landfill sites, Outokumpu is taking care of some closed landfills. wastewater treatment plant (EUR 1.5 million) in the end of 2013. InvestThese sites are carefully monitored in order to be assured that the enviment contracts with the community will be finalized in 2014. ronmental impacts, for example on surrounding water, are minimal. The sites are typically also landscaped. Water is an important resource for steel making. Almost all OutokumWater withdrawal and discharges At Tornio, Finland, a large sedimentation pool for wastewater has also pu production units are located in areas in which there is a lot of water 2013 2012 2011 been taken in to use. This arrangement allows almost all suspended solFor example in Dillenburg, Germany, the cold rolling unit uses an off-site available. Most of the sites are located by rivers and in areas with a lot Water withdrawal by source ids to be filtered out and reduces metal loadings drastically. deposit site Aßlar for neutralization sludge, but also takes care of some of rain. However, the Mexinox cold rolling unit’s surroundings in San Luis liabilities of old landfills. At the Nyby site at Torshälla in Sweden, the Potosí, Mexico, are arid and dry. There, the water source for production Surface water, million m3 32.1 29.9 30.6 During 2013, test fishing campaigns has been done in Tornio (in the cold rolling plant uses its own landfill and old ones are closed. In Shefis ground water and its use is restricted by local environmental permits. Municipal water, million m3 1.9 2.2 1.5 post-sedimentation pool) and in the Kemi mine tailing ponds. In both, field, the partial capping of the operational landfill has helped to limit Groundwater, million m3 1.5 2.1 1.7 there are healthy and numerous fish populations (pikes, perches and the influx of rainwater and thereby reduced the generation of landfill The Mexinox cold rolling unit uses water well below the permit limits and Rainwater, million m3 1 1.6 0.7 other typical lake fishes). The chemical analysis revealed that there is leachate that requires treatment prior to being removed from the landfill recycles almost all the water for production processes. Process wasteWater discharges by no metal accumulation in the fishes, they are healthy and breed norcell. In 2013, the closure of the old Tornio landfill was completed. water is recycled and treated by neutralization, clarification, filtration, type and destination mally. reverse osmosis, evaporation and crystallization. Sanitary wastewater Cooling water out, million m3 29.8 31.8 27.4 The Bochum disposal site Blücherstraße was technically closed. The receives flotation and disinfection treatment. Oily water is treated in a Waste water out, million m3 20.2 18.7 17.4 During construction of the new ferrochrome sintering and melting plant new permit for Marbach disposal site in Bochum Hamme created pubultrafiltration process and recycled. The amount of wastewater sent to Metal discharges to water, t 44 50 52 in Tornio, the wastewater handling system was renovated and the circulic concerns in 2013. This was the reason why Outokumpu established the municipal sewer outlet is only 500 m3 but the total use of water is lation of process water is now almost totally closed. Water is circulated a voluntary advisory committee in Marbach to share information and 30 000 m3 per month. So almost all water is already recirculated at the Nitrogen in nitrates, t 1 810 1 662 1 589 through cooling towers and solid material is separated in settling ponds views with neighbors and other interest groups. site (the recycling rate is some 98%). Some of the remaining, treated and by using centrifuges. Only a small fraction of water used is conductand neutralized wastewater is conducted for irrigation of local vegetaed out of the circulation system, reducing metal loading on the environtion, plants and trees. ment. Working hard to prevent leakage Metal discharges to water Water recycling at Mexinox in San Luis Potosí is very efficient and the Mexinox processes have reduced NOx emissions by utilizing scrubbers and soil contamination use of fresh water was under the company’s own internal target for the tonnes in annealing and pickling lines. The site has also decided to use natural whole year 2013, and much lower than the permit limit. To improve wa60 gas in our combustion equipment to reduce NOx emissions into the air. Some of Outokumpu’s production sites have been in use by the metal ter recycling further an expansion of the crystallization process of the 50 During 2013, NOx emissions were reduced by over 24% (100.7 tonnes to industry for decades or even centuries. This increases the likelihood wastewater treatment plant was started. The aim is to recycle more wa75.6) compared to the previous year 2012. that some contamination exists at these sites. Typically, soil or groundter, to replace two old units with new electrical evaporation unit, includ40 water at old production sites might be contaminated by oil or metals. ing to improve energy efficiency and decrease C02 emissions by 95% Outokumpu´s principle is that contamination is always treated and refrom that plant. 30 mediated according to current legislation and guidance from the authorities. These cases do not have significant or material effects on the The efficient recycling of water was a principle in planning the new Cal20 Group’s finance but remediation may last quite a long time. Often the vert facility in Alabama, US. The water system there uses closed loop re10 main action is the pumping of contaminated groundwater for a local circulation for cooling processes. The site reuses the industrial waters waste water treatment at the site. for a minimum of three cycles of concentration in systems for maximum 0 Carbon dioxide to air efficiency, and of course less water usage. 11 12 13 Some soil contaminations was investigated during 2013 in Sweden at 1 000 tonnes the former Avesta production site and the Nyby site. Investigative reIn the Bochum melt shop in Germany, drinking water is used for all pro1 500 ports were submitted to the authorities. Planned remediation work was cess purposes because natural ground or surface water is not available 1 350 ongoing at some Group sites in 2013, e.g. in Krefeld and Dillenburg, in the area due to large-scale underground coal mines. Due to costs in Annual water consumption in Tornio 1 200 Germany. In Benrath, Germany, groundwater is treated by an air stripper, the melt shop, there is a totally closed loop in water use. 1 050 de-ionized, de-manganized and used as production water. The ground million m3/a million tonnes 900 water remediation in Wildwood, USA, has decreased contaminants sig15 1.5 750 nificantly. Also remediation work at the former warehouse site in Montre600 al, Canada continued as planned during 2013. 12 1.2 450 300 In Tornio, Finland, the remediation at the old landfill is completed and 9 0.9 150 concentrations of metals in groundwater were reduced to levels below 0 those required for drinking water. Also, in Dahlerbrück, Germany, the re6 0.6 09 10 11 12 13 mediation of groundwater has succeeded and been completed. 3 0.3 0 0.0 11 12 13 Water withdrawal, million m3/a Ferrochrome production, Stainless steel slab production, million tonnes million tonnes 28 29 Outokumpu Sustainability Report 2013 Our impact on the environment Outokumpu Sustainability Report 2013 Our impact on the environment Biodiversity that impacts are restricted to the immediate proximity of the discharge nia. Tornionjoki and Kemijoki, the two major rivers in the locality, carry points at Tornio and cause slight eutrophication. At the Kemi mine, the far greater concentrations of these metals into the sea than the total impacts on sea areas are essentially negligible. amount discharged by Group facilities. Activity in local fisheries located near the Tornio Works is at healthy levels and commercial fishing operaPollution prevention techniques being employed by Outokumpu mean tions are carried out close to Outokumpu’s production plant. Research that increases in emissions can be avoided. Further reductions from indicates that the metals released from Group facilities do not accuNatural surroundings at stainless steel production sites remain unAt the Outokumpu site in Sheffield in the UK, an area has been esearlier emissions levels will also be achieved in many cases, even at mulate in marine food chains. Even in sedimentation ponds of factory harmed. tablished to provide protection for species of wading birds which nest higher-than-current production levels. Annual studies carried out by waste waters there are healthy fish populations. there in springtime. Measures are taken to ensure that these nesting Pöyry, a consulting company, have shown that impacts on sea areas The production of stainless steel does not employ or reserve large areas activities are not disturbed. At the Kemi chrome mine, water circulation close to the Group’s production plants have diminished over the last ten of land, or have a significant effect on biodiversity in the surrounding ponds have increased local biodiversity by creating new nesting sites for years and that associated marine ecosystems are in good health. The Measures to improve the condition natural environment. Outokumpu production facilities are not located in waterfowl. At Avesta in Sweden, Outokumpu owns some 300 hectares of results of the latest biological and fish population monitoring study pubsensitive areas such as Unesco World Heritage sites, Ramsar sites or forest certified by the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC), an internationlished in 2013 confirmed the positive development. The new monitoring of the Baltic Sea continue Unesco Biosphere reserves. During recent decades, Group sites have al organization established to promote responsible management of the of bottom fauna, the levels of metal in fishes and water quality showed not been found to disturb local biodiversity in any manner which is genworld’s forests. that fish populations were healthy and the levels of metals (Cr, Ni and Outokumpu is participating in the Baltic Sea Challenge. Practical meaerally considered unacceptable. Zn) were very low and similar to the non-loaded reference sea area 30 sures instituted at the Tornio site in the 2000s continue to be employed km from the factory. Also from bottom fauna even very sensitive speand the Group will also take action in the future to improve the condiFormer production sites are cies were found in the vicinity of the factory. The quality of the sea water tion of the Baltic Sea. In 2010, permission was given to take into use a Environmental impacts are returned to their natural state was good and metal concentrations were below the drinking water limits 70-hectare sedimentation pond before filtering water into the sea. This at all sampling points during the whole year. Annually some twenty-five pond is significantly reducing suspended solids and metals discharged regularly evaluated professional fishermen are working close to Tornio and catch around 50 into the sea. The quantities of nitrogen in wastewater released by OutoOutokumpu ensures that areas formerly used for the Group’s production tonnes of fish. The effluent from the Tornio site has not deteriorated the kumpu are also estimated to be lower than previously. None of the species included in the International Union for the Conseroperations are returned to their natural state. At the Kemi chrome mine, reproductive capability of the fish either. vation of the Nature and Natural Resources (IUCN) Red List (a list which waste rock extracted during mining operations is now being utilized and All Tornio sanitary waters will be conducted to the local municipality waidentifies and documents species most in need of conservation attenintermediate rock-storage locations are being used in underground conA number of studies, including the continuous monitoring of discharge ter cleaning unit in 2013 and this will decrease the load on the sea even tion if global extinction rates are to be reduced) are known to be affectstruction and for gallery-filling operations. levels, have shown that discharges of chromium and nickel are now more. All the measures detailed above will help in further reducing the ed by Outokumpu’s activities. Although the Group does not have any sig60–80% below the levels that prevailed ten years ago. Considered to be Group’s environmental impact on the Baltic Sea. nificant operations in ecologically sensitive areas, impacts on biodiverOutokumpu’s use of one 22.5-hectare concentrating sand pond in prothe most significant metals released into the sea by Outokumpu’s prosity at Outokumpu production sites are evaluated on a regular basis as duction processes at the Kemi chrome mine ended in 2008. Drying out duction activities at Tornio, current discharges of chromium and nickel For more information on the Baltic Sea Action program, please visit our part of the Group’s environmental management processes. started in 2010 and landscaping and reforestation operations will be only represent a fraction of the total metal loading, which originates in Sustainability website. carried out in accordance with the remediation plan. The company is the main from natural sources in the northern part of the Gulf of Bothcurrently investigating more ecologically efficient ways of capping and Actions to protect the local biodiversity landscaping disused ponds with industrial by-products. At those sites in which valuable biodiversity or species are recognized, At the Tinsley Park landfill site in Sheffield in the UK, approximately Sustainable Supply Chain Outokumpu staff have also actively protected the nature, wildlife and 50% of the landfill area has been capped after the completion of wasteanimal species. For instance, a part of the Calvert production site in tipping operations in these locations. As part of Outokumpu’s commitAlabama, US, is defined as wetland and is home to quite a wide array ment to future follow-up in this area, restoration work being carried out of wildlife. At the site it is possible to see deer, wild turkey, wild boar, by the Group will add to natural levels of biodiversity. The plants being fox squirrels, gopher tortoises and various snakes, even Alabama black introduced are native species and operations being conducted include bear. Since the gopher tortoise and Alabama black bear are threatened establishing areas of meadow. Species of wildflower are also being sown species here, the environmental team has worked with regulators on a to provide an environment in which invertebrates such as butterflies and The sustainability of the Outokumpu supply chain is important to the with our policies and statements regarding sustainability. Implementavoluntary basis to help trap and move gopher tortoises to safe locations bees can thrive. Group. We want to secure sustainable sourcing and manufacturing of tion of these requirements has been started. During 2013, we evaluand we even installed a “bear friendly” fence to allow the Alabama black our products and promote sustainability towards our suppliers. ated the existing ways of working internally related to the supply chain bear to better travel through its natural migratory pathways. The decommissioning of Outokumpu’s production sites at Meadowhall processes of the former Inoxum units and plan how to implement new, and Stockbridge in the UK (closed in 2009) proceeded in accordance The aim is threefold: to carry out business operations in a responsible Group-wide requirements. An EU nature protection area (Natura 2000) is planned to be estabwith plans agreed with the local authorities in 2011. No environmental manner, to develop continuously our performance, and to improve the lished on part of the company’s property in Dahlerbrück, Germany. Acissues have emerged in these locations. sustainability of Outokumpu’s supply chain together with the Group’s To develop their performance, Outokumpu provides the Group personcording to the conservation program, there is a rare cliff forest biotype business partners and subcontractors. The target is full accountability nel with regular training. The principles underlying sustainability, responwith some endangered animal and plant species. and sound, stable and fair business relationships with our suppliers. In sible business practices and good corporate governance are integrated Marine ecosystems are in good health addition, Outokumpu provides customers with continually updated prodinto the materials used in commercial training, all the way from introducEnvironmental authorities have investigated the EU Natura areas locatuct statements and declarations covering the supply chain. tory courses to training courses designed to enhance contracting and ed near the Outokumpu site in Tornio. Reports and statements issued in The main discharges into recipient water from stainless steel producprocurement skills. the 2000s indicate that the Group’s activities do not have a significant tion are metals and nitrates. These are monitored according to national negative impact or threaten biodiversity in these areas. guidances at every production site. For instance, as Outokumpu’s Tornio Supplier requirements renewed site is located on the Tornionjoki river estuary on the coast of the Gulf of Regular dialogue in supply chain The Mexinox production site has planted a lot of trees on the site, princiBothnia and close to nature reserves, the Group’s manufacturing operaAn essential element in ensuring Outokumpu’s sustainability is regular pally so that every employee has their own tree and takes care of it. This tions have, from the beginning, been developed to be environmentally evaluation of our suppliers’ sustainability policies, practices, and related During 2014 we will evaluate the existing ways of working related to the is part of the local voluntary nature conservation and climate program in sound. Many studies monitoring the biological, physical and chemical performance. supply chain, especially since we want to be ahead of the increasing this arid and dry area. Nature and landscape conservation, mainly comconditions which prevail near the Tornio site have been carried out since needs for information and statements for our customers. We will impleing from irrigation costs of vegetation and trees have been every year the 1970s. The latest research report concerning the impact of nitrates Internal common supplier requirements were renewed and further dement processes within the new Group operations and plan how to implemore or less significant. on recipient water at the Tornio site and the Kemi chrome mine showed veloped and approved during June 2013. These requirements are in line ment common requirements together with evaluation of new suppliers. 30 31 Outokumpu Sustainability Report 2013 Our impact on the environment Outokumpu Sustainability Report 2013 Our impact on the environment The latest round of the Group’s sustainability evaluation of current suppliers was finalized in 2012. The frequency is planned to be tri-annual, the scope of the evaluation is all raw material producers and strategic Improved transportation efficiency reduces emissions Environmental investments and expenditures suppliers in general procurement. Coverage of completed answers and evaluated companies was more than 90% of Outokumpu’s total spendEfforts continued to minimize the environmental burden resulting from ing on materials and supplies to these companies (the study excluded activities in Outokumpu’s supply chain logistics and transportation. The energy purchases). emissions that result from product transportation are included in the Group’s carbon profile and integrated into Outokumpu’s long-term cliThe data collected is used in the Group’s program for developing a commate-change-related targets. prehensive and sustainable sourcing process. The results obtained from Costs for environment-related activities within Outokumpu totaled EUR Environmental investments of the new Outokumpu during the last dethe evaluations form the basis of both development work and audit Total CO2 emissions resulting from product transportation in 2013 totaled 106 million in 2013, of which costs associated with operational environcade have been some EUR 400 million, including e.g. new acid regenplanning. Outokumpu monitors the performance of Group suppliers and 139 120 tonnes. The proportion of products and deliveries transported mental management totaled EUR 101 million. Operational costs include eration plants for Avesta and Krefeld, improvement projects for energy subcontractors through auditing. Regular external audits carried out in by road, rail, and sea were 51%, 21%, and 28%, respectively. The total volprocess-related treatment, disposal and remediation costs for waste efficiency and dedusting equipment for several units. accordance with local EHSQ (Environmental Health Safety and Quality) ume of finished products transported in 2013 was 2.4 million tonnes. and emissions into air and water. management systems used at Outokumpu’s operational sites were conAt New Castle, IN, US, the spray pickling line accompanied by new wet ducted during 2013 as planned. The process is also an important eleTransportation of Group products by mode in 2013 Provisions and guarantees in connection with environmental considerscrubber for emissions yielded great results. This small investment is ment in managing supply chain risks. Awareness of such issues is the ations totaled EUR 53 million, including Inoxum, and additional provinow in full use and nitric acids were reduced by 87% and hydrofluoric ac% 2013 2012 2011 only way to provide Outokumpu’s customers with accurate sustainability sions for the aftercare of former mining sites totaled EUR 1 million. Enids by 91%. This achievement was also reported to and acknowledged by road 51 41.4 49.8 information, and to guarantee to end-users that the Group’s stainless vironmental investments by Outokumpu in 2013 totaled approximately by the US Environmental Protection Agency’s pollution-prevention prosteel products are produced in a responsible manner. by sea 28 32.4 26.4 EUR 25 million, a clear indication of the Group’s commitment to achievgrams. by rail 21 26.2 23.8 ing continual improvements in sustainability despite the challenging Finished products, 1 000 tonnes 2 431 1 243 1 357 business environment. Sustainability is a precondition Finished products, 1 000 tonnes, numbers for 2012 and 2011 are Investments to improve energy efficiency for new suppliers Outokumpu stand alone numbers Main recent environmental investments Outokumpu’s new ferrochrome plant came on stream during 2013. The Outokumpu is working hard to increase levels of efficiency in the Group’s expanded operations produce also significantly increased amount of In addition to evaluating and auditing our current suppliers and contractransportation networks. Improved efficiency is an important factor in At Degerfors, Sweden: Direct environmental investment to new water carbon monoxide (CO) – gas which can be used as fuel. New gas pipetors we have integrated sustainability issues in to the approval process improving environmental performance. treatment plant (EUR 6.5 million). Environmental investments were part lines, blowers and changes in end-consumption units were taken into for new suppliers. Sustainability requirements need to be acknowledged of larger production investment program together with investments siguse during this year. The utilization of CO gas increasd by some 50%, and signed up to by new suppliers, these issues are also part of OutoAn excellent example of the benefits resulting from increased efficiency nificantly improving environmental performance – two heat treatment and improved the overall energy efficiency of the Tornio site, including kumpu’s internal qualitative supplier evaluation system. is improved utilization of the vessel that travels between the production furnace replacements and upgrade of existing walking heart furnace – on-site contractors. This is an excellent example of additional benefits site in Tornio, Finland and the Outokumpu service and distribution centhese investments are continuing in 2014. only possible for integrated ferrochrome and stainless steel operations. As a leading producer of stainless steel Outokumpu makes public prodter in Terneuzen, the Netherlands. By optimizing material movements, uct statements such as a conflict minerals statement, a statement relatdispatching direct loads destined for European customers to Terneuzen At Avesta, Sweden: New regenerative burners at melt shop ladle and ed to product safety and health, radioactivity and chemical safety stateby sea and then managing delivery to customers on arrival, utilization of converter furnaces (EUR 1 million). Process development ments, and environmental product declarations. All of these statements this vessel has been significantly improved. The net effect is a saving of require the Group to have knowledge of its suppliers and supplies. around 1 100 truckloads (approximately 27 500 tonnes) on an annual At Calvert, AL US: at melt shop, cold rolling and site also the environOutokumpu has R&D teams dedicated to the development of our probasis. During 2013, Terneuzen in particular increased the share of rail mental investments related to establishing new production site were duction processes and technologies. These process and technology transportation, while Tornio further increased sea transport. completed over the period of 2011–2013, and they amounted over to development activities focus on reduction of the environmental imOutokumpu ensures safety EUR 100 million. The most significant investments in this area were: pact, improvement of the cost efficiency of our production processes Another example illustrating Outokumpu’s strategy of transferring transand on optimization of product quality. In 2013, the Group decided to of our products portation from road to rail and/or sea freight is the switching of deliver»» Water treatment plant: USD 61 million launch several Core Technology Competence working groups for interies from road to rail. The EuroLink railway system that connects Group »» Acid regeneration plant USD 22 million nal improvement of production processes. Almost all of the areas these Outokumpu product safety information for customers and the Safety sites is Outokumpu’s primary internal, rail-ship-rail transportation solu»» EAF dust filter baghouse USD 22 million Groups work in will have positive effects on environmental matters and Information Sheets of products were updated for the new company in tion for production materials. A project to switch deliveries originating »» AOD dust filter baghouse USD 21 million aspects. The work of these groups will start in 2014. 2013. Because life cycle and environmental data of products is becomin Tornio and destined for the UK to the EuroLink system commenced in »» AOD material handling dust filter baghouse USD 8 million ing more important Outokumpu has expanded Environmental Product 2011, and during the first full-year in 2012 the savings were around 400 »» Other dust filter baghouses USD 8 million Declarations (EPDs) to also cover our long products and rebar in 2013. truckloads (approximately 10 000 tonnes). Our EPDs are verified by an external independent institute. Read more At Dillenburg, Germany: investment in new neutralization plant was takabout EPDs on p. 8 and 12. A big challenge for the company in 2013–2014 is to reorganize a part of en in to use in 2013 (EUR 2.5 million). logistics and transports according to new business plans and material flows. The leading principles in this work are efficiency and optimising, inAt Wildwood, FL, US: A “Pickling project” started and will reduce pickling cluding environmentally sound transport methods whenever applicable. times, minimize the use of acids, and greatly reduce or eliminate the need to sand blast. The aims include: »» reducing acid gas emissions up to 90% by reducing the surface interface of acid to air »» retaining heat by acting as a layer of insulation for up to a 75% improvement in heat loss »» reducing evaporation of pickling liquor by up to 90% »» providing a cleaner and healthier work environment for the pickling crew. 32 33 Outokumpu Sustainability Report 2013 Our people Outokumpu Sustainability Report 2013 Our people Our people The last shift in the Krefeld melt shop on December 6, 2013. A good solution was found to all employees: 200 transferred 2013 was characterized by extensive transformation agenda and integration work to combine the power of two stainless to ThyssenKrupp, 100 moved to new job steel companies in a challenging market environment. within Outokumpu and some retired. The ramp down of the melt shop was done professionally and timely as planned, which is a true testimony to the professionalism The transformation agenda included organizational restructuring, capacity optimization and revision of processes, and it required also and competence of the Krefeld team. many hard and difficult decisions. However, there was a strong and joint ambition to turn around the company and to create a true market leader in stainless steel. In the first half of the year, a new and lean organizational structure was built up enabling synergy benefits and higher effectiveness for the business with our customers. In the second half of the year consideration was given to processes and activities Outokumpu will focus on – which will be taken care of globally and which locally. The weak market situation continued throughout the year. Since the beginning of the year, Outokumpu pursued announced synergy savings very successfully, beating all targets. In April Outokumpu announced new cost savings programs and in October new industrial plan for its operations in Europe. All these programs are ongoing and will include altogether 3 500 job reductions by the year 2017. As a result of all the cost savings actions, 766 job reductions were implemented in 2013. At the end of the year the Group had 12 561 employees in the continuing operations. In May, Outokumpu unveiled a powerful new vision (“a world that lasts forever”), mission and brand for the new company. Employees were provided with interactive e-learning program and possibility to contribute to the process. During the integration planning in 2012, the Outokumpu Leadership Team defined four joint transformation principles for the new company: from volumes to profits, from production to customers, speed and working together. To accelerate integration and transformation, a 2.5 day strategy workshop was arranged for the top 170 leaders in the spring in 2013. With input from this workshop, the transformation principles were further developed and turned into everyday individual behaviors, so called Winning Behaviors. A process to increase employee engagement was started in October in form of local interactive workshops to make the Winning Behaviors visible in the daily work. The workshops will continue in 2014, and the Winning Behaviors will be part of the individual target setting in 2014. As part of the integration work, Outokumpu put a lot of effort into internal communication and making the strategic targets and their progress transparent to employees. In Outokumpu, the most important communication channels are line management communications and intranet. To intensify communication across the organization and especially to people working in production tasks, Outokumpu launched an employee magazine in four languages. 34 35 Outokumpu Sustainability Report 2013 Our people Outokumpu Sustainability Report 2013 Our people Focus on company turnaround Personnel by countries (including discontinuing operations) 2013 2012 2011 Headcount FTE Headcount FTE Headcount FTE Europe Germany 5 917 5 643 6 342 6 021 228 189 Italy 3 078 3 071 3 115 3 105 297 273 Please note that all personnel figures include Outokumpu personnel in Finland, 16% in Sweden, 9% in the US and 9% in Mexico. in the continuing operations. The figures do not therefore include TerFinland 2 404 2 320 2 753 2 599 2879 2 745 ni remedy assets or VDM business of which Outokumpu announced Outokumpu’s permanent employees mostly work on a full-time basis Sweden 1 954 1 873 2 466 2 365 2957 2 818 the divestiture in November 2013, except for personnel by countries, and some 811 people work on a part-time basis, corresponding to The United Kingdom 583 578 615 609 648 642 which is counted including discontinuing operations. 709 positions in full-time equivalents. The Netherlands 203 196 227 221 397 383 France 104 100 119 119 73 72 In 2013 Outokumpu was operating in a challenging market and focusTurkey 83 83 84 84 3 3 ing on turning around the company to reach sustainable profitability. Spain 49 47 57 55 17 15 This meant difficult decisions from the employees’ point of view. In Key figures Poland 45 44 54 52 29 28 2013 Outokumpu pursued previously announced synergy savings of 2013 2012 2011 Hungary 29 29 33 33 12 12 EUR 200 million and announced a new cost savings program to cut Sales/person, € million 0.5 0.6 0.6 Austria 14 14 21 19 17 16 annual costs by EUR 150 million (P150 program) during the year. At year-end, discussions were still continuing with the unions and emTraining costs of total Russia 11 11 12 12 13 12 ployee representatives about the new industrial plan announced in personnel costs, % 0.4 0.6 0.8 Norway 8 8 11 11 12 11 October 2013. These savings will begin to show in 2014 after the neTraining days / person 2.5 1.5 2.0 Denmark 6 5 16 16 20 20 gotiations have been completed. Incentives of total perBelgium 5 5 5 5 24 23 sonnel costs 4.9 3.2 3.2 Czech Republic 2 1 1 1 19 18 Overall, Outokumpu’s number of employees increased from 2012 to Days lost due to strike 24.0 8.0 14.0 2013 from 7 249 to 12 561 (continuing operations). At the beginning Portugal 2 2 3 3 4 4 Personnel turnover, % 1) 5.7 8.0 5.5 of 2013, due to the Inoxum transaction 12 085 people joined the Romania 1 1 1 1 2 2 Group from the Inoxum side. During 2013, following the Terni remedy 1) Average turnover: ((newly hired + leavers)/2)/year-end headcount Estonia 0 0 39 38 48 47 and VDM divestiture, in total 6 007 employees were excluded from Ireland 0 0 0 0 6 6 the continuing operations. By the end of 2013, the number of emLithuania 0 0 0 0 5 5 ployees in continuing operations decreased by 766 as a result of variEducational background, permanent employees* 14 498 14 031 15 974 15 368 7 710 7 344 ous cost savings measures. Americas The average turnover rate for permanent employees was 5.7% (2012: The United States 1 356 1 355 1 333 1 332 309 309 Primary and lower secondary 8.0%, 2011: 5.5%), the hiring rate 3.4% and the leaving rate 7.9%. level 21% Mexico 1 091 1 091 1 103 1 103 0 0 The voluntary leaving rate was 3.5% (2012: 3.1%). The number of Upper secondary level and lower Argentina 88 88 103 103 0 0 people on fixed-term contracts was 563. In all restructuring work and university degree 72% Brazil 5 4 6 6 5 5 lay-offs Outokumpu complied with local legislations, collective barHigher university degree and Canada 4 4 32 32 26 26 gaining agreements and other applicable regulations. postgraduate 7% 2 544 2 542 2 577 2 576 340 339 Asia The share of blue-collar workers increased and was 65% (2012: 61%). China 582 582 597 597 44 44 The share of women decreased and was 14% (2012: 17%), and the share of men was 86% (2012: 83%). Due to the transaction, most of India 15 15 16 16 16 16 the Group’s employees are now located in Germany, where the comJapan 13 13 12 12 9 9 pany has several sites: of the employees, 32% work in Germany, 19% Singapore 12 12 13 13 12 12 *Data covers 97% of the employees of the continuing operations. United Arab Emirates 5 5 5 5 5 5 South Korea 4 4 4 4 0 0 Hong Kong 0 0 17 17 15 15 Personnel by years of service, Personnel age profile, permanent employees Saudi Arabia 0 0 78 78 73 73 permanent employees 631 631 742 742 174 174 2 500 2 500 Australia 37 37 37 36 25 25 2 000 2 000 Africa 1 500 1 500 South Africa 4 4 4 4 4 4 1 000 1 000 4 4 4 4 4 4 Group total 17 714 17 244 19 334 18 726 8253 7 886 500 500 0 0 –5 6–10 11–15 16–20 21–25 26–30 31– –25 26–30 31–35 36–40 41–45 46–50 51–55 56–60 61– 36 37 Outokumpu Sustainability Report 2013 Our people Outokumpu Sustainability Report 2013 Our people Goals and results Open communication Goals and results for 2013 Outokumpu’s existing performance and development dialogue (PDD) process is a key part of Performance Management and at the same in integration and managing change Outokumpu set goals for 2013 before the Inoxum transaction was time the right of every employee that will be followed in the business closed at the year-end. These goals were related to defining people areas, while taking into consideration the local processes and emstrategy to support Outokumpu’s business in an optimal way, conployee relation agreements. The practice varies from unit to unit and ducting a yearly employee engagement (O’People) survey and ensurcountry to country according to local legislation and practices. ing good implementation of the performance and development dialogue (PDD) process and further improving the PDD completion rate. Due to the integration between Outokumpu and Inoxum, Outokumpu does not have a uniform system for performance management or Outokumpu values employee commitment and motivation. Therefore, Outokumpu Personnel Forum In the course of 2013, Outokumpu had to react and prioritize its inidiscussion, and therefore an overall completion rate for PDDs cannot Outokumpu continued to place particular focus in communication in tial people management objectives in order to support and sustain be given. 2013: in the integration and managing change, clear and open comOutokumpu’s Personnel Forum is a joint consultative body which the required steps in integration and change. munication is the key. provides a channel for transferring information between OutokumGoals for 2014 pu’s management and its employees. The personnel forum was first Instead of a comprehensive employee engagement survey as initially After publishing an integration newsletter in 2012, a decision was established some ten years ago in response to a European Works planned, a number of more focused surveys on internal communicaFor 2014, the overriding objective will be consequent implementation made during the year to publish a quarterly personnel magazine in Council directive. In 2013, the OPF agreement was renegotiated to tions and integration basics were conducted to gain fast and direct of ongoing restructuring measures and to move the company beyond German, Finnish, Swedish and English and to publish two other newsreflect the changes in the Group due to Inoxum integration. The role feedback from our employees. Performance management remained restructuring and into business excellence. The focus areas for 2014 letters with more specific needs, one for managers and the other for of the forum is to discuss issues of transnational interest, such as as a focus area in leadership, with a clear priority on establishing perwill be increased focus on job rotation, building up capabilities and Stainless Coil EMEA, the business area facing the biggest restructhe economic and financial performance of the Outokumpu Group, formance dialogues across the newly formed organization. looking into fundamental business processes to ensure customer turing work. To mark important milestones and to ensure everybody future business prospects, product and market situations, broad satisfaction and internal efficiency. is updated on targets and progress, CEO letters are issued to the strategy issues, investment decisions, the annual report, manpower employees and teleconferences arranged for the top 200 managers and employment issues, business reorganizations and matters such to enable them to inform their own teams. Communication channels as health, safety and the environment, technology and research and include team meetings, the Group intranet, personnel meetings, teleother matters where these have transnational impact or common inconferences and videos, printed magazines and e-mail newsletters. terest. To further develop internal communications, Outokumpu conducted The first personnel forum of the new company began its work after an internal communication survey in March and in December. The resummer with 33 representatives from European operations and held sults in the spring showed that internal communications were workits annual meeting in November in Krefeld, Germany. The personnel ing reasonably well but that development was needed in line managforum appoints a working committee which is responsible for ongoing er communications, on communicating the strategy or the so-called cooperation between the management and employees. The commitbig picture and on the usability of the Group intranet. The Group tee has eight members of the personnel and three representatives of Diversity and equal rights started quarterly business updates, with the aim of all managers the management. During 2013, the committee had 5 meetings. taking the message to their own teams. The most important targets such as synergy savings, inventory levels and customer feedback are now regularly tracked on the intranet. Even though major development work was on hold due to cost savings, improvements in the usability of the intranet were undertaken based on feedback. The secOutokumpu’s ethical principles build on the equal treatment of all In 2013, some 83% of Outokumpu’s permanent employees were covond survey in December showed some clear improvements compared people and zero tolerance for any kind of discrimination based on ered by collective agreements. There were 24 days lost to a strike to March 2013 survey results. For instance, the share of people who their ethnic origin, nationality, religion, political views, gender, sexual (2012: 8, 2011: 14). felt that they get relevant information about what is going on in the orientation or age. A transparent and unified resourcing process enGroup increased in six months from 66% to 73% favorable. Employsures equal opportunities. Outokumpu complies with international laThe overall percentage of women working in Outokumpu among its ees also saw grapevine as being a clearly less important source of bor treaties and condemns the use of forced and child labor. permanent workforce is 14% (2012: 17%; 2011: 18%). At the end of information than before. 2013, two of the seven members of the Outokumpu Board of DirecDuring the year, the Code of Conduct was updated to reflect the retors were women. Within the Group, 13 women hold key leadership cent developments in the Group. A more thorough update is planned positions, corresponding with the overall percentage of women in for 2014. Outokumpu. Outokumpu maintains a consistent policy of freedom of association. All employees of the Group’s operations are free to join trade unions in accordance with the rules and regulations that apply in the local labor market. 38 39 Outokumpu Sustainability Report 2013 Our people Outokumpu Sustainability Report 2013 Our people Training and development period. PDD discussions are held once a year with a recommended mid-year review. The practice varies from unit to unit and country to country according to local legislation and practices. Due to the integration between Outokumpu and Inoxum, Outokumpu does not have a uniform system for performance management or disDuring 2013, Outokumpu continued to face a challenging finanBecause of the amount of integration work that was going on during cussion, and therefore an overall completion rate for PDDs cannot be cial situation and implemented synergy and cost savings programs. the year, the Group also initiated two programs – first the “Power of given. However, Outokumpu’s overall target stays the same: all OutoTherefore, the training programs were kept on a minimum level in Two” program for the top 170 managers during the first half of the kumpu employees have performance and development discussions 2013 and only business critical training and safety training were oryear and during the final quarter of 2013 the Outokumpu Spirit workwith their manager once a year. ganized. In accordance with the decision, the Group’s training costs shops for as many employees as possible. The aim of the Power of decreased and were 0.4% of the total personnel costs (2012: 0.6%; Two program was to accelerate the integration and transformation The work done by leaders is extremely important when the operating 2011: 0.8%). The Group provided 2.5 training days per employee of the two companies that both have 100 years of experience in the environment is challenging and Outokumpu’s PDD process provides (2012: 1.5; 2011: 2.0). field of stainless steel, and utilize the best parts in both organizathem with a useful and important tool. Outokumpu will continue to tions. The participants of the Power of Two program gave valuable support leaders in this area through a stronger focus on achieving While formal training programs were limited, integration work and the input in the work of developing the transformation principles – from high-quality discussions that have a positive impact on both manager new organization provided a lot of development opportunities, job rovolumes to profits, from production to customers, speed and workand employee – with a corresponding positive effect on Outokumpu’s tation and learning on the job for Outokumpu employees. Excellent ing together – into concrete behaviors. These Winning Behaviors were performance. Successful PDDs increase individual motivation, help examples of job rotation practices were the continued ramp-ups: the finalized during the third quarter. Employees have been invited to loimprove employee’s performance and are an effective way of supferrochrome expansion project in Finland and the Calvert investment cal Outokumpu Spirit workshops to discuss how they can take these porting the Group’s business activities. in Alabama, USA. Calvert faced some normal issues in the ramp up behaviors as a part of their everyday work and take action already tolike quality and delivery reliability. Volunteers from Finland and Sweday. The feedback from both programs has been positive and these den were chosen at the end of 2013 for a job rotation in Calvert to initiatives are a major step in building the Outokumpu Spirit in the share their expertise in stainless steel. new company. Compensation and benefits Outokumpu’s intention is to provide competitive base salary for all Incentive schemes are used in addition to base salaries as an eleGroup employees based on the scope of their role, individual performent in total individual compensation. Incentive payments totaled mance and in line with local labor market and agreements. Typically, 4.9% of the Group’s total personnel costs in 2013. base salary levels also vary according to the stage each individual has reached in their career. At the national level, Outokumpu’s aim is Read more on management remuneration in the Corporate Goverfor base salaries to be at the market median. nance statement in the Annual Report, p. 117. Performance management Performance management is one of Outokumpu’s key processes. PDD, business targets are cascaded into individual targets to ensure Business success demands high-quality performance management that actions are aligned with Outokumpu’s business strategy and processes at both individual and Group level. Outokumpu’s target is support the Group’s success. that all its employees have a performance and development dialogue with their manager. Outokumpu requires that each unit has a performance management process in place and that each employee has a documented develPerformance and development dialogues (PDDs) support Outokumopment discussion with his or her manager. In general, Outokumpu’s pu’s strategy execution and reinforce a performance-driven mindset performance and development dialogue consists of a formal annual especially in the current situation where Outokumpu is turning the review of both an employee’s performance against defined targets company around. The essence of the process is engaging and involvand development achieved in the preceding 12 months, together ing Outokumpu personnel in the Group’s strategy implementation. In with a new performance and development plan for the next 12-month 40 41 Outokumpu Sustainability Report 2013 Safe working environment Outokumpu Sustainability Report 2013 Safe working environment Safe working environment At Outokumpu, safety remains the number one priority. Outokumpu is committed to providing a safe and healthy working environment at its production sites and facilities for its own personnel, contractors and visitors. Safety remains the number one priority At Outokumpu, safety is the number one priority. The Group management continue to reinforce a message that safety comes before performance with key safety performance indicators visible throughout the company. Outokumpu remains committed to providing a safe and healthy working environment at its production sites and facilities for its own personnel, contractors and visitors. In the area of safety, Outokumpu had its best performance across a number of performance indicators. The former Inoxum units have adopted the Outokumpu Safety Management systems and reporting protocols on top of their well-established systems and processes. The ultimate goal remains The ultimate goal remains zero accidents and ambition levels have zero accidents and ambition been set to make a step change improvement during 2014 and 2015. levels have been set to make Health and safety figures from 2013 continuing operations reflect the a step change improvement scope of Outokumpu operations as they were in 2013, including the VDM business and excluding the ring-fenced Terni operations. For the during 2014 and 2015. same reason, the comparison year (2012) figures have not been adjusted, and they include Outokumpu stand-alone before the completion of the Inoxum acquisition. The injury figures include contractors and Outokumpu personnel. 42 43 Outokumpu Sustainability Report 2013 Safe working environment Outokumpu Sustainability Report 2013 Safe working environment Health Total rate of injuries for employees and contractors* 50 40 As a responsible company, Outokumpu initiated systematic health Cancer incidence among Finnish studies with world-class independent expert institutes in the 1980s. The main targets of these studies have been individual levels of exferrochromium and stainless 30 posure to chromium and other compounds in the stainless steel production chain and their long-term effects on respiratory health. Activisteel production workers 20 ties focus on improving working environments and employee health is An epidemiological cancer study was completed and the results were 10 monitored using a variety of occupational health checks and fitness published in the article “Cancer incidence among Finnish ferrochrotests. Occupational hygiene measurements are carried out on an onmium and stainless steel production workers in 1967–2011: a cohort 0 going basis at Group production sites to monitor work-related expostudy” in the British Medical Journal in November. The cohort con09 10 11 12 13 sure to noise and impurities in the ambient air, as well as other facsists of 8 100 employees who have been employed at the OutokumZero injury Fatalities tors. Issues related to working environments within Outokumpu are pu mine in Kemi and production site in Tornio since 1967. People also studied through joint research projects carried out in collaboraliving in Northern Finland are the reference population in the study. Lost-time injury tion with universities and specialist institutions. The results indicate that the total number of cancer cases in the co* Per 1 million working hours. hort equals the number of cases expected in the reference populaIn 2013, an average of 6 691 days per million hours worked by Outotion. The incidence of lung cancer is 21% lower than in the reference kumpu employees were lost as a result of sickness or injury (2012: population. 5 980). The number of cases of occupational disease diagnosed in the Group in 2012 was 11 (2012: 16). The number includes six suspected cases of occupational disease, which are still unconfirmed. Safety The safety focus has remained high despite the challenging business focus for Outokumpu’s operational management. The proactive declimate. This is a great testament to the Group and operational leadvelopment continued in 2013 and training for these processes was ership, the safety practitioners and our employees. rolled out to the former Inoxum units and will be more evident in 2014. The number of hazards spotted and closed was 16 582 (2012: Outokumpu remains committed to providing a safe and healthy work17 326) and the number of safety behavioral observations also ining environment for all of its employees, contractors and visitors. The creased to 20 011 (2012: 11 533). ambition is to continuously improve our safety practices to ensure that Outokumpu is an industry leader in safety. A number of plants maintained zero lost time injuries during 2013 and have maintained this for multiple years. These sites are across the production steps, providing evidence of best practice and sharing opportunities. Safety performance Road map for future development In 2013, the total injury frequency for the new company was 34.6 (2012: 37.8). The Group LTI rate (lost time injuries per million workOutokumpu’s safety strategy follows our existing safety principles ing hours) improved to 4.5 and was in line with targets (7.2 for 2012). and is built on the three themes of having visible safety leadership, The number of severe accidents remained at a low level with many employee ownership of safety and sound safety systems and proinjuries being of a minor nature resulting in a lower number of days cesses. Work across these three areas will continue in 2014. absence. There were no fatal accidents in 2013; however, clear attention on the severe accidents provided a clear reminder of the importance of a continuous safety focus. The number of non lost time injuries was 908 (2012: 512). The follow-up of proactive safety indicators continued to be a main 44 45 Outokumpu Sustainability Report 2013 Outokumpu and society Outokumpu Sustainability Report 2013 Outokumpu and society Outokumpu Outokumpu operates in a competitive industry where and society demand and supply meet on global markets. On the other hand, our production units are often located in relatively small cities or towns. Outokumpu’s operations have economic impacts on local, national and global communities in its countries of operation through paying taxes, direct and indirect employment, and other means of community involvement. Outokumpu operates in a competitive industry where Group may sponsor research and environmental prodemand and supply meet on global markets. On the grams, sporting activities, culture and a variety of other hand, our production sites are often located in events at local level, as well as charity work. We also relatively small cities or towns. This means that Outooffer scholarships to students. Organizations that arkumpu is significant to the small local community’s range activities for children are supported. economy, and often one of very few private sector employers in the area. Finding balance between global Outokumpu supports research and development remarket trends and responsibility towards communities lated to its field of industry and maintains close cois sometimes difficult, especially in economic downoperation with educational institutes in the training turns. Decisions have a major impact on communities, of engineers, miners and supervisors. ApprenticeOutokumpu personnel and their families and local ships have been offered to local colleges and stugoods suppliers and service providers as well. dent placements have been made available in the form of one-year programs, and schoolchildren and Events tailored to creating open and active particilocal students have been introduced to the Group’s pation, such as a variety of “open house” events on operations. production sites, are clear signals for local communities that we want to be part of local communities Outokumpu does not take part in or otherwise supand to encourage an open Outokumpu culture. port political activities whether they are local or national. Outokumpu does not make donations to any Outokumpu makes donations to various charitable political parties or groups. enterprises and events in line with its ethics. The Value added distributed to Outokumpu’s stakeholders* Generation of value added Distribution of value added + Customers Sales Employees Wages and salaries 6 745 € million 711 € million – Suppliers Cost of goods Public sector Taxes and social dues 98 € million Distributed and services Outokumpu to stake6 110 € million Creditors holders Interest on debt 1 010 € = 634 € million and borrowings 201 € million million Value added Shareholders Dividends € million Retained in business = -376 € million *Including continuing operations. 46 47 Outokumpu Sustainability Report 2013 Outokumpu and society Outokumpu Sustainability Report 2013 Outokumpu and society Risks and stakeholders Key risks are evaluated for stakeholder impacts Enterprise-wide risks Evaluation of risks impacts Leadership Team on stakeholders Regular risk Identification To expand appreciation of key risks within Outokumpu and to help in mitirisks at all organizational levels and includes assessments of the imupdates • Customers gating the effects of possible impacts on stakeholders, the Group also pact of key risks on Group stakeholders. • Local communities Risk reporting monitors potential risks from a corporate responsibility perspective. • NGOs (external/ Evaluation and Business areas and The Stakeholder perspective diagram specifies key stakeholder • Shareholders prioritization Group functions internal) Sustainability-related issues including stakeholder dialogue is an ingroups and provides examples of the possible impact of different cat• Personnel tegral part of the Group’s risk management process. In addition, the egories of risk on Outokumpu's operations. • Future employees Risk monitoring Mitigation Group’s risk management participates in the corporate responsibility • Associations, federations and control • Suppliers Operations team of Outokumpu. This secures efficient communication to both directions and strong presence of risk management perspective. Impacts on stakeholders are reviewed as part of Outokumpu's risk management process. The evaluation process covers enterprise-wide Stakeholder perspective KEY RISKS STAKEHOLDERS Customers POSSIBLE IMPACTS Competition, emerging legislation or high input prices make less sustainable materials more feasible substitute to stainless steel and Outokumpu loses market share. Melt shop closures and more centralized supply chain lead to Customers Local communities changes to service and deliveries. Strategic and Outokumpu serves its customers – distributors, producers of conalyzed and benchmarked to support us in various goals. Customers’ Investors and shareholders Impacts on shareholders, personnel and communities if Outokumpu is business sumer goods and manufacturers of various industrial applications feedback helps us to achieve our growth targets, and is used to ennot able to achieve its financial targets, carry out integration and realize risks Personnel synergies and is therefore forced into actions such as reductions to the Group alike – globally. Continuous feedback and interaction with customers able continuous improvement of our performance, both on strategic workforce, layoffs and reduced orders to suppliers. help us to improve our understanding of their needs, the challenges and operational levels. The overall aim is to have a mutually benefithey face and the business environment our customers operate in. cial process that helps us improve and increases the satisfaction of Future employees Outokumpu’s reputation and attractiveness as employer at risk. our customers. Despite the challenging year of integration and sevOne year ago, at the turn of the year, Outokumpu and Inoxum joined eral changes ongoing, Outokumpu’s customer satisfaction continues Customers forces and emerged as the new global leader in stainless steel. With to outperform that of our competitors. Inability to meet the deliveries on time, significant impacts on small suppliers if Outokumpu’s business and demand are deteriorated. the merger, Outokumpu’s product portfolio grew, making it the widSuppliers est in the market. At the same time our customer base expanded In May, we arranged our first global customer event, Outokumpu Exinto more consumer-driven segments. With such a big change, Outoperience in London, the UK. The event brought together some 700 Major catastrophes and severe interruptions to Outokumpu’s business may Operational Personnel affect personnel, local communities and environment. kumpu aimed at business continuity and customer satisfaction for stainless steel professionals under one roof. Outokumpu showcased risks its customers. One of the transformation principles in the new comits portfolio and launched new products in the event. At the London Local communities pany in 2013 was putting the customer first. Over the year, these event, Outokumpu also launched its new vision of a ‘world that lasts Trade barriers or other obstacles for free trade would effect negatively principles evolved into Winning Behaviors that guide everyday indiforever’. This vision crystallizes the sustainable properties of our to industry’s actions within associations on the joint way towards more sustainable stainless. vidual behavior and are part of target-setting of each employee. This products: in Outokumpu’s products, more than 80% is recycled conAssociations, federations ensures that ‘Customer first’ as a promise is embedded in our everytent and they are long lasting and 100% recyclable. day operations. Risk of weakened transparency due to limited availability of resources in In November, Outokumpu introduced a new pricing model, the daily NGOs promoting environmental and social issues if Outokumpu can’t achieve its During 2013, Outokumpu’s sales and technical customer service alloy surcharge, for the European market. This new pricing modfinancial targets. Financial people continued to help our customers select the right materials for el entered into force in January 2014, following a piloting project Customers risks each application. Several online tools such as Steel Finder also help where we tested and developed the model in collaboration with pilot Impacts on shareholders and customers if Outokumpu is not able to achieve customers to browse our offering, and to choose the correct grade. customers. The model allows our customers to react faster on the Investors and shareholders its financial targets due to decline in share price and inability to meet the customer deliveries. Outokumpu’s earlier published handbooks, Welding Handbook and changes in the raw material prices and to choose between different Corrosion Handbook, were complemented with a Handbook of Stainoptions in avoiding alloy risks and selecting optimum alloy surcharge. less Steel. This Handbook is especially targeted for engineers, deOur customers employing this model can choose whether to fix the signers, materials specifiers and students. alloy surcharge on order date or on any other date between the order and mid-week prior to the delivery week. Daily alloy surcharges are During the year, Outokumpu continued to collect continuous, firstpublished daily at www.outokumpu.com. hand feedback from our customers. New customers from the Inoxum business were included in the globally uniform feedback system that Outokumpu uses to collect and utilize customer insight in all our countries of operations. The data obtained through the system is an48 49 Outokumpu Sustainability Report 2013 Outokumpu and society Outokumpu Sustainability Report 2013 Outokumpu and society Suppliers Economic impact nel in 2013 amounted to EUR 40 million (2012: EUR 15 million). The Group’s incentive plans are primarily based on operational or finanSalary payments including pensions and other benefits paid by Outocial targets and vary by country. kumpu in 2013 increased compared to the previous year by some 69% to EUR 711 million (2012: EUR 419 million euros) mainly because of the Inoxum acquisition. Bonuses received by Group personRaw material purchases are the largest item in Outokumpu’s costs. Raw material spend by category in 2013 In 2013, Outokumpu’s delivery volumes were 2 894 000 tonnes, a comparable decrease of 5.3% from the previous year, based on manInvestors and analysts agement estimate for 2012 figures. The cost of goods and services Stainless steel scrap 46.1% fell by 20.6% from the previous year, mainly due to the synergies in Nickel primary 18.8% procurement, compared to the comparable figure from the previous Chrome primary 13.5% year based on management estimate. As Outokumpu and Inoxum Molybdenum primary 5.5% combined operations as of the beginning of the year, majority of the Iron (Fe) in scrap 5.5% synergy savings came from raw material and general procurement Others 10.6% Outokumpu’s regular and active dialogue with global investors and to meet investors. A total of 11 roadshows were arranged in Europe Primary raw materials – nickel, ferrochrome, recycled stainless and analysts continued in 2013. The completion of the Inoxum transacand in the US. In addition, Outokumpu hosted a Capital Markets Day carbon steel – are purchased on the open market. Part of the ferrotion at the end of 2012, the disposal process of the Terni remedy in London in May 2013. The event was well attended by 68 investors chrome are sourced internally from the Group’s own chromium mine asset as well as the new Outokumpu strategic roadmap met high inand analysts. Three site visits for analysts and institutional invesand ferrochrome operations. The doubling of ferrochrome capacity is terest from the capital markets. Towards the end of the year, the antors were arranged in 2013, two to the chrome mine in Kemi and the being ramped up in 2013, after which the production capacity of fernouncement of Outokumpu’s plan to sell the Terni remedy assets as stainless steel plant in Tornio, Finland and one to the new stainless rochrome will double by 2015. round of evaluation, the coverage of all completed answers and evalwell as the VDM business to ThyssenKrupp and to further deleverage steel plant in Calvert, USA. A total of over 200 one-on-one meetings, uated companies was more than 90% of Outokumpu’s total spending and strengthen its balance sheet by a comprehensive financial packconference calls and video conferences with investors were held durOutokumpu regularly evaluates its suppliers from the sustainabilon materials and supplies to these companies. age was the key topic in investor discussions. ing the year. ity point of view, highlighting the responsibility issues within society and local communities. The scope of the study was all raw materal Read more about our sustainable supply chain on p. 31. Outokumpu met investors and analysts at various events throughout Read more about Outokumpu share and shareholders, Outokumproducers and strategic suppliers in general procurement. In the last the year. The Group organized the Annual General Meeting in March, pu’s activities in the capital markets and stock exchange releases in and held quarterly results webcasts for investors and analysts for the 2013 in the Annual Report in Shares and shareholders and InformaAnnual Accounts in February and for the interim reports in April, July tion for the investors on p. 126. and November. Outokumpu’s representatives also attended seminars and conferences arranged by banks and organized roadshows Current and future employees Both current and future employees are very important stakeholders for Outokumpu, their energy and commitment being a fundamental Outokumpu as an employer and to learn about the job opportunities that Outokumpu offers. During the summer of 2013, the Group emLocal communities part of the Group’s business. ployed some 559 summer workers in Finland, mainly in Tornio, and approximately 165 in Sweden. In Germany, Outokumpu offered inAt the beginning of the year thousands of new employees joined Outoternships for 30 students close to graduation as engineer as well as Outokumpu is an important member of the community in most of In June 2013 Outokumpu celebrated the centenary of stainless steel kumpu through the integration with Inoxum, and first steps were taken technical and commercial apprenticeships in all its locations. the locations in which the Group has industrial operations. We are in Sheffield, whereby the whole city of Sheffield was involved. There to start to build the new culture together. Outokumpu’s employees a major employer in for example in Avesta, Degerfors, Långshyttan were exhibitions and lectures about stainless steel and its invention will be the key building block in creating the Outokumpu Spirit. Within Outokumpu considers it is important to continue work to enhance (Kloster), and Eskilstuna (Nyby) in Sweden, in Sheffield in the UK, in to feature the pioneering work done in Sheffield a hundred years ago. Outokumpu, safety and sustainability are key values. This is why they the Group’s employer brand, especially as the merger with Inoxum Calvert and New Castle in the US and in the Kemi-Tornio region in A series of open days and exhibitions were arranged for local school are incorporated into the Group’s brand, both internally and externally. has created new challenges and opportunities in this field. Being the Finland and in Benrath, Bochum, Dahlerbrück, Dillenburg and Krefeld children and employees’ family and friends. Some 800 people visited global leader in stainless steel requires a more global approach in in Germany. A continuing dialogue is maintained with community ofthe site during the centenary celebrations. On June 11–12, OutokumOutokumpu’s long-term target is to be the most attractive employer. terms of employer branding. ficials and representatives, other commercial companies, and with pu participated in an international conference at Sheffield University During 2013, Outokumpu continued its long-term efforts to develop schools and universities. with CEO Mika Seitovirta as the keynote speaker. The event was hostthe Group’s employer brand. In Finland and Sweden, co-operation Wages and salaries by country 1) ed by the British Stainless Steel Association and the Sheffield Metalwith schools and universities is an important means of communiThe new Outokumpu has new locations where we aim to implement lurgical & Engineering Association. € million 2013 2012 2) 2011 cating Outokumpu’s employer brand. In Finland, the main academic our sustainability program and actively listen to local communities. Finland 154 165 174 partners are Aalto University and the University of Oulu. For Sweden, Outokumpu's most significant impacts on local communities include In April, Outokumpu arranged a Girls’ Day at the Krefeld and Dillenthese partners are the KTH Royal University of Technology and the Sweden 118 141 176 direct and indirect employment as well as environmental and energy burg units. The aim of this yearly event is to give 14–16 year old girls University of Linköping. In Germany, Outokumpu cooperates with the Britain 28 29 30 issues. These are also key topics in discussions with local communiinterested in technical work a first insight to career possibilities in Universities of Krefeld, Mühlheim, Bochum and Duisburg, all situated Germany 260 10 13 ty representatives. Emissions from the Group's plants are measured technical professions and the possibility to collect some practical close to its major locations. Outokumpu participated in career fairs Other Europe 31 38 52 and strictly monitored, and effective corrective actions are taken if experiences. The local initiative was inspired by the national yearly arranged by the schools and universities. Other countries 119 35 27 deviations from permitted limits occur. Both vigilance and a responGirls’ Day campaign established by the German government. Total 711 419 472 sive attitude to issues that affect local communities and their conOutokumpu has a long tradition in offering summer jobs and traineecerns are important. For example, Tornio has implemented a publicly King Carl XVI Gustaf and Queen Silvia visited Outokumpu Degerfors ships in its major production locations in Finland, Germany and SweIncluding continuing operations. 1)  available particle monitoring system in the Tornio-Haparanda area in in August. The royal visit took place as part of the King’s anniversary den. By this, Outokumpu aims to further build its employer brand, Wages and salaries for 2012 have been restated as a result of adoption 2)  order to openly disclose information online. trip around Sweden to celebrate the 40 years on the throne, at the and offer an opportunity to students to become acquainted with of the revised IAS 19 Employee Benefits standard. same time aiming to highlight key names in industry, society and cul50 51 Outokumpu Sustainability Report 2013 Outokumpu and society Outokumpu Sustainability Report 2013 Outokumpu and society ture. The visit highlighted the role of the Degerfors site as an integral tions at local schools and universities and we have worked with local are organized for employees and these incorporate the family-related well-being at work by promoting work ability, controlling absenteepart of local society since the 1600s and today with an important inemployment agencies to find positions for people within the Group. aspects of their occupations. Close work with Fitness First Gym, which ism, prolonging working careers and sharing best practices. Currently vestment project in quarto plate being ramped up. Schoolchildren and local students have been introduced to the Group's visits the Group's UK sites on a quarterly basis, reinforces well-being there are more than 70 participating companies. working environment through tours and discussions with employees. and fitness programs. At Avesta in Sweden, a recreation committee organizes a wide variety of events for both employees and their famiThe project in Tornio started with a survey which was conducted in Local concerns calmed down lies, such as lectures and family days. Participation in sports such as March 2013 measuring different areas of well-being: own resources, Managing impacts on biking, skiing, and swimming is sponsored. At Tornio in Finland, sportmanagement and leadership, training and development as well as During 2011–2012, one Swedish newspaper raised serious doubts ing events involving employees' children are organized in both the work-life balance. Based on the survey results, the project team, conabout the health-related effects of Outokumpu's emissions in the Torlocal communities summer and winter. Personnel clubs, which reduce the costs associsisting of management, employee representatives and members of nio-Haparanda area and wrote over 130 articles on Outokumpu´s posated with enjoying cultural and other events, are supported. Health, Safety and HR teams, identified development areas and prisible effects on inhabitants and the environment. This communication Traffic loads have an impact on local communities, with the Kemi-Tororitized the actions. The development work at Ferrochrome Works is was against fact-based argumentation from health experts and authornio region and Sheffield being good examples. In Sheffield, Outokumseen as a continuous process and a new survey is planned for 2014. ities. During 2011–2013, Outokumpu participated in many local open pu is located very close to the UK's M1 motorway, and steps are takWell-being at work The project team welcomes all employees to participate in improving forums and discussions with local inhabitants and NGOs. Outokumpu en to ensure that our operations have minimal impact on this primary the everyday work. Change happens when everyone takes responsicommunicated locally in co-operation with health and environmental transportation route. As the effects associated with the transportaThe Ferrochrome Works in Tornio participated in the national “Good bility and acts towards a common goal. authorities and presented scientific views. The company also voluntarition of goods and raw materials can be major, the Group's general lowork – Longer career” project which is based on the collective agreely built two on-line air quality measurement stations in Haparanda and gistical arrangements are carefully planned to avoid road congestion ment between the Federation of Finnish Technology Industries and Tornio with internet connections. These showed during 2013 that the and minimize impacts on other road users. In recent years, increased the employee unions. The project aims at improving and developing local air quality was very good and no limit values exceeded. In paraltransportation of alloys by rail has had a positive impact in conneclel, the media coverage also significantly decreased. However, due to tion with road traffic densities. appeals in 2012 from Sweden against the new environmental permit of the Tornio site the permit case is still partly open and being proIn Sheffield, representatives of the local police force, fire and emerAssociations and federations cessed by the authorities. gency services, and national health organizations have attended a number of health and safety days organized for Outokumpu's employIn December 2013, a peer-reviewed scientific study on cancer freees. Local stakeholders are also taken into account in the Group's quency among Outokumpu employees in Kemi-Tornio was published emergency planning. in the British Medical Journal. This internationally important occupational research showed that there is no risk of increased lung cancer or other cancer types caused by atmospheric exposures to dust Communication with Outokumpu is an active and responsible actor in society. As the Members also contribute their own data for use in official industry or or metal particles among the workers. These results together with world's largest stainless steel producer, the Group's opinion is voiced authority reports, such as the World Steel Association Sustainability health studies conducted since the 1980s show that there are no inemployees on sites in many forums. Report. dications of occupational or other diseases caused by metal or other chemical exposures. These workers are the “worst-case scenario Maintaining employee well-being is Outokumpu's aim, and productive In 2013, Outokumpu experts and top management continued to In Europe, Outokumpu is a member of several federations and assogroup” in relation to air emissions and metal concentrations, due to dialogue is the key element in achieving this. Outokumpu's largest inmaintain effective liaisons with the authorities and numerous organiciations in Finland, France, Germany, Italy, Sweden, the Netherlands, the fact that their level of exposure to air and emission-based chemidustrial sites have many similarities. In addition to regular meetings zations. Top management participated in dialogue concerning issues and the UK. National cooperation organizations advance industry cals is much higher than other local inhabitants. with personnel representatives, employees are met once or twice such as social well-being, the global financial situation, megatrends views and contribute to legislation in Europe through national repreevery year at special events. Daily operational meetings include reand the future of the stainless steel business. Mika Seitovirta, Outosentatives in EU governing bodies. Outokumpu is also a member of In Germany, the permit for Marbach disposal site in Bochum Hamme porting on health and safety and environmental issues. Actions to kumpu's CEO, was an active participant in the discussions, especially business associations in North America and Australia. created public concerns in 2013. To address the concerns, Outoresolve these are usually taken immediately after completing a risk those regarding society's role in creating an operative environment kumpu established a local voluntary advisory committee in Marbach assessment. Management team members are encouraged to walk that can enhance development, knowledge, and investments. Within Eurofer and EuroSlag are collaborative organizations within the Eufor inhabitants to share information and views, including neighbors, through Group facilities, including production plants, and to talk with the Group, comprehension of approaches to social responsibility is ropean iron and steel industry. Outokumpu contributes to Eurofer's NGOs and other interest groups. Plans regarding the closure of the employees engaged in manufacturing operations. expanded through active engagement with a variety of companies commercial and trade issues at the presidency level, in committees Bochum melt shop caused local media attention at the end of 2013. and organizations. which handle statistics, research and the environment, and in workProduction employees are represented by their unions in plant maning groups which focus on issues such as climate change, air quality, As a large employer, decisions regarding the Group's operations have agement discussions at Outokumpu Nirosta, Avesta and Sheffield. In Outokumpu is a member of international organizations and confedwater, and waste. Eurofer conveys opinions to EU governing bodies a major impact on communities; not only on Outokumpu personnel Avesta, both formal and informal meetings are held at the plant level erations, including the World Economic Forum, Eurofer, EuroInox, Eu(the European Commission, the European Parliament, and the Euroand their families, but also on local goods suppliers and service proand on site on a regular basis. In the UK, trade union engagement roSlag, and the International Chromium Development Association. pean Council), and promotes measures such as the renewal of the viders. The current strategic investments in Calvert, US are in the fiat Outokumpu sites is active, with work on many issues, including Outokumpu is also an associate member of the World Steel AssociaIntegrated Pollution Prevention and Control IPPC Directive, the implenal phase and continue to have a positive impact on the surrounding health and safety, salaries, working hours, shift patterns, and other tion (worldsteel) and a member of the International Stainless Steel mentation of REACH (the Registration, Evaluation and Authorisation districts: during 2013 some 120 new employees were hired. Other mutually beneficial issues, being conducted in close co-operation. Forum (ISSF), a stainless-steel-specific sub-organization. Outokumpu of Chemicals), and continuation of the European Emissions Trading recent investments include the EUR 410 million investment in the exDialogue between the management team and an employee forum, a provides relevant information to decision-makers and experts relatScheme (EU ETS). EuroSlag performs a similar role in issues related pansion of the Group's ferrochrome production in Tornio, and the EUR cross-functional group, takes place monthly. The issues raised are ing to the development of the business environment and legislation. to slag and by-products. 100 million in inceasing stainless quarto plate production capacity in debated and action plans instituted. Nominated safety and union The Group participates in the work of trade organizations. OutokumDegerfors. Completion of the ferrochrome expansion and ramping up representatives are able to engage in direct and open dialogue with pu does not pressure or use hard lobbying on decision-makers. As Outokumpu is also active in corporate responsibility networks. To operations during 2012–2013 resulted in the addition of around 120 members of the plant management team. In Tornio, individuals heada member of Eurofer, worldsteel and ISSF, Outokumpu participates develop our expertise in corporate responsibility and improve Group permanent jobs in the Kemi-Tornio region. ing large departments are members of the management team. Three in different policy groups whose aim is to provide expertise and help performance, Outokumpu belongs to both the Finnish Business & Sopersonnel representatives are appointed as members of the board of decision-makers in connection with issues such as the global mitigaciety company network and CSR Europe. To combat corruption and The Group's Kemi mine collaborates with several educational estabOutokumpu Stainless Oy. tion of greenhouse gas emissions by the iron and steel industry. In bribery, the Group participates in Transparency Finland, a national lishments in the training of engineers, miners, and supervisors. In these forums, members share best practices and obtain benchmark chapter of Transparency International. Outokumpu is a signatory to Sheffield in the UK, apprenticeships have been offered to local colOutokumpu's UK sites arrange open days for employees’ relatives, data relating to, among other things, the environment, R&D, product the International Chamber of Commerce (ICC) charter, follows and leges and student placements have been made available in the form helping them to become familiar with the locations where their family life-cycles, product and chemical safety, and occupational safety. supports the United Nations Global Compact, and is an active memof one-year programs. Outokumpu's employees have given presentamembers work. Quarterly health and safety and well-being sessions 52 53 Outokumpu Sustainability Report 2013 Outokumpu and society Outokumpu Sustainability Report 2013 Outokumpu and society ber of the UN Global Compact Nordic Network. To demonstrate the clearly defined in the Group's publicly available Code of Conduct, parTotal grants and community support in 2013 amounted to some EUR Group's support for sustainability, Outokumpu has signed the Worldticipation in these networks is a way to promote progress throughout 0.4 million. steel Sustainable Development Charter and the ISSF's Sustainable the whole business landscape, also outside the Group's own supply Stainless Charter. Although countering bribery and corruption are chain. Outokumpu does not take part in or otherwise support political activities, whether they are local, communal, or national. Outokumpu does not make donations to any political parties or groups. Public sector, sponsoring Dialogue with environmental NGOs continued and NGOs In 2013, Outokumpu faced the fact that a significantly expanded global presence required us to map and identify new NGO counterparties. Therefore, Outokumpu conducted NGO mapping in order to identify new NGOs and to review the existing NGOs. The study concentrated into the impactfullnes, size and regional presences of NGOs against pre-defined material sustainability issues and regions Outokumpu contributes to the well-being of local, national, and interGrants and community support given and countries of Groups operations. This study also serves as startnational communities through tax payments, through direct and indiing point for stakeholder dialogue in the context of the new Outokumrect employment, and by participating in other societal activities. Outokumpu supports higher education and research by donating pu and gives a good reference group for the next update of Outokumfunds to universities. In 2013, the co-operation between Aalto Unipu materiality analysis. In 2013, taxes and social security contributions paid by the Group versity, a new multidisciplinary science and art community, proceedtotaled EUR 98 million (2012: EUR 57 million). In 2013, Outokumpu ed in the fields of science, economics, art, and design. Outokumpu In addition, Outokumpu continued its dialogue with environmental posted a loss and thus also the amount of taxes paid remained low, has supported Aalto University from the establishment of the instituNGOs as a standard process. Issues that were discussed included some EUR 4 million for the financial year (2012: EUR 4 million). The tion, including an initial fund donation of EUR 1 million. the role of steel recycling and sustainable stainless steel in tackling impact of taxes on societal well-being is both direct and indirect. the major challenges that we face as a mankind; climate change, Co-operation with Aalto University offers Outokumpu the chance to resource and energy scarcity together with urbanization and popuTaxes and social dues by country 1) harness top-level know-how and a multidisciplinary approach. Aalto's lation growth. As a result, Outokumpu aims to increase further the core research fields – materials research and design – will round out transparency and information related to these issues and our prod€ million 2013 2012 2011 Outokumpu's in-house R&D, offering new opportunities for innovation ucts sustainability properties. Finland 8 8 10 and exchanging know-how. Sweden 23 31 31 Other Europe 54 16 18 Outokumpu is one of the founders of the Technology Industries of FinOther countries 14 3 3 land Centennial Foundation Fund for the Association of Finnish Steel Total 98 57 62 and Metal Producers, established by five Finnish steel and metal pro1) Including continuing operations. ducing companies. The fund was founded to promote university-level research and teaching of technology and business opportunities in metals production. In 2013, the fund awarded grants of some EUR Public sector support received 0.3 million. In 2013, Outokumpu received some EUR 0.6 million (2012: EUR 0.9 For example Outokumpu has participated in the research project Metmillion) from the public sector to support Group research and develric under the FIMECC consortium and one of the project outcomes in opment of new technologies, products, and applications. 2013 was a thesis studying industrial investments in a sustainability framework. This new approach aimed to quantify investment and changes to the industrial set up from social, economic and environExternal R&D collaboration mental dimensions in one model. This type of open attitude towards harnessing of new ideas describes Outokumpu’s open innovation Outokumpu has an extensive network of external R&D partners and management approach very well. participates in both national and international research programs. Outokumpu is a member of the European Steel Technology Platform (ESTEP). Examples of research programs Outokumpu is participating Sponsoring in include the Finnish Mechanical and Engineering Competence Cluster (FIMECC), Research Fund for Coal and Steel (RFCS) and JernkonAs defined in Outokumpu's sponsorship policy, the Group's sponsortoret (the Swedish Steel Producers' Association). In Germany we are ship decisions are based on clearly defined pre-conditions of stratecollaborating with various universities and research institutes, among gic, brand image, and sustainability criteria. Outokumpu also makes others with the Fraunhofer Institute and the Max-Planck-Institut für discretionary donations for the common good as a responsible corEisenforschung. porate citizen. These donations are organized by sustainability management and approved by the Leadership Team or by the Board of Directors. 54 55 Outokumpu Sustainability Report 2013 Reporting on sustainable development Outokumpu Sustainability Report 2013 Reporting on sustainable development Reporting on sustainable development Outokumpu produces stainless steel, a sustainable material, by using a sustainable production chain in a responsible manner. The Group’s corporate responsibility principles cover Outokumpu’s Annual Report also meets other reall aspects of Outokumpu’s operations and strategy quirements within sustainability reporting. Outokumand are also integrated into the way that we conduct pu decided to adopt the ISO 26 000 “Guidance on our business. Outokumpu aims for open and transsocial responsibility” standard. This is the second parent communications. Outokumpu’s reporting rereport in which we have the ISO 26 000 core subflects the view that all of the Group’s operations – jects and issues comparison table together with GRI and our dialogue with stakeholders – must be based reporting index. on ethical and sustainable business practices, since these provide the basis for our long-term competiThe Group is a signatory to the UN Global Compact. tiveness. Outokumpu also follows International Chamber of Commerce policies by utilizing ISO-based manageThis year 2014 becomes 39 years since the first ment systems in connection with issues relating to environmental report of Outokumpu was published Environment, Health and Safety and Quality manage1975. Since 2003 Group has published external susment. Read more about the Group’s social respontainability report covering social, economic and ensibility. vironmental dimension annually. These reports are available in digital form at Outokumpu Sustainability The Group has also signed the Sustainable Developweb pages. ment Charter published by the World Steel Association and the International Stainless Steel Forum. The report presents the Group’s relevant and materiTogether with the Group’s internal policies and pracal sustainability issues. Issues on Sustainable develtices these frameworks have requirements for exterThis year 2014 becomes opment and Corporate responsibility requirements nal reporting, which have been taken into account in are reported openly and transparently following the this Sustainability Report. 39 years since the first Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3 guidelines. environmental report This sustainability reporting has been assured by an external assurance provider. This report includes a of Outokumpu was separate GRI and UN Global Compact reporting index, where all the indicators regarding responsibility published 1975. practices are listed together with links to the pages on which they are addressed. 56 57 Outokumpu Sustainability Report 2013 Reporting on sustainable development Outokumpu Sustainability Report 2013 Reporting on sustainable development Focus on material issues GRI and UN Global Compact To ensure that limited resources are allocated in the most efficient issues identified as having a material significance and related develWe have self-declared our reporting to be Application Level B+ of the GRI G3 Guidelines. PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy has checked our reporting manner, Outokumpu analyzed the most material sustainability isopments are detailed in this report. and has confirmed it to be Application Level B+ sues. The results of this analysis, which identified the internal and external issues most relevant to the Group, formed a natural basis The Outokumpu Board of Directors reviewed the sustainability analyGlobal for sustainability-related actions and developments in 2013. sis and related actions in two meetings during 2013, and reviewed Annual Report/Sustainability Report ComISO and approved updated Groups ethical statement at its December GRI profile disclosures INCL. section 2013 pact 26000 Comment The results of the materiality analysis, issues with high significance 2013 meeting. According to the Group policy on sustainable develfor both Outokumpu and the Group's stakeholders, were mostly those opment and corporate responsibility, the Board of Directors' moni1.Strategy and Analysis which have been on Outokumpu's sustainability agenda in previous tors Outokumpu's corporate responsibility performance at least once 1.1 CEO's statement Yes CEO's foreword (SR, p. 1) 6.2 years. This confirms that we are working with the correct issues and each year based on a report submitted by the CEO. This arrangement 1.2 Key impacts, risks and opportunities Yes CEO's foreword (SR, p. 1), Risks and stakethat further improvements are still needed. The analysis process has ensures that sustainability issues are an integral element in Outoholders (SR p. 48), Climate change risks (SR p. 23), Environmental goals and results (SR p. helped the Group initiate new actions and programs in an optimal kumpu operations from the lowest to the highest levels. 14-15), Goals and results (SR p. 38), Focus on manner. During 2013, Outokumpu took action in connection with all material issues (SR p. 58) 6.2 Focus on material issues 2.Organizational Profile 6.2 2.1 Name of the organization Yes Corporate information (AR p. 39) 6.2.1– 6.2.3 High 2.2 Primary brands, products and services Yes Corporate information (AR p. 39) 6.2.1 Environmental footprint 2.3 Operational structure Yes Corporate governance statement (AR p. 112) 6.2.1 2.4 Location of organization's headquarters Yes Corporate information (AR p. 39) 6.2 2.5 Number of countries and location of operaYes Market environment (AR p. 8-9) tions 6.2 Energy efficiency 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form Yes Corporate governance statement (AR p. 112) 6.2 2.7 Markets served Yes Market environment (AR p. 8-9) 6.7.1 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization Yes Key figures and highlights (AR p. 3) 6.2 2.9 Significant changes regarding size, strucYes Review by the Board of Directors (AR p. 16) ture or ownership 6.2 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period Yes No awards received in the reporting period. 6.2 Material efficiency Ethical business Safety at conduct workplace Significance to stakeholders 3.Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period Yes Reporting principles (SR p. 65) 3.2 Date of most recent report Yes Reporting principles (SR p. 65) 3.3 Reporting cycle Yes Reporting principles (SR p. 65) 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the Yes Reporting principles (SR p. 65) Sustainable opportunities report of stainless steel 3.5 Process for defining report content Yes Reporting principles (SR p. 65), Attracting and retaining Focus on material issues (SR p. 58) talented people 3.6 Boundary of the report Yes Reporting principles (SR p. 65), front inside cover Sustainable procurement, Supply of 3.7 Limitations on the report's scope or Yes Reporting principles (SR p. 65) including raw material sustainable energy boundary 3.8 Basis for reporting subsidiaries and joint Yes Reporting principles (SR p. 65) ventures 3.9 Data measurement techniques and bases Yes Reporting principles (SR p. 56, 66) of calculations 3.10 Explanation of re-statements Yes Reporting principles (SR p. 56, 66) 3.11 Significant changes from previous reportYes Reporting principles (SR p. 56, 66) ing periods in the scope, boundary or measurem. methods Changes in legislation and 3.12 GRI content index Yes GRI and UN global compact (SR p. 59–64) taxation 3.13 Assurance policy and practice Yes Reporting principles (SR p. 65), Independent Medium Assurance Report (SR p. 67) 7.5.3 Medium Significance to Outokumpu High 58 59 Outokumpu Sustainability Report 2013 Reporting on sustainable development Outokumpu Sustainability Report 2013 Reporting on sustainable development Global Global Annual Report/Sustainability Report ComISO Annual Report/Sustainability Report ComISO GRI profile disclosures INCL. section 2013 pact 26000 Comment GRI profile disclosures INCL. section 2013 pact 26000 Comment 4.Governance, Commitments and Engagement Economic Performance Indicators Governance Economic Performance 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation Yes Corporate governance statement (AR p. 115EC1* Direct economic value generated and disYes Outokumpu and society (SR p. 46), Public sec116) 6.2 tributed tor, sponsoring and NGOs (SR p. 54) 6,8 4.2 Position of the Chairman of the Board Yes Board of Directors (AR p. 14) 6.2 EC2* Risks and opportunities due to climate Yes Climate change risks (SR p. 23–24) 4.3 Independence of the Board members Yes Board of Directors (AR p. 14-15) 6.2 change 7 6.8 4.4 Mechanism for shareholder and employee Yes Corporate governance statement (AR p. 112), EC3* Coverage of defined benefit plan obligations Partly 25. Employee benefit obligations (AR p. 86– consultation Open communication (SR p. 39) 6.2 87) 6.4 4.5 Executive compensation and linkage to orYes Corporate governance statement (AR p. 115) EC4* Significant subsidies received from governYes Public sector, sponsoring and NGOs (SR p. ganization's performance 6.2 ment 54), Share development and shareholders (AR p. 26) 6.8 4.6 Processes for avoiding conflicts of interest Yes Corporate governance statement (AR p. 114) 6.2 Market presence 4.7 Processes for determining expertise Yes Corporate governance statement (AR p. 114) 6.2 EC5 Entry level wage compared to minimum No 4.8 Implementation of mission and values Yes CEO's foreword (SR, p. 1), Firm steps forward wage 1 statements, code of conduct and other (SR p.3), Our people (SR p. 34) principles 6.2 EC6* Spending on local suppliers No 4.9 Procedures of the Board for overseeing Yes Corporate governance statement (AR p. 119EC7* Local hiring No 6 management of sustainab. perform., incl. 120) Indirect Economic Impacts risk management 6.2 EC8* Infrastructure investments provided for pubNo 4.10 Processes for evaluating the Board's perYes Corporate governance statement (AR p. 113) lic benefit formance 6.2 EC9 Significant indirect economic impacts Yes Local communities (SR p. 51–53) Commitments to External Initiatives 4.11 Addressing precautionary approach Yes Risk management (AR p. 120), Climate change risks (SR p. 23), Product life cycle (SR p. 8) 7 6.5 4.12 Voluntary charters and other initiatives Yes Outokumpu and society (SR p. 46), AssociaEnvironmental Performance Indicators tions and federations (SR p. 53) Materials 4.13 Memberships in associations Yes Outokumpu and society (SR p. 46), Associations and federations (SR p. 53) EN1* Materials used by weight or volume Yes Material balance (SR p. 18) 8 6.5 Stakeholder Engagement EN2* Recycled materials used Yes Product properties (SR p. 6), Material balance (SR p. 18) 8, 9 6.5 4.14 List of stakeholder groups Yes Risks and stakeholders (SR p. 48) 6.8 Energy 4.15 Identification and selection of stakeholdYes Risks and stakeholders (SR p. 48) ers 6.8 EN3* Direct energy consumption Yes Material balance (SR p. 18), Energy efficiency (SR p. 19) 8 6.5 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement Yes Outokumpu and society (SR p. 46) Approaches to stakeholder engagement are EN4* Indirect energy consumption Partly Material balance (SR p. 18), Energy efficiency presented under the (SR p. 19) 8 6.5 sections describing variEN5 Energy saved due to conservation and effiYes Energy efficiency (SR p. 19) 6.8 ous stakeholders. ciency improvements 8, 9 6.5 4.17 Key topics raised through stakeholder enYes Customers (SR p. 49), Local communities EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or rePartly Energy efficiency (SR p. 19) gagement (SR p. 51-52), Our people (SR p. 34) 6.8 newable energy based products and services 8 6.5 EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy conYes Sustainable supply chain (SR p. 32), Climate sumption change (SR p. 22) 8 6.6.6 5. Management Approach and Performance Indicators Water EN8* Total water withdrawal Yes Water (SR p. 29) 8 6.5 Management approach to economic responsibility Yes Review by the Board of Directors 2013 (AR EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withYes Water (SR p. 29) p. 16), CEO's review (AR p. 1), Risks and undrawal of water 8 6.5 certainties (AR p. 121–124), Corporate Gover1, 4, EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recyPartly Water (SR p. 29) nance statement (AR, p. 117–118) 6, 7 6.2 cled and reused 8, 9 6.5 Management approact to environmental responYes Our impact on the environment (SR p. 10– Biodiversity sibility 13), Environmental goals and results (SR p. 14–15), Climate change risks (SR p. 23–24), EN11* Location and size of land holdings in areas Partly Biodiversity (SR p. 30) Corporate Governance statement (AR p. 120– of high biodiversity 8 6.5 123) 7, 8, 9 6.5 EN12* Description of significant impact of activiYes Biodiversity (SR p. 30) Management approach to labor practices and deYes Our people (SR p. 34), Goals and results (SR ties, products, and services on biodiversity 8 6.5 cent work p. 38), Operational risks (AR, p. 124), Training EN13 Habitats protected or restored Yes Biodiversity (SR p. 30) 8 6.5 and development (SR p. 40), Corporate Governance statement (AR, p. 117–118) 1, 3, 6 6.4 EN14 Managing impacts on biodiversity Yes Biodiversity (SR p. 30) 8 6.5 Management approach to human rights Yes Our people (SR p. 34), Corporate Governance EN15 Species with extinction risk with habitats in Yes Biodiversity (SR p. 30) statement (AR p. 117–118), Diversity and areas affected by operations 8 6.5 equal rights (SR, p. 38) 6.3 Emissions, Effluents and Waste Management approach to society Yes Local communities (SR p. 51-53), Corporate EN16* Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas Yes Material balance (SR p. 18), Emissions, effluGovernance statement (AR p. 117–118) 6.8 emissions ents and waste (SR p. 28) 8 6.5 Management approach to product responsibility Yes Corporate Governance statement (AR p. 117– EN17* Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas Yes Climate change (SR p. 22) 118), Customers (SR p. 49), Product properemissions 8 6.5 ties (SR p. 6), Safe use of stainless (SR p. 9) 6.7 60 61 Outokumpu Sustainability Report 2013 Reporting on sustainable development Outokumpu Sustainability Report 2013 Reporting on sustainable development Global Global Annual Report/Sustainability Report ComISO Annual Report/Sustainability Report ComISO GRI profile disclosures INCL. section 2013 pact 26000 Comment GRI profile disclosures INCL. section 2013 pact 26000 Comment EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emisYes Climate change (SR p. 22), Environmental LA13* Composition of governance bodies and Yes Focus on company turnaround (SR p. 36), Di1, 6 6.4 Breakdow of total worksions goals and results (SR p. 15) 7, 8, 9 6.5 breakdown of employees versity and equal rights (SR p. 38) force by gender, age EN19* Emissions of ozone-depleting substances Yes Material balance (SR p. 18) 8 6.5 and education. Composition of governance EN20* NOx, SOx, and other significant air emisYes Material balance (SR p. 18), Emissions, efflubodies by gender. sions ents and waste (SR p. 27) 8 6.5 LA14* Ratio of basic salary of men to women by No EN21* Total water discharge Yes Water (SR p. 29) 8 6.5 employee category 1, 6 EN22* Total amount of waste Yes Material balance (SR p. 18) 8 6.5 EN23* Significant spills Yes Emissions, effluents and waste (SR p. 25) 8 6.5 Human Rights EN24 Transported, imported, exported, or treated Partly Materials efficiency (SR p.16) HR1* Investment agreements with human rights No hazardous waste 8 6.5 clauses or that have undergone human 1-2, EN25 Water bodies and habitats affected by disPartly Water (SR p. 29) rights screening 4-6 charges of water 8 6.5 HR2* Suppliers and contractors that have underPartly Sustainable supply chain (SR p. 31–32) 1-2, Products and Services gone human rights screening 4-6 6.6 EN26* Mitigating environmental impacts of prodYes Environmental goals & results (SR p. 15), MaHR3 Human rights related training for employees No 4, 5 ucts and services terials efficiency (SR p. 15–16) 7, 8, 9 6.5 HR4* Incidents of discrimination and actions takYes Internal Audit (AR p. 124) EN27* Reclaimable products and reuse No Product properties (SR p. 6) 8, 9 en 1, 2, 6 6.4 Compliance HR5* Supporting right to freedom of association Yes Diversity and equal rights (SR p. 38) No major risks were and collective bargaining in risk areas identified during the auEN28* Significant fines and sanctions for non-comYes Emissions, effluents and waste (SR p. 25) 1, 2, 3 6.4 dits of units or systems. pliance with environmental regulations 8 6.5 HR6* Measures taken to eliminate child labour in Yes Diversity and equal rights (SR p. 38), Internal No major risks were Transport risk areas audit (AR p. 124) identified during the auEN29 Environmental impacts of transportation Yes Sustainable supply chain (SR p. 31–32) 8 6.5 1, 2, 5 6.4 dits of units or systems. Overall HR7* Measures taken to eliminate forced labour Yes Diversity and equal rights (SR p. 38), Internal No major risks were in risk areas audit (AR p. 124) identified during the auEN30 Total environmental protection expenditures Yes Environmental investments (SR p. 33) 1, 2, 4 6.4 dits of units or systems. and investments 7, 8, 9 6.5 HR8 Human rights related training for security No personnel 1, 2 HR9 Incidents involving rights of indigenous peoNo ple and actions taken 1, 2 Social Performance Indicators Labor Practices and Decent Work Society Employment Community LA1* Total workforce by employment type, emPartly Focus on company turnaround (SR p. 36–37) SO1* Managing impacts of operations on comPartly Local communities (p. 51) ployment contract and region 6.4 munities – also issues of Mining and Metals LA2* Total number and rate of employee turnover Partly Focus on company turnaround (SR p. 36) 6 6.4 supplement notes 6.8 LA3 Employee benefits No Corruption Labor/Management Relations SO2* Business units analyzed for corruption risks Yes Internal Audit (AR p. 124) 6.6, LA4* Coverage of collective bargaining agreeYes Diversity and equal rights (SR p. 38) 6.3, 10 6.2 ments 1, 3 6.4 SO3* Anti-corruption training No 10 LA5* Minimum notice period regarding operationYes Focus on company turnaround (SR p. 36) SO4* Actions taken in response to incidents of No al changes 3 6.4 corruption 10 Occupational Health and Safety Public Policy LA6 Representation in joint health and safety Partly Local communities (SR p. 51) SO5* Public policy positions and participation in Yes Associations and federations (SR p. 53) 6.6, committees 1 6.4 public policy development and lobbying 10 6.8 LA7* Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost Yes Safe working environment (SR, p. 42) SO6 Contributions to political parties and related Yes Outokumpu and society (SR p. 46) days, fatalities and absenteeism 1 6.4 institutions 10 6.8 LA8* Education and prevention programmes rePartly Local communities (SR p. 51) SO7 Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, Yes Review by the board of directors (AR p. 25 garding serious diseases 1 6.4 anti-trust, and monopoly 6.6 LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal No Compliance agreements with trade unions 1 SO8* Fines and sanctions for non-compliance with No Training and Education laws and regulations 6.6 LA10* Average training hours per year Partly Training and development (SR p. 40) 6.4 LA11 Programmes for skills management and lifeYes Training and development (SR p. 40) Product Responsibility long learning 6.4 Customer Health and Safety LA12 Employees receiving regular performance No Performance management (SR p. 40) PR1* Assessment of health and safety impacts of Yes Safe use of stainless (SR p. 9) and career development reviews 6.4 products 1 6.7 Diversity and Equal Opportunity PR2 Non-compliance with regulations concerning No health and safety impacts of products 1 Product and Service Labeling PR3* Product information required by procedures Partly Safe use of stainless (SR p. 9) 8 6.7 PR4 Non-compliance with regulations concerning No product information and labelling 8 6.6 PR5 Customer satisfaction Yes Customers (SR p. 49) 6.7 Marketing Communications 62 63 Outokumpu Sustainability Report 2013 Reporting on sustainable development Outokumpu Sustainability Report 2013 Reporting on sustainable development Reporting principles Global Annual Report/Sustainability Report ComISO GRI profile disclosures INCL. section 2013 pact 26000 Comment PR6* Adherence to marketing communications No laws, standards and voluntary codes PR7 Non-compliance with marketing communicaNo tions regulations and voluntary codes Customer Privacy In Outokumpu’s reporting, the goal is to support open dialogue beComparability of statistics PR8 Complaints regarding breaches of customer No tween the Group and its stakeholders. Our aim is to address the privacy 1 needs of current and future personnel, shareholders, customers, and Corrections made to figures reported in previous years are indicated Compliance other parties who have an interest in Outokumpu and its business in conjunction with the corrected figures. Since 2007, Outokumpu’s PR9* Fines for non-compliance concerning the No operations. Annual Reports have included an assurance report submitted by indeprovision and use of products and services pendent external assurance providers. This independent assurance We use reporting as an opportunity to illustrate what Outokumpu has report is available on p. 67. Figures in the financial statements under Mining and Metals supplement done to ensure that the Group’s business operations are sustainable, the section Financials in the Annual Report 2013 have been audited. MM4 Number of strikes and lock-outs exceeding Partly Diversity and equal rights (SR p. 38) and to indicate actions we expect to take in the future to enhance one week's duration, by country 6.3 individual well-being and the natural environment. Outokumpu has a MM11 Programs and progress relating to materials stewardship Yes Product life cycle (SR p. 8), Safe use of stainless (SR p. 9), Local communities (SR p. 51) 6.7 long history of responsible business practices and we are working to Measurement techniques make our operations more sustainable. As well as reporting on mat* GRI Core indicator ters we consider important and relevant to our business operations, we also cover current global themes, which affect the Group’s operaEconomic responsibility tions and our stakeholders. Most figures relating to economic responsibility presented in this reIf you have questions regarding the content of this report are based on consolidated financial statements issued by the port, please contact Outokumpu communications Outokumpu Group and collected through Outokumpu’s internal con(corporate.comms@outokumpu.com). solidation system. Financial data has been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). Outokumpu’s accounting principles for the Group’s consolidated accounts are Scope of the report available in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements. The closing of the Inoxum transaction took place on December 28, The economic responsibility measures presented in the report for 2012. The new Outokumpu as a combined entity started its opera2013 are not comparable to those of 2012 and 2011 due to Outotion in December 29, 2012. On November 30, 2013, Outokumpu ankumpu’s acquisition of Inoxum, the stainless steel business of Thysnounced the divestment of Terni assets, VDM business and certain senKrupp in December 2012. As all measures are based on Group’s service centers which have been classified as dicontinued operations consolidated financial information, only 2013 includes the effect in the financial statements for 2013. Sustainability Reporting for of Inoxum, whereas 2012 and 2011 are presented as Outokumpu 2013 is based on the continuing operations of Outokumpu, unless stand-alone. All 2013 measures include only continuing operations, otherwise stated. excluding the Terni remedy assets, VDM business and certain European service centers, as defined in the 2013 financial statements. Outokumpu’s Sustainability report is published annually, and the reporting period is the same as the Group’s financial reporting period All financial figures presented have been rounded, and consequently (one calendar year). This report for 2013 was published on March 6, the sum of individual figures may deviate from the presented aggre2014 together with the 2013 Outokumpu Annual Report. The previgate figure. Key figures have been calculated using exact figures. ous report for 2012 was published on February 25, 2012. Using the GRI guidelines as a basis, economic responsibility figures For 2013, the Group’s Sustainability Report has been published as a have been calculated as follows: stand-alone report. GENERATION OF VALUE ADDED Since 2004, Outokumpu’s reporting has been based on guidelines Sales invoiced to customers during the financial year are used when provided in the widely-recognized and applied Global Reporting Inicalculating the generation of value added. Discounts or indirect taxes tiative (GRI) G3 guidelines from 2007, but the reporting format now are deducted from sales figures. used by Outokumpu does not follow the tripartite division into economic, social, and environmental responsibility suggested by GRI. The cost of goods and services purchased by Outokumpu during the financial year is deducted from sales when calculating the generation A comparison of Outokumpu’s reporting against the GRI 3.0 guideof value added by the Group. lines and the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact together with ISO 26 000 core issues can be found on the GRI and UN Global ComDISTRIBUTION OF VALUE ADDED pact section. Value added which is distributed to employees consists of wages and salaries paid to Outokumpu employees during the financial year. Pension payments and related accruals are included in this figure. Outokumpu adopted the revised IAS 19 Employee benefits in 2013. However, this resulted only to immaterial restatements in 2012 as the previously allowed corridor method had been waived already in 2012. 64 65 Outokumpu Sustainability Report 2013 Reporting on sustainable development Outokumpu Sustainability Report 2013 Reporting on sustainable development The distribution of value added to the public sector includes taxes, social charges, and other payments which resemble taxes. No deferred taxes are included in this figure. consolidation system. Related information is provided by the Group’s safety reporting system. Independent Assurance Report SICK LEAVE DAYS To determine creditors’ share of value added, interest costs on debt Sick leave days reported are total sick leave days during a reporting pebooked during the financial year are presented. Capitalized interest riod. Reporting units provide data on absence due to illness, injury and is deducted from this figure. occupational diseases on a monthly basis in connection with financial The distribution of value added to shareholders is the total dividend reporting. With effect from January 1, 2009, sick leave days have been which Outokumpu’s Board of Directors proposes for distribution to reported per million hours worked, not as a percentage figure. shareholders from the parent company’s distributable funds. To the Management of Outokumpu Oyj prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the Reporting Health and safety figures from 2013 include the VDM business but criteria. not Terni remedy assets. Health and safety figures reflect the scope We have been engaged by the Management of Outokumpu Oyj to perEnvironmental responsibility of Outokumpu operations as they were in 2013, including the VDM form a limited assurance engagement on the quantitative informaIn a limited assurance engagement the evidence-gathering procebusiness but not the ring-fenced Terni operations. The comparison Financial information related to environmental investments is coltion on economic, social and environmental responsibility for the redures are more limited than for a reasonable assurance engagement, year (2012) figures have not been adjusted, but include Outokumpu lected in accordance with Group-wide unified guidance following prinporting period of January 1, 2013 to December 31, 2013, disclosed and therefore less assurance is obtained than in a reasonable asstand-alone before the completion of the Inoxum acquisition. ciples outlined by the GRI and the World Steel Association. in Outokumpu Oyj’s Sustainability Report 2013 (hereinafter ‘Sustainsurance engagement. An assurance engagement involves performability Reporting’). ing procedures to obtain evidence about the amounts and other disEnvironmental data concerning Outokumpu’s operations is aggregatPersonnel figures closures in the Sustainability Reporting. The procedures selected ed using the Group’s Energy and Environment Reporting System, into depend on the practitioner’s judgement, including an assessment of From 2011, the Group has been reporting actual headcounts. This which Group guidance has been integrated. has also been applied in calculating most of the personnel figures. Management’s Responsibility the risks of material misstatement of the Sustainability Reporting. Our work consisted of, amongst others, the following procedures: Environmental data and reporting covers Outokumpu’s stainless The Management of Outokumpu Oyj is responsible for preparing the steel, ferrochrome and mining operations, including the continuing TOTAL PERSONNEL COSTS Sustainability Reporting in accordance with the Reporting criteria as »» Interviewing senior management of Outokumpu Oyj. operations of the combined company of Outokumpu and Inoxum. The This figure includes wages, salaries, bonuses, social costs or other set out in Outokumpu Oyj's reporting instructions and the G3 Sus»» Visiting one production site in Germany. environmental data from 2011–2012 has been adjusted to include personnel expenses, as well as fringe benefits paid and/or accrued tainability Reporting Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative. »» Interviewing employees responsible for collection and reporting of combined operations, unless otherwise stated. The baseline data during the reporting period. the information presented in the Sustainability Reporting at the from 2007–2009, used as basis for long-term targets, has also been Group level and at the production unit level. restated to include the combined data. The environmental figures do not include discontinued operations (Terni remedy assets and VDM TRAINING COSTS Practitioner’s Responsibility »» Assessing how Outokumpu Group employees apply Outokumpu Training costs include external training-related expenses such as parOyj’s reporting instructions and procedures. business). ticipation fees. Wages, salaries, and daily allowances for participants Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the Sustainability Re»» Testing the accuracy and completeness of the information from Outokumpu made extra effort in order to form fully comparable enin training activities are not included, but the salaries of internal porting based on our work performed. Our assurance report has been original documents and systems on a sample basis. vironmental and energy figures. The aim was to report as openly, trainers are included. prepared in accordance with the terms of our engagement. We do »» Testing the consolidation of information and performing recalculacomparable and complete manner as possible follow GRI principle to not accept, or assume responsibility to anyone else, except to Outotions on a sample basis. publish reporting from the two previous years, in addition to the reTRAINING DAYS PER EMPLOYEE kumpu Oyj for our work, for this report, or for the conclusions that we porting year. The number of days spent by an employee in training when each have reached. training day is counted as lasting eight hours. Conclusion We conducted our work in accordance with the International StanSocial responsibility BONUSES dard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 ‘Assurance EngageBased on our work described in this report, nothing has come to our ments Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Informaattention that causes us to believe that the Sustainability Reporting A bonus is an additional payment for good performance. These figHealth and safety figures ures are reported without social costs or fringe benefits. tion’. This Standard requires that we comply with ethical requirehas not been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with ments and plan and perform the assurance engagement to obtain the Reporting criteria. When reading our assurance report, the inherLOST TIME INJURIES (LTI) PER MILLION HOURS WORKED limited assurance whether any matters come to our attention that ent limitations to the accuracy and completeness of sustainability in(THE WORLD STEEL ASSOCIATION PRINCIPLE) PERSONNEL TURNOVER cause us to believe that the Sustainability Reporting has not been formation should be taken into consideration. A lost time injury is an injury or accident that has taken place during ((newly hired + leavers)/2)/year end headcount working hours at the workplace and caused at least one sick leave Compared to 2011, the formula has been specified in order to unify it day (excluding the day of the injury or accident). Sick leave of one day with the formula recommended by KILA (Kirjanpitolautakunta). means that an Outokumpu employee or a person employed by a third Helsinki, 5 March 2014 party has not been able to return to work on their next scheduled Days lost due to strikes working day. Returning to work with activity restrictions does not conPricewaterhouseCoopers Oy stitute lost-time injury status, regardless of how severe or minimal The number of days lost due to strikes is calculated by multiplying the associated restrictions. the number of Outokumpu employees who have been on strike by the number of scheduled working days lost. The day on which a strike starts is included. EU AVERAGE LTI Sirpa Juutinen Maj-Lis Steiner From statistics supplied by the World Steel Association. Member All personnel figures include Outokumpu personnel in the continuing Partner Director, Authorised companies follow the World Steel Association definition of losttime operations and do not therefore include Terni remedy assets or VDM Sustainability & Public Accountant injury (LTI) in related reporting. business that Outokumpu announced to divest in November 2013 Climate Change Sustainability & – except for the personnel by countries, which is counted including Climate Change NEAR MISS INCIDENTS the discontinued operations. Historical data has not been restated. Near miss incidents refer to events that could have led to an acciHeadcount from 2012 includes the combined company, since the acdent but no injury occurred. The number of near miss incidents ocquisition was completed before the year-end. Headcount from 2011 curring in all Group companies is collected via Outokumpu’s financial includes Outokumpu stand-alone before the completion of the Inoxum acquisition. 66 67 Outokumpu Oyj Corporate Management Riihitontuntie 7 B, P.O. Box 140 FI-02201 Espoo, Finland Tel. +358 9 4211 Fax +358 9 421 3888 www.outokumpu.com Outokumpu Oyj Sustainability Report 2013 www.outokumpu.com
