Sustainability Report 2013 SCA participates with AN ALL-FEMALE team IN THE VOLVO OCEAN RACE 2014–2015 Contents Introduction This is SCA ..................................................................... flap Value for people Value for people .............................................................. 42 CEO’s message .. ............................................................... 2 Code of Conduct ............................................................ 44 The SCA sustainability effect ........................................ 4 Supply chain .................................................................... 48 Drivers and trends ............................................................ 6 Health and safety . . .......................................................... 50 Stakeholder dialog............................................................ 8 Employee relations . . ....................................................... 54 Materiality analysis ........................................................ 10 Community involvement ............................................... 56 Strategy ............................................................................ 12 Targets and outcome . . ................................................... 14 Control and assurance Value chain ....................................................................... 16 Sustainable governance ............................................... 58 Environmental data ........................................................ 60 Economic value creation Social data ....................................................................... 63 Economic value creation............................................... 18 About this report ............................................................. 64 Stakeholders ................................................................... 20 Assurance report ............................................................ 65 Shareholders ................................................................... 21 GRI Index .......................................................................... 66 Customer and consumer insight ................................ 22 Glossary .. .......................................................................... 68 Sustainable innovations .. .............................................. 24 Addresses ........................................................ back cover Hygiene solutions............................................................ 28 Value for nature Value for nature ............................................................... 30 About this report SCA publishes a sustainability report each year. The report Climate and energy ........................................................ 32 describes the environmental, social and economic perspecWind power and biofuel.................................................. 34 tives of SCA’s sustainability ­initiatives, and is aimed at specialFiber sourcing .. ................................................................ 36 ist audiences with an interest in SCA’s sustainability performance, ­including analysts, investors and NGOs. As of 2008, Biodiversity........................................................................ 38 SCA is a signatory to the UN Global Compact. The sus­­tain­ Water usage ..................................................................... 40 ability report represents the Group’s Communication on Waste . . ............................................................................... 41 ­Progress, describing SCA’s work to address the Global ­Compact’s ten principles on human rights, working conditions, the environment and anticorruption. The Global Reporting ­Initiative guidelines, level A+, are applied in this report, and the GRI content index (pages 66–67) provides a cross-reference to the indicators included in the report. The entire report has been reviewed by PwC. All data in this report has been collected over the 2013 calendar year, and covers the SCA Group, including wholly and majority owned subsidiaries. For further information regarding the sustainability report and its reporting principles, see page 64. Recognition SCA was named one of the world’s most SCA is included in the Dow Jones SCA is included in the Climate SCA has been listed on the FTSE4Good ethical com­panies by the Ethisphere Sustainability Index, one of the ­Disclosure Leadership Index. ­global sustain­ability index since 2001. ­Institute. world’s most prestigious sustain­ ability indexes. SCA is on the Fortune Most Admired SCA became a UN Global SCA is a member of the World SCA was recognized by the WWF for lead­Companies list, ranked third in the ­Forestry ­Compact member in 2008. ­Business Council for Sustainable ership in transparency for disclosing its and Paper class, and number one in this Development (WBCSD). ecological footprint in the WWF Environclass for social responsibility. mental Paper Company Index 2013. SCA is included in the following sustainability SCA is a constituent of ECPI SCA is included in the OMX GES SCA was voted Best Sustainability Report funds of Vigeo: the Ethibel Sustainability Excel­indices. ­Sustainability Nordic and OMX GES 2012 by the sustainability publication lence Europe and the Ethibel Sustainability ­Sustainability Sweden indexes. Miljörapporten and CSR experts. Excellence Global. SCA is a leading global hygiene and forest sustainable personal care, tissue and f­ores Business areas Share of net sales (share of Group) Personal Care, 30% Tissue, 53 % Forest Products, 17 % Total Group: SEK 89,019m Share of operating profit (share of Group) Personal Care, 30% Tissue, 53% Forest Products, 17% Personal Care The business area comprises three ­product segments: incontinence Total Group: SEK 9,934m Excluding items affecting comparability. products, baby diapers and feminine care. Production is conducted at 30 facilities in 25 countries. SALES BY GEOGRAPHIC REGION AND DEMOGRAPHIC TREND Europe (including Africa) 2013 2012 Employee age distribution Asia2) 2013 2012 Employee age distribution Net sales, SEKm 65,989 62,538 % 40 Net sales, SEKm 5,255 5,000 % 40 Average no. of employees 22,693 22,149 30 Average no. of employees 2,745 2,531 30 Women, % 24 25 20 Women, % 60 60 20 Salaries2), SEKm 10,243 9,303 10 Salaries2), SEKm 386 359 10 Social security costs, SEKm 2,849 2,705 0 Social security costs, SEKm 65 46 0 0–20 21–30 31–40 41–50 51–60 60+ 0–20 21–30 31–40 41–50 51–60 60+ Americas 2013 2012 Employee age distribution SCA Group total 2013 2012 Employee age distribution Net sales, SEKm 17,775 17,870 % 40 Net sales, SEKm 89,019 85,408 % 40 Average no. of employees 8,566 8,446 30 Average no. of employees 34,004 33,775 30 Women, % 29 30 20 Women, % 28 29 20 Salaries2), SEKm 2,354 2,312 10 Salaries2), SEKm 12,982 12,241 10 Social security costs, SEKm 683 696 0 Social security costs, SEKm 3,598 3,446 0 0–20 21–30 31–40 41–50 51–60 60+ 0–20 21–30 31–40 41–50 51–60 60+ 1) And other personnel costs. 2) Excluding joint venture in Australia and New Zealand. 34,000 ­employees Annual sales of SEK 89bn SCA has sales in about 10 Many strong brands products company that develops and produces t products. Tissue Forest Products The business area comprises two product segments: The business area comprises five product segments: public­ consumer tissue and Away-from-Home (AfH) tissue. ­ ation papers, kraftliner (packaging papers), pulp, solid-wood Production is ­conducted at 54 facilities in 19 countries. ­products and renewable energy. Production is conducted at 18 facilities. Products are mainly sold in Europe, but also in Asia, North Africa and North America. A symbolic journey with the brand in focus SCA has decided to enter a team in the 2014–2015 edition of the Volvo Ocean Race. Participation in the event aims to increase awareness of the SCA brand and strengthen the link to the Group’s customer and consumer brands. 0 countries The Volvo Ocean Race is the most demanding sailing competition in the world, while it also provides a unique global marketing platform. Just like in business, qualities such as interpersonal skills, leadership and the ability to define a successful strategy are decisive factors for the outcome. One of SCA’s sustainability ambitions is to support women’s empowerment and their freedom to participate fully in society, which is one of the reasons why we have chosen to participate with an all-female crew. The Volvo Ocean Race is a symbol for the journey of change that SCA is undergoing – culturally, organizationally and commercially. Highlights 2013 • Acquisition of 51.4% of the Chinese tissue com• The first wind farm in the collaboration between pany Vinda, making China SCA’s most important SCA and Statkraft was inaugurated. emerging market. • A new biofuel-fired lime kiln at the kraftliner mill in • SCA established operations in India and decided Munksund will reduce the carbon footprint by to invest in a facility for the production of hygiene 75% and costs by SEK 50m annually. The facility products. will be commissioned in 2014. • The Group’s Code of Conduct was updated to • The prioritized health and safety program better reflect the current demands and expectaresulted in a 13% reduction in the accident tions placed on a global company. ­frequency rate. SCA Sustainability Report 2013 1 Introduction | CEO’s message Making progress toward our targets Summing up the past year, we can see that we have made good progress on the path toward achieving our ambitious sustainability targets launched in 2012. SCA’s environmental, social and financial targets all help to drive our business forward and create value for our stakeholders. Shared value is a multiplied value A company’s success and competitiveness depends on and is closely intertwined with the community in which it operates. By considering the needs and challenges of the community, financial success is generated in a manner that also creates value for the community. In a similar manner, a lack of environmental and social responsibility gives rise to higher costs, such as wastefulness of resources, expensive accidents and increased costs due to an expertise deficit among employees. These were the conclusions drawn by the US researchers Porter and Kramer a few years ago when they launched their ground-breaking theory in relation to value generation as a redefined view of free enterprise. This reasoning is well known to us at SCA, since our business operations have been closely linked with the community since our foundation in 1929. Back in the 1950s, SCA had already farreaching community programs for its employees and the company was among the pioneers in terms of working systematically with environmental issues. We need to be unwavering in all three areas – financial, environmental and social responsibility – to be an attractive alternative for our customers and other stakeholders. It is not enough to deliver good financial results if we choose to disregard the environment and working conditions. And we must offer financial strength. SCA’s stable financial position combined with its leading-edge expertise in sustainability and innovation are some of the reasons why many customers choose to work with us. Favorable results In 2012, we launched a number of new sustainability targets and we are pleased to see good progress. A safe workplace is assigned highest priority, and I am very pleased that we successfully reduced the accident frequency rate by 13% compared with 2012. Aside from technical solutions, safety efforts are about changing the mindset and behavior of employees, helping 2 SCA Sustainability Report 2013 CEO’s message | Introduction them to understand what constitutes safe pracduction of Libero baby diapers, we launched a Right culture breeds success tices. It is pointless having a safe car if you drive training initiative for doctors and midwives at As of 2008, SCA is a signatory to the UN Global recklessly. some 25 hospitals and 500 baby health clinics Compact. In doing so, we pledged to support and through these, will reach out and provide human rights and promote social responsibility New innovations information to 780,000 mothers and children in accordance with the principles of the Global Customer and consumer-driven innovation is about breastfeeding and the importance of Compact, the International Bill of Human Rights, essential to create growth, competitiveness and hygiene. the ILO Core Conventions and the OECD Guideprofitability. We are working to make the innovalines for Multinational Enterprises. These docution process faster and more precise and we Maintaining control of the business ments form the foundation for SCA’s Code of launched a range of new innovations in 2013. saves money Conduct. One example is TENA Identifi, a product that It is becoming increasingly important for comCompared with only a few years ago, compamakes it possible to analyze and customize panies to maintain control of their operations nies now encounter different expectations and incontinence solutions for nursing homes at an and we have a range of tools to check complirequirements in such areas as business ethics, individual level (see page 28). ance with our Code of Conduct. We carry out respect for human rights and supplier controls. Innovation and sustainability are tightly intersocial audits and examine business practices at This is why we decided to update our Code of linked insofar as they function as each other’s our business units, and encourage suppliers to Conduct during 2013, and we will use 2014 to drivers. As a rule, new technologies give rise to submit reports to the ethical database Sedex. train all of our employees in the updated Code. more sustainable products at the same time as Last year, we performed some 60 CSR audits of The Code of Conduct is one of the cornerdemands from customers and consumers suppliers and we launched an anti-corruption stones of our corporate culture, and having the impose requirements on innovation. To reverse training program. These activities also save right culture is entirely decisive for how successthe negative link between growth and environmoney by reducing the risk of corruption and ful we are in delivering on these expectations. In mental impact, breakthrough innovations will be health and safety breaches. recent years, we have worked intensively on required on many fronts. leadership issues and leadership development. The forest is a unique resource The fact that we have a strong corporate culHygiene solutions in new markets The forest represents a unique resource and we ture and loyal employees was confirmed in our One of our sustainability targets is to make our are working to promote active, sustainable forGroup-wide employee survey carried out in knowledge about hygiene available and ensure estry. Responsible forest management and 2013. Despite the major changes that the comaccess to affordable, sustainable hygiene solureplanting of trees may even be one of the solupany has undergone, employee satisfaction tions. We invest a considerable amount of tions to climate change. SCA is a member of the remained at the same high level recorded in the resources in hygiene education and our activiWorld Business Council for Sustainable Develprevious survey, which was carried out in 2011. ties include teaching young women about menopment, which presented its Action 2020 plan at struation and puberty, children about the importhe end of 2013. The plan aims to develop soluA symbolic journey tance of good hand hygiene and nurses about tions that will enable the world’s population to Our participation with a female crew “Team incontinence. live well within the earth’s resources and capacSCA” in the 2014–2015 Volvo Ocean Race forms During the year, we made an offer for China’s ity. SCA participated in an initiative to develop part of our work to increase awareness of the third largest tissue company, Vinda; a company solutions, or “Big ideas,” highlighting the forest’s SCA brand and our customer and consumer in which we were already a shareholder. We ability to absorb carbon dioxide and the positive brands. The Volvo Ocean Race is a unique achieved a majority shareholding in the comimpact of the use of products from sustainably ­marketing platform. Our participation and the pany, making China SCA’s most important managed forests. SCA’s forests display a net participation of our crew has already garnered emerging market. China is facing an enormous growth rate and our growing forests absorb 2.6 attention and excitement throughout the world. challenge with an ageing population and an million tons of carbon dioxide annually, which The Volvo Ocean Race serves as a symbol of undeveloped system for elderly care. This offers exceeds the emissions from SCA’s use of fossil the journey of change being undertaken by SCA major growth potential for SCA and we want to fuels in production. If half of the world’s forests – culturally, organizationally and commercially – assist in efforts to develop sustainable soluwere managed in the same way, they would and I look forward to our two global races with tions. For example, we are participating as the absorb all carbon emissions globally. excitement. only multinational company in a committee The forest also offers us access to high-qualtogether with Chinese companies and authoriity forest raw material and enables energy proties charged with developing a proposal for how duction from wind and biofuels. From a commuthe elderly care system in China should be strucnity perspective, the forest also contributes biotured. logical diversity while also providing a source for During the year, we established operations in nature experiences and recreation. During the India; a market with a growing middle class and year, we inaugurated the first wind farm as part low consumption of hygiene products. Also of the collaboration between SCA and the here, SCA can contribute its know-how and susenergy company Statkraft. tainable solutions. In conjunction with the introJan Johansson, President and CEO SCA Sustainability Report 2013 3 Introduction | The SCA sustainability effect The SCA sustainability effect Care and respect for people and nature are absolutely central to SCA’s way of working. Economy This is the lens we use to view the world – from the big picture right down to the finer points of harvesting a forest, testing a new innovation or designing a new diaper. It means that we constantly challenge ourselves to deliver solutions that make a difference to everyday life. And we have found that you can achieve a lot when living our values of respect, Nature People excellence and responsibility. 1 Drivers Population growth, higher standards of living, shortages of resources and climate change are the 2 stakeholders Dialog with global macro trends that are altering the conditions for SCA’s business operations. By analyzing the Millions of people across the globe have an impact on and an interest in our business. external environment and trends, we capitalize SCA believes that an active and constructive dialog with our stakeholders improves on these drivers to create long-term the way we formulate and implement our business strategy and helps us understand sustainable growth. the needs and expectations that exist in the communities in which we operate. page 6 page 8 4 SCA Sustainability Report 2013 The SCA sustainability effect | Introduction 3 of direction Our choice 4 Strategy SCA’s sustainability strategy is an integral part of our business strategy, based on economic, environmental and social value creation. Our materiality analysis highlights the issues that are signifiOur ambitions for people and nature describe what we want to achieve cant to SCA and our stakeholders. It forms the basis for SCA’s in the long term. strategy and sustainability program. For the 2013 analysis, we changed the methods applied to page 10 page 12 5 broaden the scope of the analysis. Targets and results Ambitious and clear sustainability targets serve as an excellent means to drive and guide operations. Measureable targets also make it easier for those outside the company to understand how sustainability contributes to the business. We made major progress toward achieving these targets in 2013. page 14 SCA Sustainability Report 2013 5 Introduction | A changing world A changing world Global macrotrends, from population increases and higher standards of living to resource shortages and climate change, rapidly alter the conditions for SCA’s business operations. By analyzing the external environment and trends, and maintaining close customer and consumer dialogs, SCA can leverage these drivers, thus enabling the creation of long-term sustainable growth. GROWING AND AGING POPULATION The world’s population is growing and aging. The current global population is seven billion and the UN predicts that this figure will grow to nine billion by 2050. The average life expectancy is increasing and the world’s elderly population is expected to grow more than any other ­section of the population. This growing population is resulting in an increased demand for hygiene products and thus creating favorable HEALTH AND HYGIENE growth opportunities for SCA. The greatest population increase is Poor or no access to hygiene and sanitation is one of the greatest global expected to occur in Asia, Latin America and Africa, which means that challenges to be resolved. Good hygiene and knowledge about hygiene having a presence in these markets and offering adapted products will and hygiene products improve people’s health and quality of life. SCA be strategically important. An aging population will put more pressure ­continuously develops new hygiene solutions and educates young women on the elderly care system and an increasing number of elderly people about menstruation and puberty, as well as teaching children about the will require home care. We are also becoming healthier and continuing importance of good hand hygiene. For many women in developing counto lead active lives at an older age. These factors are contributing to tries, access to sanitary pads could mean the difference between going increased demand for customer and consumer-adapted incontinence to school and work or being forced to stay home, while incontinence solutions in both mature and emerging markets. ­products enable elderly people to live a more active life. A CHANGING WORLD Globalization, urbanization, shifts in the balance of power, political decisions, the global economy, legislation and cultural dynamics all impact the world in which SCA operates. By trying to anticipate and assess structural changes in our external environment, we prepare for the future and ensure that we will be able to capitalize on the benefits and tackle the challenges that arise as a result of these changes. Political decisions impact SCA. For example, decisions regarding healthcare and reimbursement systems affect the con­ditions for SCA’s sales of incontinence products. SCA works to educate and provide information about reimbursement HIGHER STANDARD OF LIVING systems in the countries in which its At the same time as the world’s population is growing, the level of poverty in the world is decreasing. An incontinence products are sold. increasing number of people now earn more than USD 2 per day (the UN’s definition of poverty) or have Economic power relationships are moved into the middle class. Once people’s most basic needs for food and shelter are met, health and changing, and emerging markets such as hygiene become top priorities. This creates favorable growth opportunities, and SCA is working to China, India and Brazil are gaining an develop business models for consumers with limited resources. increasingly important influence. 6 SCA Sustainability Report 2013 A changing world | Introduction CHANGING CUSTOMER/ CONSUMER BEHAVIOR Trends, technological developments and prevailing values cause customer and consumer behavior to change over time. Accordingly, the ability to anticipate and exceed customer and consumer expectations is becoming increasingly important. • Sustainable consumption: Limited resources, political prioritizations and knowledgeable, aware customers and consumers are boosting demand for sustainable products and services. • New technology: Many purchases are now made online, which is changing the rules of the game, for example, when it comes to marketing and distribution. CLIMATE CHANGES • The company behind the brand: Climate change is one of the most critical More than ever before, customers and environ­mental and social issues facing the world consumers are paying attention to the today. Authorities are setting targets to reduce companies behind the products and CO2 emissions, and the private sector is services they buy and imposing greater expected to play its part. SCA combats climate demands on these companies in terms change by investing in new technology, effiof corporate responsibility. ciency enhancements, and biofuel and wind • Innovation: Highly innovative prodpower initiatives. Our forests have an annual net ucts, services and business models growth of 1%. This means that our forests are required to respond to these absorb 2.6 million net tons of CO2 annually, changing behaviors. which exceeds the 1.8 million tons of emissions generated through the total use of fossil fuels in SCA’s production operations. SCARCE RESOURCES As a result of the growing global economy and SCA is also driving development in the area of contributes to global deforestation and conworld population, an increasing number of renewable energy, including wind power and stitutes a threat to biodiversity. SCA has a ­people are now sharing the planet’s natural biofuel. SCA holds numerous riparian rights Group target for checking the origin of all resources. for hydropower operations that cannot be wood raw materials. Forests are a key com• Energy: Access to energy has become a exploited under current legislation. ponent in our value chain and provide us with strategic issue in many countries. The Inter• Water: The UN predicts that two-thirds of the access to forest raw materials. national Energy Agency (IEA) predicts that the world’s population may live in areas with • Human capital: The economic progress of need for energy will increase by 40% by 2035, water shortages by 2025. Access to water is the world’s emerging markets and increaswhich will probably entail higher costs and, in critical for people, industry and agriculture. ingly knowledge-extensive business in some cases, an energy shortage. As a major SCA’s production operations are dependent mature markets are resulting in an increased energy consumer, this is an important issue on access to water and we are working to need for skilled labor and management. At for SCA and we continuously work to achieve our ambitious goals for efficient SCA, we invest in the development and trainenhance energy efficiency. New technology water usage. ing of our employees and take a strategic is not only resource-efficient, but usually also • Forest management: Illegal felling and fellapproach to meeting our future requirements generates fewer emissions and less waste. ing of forests with a high conservation value for competent leaders. SCA Sustainability Report 2013 7 Introduction | Stakeholder dialog Responding to and cooperating with stakeholders Every day, SCA engages in dialog with thousands of stakeholders at various levels around the world. We view the stakeholder dialog as a way of calibrating and quality assuring the business in the market. It provides a basis for strategy discussions and helps us understand the needs and expectations of the stakeholders. As a leading global hygiene and forest products also gained through SCA’s many phone lines for Since state authorities are significant customers company, SCA considers it to be important to consumer contact and through customer serand stakeholders in SCA, the global debate on engage in dialog with many different stakeholdvice’s handling of queries and complaints. Read public health and medical care is very important. ers about shared global challenges. This more on page 22. Particularly as individually focused care, care in includes employees, customers and consumers, the home and other health and medical care governments and supervisory authorities, Other stakeholders models that contribute to quality of life and NGOs, trade organizations and other networks To reach out to other important stakeholder improved health finances continue to be and alliances. SCA actively works on a number groups, both internally and externally, SCA ­developed. of issues and strives for openness and transparengages in a continuous dialog with stakeholder SCA actively works to build partnerships with ency in all such dialogs. organizations, regularly meets investors and decision makers in countries where new healthanalysts (see page 21) and conducts employee care systems are under construction. SCA is the Customers surveys and performance management reviews only foreign multinational company to particiSCA has a broad product portfolio and many dif(see page 55). In 2013, SCA engaged in dialog pate in a committee of Chinese companies and ferent kinds of customers, both end-consumers with UNICEF on Children’s Rights and Business authorities that was formed during the year. The and customers such as the retail trade, compaPrinciples and how they can be applied to sustask of the committee is to provide proposals on nies, distributors, printing houses, and health tainable business. Moreover, the company conthe structure of future elderly care. SCA also and medical care services. With such a mixed ducts discussions with other groups and private participated in a Swedish healthcare delegation customer base, communication is managed by individuals regarding questions that have a to China led by Göran Hägglund, the Minister for the business units, with the help of SCA Corpomajor impact on society in general and local Health and Social Affairs, in April. SCA conducts rate. The Group strives to meet and exceed the communities, such as Sami communities that a continuous dialog with the health departments customers’ expectations and learn more about use part of SCA’s forest land in northern Sweden in India and, in March, President and CEO Jan the areas that are important to them. All busifor reindeer herding. Another example is in HonJohansson participated in a round-table discusness units conduct and follow up customer satdouville, France, where SCA meets neighbors, sion with Turkey’s President Abdullah Gül and isfaction surveys to find out how customers perNGOs and journalists every year for a construcseveral ministers when a Turkish delegation visceive SCA. Read more on page 22. tive dialog on the business and how it affects the ited Sweden. In addition, SCA participated in surroundings. delegation trips to South Korea in September Consumers and Brazil in November, and in Prime Minister In-depth consumer insights reveal areas of Involvement in hygiene issues Fredrik Reinfeldt’s state visit to Mexico in Sepimprovement. SCA conducts consumer surveys, An important part of SCA’s involvement in the tember, where health and medical care issues market surveys and home visits at consumers to social debate concerns issues of hygiene and were on the agenda. obtain more knowledge on how they live and health, primarily elderly care with its connection SCA takes responsibility for and prioritizes what their interests are. Valuable insights are to SCA’s incontinence aids. the care of people with incontinence. The comCooperation between reindeer husbandry and forestry SCA conducts a regular dialog with the 36 Sami communities that have the right to herd reindeer on SCA land. This is done in consultation with the local reindeer-herding communities in relation to such issues as harvesting, land preparation, choice of tree species, the extent of forest roads and forest fertilization. To increase reindeer herders’ and forest managers’ knowledge of each other’s industries and thereby increase mutual understanding, SCA took responsibility for implementing a skills development program on behalf of the Swedish Government, the Sami Parliament and the Swedish Forest Agency. The program includes an online course and field training and will be carried out in five locations in 2014. Mattias Andersson, Gällivare forest Sami community, Lars Jonsson, SCA’s Chief Forester of Norrbotten’s forest district and Kjell Aira of the Jåkkhågaska Sami village. 8 SCA Sustainability Report 2013 Stakeholder dialog | Introduction pany is involved in increasing awareness of est certification and environmental policy and In 2013, along with three other companies, SCA incontinence as a disease and contributing to legislation. was invited to participate in the United Nations better conditions for people who suffer from the SCA encourages sustainable forest manageForum on Forests (UNFF) in Istanbul to discuss condition within the scope of the health and ment and supports both international certification sustainable forest management. medical care systems in various countries. A schemes for forests and wood raw materials, Every year, SCA also engages in dialog with very important way of achieving this is through FSC® and PEFC™. The Group actively promotes environmental organizations that share the the Global Forum on Incontinence, GFI (www.gfi. forest certification and zero deforestation by joinGroup’s commitment to sustainable forest mancom). GFI is a global platform for training and ing with other major international companies in agement and other environmental issues. debate on incontinence for stakeholders in the organizations such as the World Business Counarea, such as medical experts, politicians and cil for Sustainable Development and the ConOther environmental issues financiers. The fifth GFI conference will take sumer Goods Forum. SCA acts to influence comClimate change is high on the agenda of SCA’s place in Madrid in April 2014, with SCA as the panies and government agencies, through these stakeholders and the company carefully moniprimary arranger. and other initiatives, with the aim of achieving tors developments in the area. SCA participated zero net deforestation by 2020. in the creation of the Confederation for EuroPromoting sustainable forestry SCA participates in the WWF Environmental pean Paper Industries’ (CEPI) 2050 Roadmap As Europe’s largest private forest owner, SCA Paper Company Index and SCA Forest Products that aims to reduce emissions of greenhouse plays an important role in involving stakeholders participates in the WWF Global Forest & Trade gases by developing new technology and in a range of issues, such as illegal logging, forNetwork (GFTN) for responsible trade. increasing the use of biofuel. Stakeholder group Main areas How we work with the issues/Activities 2013 (page reference) Customers Carbon footprint Life Cycle Assessments (24) Ecolabelling CO2 targets (32) Working conditions Sourcing targets (36) Fiber sourcing FSC® certification (36, 38) Human rights compliance Revisions of the Code of Conduct and business ethics (45, 46) Customer insight Implementation of ­supplier standards (48) Innovation Customer surveys (22) Sustainable innovations (24) Hygiene solutions (28) Consumers Impact of products on nature, for example, carbon Life Cycle Assessments (24) footprint, ecolabelling Eco Actions (www.libero.se/Eco-Actions, www.libresse.com, www.tena.com) Product safety Chemicals handling (24) Consumer insight Consumer surveys and focus groups (22) Innovation Sustainable innovations (24) Hygiene solutions (28) Employees Recruitment and succession planning Code of Conduct training (45) Training OHS AS 18001 certification (50) Compensation and benefits Global All-Employee Survey (55) Business ethics Diversity survey (54) Health and safety Global Performance Management System (55) Working conditions Management system (50) Investors ESG (Environment, Social, Governance) integration Investor/analyst meetings (21) into business strategy Conference participation (21) Resource efficiency Site visits (21) Risk management Inclusion in sustainability indexes and funds (21) Esave (32) Risk analysis (AR 60) Suppliers Supplier audits Sourcing targets (36) Raw material sourcing Supplier standards (48) Sedex reporting (44, 48) CSR audits of suppliers (48) Stakeholder Forest management Continuous dialogs, such as consultation with reindeer herders (8) ­organizations CO2 emissions Membership in industry initiatives and organizations such as WBCSD, Energy utilization ­Consumer Goods Forum, FSC, etc. Water consumption (www.sca.com) Society Environmental issues Public Affairs (8, 9) Local issues Ongoing dialog with authorities and local communities (8) Community involvement Hundreds of community involvement initiatives (56) SCA Sustainability Report 2013 9 Introduction | Materiality analysis SCA’s choice of direction and priorities – a materiality analysis 1 The materiality analysis provides an Innovation is ranked number one by the stakeholders and number two by SCA, insight into the issues that are signifiwhich confirms the relevance of the cant to the company and forms the choice of innovation as one of SCA’s strabasis of SCA’s strategy and operations. tegic priorities. Sustainability is an integrated part of product development and The 2013 analysis is based on a survey during the year, the Group launched some of 1,500 internal and external stake30 new innovations. holders in combination with SCA’s own assessment of the strategic importance of the areas. SCA’s priorities match the stakeholders’ assessment well and only d­ iffer in a few areas. Topic 1 Innovation 2 Customer and consumer satisfaction 2 1 3 Business ethics 4 Product safety Very important 5 Brands 6 Resource efficiency 5 7 Health and safety 13 7 Significance to SCA’s business strategy 8 Forest assets 9 Market positions 3 10 Human rights 9 11 Corporate governance 11 12 CO2 emissions 15 6 13 Human capital 14 Consumer waste 15 Efficiency in the supply chain 17 4 16 Water use and water purification 17 Distribution 10 18 Financial risks 8 Important 18 12 16 14 Important Very important Significance to stakeholders The materiality analysis is a tool used to understand the issues that are most important and relevant to SCA. The horizontal axis shows the degree of importance stakeholders attach to the various subject matters, while the vertical axis represents SCA’s assessment of how important the areas are to its business strategy and ­operations. In most cases, the assessments of stakeholders and SCA coincide. 10 SCA Sustainability Report 2013 Materiality analysis | Introduction 4 8 Product safety has a high priority, Forest assets a ­ re assigned greater ­particularly since many of the company’s importance by the stakeholders than by products come into contact with people’s SCA. One explanation for this may be that skin. SCA has well-developed processes the stakeholders see the forest from a for guaranteeing the products’ safety and global deforestation perspective while do not use any chemicals classified as SCA refers to its own, sustainably mansubstances of very high concern by EU aged forest assets in Sweden. The forest REACH chemical legislation. This may be also accounts for a smaller share of SCA’s a reason why SCA ranks this area lower sales. than the stakeholders. 2 13 Customer and consumer satisfaction is Human capital is assigned less importance assessed as the most important area by SCA by the stakeholders than by SCA. It appears and as the second most important by the reasonable that SCA has greater insight into stakeholders. SCA conducts regular cushow crucial the employees’ attitudes and tomer and consumer surveys and feeds back expertise are to SCA’s success. SCA’s opinions and complaints to the business as a ­All-Employee Survey provides valuable basis for improvements. As a result of the knowledge about the employees’ opinions considerable importance SCA and its stakeand constitutes a tool in the improvement holders attach to the area, a new section has work. been added on customer and consumer insight and satisfaction on pages 22–23. In total, 1,500 customers, consumers, supplithe number was reduced from 36 to 18. The holder group’s results were weighted so that ers, investors, representatives for media and subject areas included in the study were choeach of the groups’ answers were assigned stakeholder organizations as well as SCA sen in accordance with such governing docuequal importance. SCA’s own assessment is employees participated in the online survey. ments as the Global Reporting Initiative, the based on the appraisal of the Corporate SCA previously conducted materiality UN Global Compact, SCA’s Code of Conduct ­Senior Management Team. analyses in 2008, 2010 and 2012. While the and SCA’s own assessment. All selected The new method means that the results previous analyses were focused on sustainaareas are important to SCA. are not directly comparable with previous bility, the 2013 analysis had a broader In earlier surveys, the respondents ranked materiality analyses. However, the stakeholdapproach. The stakeholders’ opinions are of all of the subject areas’ weight, while they ers’ and SCA’s views are still a good match in major importance to SCA as a whole, not only were now able to choose which ten areas they terms of which areas are significant. The its sustainability activities, and the entire considered to be the most important of the results of the survey appear to be reasonable business should therefore be included. The 18. The stakeholders’ ranking of the areas and relevant and have given the Group a basis results are also included on page 7 in the was combined with SCA’s own assessment of for its strategy and operations and for the Annual Report. how important the areas are to the company’s content of the Annual Report and SustainabilThe changed focus meant that the subject business strategy and were placed in the ity Report. areas were broadened at the same time as materiality analysis as coordinates. The stake­ SCA Sustainability Report 2013 11 Introduction | Strategy SCA’s strategy SCA is a leading global hygiene and forest products company. SCA’s strategy is based on a sustainable business model where value creation for people and nature is put on a par with growth and profitability to ensure a successful company in both the short and long term. Growth Innovation Efficiency Increasing the hygiene business’s share of Innovation is a driver for growth and profitability. Enhanced capital efficiency, lower costs and the SCA Group has been a strategic step A higher pace of innovation, based on SCA’s strengthened cash flow are achieved through toward reducing the company’s sensitivity to comprehensive customer and consumer insight, efficiency enhancement and savings measeconomic fluctuations and thereby ensuring improves the Group’s competitiveness and ures, as well as the optimization of capital a more long-term stable level of profitability strengthens and differentiates its customer employed in all parts of the Group. Establishand growth. While growth will mainly be offering. Through new and improved customer ing more efficient production and processes organic, acquisitions will also be pursued. offerings, SCA strengthens its brands and strengthens the Group’s competitiveness SCA aims to grow and strengthen its posi­creates additional customer and consumer and enables SCA to improve its customer tions in both mature and emerging markets value. Sustainability aspects and product safety service and customer satisfaction. In most by, for example, broadening its offering of are important for customers and consumers and cases, this also results in positive environproduct categories, product ranges and thus also in the development of new products mental effects. Global functions in the ­services, as well as growing in new segments and services. SCA’s strategy is to increase the hygiene operations relating to such areas as and channels. SCA’s long-term goal is to be pace of innovation, capitalize on global econoinnovation and brand activities, as well as the leading company and strengthen its mies of scale and ensure that all segments have production, sourcing and logistics, generate brand position in the markets that it serves. a competitive and balanced portfolio of innovacost synergies and enable efficient resource tions. Particular focus is given to exploring the allocation. For the sake of efficiency, SCA Outcome 2013 possibilities of broadening the product portfolio, chooses to work with partners in certain In 2013, SCA grew both organically and as well as expanding the range of services. areas of the world. through acquisitions. SCA’s sales growth in 2013, excluding exchange rate effects and Outcome 2013 Outcome 2013 divestments, amounted to 10%. Acquisitions SCA launched some 30 innovations during 2013. SCA is conducting three efficiency proincreased sales by 7%. Excluding exchange One such innovation was TENA U-test. The grams, which were launched in 2012. rate effects, SCA’s sales increase in emergtest can be inserted into patients’ incontinence The cost and efficiency program under way ing markets amounted to 11%. Emerging products to simply check whether they have a in the hygiene operations progressed accordmarkets accounted for 23% of SCA’s sales in ­urinary tract infection. SCA also launched TENA ing to plan and will generate annual cost sav2013. The hygiene business’s share of Group Identifi, a new technology that simplifies the work ings of EUR 300m with full effect in 2015. The sales increased to 83%. carried out by caregivers and improves the qualbulk of the savings relates to production and In 2013, SCA became the majority shareity of life of those suffering from incontinence. sourcing. In 2013, SCA achieved cost savings holder in Vinda, with ownership of 51.4%. Integrated electronic sensors in the incontinence of SEK 1,050m. SCA will consolidate Vinda as of the first product register information that can be used to In conjunction with the acquisition of quarter of 2014. Vinda is the third largest provide the correct treatment and protection. ­Georgia-Pacific’s European tissue operations, ­tissue company in China, which is the world’s In response to the demand for intelligent synergies were identified that will lead to second largest tissue market. hygiene solutions, which is being driven by an annual cost savings of EUR 125m with full During 2013, SCA established operations increased awareness about hygiene and the effect in 2016. The Group’s efforts to realize in India and decided to invest SEK 150m in threat of pandemics, SCA launched Tork Intuition cost synergies progressed as planned in 2013. the local production of hygiene products. Sensor, a touch-free sensor-controlled foam The savings achieved pertained to production, The plan is to commence production at the soap dispenser. During 2013, SCA also introsourcing, logistics, sales and administration. Group’s own plant in 2015. India’s large popduced a portable Tork dispenser for wiping paper Cost savings of SEK 385m were achieved in ulation and limited use of hygiene products that can be used in restaurant kitchens, as well as 2013. has created potential for future growth. In Tempo Cotton Touch, a new handkerchief conForest Products’ efficiency program 2013, SCA launched its Libero baby diapers taining cotton to provide a stronger and softer ­progressed as planned and will result in an and Tempo consumer tissue in India. product. annual earnings improvement of approxiRussia is one of SCA’s most important mately SEK 1.3bn with full effect in 2015. The emerging markets and SCA is investing in an program includes a structured plan to reduce increased tissue capacity in the country. fixed and variable costs, achieve improved income through increased production and ­efficiency enhancement, and implement a changed product and market mix. In 2013, the program generated an earnings improvement of SEK 550m. 12 SCA Sustainability Report 2013 Strategy | Introduction High ambitions SCA’s strategy is based on financial, environmental and social value creap ­ riorities: Growth, Innovation and Efficiency. A number of sustainability tion, with all three elements equally important to the company in efforts to ambitions have been developed alongside our targets. These describe achieve business success. As a natural consequence of this approach, we our long-term ambitions, whereas the targets are time-specific and have established economic, people and nature targets for the Group (read measur­able. The targets represent steps on the path toward achieving more about the targets on the following page). SCA’s strategy serves as the ambitions, at the same time as they drive developments forward. the roadmap to achieve these targets and is based on three strategic People ambitions Nature ambitions We build our position as one of the most trusted com­ We deliver sustainable solutions with added value for our panies in the world, delivering sustainable growth and customers based on safe, resource-efficient and environmenvalue for our stake­holders. tally sound sourcing, production and development. We improve hygiene standards worldwide with our We combat climate change and minimize our impact on hygiene solutions. For the millions of existing users of the environment through a combination of new innovations our products and services, and for the billions of ­people in and technologies, efficiency gains, consumer initiatives and emerging markets, we develop innovative solutions that carbon sequestering in our forests. make it easier to live healthy, ­sustainable lives. We care for the forests with all of their bio­diversity and We support women’s empowerment and their freedom we are committed to managing and utilizing them responsibly. to participate fully in society – socially, educationally and We aim to ­maximize the benefits our forest have on our ­professionally – across the world by giving them access to ­ecosystem, climate, customers and society, through a com­ and education about hygiene solutions. bination of innovation, efficiency gains and wise and longterm management. SCA Sustainability Report 2013 13 Introduction | Targets and outcome Target outcome Status: = Not according to schedule = Not according to schedule, actions identified = According to schedule Sustainable Hygiene Code of Employee innovations solutions Conduct Health & Safety target target target target We will deliver better, safe and We will make our knowledge about Our SCA supplier standard will be Our aim is zero workplace environmentally sound solutions to hygiene available to customers used to drive shared values and ­ ccidents, and we will decrease a our customers. We strive to con­ and consumers and ensure access priorities through our supply chain. our accident frequency rate by tinuously improve resource effito affordable, sustainable hygiene We will use it in all our supply chain 25% between 2011–2016. ciency and environmental perforsolutions to help them lead a contracts by 2015. OHSAS 18001 will be implemance considering the whole life healthy and dignified life. In marWe will maintain compliance with mented at all main sites by 2016. cycle for new innovations. kets in which we operate we will: our SCA Code of Conduct. All • Provide information on hygiene employees will receive regular outcome 2013 outcome 2013 matters around our products and training in the Code. services. The accident frequency rate was Several sustainable innovations 8.4 (9.7) per 1,000,000 working were launched, such as TENA • Strive to implement education outcome 2013 hours, representing a 9% decline Identifi, TENA U-test, Tork Intuition programs for girls, women and A total of 75% (73) of SCA’s global compared with the reference year Sensor and a portable Tork discaregivers. hygiene supplier base and 60% of 2011. penser. • Strive to offer the best value for (40) of our forest product’s supplier Status: Status: consumers making hygiene solubase had undertaken to adhere to tions affordable to everyone. By the end of 2013, 45% (30) of the SCA Global Supplier Standard. SCA’s 67 main sites were certified Status: according to OHSAS 18001. outcome 2013 91% (87) of employees have Status: SCA holds the number one or two received Code of Conduct training. position in at least one hygiene Status: product segment in about 90 countries.  ygiene training programs were H conducted in all product segments on all continents. We offer a broad port­folio of products ranging from the premium segment to the economy segment. Status: page 28-29 page 24-27 and 56-57 page 44-46 page 52-55 14 SCA Sustainability Report 2013 Targets and outcome | Introduction Climate Fiber sourcing Water Financial & energy & biodiversity targets target target target target We will reduce CO2 emissions We will achieve and maintain We aim to achieve water sus­tain­ The target for return on capital from fossil fuels and from pur­ our target of zero fresh fiber-based ability and we will reduce our water employed is 13% over a business chased electricity and heating by material from controversial usage in water-­stressed regions by cycle. 20% by 2020, with 2005 as ­sources*, including pulp. 10% by 2015, with 2010 as referThe target for the debt/equity ratio ­reference year. We will preserve the biodiversity of ence year. is 0.70 and the debt payment We will triple our production of bioour forests. A minimum of 5% of All SCA pulp and paper mills will capacity is to exceed 35% over fuels from our forests by 2020, our productive forest land will be employ mechanical and biological a business cycle. with 2010 as reference year. set aside from forestry in our ecowater treatment plants by 2015. The production of wind power on logical landscape plans and a furoutcome 2013 SCA forest land will increase to 5 ther 5% will be set aside as part of outcome 2013 The overall return on capital TWh by 2020. our consideration for nature in our managed forests. By year-end 2013, water usage employed was 11%. in water-stressed regions in relaAt year-end, the debt/equity ratio outcome 2013 tion to the production level had amounted to 0.51 and the debt outcome 2013 declined by 10.4%, compared At year-end 2013, CO2 emissions payment capacity to 37%. in relation to the production level All deliveries of pulp to SCA’s faciliwith the reference year of 2010. had declined by 11.8%, compared ties met the Group target. All of Status: with the reference year of 2005. SCA’s wood-consuming units are Of the Group’s 44 pulp and paper reviewed by independent auditors Status: mills, mechanical and biological and meet the requirements of the In 2013, energy production from effluent treatment systems have Group target. SCA’s forest-based biofuels was been installed at 42 plants. Status: 909 GWh (870 GWh in 2010). Status: 7% of SCA’s productive forest land Status: has been set aside in the long term Wind energy from SCA forest land from forestry in ecological landtotaled 0.75 TWh (0.4). scape plans. In 2013, 15% of the Status: area in planned harvesting sites was set aside for preservation. Status: page 8 page 32-35 page 36-38 page 40 in the Annual Report * Controversial sources are defined as: – Illegally logged timber. – Timber from forests with a high conservation value. – Timber from areas where human rights or ­traditional rights of indigenous people are being ­violated. SCA Sustainability Report 2013 15 Introduction | SCA’s value chain SCA’s value chain SCA utilizes a value-chain perspective to identify and how the ­various areas affect each other. In this way, we address the most relevant environmental, social and ­better ­understand the implications of the Group’s impacts ­economic issues. This approach provides an overview of and the importance of engaging in dialog with stakeholders SCA’s impact, where it arises and is at its greatest and to better address relevant issues. This helps us establish Sustainable forestry Climate change and carbon emissions Water management SCA is Europe’s largest private forest owner with The Group’s use of fossil fuels together with SCA uses water to transport fiber during the 2.6 million hectares of forest land. Nearly 7% of emissions from purchased electricity are the paper production process and as cooling water, this area has been reserved in ecological landmajor sources of its CO2 emissions, followed by with the breakdown between the two being scape plans to preserve the biological diversity transport activities. Most of SCA’s emissions 60–40. SCA’s goal is to reduce water use in of the Group’s forests, and at least a further 5% from its fossil fuel usage derive from its tissue ­facilities located in regions that suffer from is set aside in conjunction with harvesting. The production while a smaller proportion (below water shortages. Read more on page 40. forests have a net growth of 1% per year, corre10%) is derived from production of publication sponding to carbon sequestration of 2.6 million papers, pulp and sawn timber. SCA’s personal tons annually. This is higher than the carbon care plants account for less than 5% of the comemissions generated by SCA’s combined operapany’s carbon footprint. The majority of the clitions. About 50% of the wood raw material used mate impact in the production of tissue and forby SCA is derived from the Group’s own forests est products is generated in SCA’s own producand is thus under the direct control of the comtion processes, while for personal care prodpany. SCA works along the entire supply chain ucts, this occurs mainly in the raw material to guarantee 100% responsible raw material phase, meaning at suppliers. SCA works continsourcing. Read more on pages 36 and 48. uously to reduce emissions in its own manufacturing and in cooperation with raw material suppliers, to minimize its climate impact. Read more on page 32. 16 SCA Sustainability Report 2013 SCA’s value chain | Introduction ­priorities so that we minimize our environmental impact ­ ompany to focus on different issues within the various c and maximize the positive value for shareholders. ­business areas. The issues deemed to be of particular The value chains for Personal Care, Tissue and Forest ­significance to the value chain are described here. Products vary in a number of respects, requiring the Respect for human rights and business ethics Innovation and product management Transport activities Honesty and integrity in relationships with cusInnovation is one of SCA’s strategic priorities Transport activities account for approximately tomers, suppliers, employees and organizations, and is relevant to all parts of the Group’s value half of SCA’s CO2 emissions. More efficient and in addition to respect for human rights, are chain. Dialog with customers and consumers coordinated freight, more compact packaging ­fundamental parts of SCA’s entire business. By helps SCA to better understand user needs and and eco-driving are some of the methods used assessing compliance with the Code of Conduct to deliver more insightful innovations. Sustainaby SCA to reduce its environmental impact. and business ethics, the Group monitors its own bility, product quality and product safety are Read more on page 32. operations. Through the supplier standard and factors of major significance for SCA’s customsupplier audits, SCA unequivocally shows the ers and consumers and are thus decisive drivers Waste and recycling demands and expectations it has in relation to its in SCA’s innovation activities. Using the Group’s SCA has worked for some time now to reduce its suppliers, thereby gaining the trust of its customlife cycle perspective as the starting point, SCA production waste. About two-thirds of the waste ers. It is essential to minimize the risks throughstrives to achieve resource efficiency and is recycled either into new products as a raw out the value chain. Read more on page 48. reduced environmental impact, as well as material for other industries or is used to gener­contributing to people’s quality of life. Read ate energy. As much as 70% of European newsHealth and safety more on page 24. papers are currently recycled. Diapers are an The provision of a healthy and safe workplace example of a product that is best recycled by has been assigned high priority at SCA and is in Brand activities being incinerated. SCA is participating in proline with the expectations of customers and conThrough our strong brands, we engage with jects aimed at identifying new ways to reduce sumers. By having employees who feel safe and ­customers, consumers and distributers. consumer waste. Read more on page 41. who are well trained in health and safety proceRead more on page 13 in the Annual Report. dures, SCA enhances productivity and reduces the number of workplace accidents. Read more on page 50. SCA Sustainability Report 2013 17 Economic value Financial strength and ­sustainability go hand in hand With customer and consumer insight in mind, SCA offers innovative solutions and the Group’s strong sustainability work combined with stable financial foundation makes it an attractive business partner. We share our hygiene knowledge since good hygiene contributes to improved quality of life and health and makes life a little easier to live. SCA develops and manufactures personal care, Sustainability permeates everything we do – Our way of addressing sustainability creates tissue and forest products – some 34,000 what we offer, how we develop and manufacture healthy and long-term relationships and we want employees help to improve the quality of life of products and, not least, how we interact with the to contribute to the economic development of millions of people worldwide. Through the market. SCA’s ability to decipher trends, undercustomers, employees, suppliers and society. Group’s know-how, offering and way of constand needs and behaviors and convert this By strengthening others, we strengthen SCA. ducting business, it generates value that beneknowledge into innovative, sustainable solutions fits individuals and society at large as well as is decisive for our competitiveness. This is also SCA and the company’s shareholders. necessary to work efficiently and resource effectively in all stages. Read about our economic value creation: Sustainable innovations pages 24-27 Hygiene ­solutions pages 28-29 Financial targets page 8 in the Annual Report 18 SCA Sustainability Report 2013 “Modern asset management involves managing ties. The company has a solid governance strucsustainable innovation targets, which means financial, environmental, social and governance ture in place including a strong commitment that all of the company’s new innovations are (ESG) risks and opportunities. It is about providfrom management in addition to policies, targets evaluated in relation to a number of sustainability ing long-term solid returns to our clients and the and a structured organization. criteria, for example, the company strives to world we live in. We believe that acting responsiSCA shows that sustainability is an integral ensure that all new products have improved bly is a prerequisite for a company to achieve part of its business in several ways. Global mega resource efficiency or provide enhanced quality favorable, long-term returns. Through our owntrends are changing the operating conditions for of life for the user.” ership practices, we strive to enhance compathe company and it is positive that SCA has nies’ environmental and social performance identified such trends as an ageing and growing Ylva Hannestad, Director of Responsible while improving the returns of our funds. population, climate change and sustainable Investments & Governance, Nordea, Sweden SCA demonstrates clear leadership in its consumption as drivers for business opportuni­management of key ESG risks and opportunities. As early as 2011, the company developed Economic value | Stakeholders Positive economic impact across society A well-functioning company interacts with stakeholders and its business environment, and has a healthy economic impact across the value chain. SCA wants to contribute to economic development and create value for customers, consumer, employees, suppliers and society. Customer value decisive including pension costs, amounted to SEK in a number of areas, such as quality, safety, the SCA creates income streams by developing 3,803m (3,446). environment and social responsibility. and producing functional and sustainable prodThe Group’s pension costs totaling SEK Central procurement of global commodities, ucts that meet customers’ needs. For both end1,140m (970) comprise costs for defined-benefit such as pulp, electricity and chemicals, enables consumers and corporate customers, such as and defined-contribution pension plans. The SCA to realize economies of scale. The procureretailers, distributors, printing houses and defined-benefit plans are based on length of ment of other input goods such as wood is perhealthcare institutions, it is important that SCA service and the employee’s salary on the date of formed locally and, thereby, contributes to local has reliable products, procedures and governretirement and, in 2013, the net cost was SEK suppliers and local industry. Nearly all of the ance systems. This makes customers feel 562m (257). The cost of defined-contribution fresh fiber purchased for the Swedish mills is secure in their choice of supplier at the same plans amounted to SEK 578m (713). More inforsourced from local suppliers. time that SCA’s strong sustainability work helps mation is available in Note 6 and Note 26 in In 2013, the cost of raw materials and sercustomers achieve their own sustainability SCA’s 2013 Annual Report. vices purchased totaled SEK 56,404m (55,540), ­targets. The Group’s focus on innovation and SCA creates job opportunities in many counthus making sourcing SCA’s single largest cost streamlining supports continued high quality tries through local production. When SCA item, corresponding to 63% (65) of sales and a and competitiveness. acquires companies or enters into a joint venture key investment in the value chain. in emerging markets, the company adopts an Investing in people approach that involves great respect for the Local presence and legitimacy Dedicated employees comprise one success local management’s in-depth knowledge of the SCA creates job opportunities and contributes factor for the company and SCA offers the market and prevailing conditions. Accordingly, to tax revenue in the local economies where the employees the possibility to develop and remuas far as possible, the management is kept in Group operates. In 2013, income tax paid was neration at market rates. Remuneration complace while SCA adds knowledge about innovaSEK 1,634m (1,193) measured globally. In addiprises salary, pensions and other benefits. tion, brands, technology and economies of tion, SCA pays tax in the form of social security SCA’s remuneration policy is that employees scale. costs, property taxes, energy, VAT, etc. The will be rewarded at competitive rates. SCA folcompany has a long-term and responsible lows local remuneration structures, assuming Developing the value chain approach, meaning that SCA also voluntarily that these do not conflict with internationally SCA strives to promote long-term relationships makes commitments to promote and develop established rules for minimum wages and reacharacterized by transparency, high quality and local communities by supporting initiatives with sonable compensation. In 2013, salaries totaled financial stability. Through training and supporta focus on health, hygiene and education. SEK 12,807m (12,241), and social security costs, ing suppliers, SCA contributes to development Economic value created by stakeholder in 20131) Interest paid to creditors, 1% (SEK 1,000m) Taxes paid, 2% (SEK 1,634m) Dividend to shareholders, 4% (SEK 3,202m) Employee social security costs, 4% (SEK 3,803m) Remaining in the company, 11%2) (SEK 10,169m) Employee salaries, 15% (SEK 12,807m) Suppliers, 63%3) (SEK 56,404m) 1) Based on SCA net sales 2013. 2) Current expenditures, restructuring costs, strategic investments and acquisitions. 3) Raw materials, transport and distribution, energy and other cost of goods sold. 20 SCA Sustainability Report 2013 Shareholders | Economic value Proactive sustainability initiatives strengthen shareholder value Sustainability forms an integral part of SCA’s business strategy and promotes currency effects) and Tissue by 15% (excl. currency effects and divestments), the latter of the creation of economic value. An increasing number of investors are starting which was mainly related to acquisitions in to look at the long-term effects of sustainability initiatives and, accordingly, their Europe. Net sales for Forest Products remained impact on the valuation of the company. largely unchanged (excl. divestments). Operating profit for the Group increased by Effective sustainability initiatives investors who conduct some form of sustaina15% (19% excluding currency effects and Analysis of a company’s environmental and bility screening. Primarily, it is major institutions divestments) to SEK 9,934m (8,646). social performance, just like its financial perforand long-term investors such as pension funds mance, has become increasingly common. that choose to invest in companies with the best Share performance There is greater understanding and conviction environmental, social and financial performance. SCA generates value for its shareholders about the positive connection between the comSCA’s share was included in 126 sustainability through dividends and share price appreciation. pany’s sustainability efforts and long-term proffunds in 2013. Of these, 51 had invested more Normally, about one-third of cash flow from curitability. than 1% of their assets in SCA shares. rent operations over a business cycle is used for SCA’s integrated sustainability initiatives dividends. strengthen the company’s competitiveness and Increased requirements for quantifiable data The Board has proposed a dividend of SEK its offering and helps it win customers. The other In parallel with the increasing number of inves4.75 (4.50) for 2013. Over the past five-year perspective is risk and cost reduction. Sustainators paying attention to the company’s sustainaperiod, the dividend has increased by an averbility efforts promote, for example, a more reliability efforts, requirements are becoming more age of 6.3% annually. ble supply chain, transparency at and control of stringent for quantifiability and comparability. At year-end 2013, SCA had 73,317 registered contractors and resource efficiency in the proThis has led to increased focus on a more homoshareholders. During the year, the share price duction process, thereby generating cost and geneous reporting framework, such as the rose 40% to a closing price of SEK 198. In comenvironmental savings. Many sustainabilityglobal reporting initiative (GRI) and the developparison, the OMX Stockholm 30 Index rose 18%. related questions from investors are focused on ment of the integrated reporting (IR) framework minimizing risks and being able to provide docufrom the International Integrated Reporting mentation covering work methods and proceCouncil (IIRC). In 2013, the EU came with produres in various areas. posed legislation for mandatory reporting of Indices and funds non-financial factors, including the environmenIn 2013, SCA was assessed and qualified for Part of the investor dialog tal and social effects of business operations. inclusion in a number of sustainability indices Since sustainability is integrated into the busiSCA monitors developments in the area and and other rankings: ness, it is also part of the investor dialog, with welcomes enhanced comparability and trans• The Dow Jones Sustainability Indices emphasis on the business value of sustainability parency. (DJSI), which include the best performing initiatives. On a number of occasions in 2013, SCA’s Annual Report summarizes the parts companies worldwide in terms of economic, SCA met investors with a particular focus on of the Group’s sustainability efforts most releenvironmental and social criteria on a sustainability, for example, in conjunction with a vant to investors, while the Sustainability Report branch-by-branch basis. major conference in Frankfurt for responsible provides a more detailed insight. • The Ethisphere Institute’s list of the world’s most ethical companies. investments and at visits to SCA’s plants in • The FTSE4Good index series, which measSundsvall. Economic performance indicators 2013 ures earnings and performance among com­ Nearly 15% of the SCA shares are owned by During the year, SCA focused on the three strapanies that meet globally recognized norms investors with sustainability criteria, which is a tegic priorities of growth, innovation and effifor corporate responsibility. SCA has been high figure according to Vigeo, an ESG (Environciency. In 2013, the Group’s net sales totaled included in the index since 2001 and was ment, Social, Governance) rating company that SEK 89,019m (85,408), a year-on-year increase awarded the highest rating in its industry. performed the study. This figure includes both of 4% (10% excluding currency effects and • The Climate Disclosure Leadership Index, investors with a best-in-class approach and divestments). Personal Care grew by 6% (excl. which recognizes companies with the most transparent carbon reporting practices and that show proven ability to tackle climate change. Largest shareholders SRI* Investors in SCA, by region • Vigeo assesses companies’ environmental, % of votes % of shares social and governance (ESG) performance. Industrivärden 29.2 10.1 Europe, 91.8% SCA is included in the following sustainabilHandelsbanken* 14.2 4.4 North America, 7.9% ity funds of Vigeo: Ethibel Sustainability Norges Bank Investment Asia, 0.3% Excellence Europe and Ethibel SustainabilManagement 8.0 6.5 ity Excellence Global. Skandia 1.6 0.4 • EPCI Euro Ethical Equity and EPCI Global Swedbank Robur funds 1.0 2.1 Ethical Equity. SEB Funds & SEB Trygg life insurance 0.8 1.0 • The OMX GES Sustainability Nordic and *Socially Responsible Investments. Standard Life Investment Funds 0.7 1.5 Source: Vigeo OMX GES Sustainability Sweden. SCA Employee Foundation 0.7 0.1 • Folksam’s Index of Corporate Social Fidelity Funds 0.6 1.3 Responsibility 2013. AMF – Insurance and Funds 0.6 1.3 * Including funds and foundations. Source: SIS SCA Sustainability Report 2013 21 Economic value | Customer and consumer insight Dialog provides knowledge Insight into and understanding of people’s needs and behaviors are fundamental to SCA’s innovations. SCA pursues a continuous dialog and interacts with the market, where customer and consumer feedback forms the basis for new insights. Being receptive, available and reliable are our catchwords. Who are we there for? cut down their panty liners to fit in string panties. make a difference and create value for customSCA’s operations interact with numerous differThe development of Tempo Ice is another examers’ personnel and users. ent customers, markets and needs. Put simply, ple of how consumer insight forms the basis of The retail trade accounts for a significant part our products and services are there for custominnovation. Handkerchiefs with a lemon scent of SCA’s sales. The Group uses external compariers, consumers and users. Customers are comwere developed to provide a cooling and refreshson reports where the largest retail chains assess panies that buy our products and services, for ing effect on warm summer days, a season when their suppliers based on such criteria as cusexample restaurants, construction companies, handkerchief consumption is usually low. tomer service, logistics, sales support, marketing care providers, pharmacists or retailers. ConSCA’s global coverage means that the comand product development. Consumers who pursumers and users are the individuals who use pany tries to meet the needs that many people chase retail products are followed up through SCA’s products. For example, a teenager who share. However, SCA adapts products and sergeneral brand and product recognition surveys. buys sanitary pads at the supermarket, caregivvices to local needs and cultures. For example, ers or residents at care facilities who use our this could apply to the packaging design or the Unsatisfied customers incontinence products or a do-it-yourselfer who appropriate colors for differing cultures. While SCA has well-established procedures for manbuys timber at a building materials supplier. Scandinavians prefer unscented products, aging customer complaints. All information scented products are appreciated in countries received by the company’s customer service is Understanding and insight like Mexico and Italy. entered into a global business system. We Customer understanding and consumer insight always try to compensate unsatisfied customers are at the core of what SCA develops and how it Customer surveys as a tool for improvement directly and determine whether a need exists for delivers innovations to the market. Customers’ Customer feedback is important to be able to further measures beyond the individual case. needs influence the ideas SCA generates, which offer better products and solutions and every For example, production personnel receive are then developed into finished products or business unit has methods to investigate cusfeedback to define whether a production fault services for the market. We monitor macro tomer satisfaction. was the underlying cause. trends to identify changes in behavior and The hygiene operations conduct a systemThe users’ complaints and opinions provide actively look for opportunities to observe conatic customer follow-up. This includes both valuable consumer insight and it is important sumers’ and customers’ actual behavior. This is external reports and independent surveys. For that the knowledge gathered is transferred to the realized in a number of ways, including home example, in 2013, SCA introduced a global sysorganization. During 2013, we investigated how visits by SCA, inviting focus groups to meetings tem of customer follow-up in the incontinence we could best involve our development team, to and through in-depth interviews. Many valuable operations and a similar system is planned for ensure that customer feedback was included in insights and ideas are identified in dialogs with the tissue operations. The reports are important product development. SCA’s sales representatives. SCA also gains as decision support for SCA and provide an indiSCA’s system enables monitoring of the time insight into consumers’ lives and perceptions of cation of customer satisfaction and improvetaken by a case and identification of any costs for the Group’s products by following the discusment potential, for example, by providing a “Net compensation and recalls. Complaints have sions on our own websites like www.libero.com Promoter Score.” remained at a stable and low level for the past two and www.girls1st.com or social media. In addition to products, SCA delivers crucial years. For Personal Care products, the complaint SCA’s launch of the world’s first string panty knowledge and support in the development of frequency is lower than one in a million supplied liner in 1999 is an example of how direct feedback operations at such institutions as nursing homes products. Within our Tissue operations, the corfrom the consumers resulted in new products. and, accordingly, highly values opportunities for responding figure is 2.5 per thousand tons. Users wrote in and described how they used to direct customer contact. By so doing, SCA can Complaints A customer or ­ handling consumer is unsatisfied Register complaint Send final feedback Customer/consumer in system Investigate cause of Make or initiate c ­ orrective to customer and makes complaint complaint action Give feedback to customer close complaint Complaint is closed Customer/consumer has received feedback 22 SCA Sustainability Report 2013 Customer and consumer insight | Economic value Old for one day Many of SCA’s products are used by older people. Through interviews and discussions with older consumers and their relatives as well as personnel at nursing homes, we try to understand their needs and challenges. As part of striving to gain real insight, alternative methods are also tested and one such example is the old person simulation suit (OPS suit) that allows people to “age” 30–40 years for one day. Limited mobility The OPS suit is equipped with glasses that have the same effect as having cataracts, ear muffs and ear plugs that reduce hearing ability, double elbow pads that limit mobility, shoes with rounded soles that impair balance as well as a back brace with conical spikes that inflicts constant pain and impairs mobility. Insight is used in product development and packaging design to ensure usability for older users. The suit is also used to give customers, politicians and care providers insight into the everyday lives of older people and ideas about how stores and society can be designed to facilitate for an aging population. Tomorrow’s target group Some 6–7% of the population in developing countries is over 65. By the middle of the century, the number will have doubled. Projections indicate that by 2100, there will be more than seven million centenarians in China, the US, Japan, India and Brazil. Understanding and insight into this target group will be crucial for SCA’s retail, residential homes, hospitals and home care customer segments. SCA Sustainability Report 2013 23 Economic value | Sustainable innovations Innovation everywhere Innovation is absolutely essential if SCA is to identify the best solutions that TARGET meet the needs of people. Sustainability is a key driver of innovation and, Sustainable innovations We will deliver better, safe, and conversely, innovation contributes to more sustainable solutions. environmentally sound solutions to our customers. We strive to continuously improve resource efficiency and environmental performance Innovation our way Follow up continues for about six months after ­considering the entire life cycle of innovations. Innovation at SCA is split into three categories – launch. The project team behind the new soluupgrade, new generation and breakthrough. tion follows up the reception in the market, proOutcome 2013 Sustainable innovations mean that our products duction efficiency, the lessons learned during Several sustainable innovations were launched, will contain improvements for people, the envithe development process and launch plans in such as TENA Identifi, TENA U-test, Tork Intuironment and finances (see definition on page other markets. tion Sensor and a portable Tork dispenser. 27). This approach permeates the entire life In order for SCA’s innovations to be as succycle – from searching for better or new material cessful as possible, employees work in crossto identifying more efficient methods and profunctional teams, with proximity to and expericesses, smarter design and effective logistics ence of different cultures and markets. And it is On the packaging side, the food industry is an that result in more sustainable products and serproximity to customers and consumers that is important market that sets high requirements on vices. indispensable to the company’s ability to product safety. SCA ensures that all fibers in the Good examples of sustainable innovations develop solutions that make a real difference in products meet the requirements regardless of include the high-tech TENA U-test and TENA the everyday lives of people. whether they are fresh fibers or recovered fibers. Identifi incontinence solutions, which ensure The chemicals we use in the production process improvements for patients and represent a more Space for open innovation are managed under strict control, which means economical solution for nursing homes (read SCA has a portal for open innovation. Inventors, that good, safe chemicals are chosen and more on the next page). entrepreneurs and small companies are invited ­handled safely. During the year, SCA invested SEK 998m to submit solutions in response to various chalThe regulations that are most relevant to SCA (845) in what is categorized as research and lenges from SCA. The solutions should be patconcern product safety, medical technology development. This corresponds to 1.1% (1.0) of ented so that there are no outstanding issues products, material for food contact, chemical total sales in 2013. regarding immaterial property rights should the substances, cosmetics, biocide products and proposal lead to a licensing agreement or other electronics. SCA monitors the development of Structured creativity type of business arrangement. all relevant regulations and the Group’s operaSCA’s innovation process always originates in tions are covered by the EU REACH chemicals an understanding of a customer or consumer Employee ideas encouraged legislation. need. For the next step of the process, it is necTo take advantage of the employees’ creativity SCA uses LCAs to obtain a standardized essary to have a clear link to the relevant brand and good ideas, SCA launched an internal innomeasurement of environmental improvements in strategy and SCA’s overall strategy. SCA’s innovation platform during the year called ICON every phase of the products. This means that the vation process is divided into five phases, all (Idea Collaboration Online). ICON is not limited company looks at the environmental impact from containing different procedures and milestones: to product innovations, but rather here, the raw materials, production, transports and use to Business potential and feasibility are employees can contribute proposals that can waste. LCAs are used both to calculate the enviexamined in the first phase. The Group prepares benefit manufacturing, logistics or marketing, for ronmental impact from new innovations and to a concept based on customer or consumer instance. In addition to ICON and other platmeasure the gradual improvements out in the insight, assesses the market situation and the forms, there are special physical rooms that are operations. For example, SCA has used LCAs to global business potential as well as the technoused for innovation activities, such as workdocument the climate impact of personal care logical and commercial conditions. shops, visualization and prototype developproducts in Europe for several years. The calcuDevelopment involves identifying possible ment. lations are based on the products in each range solutions, a specific product, service or busithat jointly account for the majority of sales. ness model. The product is designed, the selecSafe and environmentally sound products tion of material is analyzed, any necessary mateProduct safety and environmental assessments Carbon footprint rial development is determined, the technical are important in the innovation process for more Product reduction 2008–2013, % equipment required in manufacturing is identisustainable products in all of SCA’s product TENA Flex 7 fied and initial plans for launch and communicaareas. TENA Lady 10 tion are formulated. Furthermore, the Group SCA follows strict requirements and proceTENA Men 12 ensures that the material is safe to use and the dures to ensure that all materials in the compaTENA Pants 18 TENA Slip 14 environmental performance is measured with an ny’s products are safe for consumers, employTENA Comfort 14 life cycle assessment (LCA). ees and the environment. SCA’s supplier standTENA Bed 15 Capacity to deliver the solution according to ard includes quality, product safety, environLibero open diaper* 24 the established parameters is verified. mental and social requirements. There is a Libero pants 12 Launch signifies that the product or service global product safety policy in the hygiene oper* Including launches in Q1 2014. is introduced in the selected markets. ations in addition to the SCA supplier standard. Life Cycle Assessments are calculated biannually. 24 SCA Sustainability Report 2013 “Mercadona and SCA have a relationship that One of the main qualities of SCA is its ability to plus brands, so the reputation of these is in the goes far beyond the classical customer/supplier understand our needs locally and use its multihands of companies such as SCA. Today, conrelationship. We are strategic partners, so we national structure to meet them. This enables sumers and society would never accept us takshare common goals and work as a team to fast reactions to daily operational issues, while ing risks in the area of sustainability, and we are achieve them. This is a fundamental part of the retaining a global approach to strategic issues proud to see how SCA consistently demonMercadona model, and our way of working. To where the expertise and best practices of other strates that its commitment is genuine and be successful, we need to ensure that we are markets are required. based on facts.” working with the best suppliers in each category SCA’s sustainability values are essential to and SCA has proven itself a worthy partner durthe partnership with Mercadona. SCA is the only Jorge Gisbert, Purchasing Manager, ing the more than 30 years we have been worksupplier of tissue, diapers and feminine care ­Mercadona, Spain ing together. products for our leading Bosque Verde and DeliEconomic value | Sustainable innovations Sustainable innovations The process from innovation to launch of a finished product or service usually takes a couple of years. Some examples of sustainable innovation from SCA are presented below. TENA U-test TENA Identifi A new test card in the inconIn 2013, TENA Identifi was launched, a breaknence plan and apply incontinence products as tinence product can disthrough innovation for continence care that was necessary. SCA thereby supports customers by cover urinary tract infecdeveloped based on a distinct need of our cusaddressing higher demands for active contitions. The test card is tomers in elderly care. The solution is based on a nence care. The value is both financial and qualiplaced in an incontinence sensor product that registers urination patterns tative; the care staff receives a clear basis for product, and when the (how much urine comes and when). After three improving work and the individual a more digniproduct is replaced, the days’ observation, the care staff can discern a fied existence. The product was launched in staff checks the card’s two pattern of frequency and volumes that provides 2013 in ­Denmark as the first country. fields. This method makes entirely new opportunities to determine a contidiagnosis simpler for the staff and more comfortable for the patient compared with providing a urine sample, which may have to be done using catheters. TENA Pants In 2013, SCA launched TENA Pants with Con­ fioFit™, for users with large urinary leakage. The product is 30% thinner, but just as effective as before. It provides improved comfort and makes it possible to wear tight-fitting clothes. Better resource use and less transportation reduced climate impact by 7%. TENA Belt TENA Solutions TENA Belt is an incontinence product supplied TENA Solutions was introduced in Europe in with a reusable belt. The product is thinner and 2011 and has since been launched in a number consists of materials that breathe at the same of countries in Europe and in Canada, the US time that it provides better ergonomics for the and China. More information can be found on caregiver. TENA Belt decreases the climate page 28. impact by 25%. TENA Lady InstaDRY™ Sustainable Packaging In 2013, SCA launched the incontinence product At the end of 2013, Ortviken paper mill launched TENA Lady Extra Plus InstaDRY™. The product the new packaging papers Splendo, Operio and contains a unique new absorption concept, Puro, which are included in the new Sustainable InstaDRY™, which enables absorption of a Packaging product area. The products are strong larger amount of fluid in a very short period of and light and have high compressibility. The time. The product also has “Fresh Odor Control” paper is manufactured from fresh fibers, which which inhibits bacteria growth and reduces the makes it well-suited to food packaging, an indusoccurrence of odors. The product is smaller, try with high demands of product safety. The more anatomically designed and has beveled products are manufactured from certified raw edges for the best fit and discretion. Climate materials, have a low climate impact and efficient impact decreased by 11%. resource utilization. 26 SCA Sustainability Report 2013 Sustainable innovations | Economic value Libero open diapers A thinner baby diaper with more efficient materiefficient transportation and less waste. Between als, a smarter design and improved fit. Lower 1987 and 2013, the climate impact of Libero’s weight provides resource optimization, more open diapers decreased by 52%. Tork Intuition Sensor The sensor-controlled Tork Elevation foam soap dispenser is specially developed for hygienecritical operations such as food and healthcare, but is also suitable for office use. The risk of the spread of infection is removed by eliminating the Tork napkin dispenser need to touch the soap dispenser. The soap is With SCA’s Tork Xpressnap dispenser, the use stored in a new kind of dispensable cartridge, of napkins decreases by at least one-fourth which also reduces the risk of the spread of baccompared with traditional paper dispensers. teria. With a dispensable cartridge, there is also By the user only being able to take one napkin no spill when refilling and it contains around at a time, consumption is kept under control, 2,500 doses of soap, about 2.5 times more than hygiene is improved and waste is minimized. In is in a liquid soap bottle of the same size. A LED 2013, SCA launched Cray, a new, more elegant light on the soap dispenser signals when a new Tork Xpressnap dispenser. refill is needed, which saves time. A QR code on the dispenser links to an instruction video – which can be viewed on a smartphone, for instance – on how to replace the soap cartridge. Tork Easy Handling SCA launched Tork Easy Handling, a combination of Carry pack and Carry Box, on a broad front. This provides two social innovations for cleaning workers that offers more alternatives to easily lift and carry the packages, which reduces the risk of attrition injuries. Definition of SCA’s ­Sustainable Innovations According to SCA’s definition, sustainable innovations are to include improvements for people, the environment and finances. To be regarded a sustainable innovation, there must have been an improvement in at least two of these three areas. For people, the assessment criteria are health as well as social and individual improvements. In terms of the environment, LCAs, consumer waste and ecolabelling are taken into account. In relation to finances, cusTork portable dispenser tomer value, value for the user and value for During the year, SCA launched a portable Tork be mounted, thereby also functioning as a stasociety are measured. In order for any of the dispenser for wiping paper that can be used in tionary solution. It represents an intelligent categories to be considered improved, restaurant kitchens and can be easily moved product for food preparation environments that advances must have been made in at least one between work stations. The dispenser also has simplifies the work of the user and promotes of the three subcategories. a docking station on which the dispenser can better hygiene. SCA Sustainability Report 2013 27 Economic value | Hygiene solutions Hygiene solutions are a precondition for prosperity SCA has knowledge of and provides solutions for better hygiene all over the world, and in all phases of life. Hygiene products account for more than 80% of SCA’s operations, and the manner in which the Group ­conducts its business generates value that benefits individuals, society and the company. SCA’s sustainable business model are published externally. The nursing homes that TARGET SCA’s products and services make daily life easimprove their activities through quality programs Hygiene solutions ier and provide people with the opportunity to like TENA Solutions can distinguish themselves We will make our knowledge about live an active life. We share our hygiene knowlin the market by doing so. hygiene available to customers and consumers edge and offer training for children, women, and ensure access to affordable, sustainable family members and care providers. We offer a Greater customer awareness hygiene solutions to help them lead a healthy broad range, tailored to the varying needs of SCA has noticed a growing interest in care initiaand dignified life. In markets in which we operate customers and consumers, and adapt our busitives that focus on results rather than individual we will: ness model to the prevailing conditions in variproduct purchases. In Denmark, for example, • Provide information on hygiene matters ous markets so that as many people as possible the Municipality of Odense’s target was to genaround our products and services. will have access to our products. We offer packerate savings in incontinence care without com• Strive to implement education programs for ages containing one or two products and dispromising quality, and product prices were not girls, women and caregivers. tribute them to small local stores so that conthe only decisive factor. Working hours account • Strive to offer the best value for consumers, sumers with limited resources will also have for 88% of incontinence care costs and using making hygiene solutions affordable to access to good quality hygiene products. SCA’s solution, Odense was able to reduce the ­everyone. number of working hours considerably and also Quality of life in elderly care reduce product costs. Total savings amounted Outcome 2013 The world’s changing demographics, with a rapto EUR 200,000, while the elderly and the per• SCA holds the number one or two position in idly ageing population, is overloading welfare sonnel reported improved quality of care and at least one hygiene product segment in systems for health, medical services and pensecurity, time for more qualitative activities and about 90 countries. sions. The UN predicts that the number of peoa better workplace environment. • Hygiene training programs were conducted in ple over 60 will increase by 200 million in ten all product segments on all continents. years and reach two billion by 2050. One conseClearer results for male incontinence • We offer a broad portfolio of products ranging quence is that incontinence and other ageOne of eight men aged 40 or more will experifrom the premium segment to the economy related health problems will increase. At the ence bladder weakness at some time in their life. segment. same time, the middle class is growing and disThe prostate continues to grow naturally during posable income is rising, providing growth a man’s life, as does the risk of major or minor potential for SCA. urinary leaks. Incontinence care for men is also SCA’s products and services generate social one of the fastest growing segments in incontibenefits by enabling people with chronic disnence care, albeit from a low level. Modern men India advancing eases and age-related problems to continue livare more interested in their hygiene and staying The Indian market is characterized by an enoring at home instead of moving to residential care in shape than previous generations. They also mous population, widespread poverty and low facilities or nursing homes. This improves quality have a more active lifestyle as they grow older. use of hygiene products. At the same time, India of life for many people, and may also generate During the year, SCA conducted a study of is a developing country, with an expanding midcost benefits for publicly funded care services. 600 men in Germany, the US and Italy to acquire dle class and considerable growth potential. a better understanding of male incontinence. SCA can contribute to society and build longHolistic approach The study showed that 70% of the participants term business in India. During the year, the Through TENA Solutions, SCA helps nursing with marked incontinence problems did not Libero (baby diapers) and Tempo (consumer tishomes provide the best care by offering proceknow there were special incontinence care sue) brands were launched in the country. dures, analysis tools and training combined with products for men. The same study indicated that innovative product solutions. The advantages as few as 3% use custom-designed incontiMother and infant care training include improved well-being for the care receivnence products. The majority solve the situation SCA has great respect for how business opporers, better workplace environments, less by running regularly to the bathroom, changing tunities can differ between emerging and more resource consumption and lower overall costs. their underwear or stuffing toilet paper or some mature markets, and adapts the company’s A study of 180 nursing homes around the world other kind of padding in their underpants. The strategies thereafter. In India, SCA has chosen that have implemented TENA Solutions shows results being that these men often avoided to launch the company’s products and services clear improvements in 95% of the cases. social gatherings. Interviews and focus groups by linking them to activities in society. When Through TENA Solutions, SCA can also supshow an unusually high appreciation of the Libero was launched, SCA produced a mother port the customers’ need for systems for quality tested products. This new knowledge will help and infant care training program that focused on assurance and development. In North America, SCA produce targeted and relevant incontinutrition, hygiene, skincare, breastfeeding and for example, the results of quality evaluations nence care offerings for men. postpartum depression. Although the number of 28 SCA Sustainability Report 2013 Hygiene solutions | Economic value children born at hospitals or care facilities has China is the world’s second largest tissue marDue to extensive training initiatives since 2009, risen sharply in recent years, infant and maternal ket. Growth in the Chinese market, with a rapidly SCA will have provided incontinence care trainmortality rates remain high. According to growing middle class, is considerably higher ing for 10,000 nurses in 1,200 hospitals in China UNICEF, better hygiene and breastfeeding could than in Europe and North America. During the by year-end. In 2013, 3,200 nursing aids and help to reduce the high infant mortality rate that year, SCA representatives accompanied the 1,000 nursing home managers also received continues to impact India. Swedish Minister for Health and Social Affairs training. In 2013, SCA launched a training initiative for and a healthcare delegation on a visit to China. doctors and midwives in some 25 hospitals and SCA presented research on the effects of inconTradition and modern technology meet 500 baby health clinics in Mumbai, Pune and tinence, compiled for the company by the “China Through Vinda, SCA now has access to an enorGoa, which reach a total of 1,000 doctors and Research Center on Aging”. According to the mous distribution network with more than midwives and, through them, 780,000 mothers study, 10% of Chinese households have individ300,000 points of sales. These range from single and children. The training courses are based on uals who are affected by incontinence problems stores in small country communities to modern SCA’s extensive experience of parenting inforthat have a negative impact on their daily lives retailing chains in cities. mation from other markets, but have been and social interaction. As a result, there is a At the same time, online retailing is growing adapted for India in collaboration with doctors growing need for qualified care and effective rapidly in China and the country is estimated to with local knowledge. SCA also reaches out to incontinence care products. account for half of Asia’s total Internet users. mothers directly through a specially written parDuring the year, online retailing accounted for enting book, a website and a smartphone app Home nursing alternative 10% of SCA’s sales in China, and the potential featuring information about diet and nutrition In China, a rapidly growing elderly population remains high. At the end of 2013, SCA launched during pregnancy, breastfeeding and hygiene. and lifestyle changes among younger generaa baby club on the company’s website under the SCA decided to invest SEK 150m in the local tions pose major challenges. During the year, Sealer brand – diapers in the economy segment. production of hygiene items in Western India. SCA took over a pilot project for home nursing The baby club provides a forum for sharing inforProduction is scheduled to commence in 2015. that was launched in 2012 as a joint venture promation about children’s growth and developject. SCA trains nurses and equips them to proment. The news was spread in social media, SCA advances position in China vide palliative care for elderly people at home. such as Weibo, and the club attracted more than Since 2007, SCA has been a partner in Vinda – SCA also operates a nursing home for the 8,000 members during the first six weeks. China’s third largest tissue manufacturing comelderly, which is planned to accommodate 150 pany – and a majority shareholder since the end care receivers. This type of care is rare in China of 2013. The acquisition of the majority in Vinda and SCA has both valuable experience to offer made China SCA’s most important emerging and lessons to learn. SCA is testing similar modmarket and Vinda’s products are a good comels in Singapore in partnership with hospitals. plement to SCA’s product portfolio. Sustainability efforts strengthen the customer relationship The French retail chain Système U is involved in sustainable development and wants to educate and create awareness among consumers regarding the matter. In 2013, new flat packages for toilet paper were launched. They save storage space and reduce the product’s carbon footprint through more efficient transport since 25% more packages fit on every pallet. Together with Système U, SCA has also developed a paper roll of FSC®-certified pulp, which makes the entire toilet paper or paper towel roll FSC certified, not only the paper. SCA Sustainability Report 2013 29 Value for nature Responsible resource management The responsible management of resources is a key part of SCA’s business strategy, environmental practices and relationships with external parties. Our stakeholders expect us to assume environmental responsibility across the value chain, from the preservation of biological diversity in the forests to the effective production and use of products. SCA is Europe’s largest private forest owner and inflict the smallest possible impact on the enviEfficiency enhancements and resource manage­ the majority of the Group’s products originate in ronment. This is why SCA takes a 360-degree ment not only mean reduced costs, they also the forest. SCA’s business and offering are thus approach, from fiber to finished product, with lower the environmental impact. Environmentally based on the responsible and efficient use of ambitious environmental targets and a life cycle sound products and services are a natural part of forest and other natural resources. perspective in parallel with attaching great SCA’s offering. We do everything we can to SCA’s customers and other stakeholders importance to ensuring that its products are safe reduce the environmental impact of our products. expect the company to develop products that for people and the environment. Read about our value creation for nature: Climate & energy page 32-35 Fiber sourcing & biodiversity page 36-38 Water page 40 30 SCA Sustainability Report 2013 “I began working at SCA as a forest machine cise care around biotopes, ancient remains and operator straight after I graduated from forestry watercourses. We also regularly inspect our college in Hussborg in 1973. machines to make sure that there are no oil or fuel Incredible technological advances have been leaks that could harm nature. made over the years that I have worked in the forI enjoy working at SCA. It is a large and reliaest industry. Nowadays, forest machines are easy ble company. Perhaps one of the downsides of to operate and have a much better working envithe job is sometimes that the pressure to deliver ronment. They are also much more productive. results increases from year to year. We are conModern-day forestry gives special considerastantly expected to develop our driving methods tion to nature. It is very important when my colso that we can harvest more and more trees in a Anders Eriksson, harvester operator, leagues and I use forest machinery that we exershorter space of time.” SCA, Sweden Value for nature | Climate and energy Continued investments in energy and climate SCA has an ambitious target for reducing its carbon emissions. This clear target, combined with continued investments, the deployment of new technology and a daily focus on efficiency enhancements, is generating significant improvements and progress. Improvements through new technology provides many different perspectives on the target By upgrading existing solutions and developing operation as well as improvement proposals. CO2 emissions new technology, SCA achieves significant A typical ESAVE project could involve SCA will reduce CO2 emissions effects in the form of lower energy use, CO2 ­reducing electricity consumption by improving from fossil fuels and from purchased electricity emissions and operating costs. New investor replacing pumps, compressors, fans or and heating by 20% by 2020, with 2005 as ments are approved as part of the annual strat­lighting. Experiences are documented and ­reference year. egy process on the basis of the potential impact ­function as effective support in improvement on the CO2 target. efforts. Outcome 2013 SCA’s energy and climate investments • At year-end 2013, CO2 emissions had include the lime kiln that will be commissioned in Settings provided energy savings declined by 11.8% compared with the 2014 at the kraftliner mill in Munksund, Sweden. By optimizing the settings of the paper machine ­reference year. The new kiln is fueled with biofuels, in contrast in Witzenhausen, Germany, it can be run more • SCA continued to make extensive investto the old kiln that was oil fired, which means precisely and efficiently. The adjustment has ments to achieve its climate targets. SCA is that the facility’s annual fossil CO2 emissions will enabled the process temperature to be lowered, installing a new biofuel-fired lime kiln at the decrease by 20,000 tons or 75%. Furthermore, which has yielded energy savings and reduced kraftliner mill in Munksund, which will reduce costs will be reduced by SEK 50m per year. emissions. In 2013, energy usage declined by the carbon footprint by 75% and costs by 4.6% compared with the preceding year. SEK 50m annually. France switches to gas Purchases and installation of measurement • The company’s ESAVE energy-efficiency The tissue mill in Gien, France, conducted a equipment to optimize the humidity in the ther­program resulted in a 1.7% (1.7) reduction in number of activities and investments to reduce mal drying systems are an example of how new energy used per ton. emissions to air during the year. All use of coal technology is spread in the Group, providing was replaced with natural gas, thus consideraeconomies of scale. At the end of 2013, 80% of bly reducing CO2 emissions – the equivalent of SCA’s tissue plants had fitted the technology, more than 15,000 tons (17%). The change of fuel while installation will take place in the remainder enhances the efficiency of the operations while of the mills in 2014. eliminating thousands of tons of ash waste from the burning of coal. In addition to this major Nighttime patrols around the sawmill New transport initiatives change, a new ESAVE (Energy Savings and EffiInnovative thinking is one way to achieve For some time now, SCA has been monitoring ciency) plan was launched (read more about improvements. To reduce energy use at SCA’s the environmental impact from its transport ESAVE below) featuring a range of identified effisawmills, employees simply walked around the activities and is working on a broad front to ciency-enhancement activities. facilities looking for compression leaks, humreduce emissions. These efforts include ming noises or lights that were left on unnecesincreasing the fill ratio, applying various techEnhanced efficiency with ESAVE sarily. In the autumn, the sawmill tours were niques to reduce fuel consumption and Since 2003, SCA’s ESAVE program has contribexpanded to include nighttime patrols. The strengthening purchasing procedures. The uted to energy savings and improved efficiency presence of light and sound indicates that Group’s total transport emissions were 0.86 milin all operative business units. something is continuing to use energy despite lion tons (0.82) in 2013. In 2010, SCA adopted a new target for operations being at a standstill. ESAVE: to reduce energy consumption per ton of product produced by 14% by 2020. In 2013, 147 ESAVE projects were implemented, resulting in a 1.7% (1.7), or 279,000 MWh, reduction in Electricity consumption 2013 Fuel consumption 2013 energy used per ton of product produced. The accumulated energy savings in the 2010–2013 From national grids, 84% Natural gas, 47% period amounts to 3.1%. Own production, 16% Biofuel, 49% Oil, 3% Technology and involvement Coal, 0.5% ESAVE encompasses investments in high-perElectric boiler, 0.5% formance technology solutions and involves employees in daily improvement activities. For example, the forest products business introElectricity consumption 2013: 8,280 GWh Fuel consumption 2013: 61,247 TJ fuel duced quarterly theme days that allow personThe majority of SCA’s electricity, 84%, comes from A total of 47% of SCA’s fuel consumption comes from natnational grids, while 16% derives from electricity proural gas and 49% from biofuel. Oil and coal account for a nel to discuss specific process steps, which duced in the Group’s co-generation plants. mere 3% and 0.5%, respectively. 32 SCA Sustainability Report 2013 Climate and energy | Value for nature Shipping dominates from Rotterdam, carrying goods from external Together with the Forestry Research Institute of Shipping accounts for 72% of SCA’s total transcustomers. For SCA, the higher degree of utiliSweden, SCA is participating in the “One More port activities. For some of its shipping needs, zation entails an 8% decrease in specific emisStack” project. Tests have shown that it is pos­ the Group uses its own vessels; it is the owner of sions measured in grams of carbon dioxide per sible to cut emissions by about 20% by attachthree roll-on roll-off (RoRo) vessels with a total ton-kilometer. ing an extra trailer to the timber rigs. In Sweden, freight capacity of about one million tons. SCA supplements transports under its own SCA is also testing another type of truck that is During 2013, SCA implemented a number of direction with external procurement. In 2013, the conventional length but has been reinforced measures that helped to reduce the fuel conSCA implemented its first Group-wide overseas to carry a total weight of 74 tons rather than the sumption of the three RoRo vessels by 3.4% freight tender which resulted in considerable standard 60 tons. At present, the vehicle runs compared with 2012. Measures included the savings and coordination among units. SCA on RME, a biomass-based fuel with 65% lower installation of new autopilots that optimize the ships significant volumes, particularly from ­carbon emissions. vessels’ movement in the water and result in Europe, but also from the Pacific region and smoother operation, as well as new measureNorth, Central and South America. The volumes Rail transport ment tools to monitor fuel efficiency. Furthertotal 75,000 TEUs* on an annual basis, correRail currently accounts for 5% of SCA’s total more, by simply cleaning the vessel hulls a few sponding to a value of SEK 700m. freight – this small share is partially due to extra times, marine growth and friction were restrictions in the rail network. Because rail reduced. Overall, the year’s actions yielded both Progress for road haulage transport is a carbon-efficient alternative, SCA economic savings and reduced carbon emis23% of SCA’s freight moves by road. During the is working with the Swedish National Road and sions corresponding to 2,800 tons. year, the Group initiated a far-reaching project Transport Research Institute (VTI) on the possiSCA also uses container vessels to transport aimed at coordinating the procurement of road bility of running longer and heavier freight trains paper and timber to Rotterdam from Sundsvall haulage in Europe – in total, this involves freight for forest industry goods. and Umeå, for onward distribution from Rotterservices valued at about EUR 200m. The choice * Twenty foot equivalent unit, a unit of cargo capacity. dam with ocean-going vessels. To increase the of suppliers is controlled by quality, price, degree of utilization, the vessels call at Stockcapacity, sustainability criteria and SCA’s Code holm and St. Petersburg on their return voyage of Conduct. Climate economics requires a long-term approach and stability The EU Emission Trading Scheme (EU ETS) is the world’s first internaenergy-saving activities, process optimization, choice of fuel and tional trading system for carbon emissions. Since 2005, the ETS has major investments, such as new lime kilns in Munksund and Östrand in been at the core of the EU’s climate policy and the third phase comSweden. menced in 2013. This involves the most stringent requirements to date In 2014, the EU will review the industries that will receive a free alloaimed at lowering carbon emissions for plants and factories throughcation from 2015, known as the carbon leakage list. The decision is out the EU. Companies that are unable to meet the limit values must based on the risk of an industry moving its production from Europe or compensate by purchasing emission rights. the risk of a substantial rise in imports due to the increased costs entailed by the ETS. The market price for emission rights was about Stricter requirements EUR 5 per ton in 2013. SCA sold 410,000 emission rights in 2013. SCA has 37 mills and plants included under the ETS. Thus far, SCA has an annual surplus of emission rights. However, the new phase means The importance of stability that quotas are more limited than before. SCA’s operations in the NorInitiatives involving energy-efficient technology and new ways of dic region will continue to produce a surplus, while its operations in the working are continuing with the aim of reducing SCA’s carbon emisrest of Europe will have a certain deficit. The balance provides an sions. After 2020, however, there is less certainty since no clear conannual surplus of about 200,000 tons of carbon dioxide equivalents, tinuation plan is in place to follow on from phase three. If the system is which is lower than in the past. The surplus is the result of the measto support the desired effect, the industry will require long-term stabilures implemented by SCA over an extended period in the form of ity and the possibility to plan the right investments in a timely manner. SCA Sustainability Report 2013 33 Value for nature | Wind power and biofuels The forest as a platform for renewable energy SCA works on a broad front to increase access to renewable energy. The forest plays a central role, both as a location for new wind farms and in the production of biofuel. With a focus on resource efficiency, we produce energy by utilizing the raw materials and wood residuals. Wind power strategy during the year (see below). Also during the year, target Wind power represents a significant part of all 37 turbines in another wind farm, MörttjärnWind power SCA’s renewable energy program. The wind berget, were constructed, and a number have The production of wind power power strategy is based on three main pillars. already been operated on a trial basis. The plan on SCA forest land will increase to • Joint venture with energy producers: SCA is to construct a further 120 turbines over the 5 TWh by 2020. can be a co-owner in a wind power project, coming two years. Overall, the joint venture is which is the case in the collaboration with the planning six wind farms, with an annual capacity Biofuels Norwegian companies Statkraft and Fred. of approximately 3.0 TWh of renewable electricity. We will triple our production of biofuels from our Olsen Renewables. In cooperation with Fred.Olsen Renewables, forests by 2020, with 2010 as reference year. • SCA independently pursues wind power proSCA has submitted a permit application to conjects: In certain cases, SCA is the initiator of struct a total of 180 wind turbines. The investoutcome 2013 wind power projects that may be divested, ment decision is expected to be taken not later Wind power form part of a future collaboration or operthan 2015. 0.75 TWh (0.4) of wind energy from SCA forest ated independently by SCA. land was delivered to the grid. The first wind • SCA leases land to energy producers: This From independent action to collaboration farm in the collaboration between SCA and could involve leasing sites for smaller wind SCA’s collaboration with E.ON had its starting ­Statkraft was inaugurated. farms, or a case in which a larger wind farm point in applications initiated by SCA. E.ON took Biofuels uses a small part of SCA’s land, but it could over the applications when the collaboration SCA’s production of forest-based biofuels also involve even larger projects. commenced in 2012 and added to them during amounted to 909 GWh (870 GWh in 2010). That the year. The applications now comprise the is enough power to heat 30,000 single-family Joint venture yields results construction of a total of 300 wind turbines. homes. Statkraft SCA Vind AB, formed in 2007, inauguPending a decision, E.ON and SCA are performrated its first wind farm in Stamåsen, Sweden ing wind measurements in the area. First wind farm inaugurated The first wind farm was inaugurated in September of last year as part Did you know that… of SCA’s and Statskraft’s major wind power venture in the counties of • SSVAB is 60% owned by Statkraft and 40% owned by SCA. Västernorrland and Jämtland, Sweden. Named Stamåsen, the farm’s • The joint venture project between SCA and Statkraft includes an 26 turbines will generate 200 GWh of electricity, corresponding to the investment decision for a total of 186 wind turbines that will generhousehold electricity requirements of 39,000 houses. When it is fully ate 1.6 TWh annually. However, when fully built out, the project will built out, the wind farm’s output will be 350 GWh. encompass 350 wind turbines generating 3 TWh. “It is one of the largest industrial projects in Sweden,” says Jakob • Statkraft will fund the project while SCA will provide the land. Norström, CEO of Statkraft SCA Vind AB (SSVAB). • The wind turbine towers are 115 meters in height and the rotor The Mörttjärnberget wind farm was also commissioned in early blades are 55 meters in length. 2014, and construction work is ongoing at another two farms. The • There is an artificial nest next to Stamåsen for the golden eagle. wind power program has both a local and a global dimension. To date, When a predator inventory was carried out in 2008, four golden it has created 300 construction jobs and SSVAB’s projects are eagle nests were found, and the purpose of the artificial nest is to expected to generate 2,000 full-time jobs. In addition, it benefits local lure the eagles further away from the farm and improve the bird of businesses, such as supermarkets, camping facilities and conference prey’s reproduction possibilities. centers. • Electricity customers in the counties of Västernorrland and There is a greater perspective involved than just the local. Sweden ­Jämtland were given the opportunity to purchase shares in the has ambitious climate goals, one of which is to achieve a share of 50% Stamåsen wind farm, thereby giving them access to locally renewable energy by 2020. The expansion of wind power is required to ­produced electricity. achieve this target. Ultimately, it is about assuming a global responsibility for replacing fossil fuels with renewable energy. Mathias Kjellsson, operations and maintenance engineer at the Stamåsen wind farm, has a magnificent view from his place of work some 100 meters above ground. 34 SCA Sustainability Report 2013 Wind power and biofuels | Value for nature Leasing land for wind power the tissue mill in Ortmann, Austria, where an narrow margins due to overcapacity. As a result SCA has leased land to various energy producers investment of EUR 9.9m has enabled the producof this situation, SCA is focusing on improving for more than 1,000 planned wind turbines. Just tion of biogas based on wastewater. Thanks to an quality and increasing the internal use of pellets over 100 are already in operation. Although the innovative technology, nearly 100 cubic meters of as a replacement for oil. majority of these are small wind farms, they conbiogas is produced per hour. Biogas is used in In 2013, Sundsvall Energi’s district heating tribute to SCA’s target for wind power production. production to generate electricity and steam. system was connected to SCA’s paper mill in By upgrading the equipment at the linerOrtviken and the pulp mill in Östrand, Sweden. Renewable energy from biofuel board mill in Munksund, Sweden, it has been The collaboration will reduce oil consumption In 2013, SCA produced 3.0 TWh (2.9) of biofuelpossible to reduce the volume of soap burned in in Sundsvall by 25,000 cubic meters per year. based energy, of which the production of forestthe soda recovery boiler. As a result, the soap The energy will instead be sourced from based biofuels amounted to 909 GWh (890). Due can instead be used to produce tall oil. Tall oil is Östrand’s waste heat and the burning of pellets to unfavorable market conditions, the produca renewable feedstock fuel with the potential to at Ortviken. The system was commissioned in tion increase is modest. However, SCA foresees generate revenues since it can be used to pro­November 2013. an increased demand in the longer term. duce bio-based vehicle fuel. The forest-based biofuels comprise felling residue such as branches, crowns and stumps High-quality fuel pellets as well as fuel from peatland. Other biofuels are SCA produces fuel pellets from sawdust from produced from the by-products of the mills, its mills at the pellet plants in Härnösand and mainly sawdust, for pellet production. ­Stugun in Sweden. The bulk of the pellets (60%) are sold to customers outside the Group. Fuel Innovation and streamlining generate energy pellets are used in boilers of varying sizes, Thanks to innovative solutions, SCA can convert r­anging from industrial scale to those used in the by-products into valuable energy. One example is home. The market is currently characterized by SCA Sustainability Report 2013 35 Value for nature | Fiber sourcing Greater traceability in the value chain SCA promotes sustainable forest management and applies Group-wide procedures and resources to improve traceability and ensure that wood raw materials come from non-controversial sources. Procedures for control and verification remain central to ensuring responsible fiber sourcing. Target’s significance Supplier verification and development target SCA’s basic target since 2005 has been to SCA demands that its suppliers comply with Fiber sourcing ensure that none of the wood fiber in the Group’s high environmental and social standards (see We will achieve and maintain products is sourced from controversial sources. page 48). Pulp suppliers must be able to guaranour target of zero fresh fiber-based material, Controversial sources are defined as: tee robust systems and documented proceincluding pulp, from controversial sources. • Illegally logged timber. dures to ensure traceability and compliance • Timber from High Conservation Value throughout the supply chain. In recent years, Outcome 2013 ­Forests (HCVF). SCA has intensified the work of evaluating and • All deliveries of pulp to SCA’s facilities met the • Timber from areas where human rights or the increasing the quality of its pulp suppliers, which Group target. rights of indigenous people are violated. resulted in the number being cut considerably to • All of SCA’s wood-consuming units are 23. Of these 23 suppliers, the ten largest reviewed by independent auditors and meet SCA currently has 100% control over the origin account for 87% of purchases. The figure the requirements of the Group target. of its wood raw material, including pulp. Howincreases to 96% if purchases from SCA’s own • More than 60% of timber deliveries and 60% ever, this is not a static situation – it is an ongoplants are included. of pulp deliveries to the company have FSC ing challenge as SCA grows in new markets. All suppliers of paper pulp are Chain of Cusand/or PEFC certification. The remaining timtody (CoC) certified according to FSC and/or ber volumes meet the FSC’s controlled wood Chain of Custody is key PEFC. SCA’s purchasing policy for wood raw standards, while the remaining pulp deliveries SCA’s global product ranges and expansion of materials includes a step-by-step process to meet the FSC’s standards for controlled pulp the hygiene business are supported by a Groupsupport suppliers in their transition to thirdor are inspected by SCA’s own auditors. wide strategy for purchasing fiber. Depending party certification. SCA is positive to the growon what functionality the customers demand, ing trend towards forest management certificathe Group can offer tissue manufactured of tion under the two international standards, FSC 100% recovered fiber, 100% fresh fiber or a mix and PEFC, particularly since this encourages of the fiber types. They all meet high environcontinued dialog with suppliers. mental standards and the customers can feel SCA continues to visit suppliers and conduct the European tissue mills acquired from secure knowing they made a sustainable choice. audits to verify compliance with the policy and ­Georgia-Pacific in 2012. In total, eight mills were During 2013, SCA developed and launched a supplier requirements. Nine supplier mills were CoC certified under FSC. The company is also shared business system – the Global Fiber Dataaudited with positive results in 2013. working to achieve FSC CoC certification for the base – for the assessment and purchase of fiber North American operations in preparation for the in compliance with SCA’s forest management Forest certifications and standards market launch of additional FSC label products. policies. SCA’s own forests have been certified according In 2013, the paper mills in Menasha and Neenah The database is an internal system containing to the FSC standard since 1999, and the PEFC and the North American sales offices were all all the Group’s pulp, recovered fiber and alternastandard since 2011. The Group undergoes CoC certified. tive fiber suppliers. It provides the purchasing audits to verify compliance with both standards. function, environmental department, developAll of SCA’s wood-based industries are supRecovered fiber in tissue ment department and the production facilities plied with FSC-certified timber or timber that SCA uses recovered fiber in the company’s with fast and easy access to important informameets the FSC’s controlled wood standard, in ­tissue operations. Overall, the mix is 50% fresh tion about suppliers, pulp specifications, life other words, no timber used in SCA’s operations fiber and 50% recovered fiber, but the proporcycle assessment data and bleaching methods. comes from controversial sources. tion varies between regions due to ­differences in The information also includes the suppliers’ SCA’s target is to purchase all fiber from susconsumer preferences and fiber supply and product certification status: FSC® (Forest Stewtainably managed forests with third-party certifidemand. The North American oper­ations use ardship Council), PEFC™ (Programme for the cation. We prioritize the FSC certification sysalmost 100% recovered fiber, while the proporEndorsement of Forest Certification), Controlled tem, and encourage all suppliers to work toward tion of recovered fiber is 82% in Latin America Wood, ecolabels, ISO 9000, etc. This means certification. Accordingly, we recognize several and 44% in Europe. that the Global Fiber Sourcing unit can ensure systems for forestry management, including The declining use of publishing paper in traceability, the development department can PEFC, SFI (the Sustainable Forestry Initiative) North America and Europe has led to limited check the availability of a certain raw material and CSA (the Canadian Standards Association). supplies of recovered fiber. SCA partners with and the mills can show customers exactly what Other certification systems may be considered trade organizations and recycled paper operahas been purchased. The database covers on a case-by-case basis. tors to increase and improve the collection of Europe, Americas and Asia. During the year, SCA initiated the process to recycled paper and board, and thereby the availachieve both FSC and PEFC CoC certification in ability of recovered fiber. In Sweden, SCA is 36 SCA Sustainability Report 2013 Fiber sourcing | Value for nature The forest’s potential as a carbon sink SCA is a member of the World Business Council for Sustainable Devellem in tropical regions. One cause of deforestation is poverty and the opment (WBCSD), which at the end of 2013 presented its Action 2020 creation of agricultural areas. plan. The plan aims to develop solutions so that the world’s population Sustainable forest management practices involving replanting can live well within the planet’s resources and limits. would instead increase absorption and bind carbon dioxide in growing SCA has participated in preparing solutions, “Big ideas”, and empha­ forest. Growing trees need 1.3 tons of carbon dioxide to produce one sized the forest’s ability to absorb carbon dioxide and how the use of cubic meter of wood. SCA’s forests have an annual net growth of 1%, products from sustainable forestry has a positive impact on the environ­ which means that they absorb 2.6 million tons of carbon dioxide per ment. The solution is one of those chosen to be included in Action 2020. year, which exceeds the total emissions of carbon dioxide from all of SCA’s production facilities* by a wide margin. Opportunities presented by sustainable forest management Moreover, wood products naturally bind carbon. A major climate and wood fiber-based products gain is achieved when forest-based products replace material with a The idea is based on the application and distribution of forestry negative climate impact. according to a Swedish model based on regeneration. The Swedish If forest management practices according to the Swedish model model has resulted in an almost twofold increase in the forest standing were introduced in half of the world’s forests at the same time as volume compared with 90 years ago, despite the fact that the yield deforestation was halted and damage to forests halved, all of the from the forest during the same period has doubled. world’s carbon emissions would be absorbed by growing forest, the According to the UN climate panel, deforestation worldwide gives oceans and general vegetation. rise to 15–20% of global emissions. Deforestation is primarily a prob* SCA’s use of fossil fuel. part-owner of Pressretur, a company that overSCA initiated a project to codify return fiber sees paper recycling across the country. qualities and register the information. This is a The quality of recycled paper can decline if first step toward also improving quality and recycled materials are not separated. In 2013, traceability for recovered fiber. SCA Sustainability Report 2013 37 Value for nature | Biodiversity Conscientious forest management generates growth SCA is Europe’s largest private forest owner and takes a long-term approach to the management of its forests, both in terms of timber production and by showing consideration for the forest’s other assets. Through responsible forest management, we preserve the forest’s environmental values – biodiversity and the forest as an environment to experience and enjoy – in parallel with generating valuable renewable raw materials. Biological diversity highly prioritized substantial conservation value and where the target The preservation of biodiversity is the most forest is managed to further enhance these valBiodiversity important environmental target in the manageues. In addition, the aim is to make these values We will preserve the biodiversity ment of SCA’s forests. The forest is a source of attractive and available for people in the region. of our forests. A minimum of 5% of our producvaluable and renewable raw materials, but it also The diversity park in Peltovaara comprises more tive forest land will be set aside from forestry in provides a living environment for a multitude of than 3,000 hectares and is the first in a series of our ecological landscape plans and a further 5% flora and fauna. The forest absorbs carbon dioxdiversity parks to be set up in SCA’s forest holdwill be set aside as part of our consideration for ide, regulates water flows and generates value ings. At the end of 2013, SCA was granted a pernature in our managed forests. for society in the form of such pursuits as huntmit to establish a 1,500 hectare diversity park on ing, fishing and recreation. The importance of the coast at Njurunda, Sweden. Outcome 2013 biodiversity for society and humanity extends • 7% of SCA’s productive forest land has been beyond the boundaries of what we can see and Land exchange with the Swedish Environmental set aside in the long term from forestry in ecotouch. Protection Agency logical landscape plans. Around 2 million of SCA’s 2.6 million hectares During the year, SCA exchanged a substantial • In 2013, 15% of the area in planned harvesting of forest land are managed for timber producarea of forest land with the Swedish Environsites was set aside for preservation. tion. The remaining 600,000 hectares of less mental Protection Agency. SCA transferred productive forest, bogs and other land is still val23,000 hectares of forest with substantial conuable as a living environment for flora and fauna. servation value to the Swedish Environmental We have conscientiously taken inventory of Protection Agency for use as a nature reserve. In our forests to secure biodiversity. Areas that exchange, SCA received 32,000 hectares of forprovide vital habitats for sensitive fauna and est of a lesser conservation value, which will be flora are exempted from forest management or managed under the same policies as the remainare managed with the aim of enhancing the der of the Group’s forests. This exchange existing environmental values. Approximately advanced Sweden’s position toward the Swed200 species in SCA’s forests – over 100 species ish Parliament’s environmental target of protectof insects, nearly 50 types of fungi and about 50 ing living forests in reserves. different kinds of mosses and lichens – are disadvantaged by forest management and require Responsible forestry and wood raw material Growing forests special consideration. In 2013, 53% of wood raw materials used by SCA’s forests are managed with a long-term SCA has set aside nearly 7% of its managed SCA was sourced from the Group’s forests, and approach. Since 1947, the volume of living trees forests to benefit biodiversity. This planning is of the remainder, 35% came from Sweden, 10% in SCA’s forests has increased by 40%, while its included in ecological landscape plans that from Central Europe and 2% from the Baltic growth rate has more than doubled. The standing cover all of SCA’s managed forests. States. volume will continue to grow in future ­decades. SCA also takes extensive conservation SCA’s forests are managed in line with the In the latter part of 2013, a couple of unusumeasures in managing forest areas that do not Forest Stewardship Council’s (FSC®) ambitious ally strong storms passed over northern Swecontain any particular conservation value. Durstandard for responsible forest management. den, causing extensive forest damage. This will ing felling operations, individual trees, groups of The 2013 FSC audit was carried out with positive have a strong impact on SCA’s forest operations trees and buffer zones are set aside to ensure results and with no major infringements. A few in 2014. The storm-felled timber must be that the conservation values inherent in the older views were expressed with regard to the health removed as soon as possible to avoid insect forests are preserved and they become an inteand safety efforts of various contractors and the damage at the same time that SCA needs to prograted part of the new growing forest. In 2013, procedures for procurement of contractors’ servide the industry with the right raw materials. 15% of the just over 18,000 hectares planned for vices. In 2013, SCA’s forest-tree nursery produced harvesting were saved. SCA’s forests are also certified in line with the 101 million seedlings, of which 40% were Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certiplanted in SCA’s own forest land. The rest of the SCA’s first diversity park fication (PEFC™) and the Group conducts conseedlings were sold to other forest owners. In 2013, SCA’s first diversity park in Peltovaara in trols based on both of these standards. SCA’s northernmost Sweden was inaugurated. A diverforest management has been ISO 14001 certisity park is a larger area of forest that contains fied since 1998. 38 SCA Sustainability Report 2013 “My job is to provide support for sales of TENA I often receive positive feedback from Chinese incontinence care products to care institutions in caregivers and that makes every day at work feel Shanghai. I always feel motivated to go to work meaningful.” since what we do really does make the work of caregivers easier, improves the well-being of care recipients, reduces total costs and helps Sophie Sun, Assistant Sales Manager, create a better environment in nursing homes. Incontinence Care, SCA China Value for nature | Water usage Water usage target achieved Access to clean water is critical for everybody – people, industries, agriculture and the eco­ system. We aim to optimize our water use and guarantee the highest possible water quality. We achieved our target of reduced water use in water-stressed regions. Mindful approach to water usage Ambitious targets in Mexico target The issue of water is being dealt with systematiFor the past number of years, the tissue mill in Water cally – SCA monitors the volume and origin of Sahagún, Mexico, has implemented a program We aim to achieve water the water it uses as well as the quality of its effluaimed at reducing water consumption. In just sustainability and we will reduce our water ent water. About 60% of the Group’s water was two years, the facility has reduced the volume of usage in water-stressed regions by 10% by used to transport fibers during production prowater used in tissue production from 25 to 16 2015, with 2010 as the reference year. cesses and the remainder was mainly used as cubic meters per ton. This saving was achieved cooling water. Approximately 90% of the water by optimizing processes and increasing the All SCA pulp and paper mills will employ used is drawn from surface sources. recycling of process water by utilizing new techmechanical and biological water treatment SCA’s reporting encompasses all production nology. Sahagún’s objective is to reduce the volplants by 2015. sites and, in 2013, the Group used 210 million ume of water used to produce one ton of tissue cubic meters of water (210) in pulp and paper to ten cubic meters by 2016. Outcome 2013 production. • By year-end 2013, water usage in waterEnhancing effluent treatment stressed regions declined by 10.4% comFocused activities in water-stressed regions SCA works continuously to enhance its effluent pared with the reference year of 2010. In some water-stressed regions, the availability treatment and thus the quality of the effluent • Of the Group’s 44 pulp and paper mills, of water is so limited that the use of groundwater water discharged from its plants. Mechanical mechanical and biological effluent treatment is increasing. When access to drinking-quality treatment removes suspended solids, sand and systems have been installed at 42 plants. water is jeopardized, it can cause major probparticles, while biological treatment extracts lems for entire communities, and SCA can bring dissolved solids and organic impurities that thereby, lower the water’s BOD. Compared with about major environmental improvements by affect biological oxygen demand (BOD) and the previous method, which used a propeller to reducing water usage in such regions. One of the chemical oxygen demand (COD). mechanically create bubbles, the process is 34% Group’s water targets is therefore focused on SCA’s second water target focuses on more energy efficient. A corresponding technolreducing water usage in water-stressed regions. employing mechanical and biological water ogy shift at the tissue plant in Flagstaff in the US Most SCA mills, accounting for 96% of water treatment in all plants by 2015. The paper mills in has also yielded more efficient and consistent usage, are located in areas of water abundance. Medellin, Colombia, and Kunheim, France, are results for the biological effluent treatment. Using a method developed by the World currently the only two – of a total of 44 – that do Resources Institute, ten SCA units whose operanot have a biological effluent treatment system Efficiency improvements in Europe and the US tions are affected by the target were identified. installed (both deploy mechanical treatment). SCA’s facility in Gien, France, installed a biological These are located in Italy, Spain, Mexico, The operations currently comply with all envisystem for effluent treatment during the year. The Colombia, Australia and the southwestern US. ronmental regulations, and SCA is awaiting the new facility is yielding COD values that are half of Since 2010, the specific water consumption in introduction of new environmental legislation to the highest limit value specified under the EU’s these ten units has fallen by 10.4%. This means determine the most efficient biological effluent forthcoming regulations for the best available that SCA already achieved the goal this year. treatment method to be deployed at these mills. technology (BAT), and correspond to one-fourth The facility in Allo, Spain, accounted for the of the permitted BOD levels. This enables SCA to largest decrease in water use, but the facility in Greater biological capacity reuse this water in production, thus replacing Sahagún, Mexico, also reported significant During the year, the treatment system in Lasso, freshwater. The favorable outcome of these activireductions. In Allo, a water tank was installed at Ecuador, was expanded. The existing facility ties signifies that SCA is well positioned to comply the end of 2012 that made it possible to store was not equipped to efficiently deal with the with more rigorous regulation in the area. process water upon surpluses in the system. organic impurities in the effluent. The new techThe tissue mill in Menasha, in the US, sucPreviously, all surplus water went straight to nology installed in the plant treats the reject cessfully substituted 1,635 cubic meters of water treatment. Other steps included optimizwater in a moving bed biofilm reactor, forming a freshwater with high-quality treated water. This ing the paper machine’s water system to reduce biosludge that can be separated from the water. was possible thanks to a new technology that excess water, recycling cooling water and Initial tests indicate results below threshold valwill be used to also reduce fresh water conreplacing vacuum pumps with a turboblower ues, and once the system has been calibrated, sumption at other SCA plants in the US. system that does not require cooling water. these values are expected to drop further to well Improvements made to effluent treatment, There is, however, good reason to also below the permit requirements. primarily at SCA’s Swedish mills (Munksund, reduce water consumption in facilities located in The facility in Uruapan, Mexico, began using Ortviken, Obbola, Östrand), and reductions of regions of water abundance. Reducing the vola new effluent treatment method, known as fine suspended particles at the Swedish and Colomume of water to be pumped around saves bubble aeration. Using this method, very small air bian paper mills (Cajica, Medellin) resulted in a energy and thus lowers costs and the environbubbles rise from the floor of the aeration tank, significant lowering of COD/BOD emissions mental impact. thus oxygenating the water and feeding the liv(23% and 39%, respectively) and suspended ing organisms that consume organic matter and, particles (30%). 40 SCA Sustainability Report 2013 Waste | Value for nature Innovations turn waste into resources Minimize, reuse and convert are the catchwords for managing SCA’s waste and by-products from production. The Group initiates partnerships and evaluates smart solutions to minimize waste throughout the entire chain – from raw material to end-consumer. Minimization as starting point Hazardous waste SCA is also working to totally eliminate conGreater resource efficiency minimizes waste and Waste that is potentially hazardous to human sumer waste by producing biodegradable paper by-products, and thus the environmental impact health or the environment is handled according products. Tork has multiple products in the US of products. Efforts to minimize pre-consumer to stringent procedures. Following the closure of market that are certified as compostable, such waste are also driven by rising landfill costs. the sawmills in Holmsund and Vilhelmina in Sweas Tork Advance and Tork Universal. SCA uses life cycle assessments (LCAs) to miniden during the year, a soil contamination survey mize waste, all the way from the product design was conducted to assess whether any remediaEcobalance initiative stage to manufacturing and end-use. tion efforts were required. Land remediation was SCA works to raise end-user and consumer In SCA’s production processes, waste is procarried out in Vilhelmina at a cost of some awareness of recycling. Through partnerships duced in the form of ash, sludge, organic waste SEK 2m. Land surveys to identify the need for with other players, the Group’s initiatives and plastic. A significant part of the production any remedial action in Holmsund are ongoing. become more effective. Through membership in waste (1.4 million tons or 75%) is recycled as raw the Consumer Goods Forum (CGF), SCA is material for other industries, such as the conReduced consumer waste involved in supporting new and efficient waste struction industry, or as energy. For example, Part of SCA’s innovation process is to examine management systems mainly in countries where the facility in Sovetsk, Russia, reduced the how to reduce the environmental impact of landfills are common. amount of waste to landfills by 96% by selling products throughout the product cycle. This The “Power of Three” initiative in the northsludge to the construction industry. includes what happens to the products after use. eastern US where SCA cooperates with Casella Between 2005 and 2013, the amount of Waste Systems and Foley Distribution continued waste sent to landfills declined 75% for SCA’s Recycling in 2013. Casella Waste Systems has introduced European personal care operations, and 99% A growing population and shortages of a recycling system at universities in the region for the North American operations. resources mean that interest in the value of used where it collects recyclable materials and in products is growing. SCA’s tissue consists of return provides data so that the universities can From waste to functional form wood fibers that, beside being renewable, can calculate their environmental impact. The recyThe tissue facility in Ortmann, Austria, develalso be recycled and used to make new tissue. cled materials are delivered to SCA’s paper mill oped a process where they use residual fibers Recycling of materials from personal care prodin South Glens Falls, N.Y. and converted to from manufacturing to produce pallets, for ucts, such as baby diapers, is currently limited 100% recovered fiber-based tissue. Foley, a disinstance. This innovation is in an early stage and by available technology and hygiene requiretributing company, then delivers the new prodis a result of the partnership between Ortmann ments. ucts to the universities. and the Messerli Research Institute at the Energy recycling (combustion) of tissue genIn the Netherlands, SCA has initiated a col­Interuniversity Research Institute for Agrobioerates renewable energy. The combustion of laboration called Paper for Paper with De Graaf technology (IFA) in Tulln, Austria. personal care products, which consist of Security, a company that collects office paper. 25–80% renewable materials, is also positive. Instead of burning the paper, it is transported to New material streams SCA’s paper mill in Cuijk where the fiber is recyIn connection with the extension of the area Reduction cled into Tork tissue products. Used tissue is around the Tunadal sawmill in Sweden, by-prodSince the mid-1980s, SCA has actively worked also collected from the offices to be included in ucts, such as ash and sludge from Ortviken to make thinner products, which reduces waste. the same recycling process and thereby close paper mill and Östrand pulp mill, are being used One example is Libero open baby diapers, the ecocycle. as materials for land. From 2013, one diked-in where the material consumed has been reduced Similar cooperation called “Shred to Tissue” area will be filled every year with more than by 46% since 1987. has been initiated in the UK between SCA and 36,000 tons of ash and 33,000 tons of green liqDuring the year, TENA in Italy tested a vacthe recycling and waste company SITA. SITA uor sludge from Ortviken and Östrand to uum machine that compacts incontinence prodcollects office paper that is shredded before it become filler in land expansion. The diked-in ucts and the service is offered to customers continues to SCA’s paper mill in Prudhoe to area is built and being sealed to avoid any leakwhere the volume of the waste is a problem. The become new tissue products. age to surrounding water. The ash and sludge method also entails better hygiene in the hanSCA also has a partnership with Foodservice used in the land-building project is practically dling of used incontinence products and elimiPackaging Institute in the US to find a way to inert. In the diked-in area, this material hardens nation of odor problems. At the same time, the increase recycling and reduce the amount of quickly and becomes stable and largely unafwaste cost is reduced for customers that pay packaging waste that goes to landfills. fected by factors in its surroundings. per volume unit. SCA Sustainability Report 2013 41 Value for people Social benefits on a broad front SCA’s work with corporate social responsibility is based on a strong corporate culture permeated by the core values of respect, responsibility and excellence. By setting high standards on business ethics, labor law, working environment and human rights, we act as a credible and reliable partner for our customers, an attractive employer and a good member of society. Stakeholders expect SCA to take considerable SCA should be a safe workplace that offers perWe carefully choose suppliers and support them corporate social responsibility and it is of utmost sonal development. Safety is the highest priority in their work to develop their social and environimportance that we safeguard our relationships – no one should risk damaging their health at mental performance. We also strive to be a to customers, consumers, suppliers, employees work. SCA also puts a great degree of effort into responsible and appreciated member of society, and the communities in which we operate. SCA’s leveraging the potential of every individual. Motifor example, by participating in hundreds of Code of Conduct is the compass that helps us vated, skilled and high-performing employees social initiatives around the world. translate our values and good intentions into are a success factor for SCA. meaningful actions. Read about our value ­creation for people: Code of ­Conduct page 44-46 Employee Health & Safety page 50-52 Hygiene ­solutions page 56-57 42 SCA Sustainability Report 2013 “In April of 2011, I was heavier than I’d ever primary care physician. All of my levels had been. I had one young daughter and a new baby improved and I have since made slow and on the way. When I reviewed the results of my steady progress. Basketball has become a big SCA-sponsored health check, I came to a realipart of my life. If you can find something you zation – I had to change my lifestyle. I took action love, it’s much easier to keep it up. and made immediate changes. I started drinking I am very grateful for the SCA health check. plenty of water, cutting out evening snacks and It made me realize that I had problems that I playing basketball at the local YMCA. really needed to deal with, and it helped me do Dave Lemke, Territory Manager, SCA, USA Four months later, on the exact day my just that.” son was born, I received new results from my Value for people | Code of Conduct Code of Conduct turns values into action SCA’s Code of Conduct helps us turn values into direct action, and thus forms the basis for our commitments to environmental and social responsibility. Risk analyses, training, audits and other monitoring processes are implemented to ensure compliance with the Code of Conduct. Code of Conduct provides guidance The Code of Conduct comprises the following TARGET SCA’s reputation is based on trust – trust that elements: Code of Conduct the company earns by managing our operations • Business practices We will maintain compliance with and relationships in a responsible manner. • Health and safety our SCA Code of Conduct. All employees will SCA’s Code of Conduct was introduced in 2004, • Employee relations receive regular training in the Code. and helps transform the core values of respect, • Human rights responsibility and excellence into action. The • Nature Outcome 2013 Code is the company’s compass, regardless of • Community • SCAs Code of Conduct was updated. its operational focus, geographic distribution or • 91% (87) of employees have received any other changes that the company may face. SCA’s Code of Conduct is Group-wide and covCode of Conduct training. Turning the Code of Conduct into action ers all employees. The Code was updated dur• Code of Conduct audits were performed in requires clear commitment from top manageing the year. Chile, France, Mexico, Slovakia and Taiwan. ment and processes for ensuring compliance to Business practice reviews took place in the the Code in planning, governance and monitorEthics database is a central tool Czech Republic, Spain and South Korea. ing of the business. All employees must be given The database provided by Sedex (the Supply the knowledge and other prerequisites for acting Ethical Data Exchange) has been central to in line with SCA’s values and Code of Conduct. SCA’s internal risk management and Code of Conduct monitoring processes since 2011. SCA Proceeds from international standards and other Sedex members use the database to SCA’s Code of Conduct is based on internastore, share and report on information pertaining tional standards including the UN Declaration of to working conditions, health and safety, the Human Rights, the ILO Core Conventions, the environment and business ethics. By SCA and OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises other manufacturers sharing information with and the UN Global Compact Principles and each other, efforts related to workplace inspecrelated legislation. tions and audits are made more efficient, at the same time as transparency increases. Extensive development of the Code of Conduct Since the Code of Conduct was introduced in 2004, external expectascope and application of the Code. The Code of Conduct was adopted tions of SCA have changed, and laws and standards have been by SCA’s Board in October 2013. strengthened. During this time, the Group has also undergone major organizational and geographic changes. To ensure that SCA’s guideNew elements in the Code lines continue to meet external and internal requirements, the Code of The new Code of Conduct has been clarified with regard to business Conduct was updated in 2013. practices and human rights. A new section has been added, Nature, to underscore the company’s environmental responsibility. Stakeholders involved in the Code of Conduct SCA’s new Code of Conduct also contains references to the United Work was driven by a group comprising representatives from all busiNations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and the ness units and from Group-wide functions as well as external partChildren’s Rights and Business Principles, which were developed by ners. The working group conducted a study of international legislation the UN Global Compact, UNICEF and Save the Children. To gain a betand performed best-practice reviews of Codes of Conduct, which ter understanding of the Children’s Rights and Business Principles formed the basis for SCA’s new Code of Conduct. and to contribute to UNICEF programs, SCA participated in the organIn order to account for stakeholder requirements and expectations, ization’s workshops and a pilot study during the year. The aim of the SCA involved them in the process. Investors, NGOs (UNICEF and study was to review and evaluate UNICEF’s tools for implementation WWF) and union representatives were involved to bring new perspecof the Children’s Rights and Business Principles. tives. Stakeholder input contributed to greater clarity in relation to the 44 SCA Sustainability Report 2013 Code of Conduct | Value for people The Sedex system includes an extensive selfTraining strengthens implementation Findings in 2013 assessment questionnaire (SAQ) and a risk SCA’s efforts to verify compliance with the Code During the year, Code of Conduct audits were assessment tool. The tool has been developed of Conduct range far beyond the actual policy conducted in Chile, France, Mexico, Slovakia by Maplecroft and is based on a balance document. We implement the Code and verify and Taiwan. between risk data at country level and in the relcompliance through training, audits and busiMinor cases of non-compliance were evant industry, and on responses to the SAQ. ness practice reviews. reported at the facility in Chile, including a lack SCA’s facilities perform the self-evaluation in Various training courses help everyone at of emergency medical responders. Since the Sedex. The answers are then used in risk classiSCA acquire a better understanding of the Code audit was conducted, the facility has contracted fication of the units. In the 2013 Sedex assessof Conduct and what it means, and how it on-site doctors and nurses. A recently acquired ment, all of SCA’s main facilities received the low affects them as individuals. In 2012, SCA unit was audited in France. Although minor to medium risk classification and no facility was launched a training campaign in which all cases of non-compliance with health and safety classified as high risk. employees were to participate in either online or regulations were reported, the overall standard The Sedex system has enabled us to assess face-to-face training. In 2013, we placed great of the facility was high. In the Mexican facility, our own operations, and the results help deteremphasis on training of colleagues at our some deviations regarding workplace health mine a focus for the company’s audits and other recently acquired units. At year-end, some 91% and safety and equal treatment regulations were initiatives that aim to improve conditions at our (87) of employees had undergone training in identified. These were addressed by strengthenfacilities. SCA’s Code of Conduct. SCA also launched an ing training and information to employees in Many customers also request information anti-corruption policy and training course. Read regard to SCA’s core values and organizational about SCA’s supply chain via the Sedex system more on page 46. culture. The audit in Slovakia revealed that the and this enables them to compare SCA with SCA’s employees also undergo online trainnumber of overtime hours worked by certain other companies in the industry. ing in information security. employees were extensive but still within the In 2013, SCA’s recently acquired units began statutory limits. It was deemed that the facility using the Sedex database. Some 68 (54) of Audits strengthen control required stronger management of health and SCA’s facilities, and all main sites, now use the Audits are part of SCA’s process to monitor the safety, which will be addressed. In Taiwan, defiSedex system to report information. In addition, Code of Conduct and are carried out to verify ciencies were identified in relation to the procethree facilities in joint ventures in Tunisia and compliance with the Code. The results provide a dures for fire safety, noise exceeding the limits Algeria began recording their data in Sedex and basis for internal improvements, but they may and large amounts of overtime for certain this implementation will continue in 2014. also be requested by customers. employees. Some deficiencies were addressed The facilities to be audited are determined directly while action plans were prepared for the Focus on risk management by such factors as the social and environmental remainder. SCA conducts thorough inspections of its operarisks in the country of operation, whether the In many cases, only minor deviations are tions in order to manage and minimize risks facility is a recent acquisition or if there are any reported, and these can be addressed promptly before they develop into real problems. SCA’s indications of non-compliance with SCA’s without any major effort. However, there are also inventory of human rights and corruption risks is ­policies. issues that cannot be solved as easily, such as based on the assessments carried out by The content of the audits emanates from extensive overtime. In such instances, it is recAmnesty, Sedex and Transparency International. SCA’s Code of Conduct, while the approach and ommended that the facilities review their pracAround 10% (3) of SCA’s revenues are genermethods are based on the SA8000 standard. tices and incorporate the targets into their busiated in countries with a relatively high risk of The audits are conducted by cross-disciplinary ness plans. human rights violations. The increase compared teams from SCA, and include representatives with the previous year is mainly due to Mexico from the internal audit, HR and sourcing funcIncreased focus on business ethics and Russia being reclassified by Maplecroft and tions. The audits involve a review of documentaDuring the year, SCA took several important being included in this category. Around 20% (23) tion, inspection of the facility with a focus on steps toward increasing transparency in the come from countries with a relatively high risk of health and safety, and interviews with managcompany’s operations and in interaction with its corruption. ers, employees and union representatives. SCA business partners and other stakeholders, and SCA applies special processes for evaluating dedicates a great deal of time to interviewing to prevent all forms of unethical conduct. Highand managing social and environmental risks in employees, since these conversations are highly integrity business practices are both self-evident the company’s operations. These risks are also relevant to understanding how SCA’s policies and central issues for SCA, and will become included in SCA’s audits in connection with each are perceived and put in practice. increasingly significant as the Group grows and acquisition. Every audit results in a report and action plan external expectations become more stringent. SCA regularly revises business practices in for the audited unit, which are followed up. The various parts of the organization. These reviews results of the audits are reported to SCA’s Board also contribute to SCA’s risk control. Read more via the Audit Committee. about SCA’s review of business practices on page 46. SCA Sustainability Report 2013 45 Value for people | Code of Conduct New Anti-corruption Policy Supplementary business practice reviews that they are handled efficiently and professionSCA considers free and fair competition to be SCA’s reviews of the company’s business pracally. By managing complaints and solving probimperative to long-term success. To confirm this tices are conducted by the internal audit unit. lems at an early stage, it is also possible to prestandpoint and align SCA’s policies with current The reviews focus on business ethics and SCA’s vent them from escalating. legislation such as the UK Bribery Act, SCA relationships with customers, suppliers and SCA offers its employees a number of inforadopted a new anti-corruption policy during the authorities. During the year, reviews were conmal channels for reporting violations or year. Anti-corruption is included in SCA’s Code ducted in the Czech Republic, Spain and South breaches of the Code of Conduct, such as their of Conduct, and more attention has been Korea. Since the beginning in 2008, 13 reviews line manager, HR Director, legal counsel or union directed to the issue by establishing a separate have been performed in as many countries. In representatives. There are also formal reporting policy. SCA shall conduct all activities in accordthe past five years, 66% (69) of SCA’s operations channels, such as special e-mail addresses for ance with applicable laws and regulations, and in risk countries have been investigated. The the Code of Conduct and, in certain countries, all corrupt activity is strictly prohibited. The polcountries are selected using Transparency Interthird-party-operated hot lines that employees icy sets out SCA’s position in regard to: national’s corruption index in combination with can phone anonymously. • Gifts, entertainment and hospitality SCA’s sales in the country. In connection with updating the Code of • Public officials The reviews are based on document studies Conduct, SCA also conducted an online survey • Facilitation payments and interviews with up to 20 managers and the among employees and HR managers in various • Sponsorship people responsible for sales, purchasing and countries regarding awareness of, and confi• Charitable contributions and political any other functions considered to be exposed to dence in, SCA’s reporting channels. The survey donations corruption risk. SCA also uses the reviews to demonstrated that clearer information and discuss potential problem areas and how they guidelines are required regarding the reporting SCA shall regularly assess the company’s corshould be addressed. In 2014, we will review channels that exist. The procedures for monitorruption risks. This includes due diligence audits how we can develop the working methods. ing and providing feedback to the person who of customers, suppliers and other business made the report should also be strengthened. partners. Findings in 2013 Opinions from the survey have led to a number The audit in the Czech Republic indicated a of improvement measures for clarifying and simReview of corruption risks good understanding without deviations although plifying the process for reporting a potential In connection with development of the Anti-cormanagement believes that the country’s corrupbreach. These will be implemented in stages ruption Policy, SCA conducted an assessment tion levels exceed Transparency International’s during 2014 when the new Code of Conduct is of potential corruption risks. The assessment ranking. On one occasion, a consultant that launched. was performed jointly by SCA’s internal audit worked for the municipality offered to influence function and a third party. The examination covthe decision makers in a tender process for SCA Reported breaches in 2013 ered in-depth interviews with 30 senior execuin return for payment. This behavior was rejected In 2013, there were a total of 21 (14) confirmed tives. The purpose, in addition to providing an and reported. cases of Code of Conduct violations. Three of overview of potential corruption-related risks, Spain was deemed by Transparency Inter­ these involved corruption, of which one perwas to raise awareness of the risks. The next national to have a higher risk of corruption in tained to a sales representative who requested step will be to conduct a gap analysis and pre2013 compared with 2012, but several of SCA’s private sponsorship from a customer in return sent it to SCA’s Corporate Senior Management employees who were interviewed considered for products free of charge, while the other two Team. The review and its conclusions will prothe risk to actually have decreased as a result cases concerned sales representatives who vide a basis for similar and more in-depth analyof the financial crisis. breached procurement process rules. One case ses in other parts of SCA. In South Korea, SCA’s business practices involved discrimination whereby staff were subare observed, but many employees lack suffijected to sexual harassment by a manager. Two E-learning to establish policy cient knowledge of SCA’s Code of Conduct and cases of theft and fraud in the form of manipuSCA’s anti-corruption policy was combined with how the company applies rules regarding conlated expense receipts were also reported. The an extensive training initiative to establish the flicts of interest. Training was conducted at the remaining 15 cases related to such issues as the policy throughout the organization. During the end of 2013. prohibited use of e-mail addresses and other year, about 7,300 employees took part in an types of unacceptable behavior in the worke-learning course in anti-corruption. In this first Trustworthy reporting channels place. SCA took action in conjunction with all step, SCA employees in sourcing, sales and To ensure compliance with, and respect for, cases. Employment contracts were terminated other functions with extensive external contacts SCA’s Code of Conduct and other policies and in the case of 13 individuals, seven individuals participated in the training. guidelines, effective systems for monitoring, were given a warning and, in one instance, the During 2014, the course will be further develreporting and addressing breaches are required. employee decided independently to leave the oped and the target groups will be broadened. It is essential that breaches are reported and company. 46 SCA Sustainability Report 2013 “Médecins Sans Frontières is a medical humanipendence as an organization. When Typhoon tarian organization that delivers emergency aid Haiyan hit the Philippines in early November last based on need. We help people caught in crisis year, Médecins Sans Frontières was one of the and those affected by armed conflict and natural first aid organizations to arrive. The donation disasters, irrespective of political, religious or from SCA was important in enabling us to send ethnical affiliation. More than 90% of our overall about 100 aid workers to provide medical help, funding globally is from private individuals and food, water and assistance in reopening hospicompanies, which means that we have the freetals. We are continuing our work in the PhilipKatharina Ervanius, dom to decide for ourselves where our efforts pines in 2014 and in more than 70 countries Corporate Fundraiser, are most needed and are not governed by any across the world.” Médecins Sans Frontières, Sweden other interests. It is also a condition for our indeValue for people | Supply chain Responsibility throughout the supply chain In pace with SCA’s growth and the corresponding growth in the supplier base, it becomes ­increasingly important to choose responsible business partners. We monitor risks and opportunities, prioritize investments and develop suppliers’ social and environmental performance. Extensive base of suppliers The hygiene and forest products operations TARGET SCA’s objectives for responsible sourcing will be each apply individual versions of the Supplier Supplier Standard used to drive shared values and priorities Standard. The basic principles are identical, but Our SCA Supplier Standard has throughout the supply chain. certain differences exist due to the differing been developed with suppliers to drive shared All in all, SCA has several thousand suppliers nature of the operations’ supply chains. values and priorities through our supply chain. of goods and services. The Group has identified Approximately 45% of the hygiene operaWe will use it in all supply chain contracts by a supplier base consisting of global and strategitions’ global suppliers are located in Europe, 2015. cally important suppliers. This applies primarily 36% in the US and 19% in the Asia. to raw material suppliers, but also to suppliers of SCA is Europe’s largest private forest owner Outcome 2013 critical services, such as marketing, IT and and about 50% of wood raw materials used in • 75% (73) of the global hygiene supplier base travel, which together correspond to two-thirds the forest products operations are sourced from had signed the SCA Supplier Standard. of the Group’s total purchasing costs. The the Group’s forests. The remainder is sourced • 60% (40) of forest products’ supplier base remainder includes local suppliers. SCA is also from suppliers, the majority of which are located had signed the SCA Supplier Standard. reviewing how it can include local suppliers in in Sweden. We endeavor to further incorporate • 70% (33) of the hygiene operations’ global the target. procurement processes and decisions with supplier base reported performance through At year-end, 75% (73) of the hygiene operacompliance in line with the requirements pursuSedex. tions’ 496 (387) global suppliers had signed the ant to the SCA Supplier Standard. SCA Supplier Standard. Of forest products’ 25 (20) largest suppliers, 60% (40) had signed the Control of forest contractors Supplier Standard. SCA’s forest operations almost exclusively use contractors for forestry and harvesting activiSupply chain management ties. SCA signs agreements with forest contracThe Group works and assigns priority in three tors, whereby the contractors undertake to comdistinct steps with respect to requirements and ply with applicable laws and regulations, includfollow-up in SCA’s supply chain: ing collective agreements and SCA’s Supplier 1. Global Supplier Standard: All global suppliStandard. In recent years, SCA has markedly ers to the hygiene and forest products operastrengthened the requirements imposed on contions undertake to comply with SCA policies tractors. Among other stipulations, the following by signing the Group’s Global Supplier are included in the agreement: Standard (GSS). • The contractor must be a member of an 2. Sedex database: SCA’s strategically imporemployers’ organization or have a local coltant suppliers, from which substantial purlective agreement in place with GS-facket chases are made and/or which are located in (the Swedish union of forestry, wood and high-risk countries, are registered in Sedex. graphical workers). 3. Audits: Suppliers located in high-risk coun• The contractor must adhere to the rules tries are checked through sustainability under the forest worker agreement relating to audits. work environment, working hours and pay. • The contractor must comply with the guideGlobal Supplier Standard lines relating to employees’ rights as stipuSCA has applied a Global Supplier Standard for lated in the FSC® and PEFC™ forest standmany years. In 2011, the standard was updated, ards. including a reinforcement of the sustainability • The contractor must practice a systematic criteria. The standard includes requirements health and safety program and have carried governing quality, product safety, the environout at least one follow up during the past ment, energy and chemicals. SCA’s Code of year. Conduct is also included, meaning application of the same requirements for social responsibilSCA has also developed and simplified the ity as for the Group’s own operations. assessment methods for health and safety and employment terms. 48 SCA Sustainability Report 2013 Supply chain | Value for people Enhanced follow up of forest contractors Role of audits in follow-up suppliers receive feedback in connection with SCA follows up compliance with the above Suppliers located in high-risk countries are the audit and when SCA’s purchasers determine standards together with its contractors. In addichecked through audits. SCA uses Sedex and whether to continue the collaboration. In cases tion, field spot checks are performed by both Maplecroft’s risk classification to identify these where the audits result in an action plan, SCA GS-facket and SCA. suppliers. The goal is for all global suppliers in works together with the suppliers and helps At the start of the year, a forest contractor high-risk areas to be audited before the end of them resolve any deficiencies. In addition, SCA engaged by SCA was investigated by the media. 2015. asks for and appreciates suppliers’ viewpoints Criticism included incorrect remuneration and The Group evaluates potential suppliers prior about the Group since SCA’s actions often breaches of employment terms for non-Swedish to contracting and continues to review suppliers affect the ability of suppliers to comply with its seasonal workers. SCA no longer engages the at regular intervals. Sustainability aspects requirements and expectations. contractor and has acted so that the affected account for more than 20% of SCA’s quality No agreements with global suppliers were planters will receive the compensation to which assurance prior to new partnerships. terminated on grounds of non-compliance in they are entitled. SCA also conducts quality audits and audits 2013. In summer 2013, SCA carried out extensive of fiber suppliers. checks of all forest contractors engaged during Cotton the current season. All work teams with nonMore audits with new method Certain hygiene products in operations acquired Swedish labor were visited – a total of 75 checks From this year forward, to reach the goal of by SCA from Georgia-Pacific in 2012 contain byof 356 individuals from 31 countries. The visits auditing all high-risk suppliers, SCA is engaging products from the cotton industry. The volumes have in part entailed inspections of working and an external partner, SGS, to perform the audits. involved are exceedingly small but, since cotton living conditions and talks with the workers to SGS is a global company based in Switzerland agriculture, particularly in some regions, is assoprovide information on requirements and rights. that works with inspections, verifications, tests ciated with social risks, a review of all of these In the event of deficiencies, SCA and GS-facket and certification. During the year, SGS carried procurements was initiated. help the contractors address the problems. out about 60 supplier audits on SCA’s behalf, SCA turns to wholesalers for purchasing primarily in China and Mexico but also in India, waste fiber from the manufacture of cotton oil Reporting in Sedex Russia and Turkey. The method and tools and from spinning mills. To increase control and SCA’s strategically important suppliers, from applied are identical to those used for evaluation reduce risk, we will challenge our business partwhich substantial purchases are made by the of SCA’s own units. They are based on SCA’s ners to undertake to comply with our Supplier Group and/or which are located in high-risk Code of Conduct and the SA8000 standard and Standard and to assume responsibility for their countries, are registered in Sedex. This is where have been developed by SCA in partnership with suppliers’ compliance with the standard. In the Group takes into account geopolitical, SGS. addition, we will perform audits of spinning mills social, ethical and sustainability-related risks. The audits reported generally satisfactory and refer wholesalers to selected spinning mills At the end of 2013, 70% of the approximately results. The deviations identified in China perfor procurement. 400 global suppliers to the hygiene operations tained to overtime and safety aspects, such as that were relevant for Sedex registration had personal protective gear and fire irregularities. In reported their details in the database. Mexico, we found cases of incorrect chemical In 2013, the forest products operations idenstorage and fire protection and evacuation irregtified 50 suppliers for reporting in Sedex. The ularities. SCA’s global purchasing function looks implementation of Sedex reporting is currently at the results and takes them into account when ongoing for these suppliers. performing regular supplier evaluations. The SCA Sustainability Report 2013 49 Value for people | Health and safety Prioritized health and safety activities SCA has long prioritized health and safety and pursues a zero-accident vision in the workplace. Targeted safety work key figures indicate positive improvements comTARGET No one should have to put their health at risk at pared with the previous year. Employee Health and Safety work. SCA’s safety initiatives address the physiSCA uses the following Group-wide key perOur aim is zero workplace cal work environment and promote a culture in formance indicators: accidents, and we will decrease our accident which safety permeates all activities. • Number of Lost Time Accidents (LTA): accifrequency rate by 25% between 2011–2016. SCA’s aim is zero workplace accidents. One dents that result in an employee missing the target along the way to achieving this goal is to next regularly scheduled work day or shift. OHSAS 18001 will be implemented at all main reduce the accident frequency rate by 25% There were 504 (536) LTAs. sites by 2016. between 2011 and 2016. This means that the • Days Lost due to Accidents (DLA): number of accident frequency rate in 2016 may not exceed work days lost due to an LTA. The DLA figure outcome 2013 6.9%. was 8,143 (8,958). The accident frequency rate was 8.4 (9.7) per • Accident Severity Rate (ASR): The DLA in 1,000,000 working hours, representing a 9% Policy and governance for enhanced safety relation to LTA. The accidents during the year decline compared with the reference year of SCA has a Group Health and Safety Policy and were less severe than in the previous year; 2011. SCA’s governance system encompasses risk the ASR was 16.2 compared with 16.7 in assessment, training, targets and monitoring in 2012. By the end of 2013, 45% (30) of SCA’s 67 main the safety sphere. Health and safety committees • Frequency Rate (FR): LTA in relation to million sites were certified according to OHSAS 18001. have also been established in the Group on hours worked. The FR figure was 8.4 (9.7). which representatives of some 95% (95) of the • Fatalities. No fatalities were reported in 2013. workforce serve. In addition, 67% (63) of employees are covered by formal trade union For the first year, contractors were included in agreements in which health and safety issues the statistics and 57 accidents (n.a.) were are addressed on a regular basis. Finally, a referreported among this group. ence team has been in place since 2009 with Many acquired facilities do not maintain the responsibility for coordinating Group health and same standard as existing SCA units, which is safety matters. also clear from the diagram on page 51. Our Each SCA facility has procedures in place to efforts are therefore targeted at strengthening increase workplace safety. These procedures the health and safety work at these facilities. For aim to identify, address and reduce risks. It is example, work aimed at reducing the accident equally important to encourage employees to frequency rate continued at the Brazilian unit always put safety first. acquired by SCA in autumn 2011. The facility, which has about 400 employees, has adapted Certified management system its occupational health and safety practices to SCA implements the international OHSAS 18001 the SCA Group standard, which has resulted in standard to ensure that uniform processes are significant improvements. In 2013, eight accideployed across the Group, and that it contindents occurred compared with 42 in 2012, ues to move in the direction of improved workmeaning a reduction of 81%. Safety statistics place health and safety. The aim is that all main 2013 sites will receive OHSAS accreditation by 2016 Improved conditions with safer machines Lost Time Accidents (LTA) 504 at the latest. At the end of 2013, 45% (30) of Safe machines and tools at all facilities are an Days Lost due to Accidents (DLA) 8,143 SCA’s 67 main sites were certified. essential part of creating a safe work environAccident Severity Rate (ASR) 16.2 OHSAS (Occupational Health and Safety ment. SCA works to continuously develop its Frequency Rate (FR) 8.4 Assessment Series) specifies requirements for an management of existing and new machines to Incident Rate (IR) 1.7 organization’s occupational health and safety improve the conditions necessary to ensure a Fatalities 0 More safety statistics on page 63. management system. The standard promotes the safe work environment. The Group’s incident deployment of a systematic approach and conreporting system has significantly facilitated tinuous improvement of the work environment. these efforts. SCA always aims to remain one step ahead – Progess in relation to safety the preference is to investigate the risk, not the In recent years, SCA has worked intensively to incident. Proactive assessments of machine systematize and improve the its safety work. safety are performed as part of the Group’s This work is reflected in the statistics where all Hygiene Manufacturing Excellence program 50 SCA Sustainability Report 2013 Health and safety | Value for people (HMEx). The HMEx team reviews various situaimproved by gathering input from supervisors, Close-call reporting key aspect of safety work tions and risks associated with normal operamachine operators and maintenance personnel. Reliable close-call and accident reporting comtions and scheduled maintenance, or in the SCA is also intensifying its efforts to ensure that prises a key aspect of safety work. It is vital to event of various outages. These assessments new knowledge is disseminated to other colanalyze both serious and less serious occurcontribute to reducing the number of accidents leagues. These enhanced practices not only rences to ensure that they are not repeated. and we noted significant progress in China and yield benefits from the perspective of safety, SCA has had a reporting system for acciMalaysia, among other countries. they can also boost technology development dents and close-calls in place for several years. In 2013, SCA initiated involvement in the and productivity. It allows each employee to report accidents and development of new machinery. Manufacturers Lastly, SCA is convinced of the value of best close calls, meaning events that could have led can develop better and safer machines by gainpractice. Everyone should strive to be a good to an accident. It has provided SCA with a signifing access to the breadth of experience and the example – and this not only applies to formal icantly improved basis on which it can perform suggestions of SCA employees, resulting in a managers, but also to each and every employee risk assessments, analyze and improve working win-win situation for all involved. at SCA. There is an individual responsibility and methods and continuously monitor perfora responsibility to each other. This approach has mance. Safety is ultimately all about people been realized in, for example, the Beware of In the event of a critical incident, the informaAlthough reliable machines are fundamental to Safety (BOS) program, which is part of HMEx. tion is communicated to the entire Group, enasafety in the workplace, they are far from sufficient. The program is based on observing personal bling all units to view the recommendations and No design can eliminate all risks – safety is ultibehavior and the behavior of colleagues, providlearn from the occurrence. Another part of the mately all about people, attitudes and behavior. ing constructive feedback and encouraging procedures of the units is to pull data from the This is why SCA places great importance on improvements. reporting system on a weekly basis so that behavior-based safety training. The objective is safety can be addressed at staff meetings. The to demonstrate the value of safe procedures and Traffic safety initiative system also allows for best practices to be dishow workplace accidents can be prevented. The Forklifts are often involved in the accidents that seminated throughout the Group. same safety standards apply to all SCA facilities, occur at SCA’s production facilities. In 2013, the Since the introduction of the system, it has but it is up to the individual unit to ensure impleGroup initiated a new program to increase traffic been noted that, to all appearances, many LTAs mentation in a manner that is relevant to the consafety at its sites. The majority of accidents are the result of trivial causes. For example, the ditions prevailing at the particular site. occur when loading and unloading, and when reason may have been slips, trips and falls of a The current practice is to involve more reversing forklifts. Pedestrians are often less serious nature, which should be preventaemployees in risk assessments and investigainvolved. ble. It was also observed that some units need to tions of close calls and accidents. Analyses are increase focus on manual work and ergonomics. Accident Frequency Rate (FR) Accident Severity Rate (ASR) OHSAS 18001-certified sites % 20 25 50 20 40 15 15 30 10 10 20 5 5 10 0 0 0 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 2010 2011 2012 2013 Acquisitions and “new reporting” Acquisitions Frequency Rate (FR) total The accident frequency rate declined sharply in 2013. The diagram All health and safety indicators demonstrated an improvement in 2013, SCA is well on its way to achieving its target of certifying 100% of its shows that the safety level at acquired units is often lower than at SCA, as was also the case for the accident severity rate. main sites under OHSAS 18001. Ten sites were certified during the but that once they have been incorporated into the Group, a significant year. improvement is noted. “New reporting” relates to the facilities included in 2013, primarily joint ventures in the Middle East and Africa. SCA Sustainability Report 2013 51 Value for people | Health and safety Healthy workplaces pated in a local running event after having Joint industry action SCA also works preventively with the employtrained together for eight weeks. The facility in The health and safety risks inherent in the pulp ees’ health and well-being. Each business unit is Veniov, Russia, held a sports day to celebrate and paper industry often differ and are more responsible for formulating a structure for fitthe Olympics in Sochi. The employees comserious than those in the engineering industry. ness that suits their own operations. SCA’s peted in events such as the 100-meter dash, For this reason, SCA’s forestry operations are efforts for better health encompass many differshooting and weightlifting. participating in several industry collaboration ent measures: better ergonomics, quit-smoking projects to promote increased safety. campaigns, dietary training, support in work-life Fines for work environment infractions A working group focusing on occupational balance as well as advice in handling difficult illIn early 2013, a Swedish District Court ordered health and safety has been formed within the nesses are a few examples. In 18 countries, SCA SCA to pay a fine of SEK 1.5m for a breach of the Swedish Forest Industries Federation. The offers treatment programs for alcohol abuse Swedish Work Environment Act. The reason was objective is to support the safety programs of where the majority of the programs include supa fatal accident that took place in 2009 at the member companies by offering various port for the employee’s family. Lilla Edet paper mill in which an employee was resources for raising awareness and sharing Since 2008, SCA’s North American operation fatally injured in a crushing accident involving a knowledge. has had a health program that includes encourpaper machine. On account of the accident, Another valuable contribution is being made aging a healthy lifestyle and regular, voluntary SCA has modified all of its machines of a similar by the SSG (Standard Solutions Group) safety health check-ups as well as early identification model at the Group’s various facilities and committee, through which companies active in of health risks. The European hygiene operainformed other companies of the accident risk. the pulp industry come together to learn from tions prioritize efforts for improving the employEach accident is taken very seriously at SCA and one another. SSG sets technical standards and ees’ lifestyle and health, particularly when older the company does everything in its power to recommendations and provides information and employees are concerned. The goal is good prevent tragedies such as the one at Lilla Edet. advice. health, fewer sick days and higher productivity. SCA was also ordered to pay a fine of SEK Many SCA units focus on health and well150,000 in conjunction with a falling accident at being through various activities and campaigns. the Ortviken paper mill in Sweden in 2011. The TENA sponsored La Parisienne, France’s largest employee suffered a fracture and was unable to running event after the marathon in Paris, to work for two months. After the accident, SCA show that incontinence does not have to be an conducted an extensive risk assessment and obstacle to physical activity. The run attracted built in measures to prevent a similar accident, nearly 30,000 participants, including a team which at the same time led to a more effective from TENA. Around 80 employees and family way of handling that aspect of the work. members in Drummondville, Canada, particiExtensive progress in health and safety Many facilities reported positive work enviIn Mannheim, the BOS program had a particAltopascio: For the second consecutive ronment results. Here are a few examples: ularly large impact on employee attitudes and year, the mill in Altopascio was awarded the behavior, and with that the accident statistics. Italian pulp and paper industry’s prize ObietManchester: The mill in Manchester in the UK In Uruapan, Mexico, the milestone of 500,000 tivo Zero (Goal Zero). The BOS program was celebrated five years without an LTA. Improved hours without an accident was celebrated. also named as having made a major differgovernance and many efforts to eliminate danence to safety at the mill in Altopascio. gerous work elements and behaviors are Santiago: The mill in Santiago, Chile celeamong efforts that have yielded results. brated 100 safe working days. One year ago, Chile’s accident frequency rate was signifiShah Alam, Veniov, Mannheim: The cantly higher than the average at SCA, and in employees at the production facilities in Shah 2013, the mill succeeded in reducing the Alam, Malaysia, and Veniov, Russia, and at number of accidents by more than 54%. the mill in Mannheim, Germany, have all Group-wide tools have contributed to the worked one million hours without an LTA. positive development. 52 SCA Sustainability Report 2013 “I had recently given birth to my daughter Nienke I don’t have to do that anymore since I started and, soon after, became pregnant again with my using TENA. With TENA I can work all day withsecond daughter Femke. It meant that my pelvic out even thinking about incontinence. I am actufloor and stomach muscles were weakened, ally starting to think about jogging again, which which in turn led to urinary incontinence when I used to be difficult for me since I had to stop sneezed or made a quick movement. I started every 400 meters for a toilet break. I have never taking a plastic bag with me and extra panty linlet my incontinence stop me from doing what I ers, and I always had clean underwear with me want, and using TENA I feel that I have much Heidi Stienstra, hospital employee, in case of an accident. more freedom, which is a relief.” the Netherlands Source: Margriet Value for people | Employee relations Employees – SCA’s resource and future Employees are SCA’s most important resource – the Group depends on ogy in the US, France, Spain, Germany, Russia and China. The faculties were approached to ­motivated, competent and high-performing employees for its success. jointly identify innovative forms of collaboration. Based on the business targets, SCA has the ambition of developing all The benefits of these partnerships include the ­employees to achieve their full potential. ability for SCA to contact students directly, for example through e-mail campaigns and links on SCA comprises 34,004 (33,775) employees in percentage of women as managers at SCA the universities’ intranets. some 60 countries, of whom 28% (29) are amounted to 24% (29). At present, a schedule for internships and women and 72% (71) are men. The employee Senior management comprised 18 (23) differrecent graduates is under development. Both turnover rate is 15% (12), which is low for the ent nationalities and the corresponding figure programs will be based on the students’ expecindustry. was 41 (39) for senior/middle management. Entations and the universities’ needs, and SCA will SCA’s global expansion is continuing in parcouraging greater diversity is also part of SCA’s be given the opportunity to market them at its allel with a realignment of the Group’s recruitleadership platform and succession planning. partner universities. SCA will principally recruit ment base and workforce composition. In some students from the selected universities. countries, the working-age population is declinInvestment in the employer brand ing, while the challenge in other regions is ensurSCA’s recruitment policy is based on having the New model for leadership development ing the right competence for SCA. The Group right person for the right position at the right During the year, work continued on SCA’s formal has implemented extensive programs to ensure time and at the right cost. To realize this strategy, leadership development. The result is a structhat it has the right person in the right position. SCA works intensively with employer branding. tured model for the entire Group, adapted to its The project was initiated by conducting thorspecific circumstances. Success requires diversity ough research into the needs and requirements SCA’s leadership platform, which defines the At SCA, diversity is central to the Group’s sucof potential employees and SCA’s recruitment desired skills and behavior, serves as the founcess, enabling it to attract the most competent criteria. dation for the leadership platform. Training is individuals, stimulate continued innovation and carried out on the basis of specific needs rather meet the needs of various markets, customers Inspiring careers at SCA than general requirements. We also believe in and consumers. For SCA, diversity extends During the year, a definition of what distinguishes the importance of cross-border learning, and beyond the typical attributes, such as gender SCA was established and a study was contherefore see the benefit of mixing participants and ethnicity – we value a mix of diverse personducted into how a true and fair view of what it is from different countries, functions and organizaalities, experiences and knowledge. SCA’s Code like to work in the Group could be conveyed. SCA tional levels. All training has a clear link to SCA’s of Conduct states that each employee is to be wants potential employees to recognize the qualdaily activities, and involves real-life strategies, treated with respect and be given the opportuities that existing colleagues appreciate, namely, cases and assignments. nity for personal and professional development. that SCA is an innovative company that recogThis applies irrespective of gender, civil status, nizes and values all the qualities of individuals, Needs-driven leadership program ethnicity or national origins, sexual orientation, and a company that prioritizes sustainability. SCA’s leadership program is grouped into three political or religious beliefs, age, disability or The result of the above was “Life Inspiring different needs categories. The first category other personal characteristics. Careers”, a shared platform for marketing SCA as includes Leadership@SCA, which is mandatory Since the consumers of SCA’s products are an attractive employer, both locally and globally. for all new managers. It is a one-day training 80% women, the company strives for a higher The efforts are starting to yield results – during course and the focus is on SCA’s strategies, proproportion of women in management positions. the year, SCA in Germany was named the best cesses and tools, as well as the expectations In 2013, the proportion of women among SCA’s employer by the Top Employers Institute, and placed on leaders. Participants are also prosenior management (150 top managers) was SCA in Greece was among the top companies in vided with general training in the leadership 24% (23) and 25% (29) among senior/middle the ranking compiled by Great Place To Work. sphere. About 200 new managers completed management (top 1,000 managers). The total the course during the year. Close collaboration with universities The second category includes a six-day During the year, SCA initiated partnerships with training course aimed at individuals who have selected universities and institutes of technolbeen a manager for 6–12 months. About 50 SCA’s senior and middle management by nationality 2013 Swedish, 41% American, 13% SCA’s senior and middle management Employee age distribution by gender 2013 SCA Group 2013 German, 10% British, 5% Mexican, 4% Men, 75% –20 years, 2% Dutch, 3% Women, 25% 21–30 years, 18% French, 3% 31–40 years, 28% Italian, 2% 41–50 years, 29% Austrian, 2% 51–60 years, 20% Other, 17% 61– years, 3% In total 41 nationalities 54 SCA Sustainability Report 2013 Employee relations | Value for people managers completed this program in 2013. Both In conclusion, the Group conducted a review of In the latter part of the year, SCA signed a new programs were developed during the year. the skills necessary for various functions and agreement with IndustriALL Global Union. An additional program will be developed in roles, and thus the need for professional develIndustriALL represents 50 million employees in 2014 for the purpose of enhancing the capabiliopment. 140 countries in the mining, energy and manuties of senior managers at SCA. facturing sectors. It was formed in June 2012, Survey confirms strong culture combining several union organizations, includResult-focused employee dialog SCA carries out an employee survey every secing the International Federation of Chemical, In 2011, a system for performance review and ond year. The latest survey was conducted in Energy, Mine and General Workers’ Unions development planning was introduced, the 2013, and was responded to by 25,628 (31,569) (ICEM), which previously represented SCA Global Performance Management System employees at wholly owned companies, which employees. The content of the new agreement (GPS). The objective is to follow up the perforcorresponds to a total of 86.3% (81.8) of the largely coincides with the previous arrangement mance of every employee twice a year. workforce. with ICEM, although there are now clearer referIn 2013, efforts were made to make the conThe surveys cover a total of 47 aspects in ences to ILO conventions. The Swedish Paper sultation processes more constructive and nine dimensions. The results are expressed as Workers Union is also encompassed by the result-focused. In each meeting, the employee’s an index for leadership, innovation, customer agreement with EWC and IndustriALL. established targets, leadership qualities, funcorientation and engagement, as well as an overtional competence and SCA’s values are disall index. Alternative forms of dialog cussed and evaluated. As part of the perforWith one exception, all indexes increased In parallel with SCA’s expansion, the Group mance management review, the manager and slightly from already high levels in the previous encounters new circumstances and challenges, employee agree on a development plan for the survey. The exception was the engagement even in relation to dialog with employees. When future. During the year, 70% (78) of employees index, which changed from 81 to 80 (where 100 there is no union representation, SCA estabparticipated in performance management was max), still a high level and one that we are lishes other channels where possible, such as reviews. Many of the acquired units are in the satisfied with. SCA’s leaders received positive workers councils. process of implementing SCA’s performance assessments and leadership will continue to be In companies where SCA is not the sole or management review system. prioritized given its importance to the compamajority owner, efforts are make to exert an ny’s relations and results. Communications and influence through the Board. The aim is to Tools for professional development feedback between managers and employees ensure that these companies also apply the SCA and the company’s leaders provide tools are areas in need of development. principles of SCA’s Code of Conduct and thus that enable each employee to assume responsiThe overall index was at 70 (69). In general, respect each employee’s entitlement to freedom bility for their own development and perforSCA views the results as confirming the strength of association. The Group’s approach has mance. All professional development at SCA has of its corporate culture, since the last few years’ proven successful in, for example, its joint venits starting point in SCA’s business goals, and extensive reorganizations have not degraded tures in Turkey and Colombia. harmonizes the individual’s ambitions with the results. All managers will prepare action plans Group’s expectations. Each individual is encourtogether with their employees based on the outExtensive organizational change aged to develop the skills required for current come of the employee survey. The Group has undergone extensive change as and future positions. part of the strategy to grow the hygiene business Much of the personal development is based Transparent communication builds trust at SCA. During the year, we addressed several on the Global Performance Management SysTransparent communication is fundamental to changes stemming from transactions impletem (GPS) and individual development plans and the trust between SCA and employees, and their mented earlier, principally the acquisition of goals prepared during performance managerepresentatives. Employees are encouraged to Georgia-Pacific’s European tissue operation. As ment reviews. The reviews identify the skills and raise issues relating to employment and health a result of the Georgia-Pacific transaction, units abilities necessary for employees to achieve the and safety with their line manager. SCA recogin Norway and the UK were divested, affecting stated targets and whether the individual needs nizes the right of all employees to join unions and some 560 individuals, and plants were closed in to develop in some area. The employees and to partake in union activities. Union involvement Greece, Spain and the UK, entailing that about managers agree on the manner in which these varies among SCA’s countries of operation, but 210 employees left SCA. Furthermore, one plant skills should be secured, primarily through interon average 67% (65) of SCA’s employees are and two sawmills were closed in Sweden, resultnal development opportunities. In 2013, the covered by collective agreements. ing in just over 140 lay-offs. average number of training hours per employee The notice period in connection with organiwas 20 (17). Dialog with union representatives zational changes in the Group varies, but averThe European Works Council (EWC) represents ages about six weeks. In connection with organabout 20,000 of SCA’s employees. SCA meets izational changes, SCA works to support the the EWC and other employee representatives on employees affected. This is done through disa regular basis to inform them of and discuss cussions with labor unions at an early stage and matters that concern, for example, the Group’s by preparing a social action plan that is adjusted Employees performance and earnings, as well as health and to local conditions. The action plan normally Total safety and employment terms and conditions. includes help seeking employment and/or eduNumber of employees 34,004 Part-time employees 1,091 The aim is to communicate changes well ahead cation. Other tools are severance pay, early Employees leaving the company 5,143 of time. During the year, a great deal of time and retirement and financial incentives for those who Employee turnover 15% energy was spent on drafting a new framework find new jobs before the end of the period of agreement with the EWC covering the entire notice. The support services can be comprised SCA Group, meaning including the acquired of individual career counseling or administrative Georgia-Pacific operations. support. SCA Sustainability Report 2013 55 Value for people | Community involvement SCA invests in society SCA strives to be a responsible and respected member of the communities in which it conducts business. This is done through our offering and way of doing business, and by getting involved and investing in social, environmental and economic prosperity. SCA’s desire is to strengthen the relationships to doing so. Addressing school chilthe communities in which the Group operates, dren is an effective way to proand to make a real difference in people’s lives. In mote good hand hygiene. accordance with SCA’s guidelines for commuDuring the year, we launched nity involvement, the company prioritizes initia“Ella’s hand washing adventure,” tives with a clear link to SCA’s values, expertise, an app made for tablets, globally. operations and geographic presence. This The Ella app contains games and means that many of SCA’s efforts are within lessons that teach children aged hygiene and health, and are often directed at 2–6 when, how and why they women and children. Among SCA’s initiatives should wash their hands. are both large-scale investments and small proImproved hand hygiene can prejects with a local focus. SCA’s community vent the spread of viruses at preschools and In cooperation with the Red Cross, SCA distributed involvement makes the employees proud of their contribute to lower sickness absences for the 100,000 hygiene kits to homeless people in France. company and strengthens the customers’ loywhole family. SCA also has programs for hand alty and the SCA brand. Community involvement hygiene in schools in Russia, Latin America, Gerthereby provides business value. many, Austria and Switzerland, to name a few. SCA’s expertise makes a difference Zewa spreads joy at children’s homes handed out 100,000 hygiene kits in France, SCA’s desire to make a difference based on its One out of 100 children in Russia lives in a chilcompared with 40,000 the year before. The expertise and business areas is also evident in dren’s home, which is why the tissue brand hygiene kits contain articles such as tooththe Group’s sustainability targets. One of them is Zewa considers it to be important to invest in brushes, tooth paste and razors, and the Red that SCA will share its knowledge of hygiene and these children in particular. During the year, 44 Cross manages distribution. Every kit contains a provide access to affordable and sustainable playgrounds were built at children’s homes brochure with hygiene information and contact hygiene solutions that contribute to a healthy and within the scope of the initiative, “Give children a information to healthcare centers. dignified life. Consequently, many of the Group’s touch of care.” The customers also contributed – SCA’s employees were also involved in the initiatives are based on working for improved RUB 1 per sold package of Zewa went to the effort for people who live with homelessness hygiene and health. This includes providing inforproject. More than 6,000 children will be able to mation in hygiene issues and educating girls, enjoy the new playgrounds. women and caregivers. In 2013, SCA invested around SEK 34m (45) Better hygiene among the homeless in local projects, which corresponds to 0.3% of We want our knowledge about hygiene and our operating profit. Around 370 projects were reghygiene solutions to benefit as many people as istered in the company’s web-based collection possible. Through the cooperation that the Red tool. Most of the projects were related to hygiene Cross and SCA in France initiated in 2011, we and health. reach out to people who live in homelessness. Hygiene is crucial to the health, pride and possiClean children are healthier children bility of the homeless to build social relationships. Something as basic as washing one’s hands Following a positive response in a survey properly can prevent infections. Unfortunately, where both the homeless and volunteers from far from everyone knows how this should be the Red Cross participated, SCA decided to done correctly, or do not have the possibility of expand the initiative. During the year, SCA Community relations by region Community relations by focus areas Europe, 76% Health and Hygiene, 55% America, 18% Sports, 16% Asia, 5% Education, 9% Middle East, Africa, India, 1% Emergency relief, 5% Environment, 4% Culture, 3% Other, 8% 56 SCA Sustainability Report 2013 Community involvement | Value for people and 2,700 employees in France donated more an independent organization, Scholarship Manthan EUR 10,000 and 600 kilograms of clothes agement Services, based on study results, leadand toys. SCA donated EUR 10 for every kiloership and participation in school and social gram of clothes and EUR 2 per EUR 1 from the activities. Since 2008, a total of USD 250,000 employees. has been awarded as scholarships. Education builds young people’s self-esteem SCA wants to break taboos SCA conducts a number of educational projects SCA works actively to break taboos regarding for children and young people around the world. incontinence and wants to show that incontiAt the end of the year, the French SCA feminine nence problems are not an obstacle to living a full care brand Nana and the French Red Cross and active life. SCA supports the Global Forum EVRAS launched an educational program on Incontinence, a conference that gathers directed at teenagers. The program offers the researchers, care providers and politicians and possibility of discussing and better understandforms a platform for debate and education about ing sensitive issues, such as emotions, relationincontinence. ships and sexual health. The goal is to promote For the seventh consecutive year, SCA in self-esteem, openness and healthy choices Mexico arranged the TENA Run Walk, a run among young people. where SCA wants to show that age and incontiThe TENA Run Walk in Mexico attracted 10,000 people to manifest against the taboo surrounding incontinence. In Mexico, SCA’s brand for sanitary pads, nence or other limitations are not an obstacle to Saba, conducted a school program directed at physical activity and social interaction. The girls between the ages of 11 and 15. They TENA Run Walk involved more than 10,000 peoreceived information regarding the physical and ple of all ages and around 5,000 spectators emotional changes that take place in puberty cheered on an equal number of people who ran In connection with the Ya’an earthquake in and answers to their questions. Similar proand walked in the event. China, SCA donated hygiene products worth grams are continuously conducted in countries RMB 800,000 and the employees collected RMB such as Bolivia, Chile, Ecuador, Peru, Malaysia A helping hand in disasters 140,000, which was matched by SCA. and Russia under the brands Nosotras, DonAs a good citizen of society, SCA tries to help by nasept and Libresse. providing products or donations when disasters Forest for a better environment In the US and Canada, SCA awards a scholoccur around the world. When Typhoon Haiyan As Europe’s largest private forest owner, SCA is arship to the children of employees every year struck the Philippines, SCA donated SEK 200,000 well aware of the forest’s significance to the envifor university studies. In 2013, USD 62,000 was to Médecins Sans Frontières, provided hygiene ronment and climate, as well as the local environawarded to 42 students who were selected by products and employees contributed money. ment and as a source of recreation. Through the Tree Pool program, SCA’s employees can plant trees where they live and thereby contribute a little bit of nature to their communities. SCA also contributes to preventing the spread of the A special workplace desert in Inner Mongolia by donating and planting trees through the local Million Tree initiative. The washing glove JoyinCare, which is used in healthcare, is Three Trees made at the small factory SCA Assen in the Netherlands. But it is Velvet, one of SCA’s tissue brands in the UK, much more than a successful product that makes this a special cooperates with Amata, a Brazilian company workplace. The 21 employees at the plant were trained in labor active in sustainable forest management. The market programs for those with special needs. joint goal is to replant forest in areas afflicted by Jan Duin is the assistant machine operator and a much deforestation. appreciated employee who is proud of his work. By the end of 2013, 5 million seedlings of “These machines are the heart of the factory. If I don’t make domestic tree species had been planted within sure they are running, the others might as well go home,” he the scope of the Three Trees promise. An addisays. tional 15 million existing trees, in the nature An accident led to Jan Duin having chronic health problems. reserve on Amata’s forest lands, are being proYet, he has not called in sick one single day since he was hired in tected as a consequence of the Three Trees 2010. The company is an extra family for him. promise. SCA Sustainability Report 2013 57 Control and assurance | Sustainable governance Sustainable governance The main purpose of all governance at SCA is to guarantee the Group’s Responsibility for implementation rests with the operational organization. A number of net­ ­commitments to all of its stakeholders – shareholders, customers, suppliers, works work horizontally across SCA’s different lenders, the community and employees – commitments that are expressed business units to guarantee a consistent in the company’s business objectives and strategies. approach. Responsibility for the management of specific issues rests within the relevant ­business unit. Sustainability governance The Environ­mental Committee and the Social SCA’s Corporate Senior Management Team Responsibility Committee draft proposals for SCA Group networks bears the overall responsibility for the control policies and principles for governing the sustain­ Water management network: The network of SCA’s business in the environmental and ability work, in addition to objectives and action ­analyzes the impact of the EU’s Water Frame­ social area. programs at Group level. They also coordinate work Directive on SCA’s operations. It also SCA has a Group Function in charge of and follow up the Group’s initiatives and objec­ establishes the Group’s future aspiration level ­sustainability, led by the Senior Vice President tives in the environmental and social area. The for reductions in emissions and water usage. Sustainability, who reports to the CEO and is a committees include members of all business member of the Corporate Senior ­Management units and representatives of Group Functions FSC® network: The network’s responsibility is Team. Apart from the environmental and social Sustainability, Human Resources, Communi­ to disseminate information on the subject aspects, the function is also responsible for cations and Legal. throughout the organization, and to coordinate SCA’s public affairs. In close collaboration with The Code of Conduct Council consists of the Group’s position and activities in relation to the business unit presidents, the approved strat­ SCA’s SVP HR, SVP Sustainablity, General FSC. egy and objectives are broken down into spe­ Counsel, EVP Hygiene operations and President cific targets and activities to ensure compliance Forest Products. The Code of Conduct Council RMS network: Responsible for compiling infor­ with the Group’s objectives and business plans. oversees the implementation and alignment of mation and making calculations and presenta­ SCA’s Code of Conduct. tions relating to the use of resources and envi­ ronmental data. Corporate Governance at SCA Nomination Annual General Meeting External auditors Committee Remuneration Board of Directors Audit Committee Committee Chairman of the Board President and CEO Internal audit Executive Vice Presidents Group Functions: Finance, Human Resources, Sustainability, Legal Affairs, Communications, and ­Strategy and Business Development* SCA SCA SCA AfH SCA SCA SCA SCA Incontinence Care Consumer Goods Professional Forest MEIA Americas Asia Pacific Europe Europe Hygiene Europe Products Global Hygiene ­Category (GHC) Global Responsibility across geographics in the hygiene operations Global Hygiene Supply (GHS) Global Responsibility across geographics in the hygiene operations * The Strategy and Business Development corporate staff function is also responsible for Global Business Services (GBS) and IT Services. GBS has global responsibility for providing transactional services, human resources support, office-related services and other services for all units in SCA. 58 SCA Sustainability Report 2013 Sustainable governance | Control and assurance ESAVE network: Coordinates the Group’s pro­ Controlling and monitoring Risk and risk management jects that aim to reduce SCA’s energy consump­ In addition to the company’s auditors, the com­ SCA is exposed to a number of risks with the tion and environmental impact. pany’s operations are subject to external potential to exert a greater or lesser material reviews and monitoring by, among others, the impact on the Group. The responsibility for longEnergy network: Based on the Group’s Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority and the term and overall management of strategic risks strength, size and extensive energy consump­ NASDAQ OMX Stockholm. follows the company’s delegation scheme, from tion, the network focuses on identifying costSCA’s own control systems include segrega­ the Board to the President, and from the Presi­ efficient solutions and synergies in connection tion of duties in critical processes and defined dent to the business unit Presidents. with energy sourcing. Emissions ­trading is management responsibilities with regard to A description of the most significant risks another important area. internal control. There is also a separate Internal that impact SCA’s ability to achieve established audit function at SCA that works to continuously targets is presented on pages 60–65 in the 2013 Public Affairs network: Leads and coordinates evaluate and improve the effectiveness of SCA’s Annual Report, together with an account of how the work aimed at influencing legislation and ­governance processes, risk management and these risks are managed. stakeholders in prioritized areas that can posi­ internal control. SCA’s Internal Audit organiza­ tively or negatively impact the operation. tion contributes to the maintenance of high Corporate Governance Report standards of business practice and is involved in The complete Corporate Governance Report is Health and safety network: Proposes goals the monitoring of Code of Conduct compliance available on SCA’s website www.sca.com and in and activities, follows up initiatives and high­ through such activities as Business Practice the 2013 Annual Report. lights health and safety best practices. Reviews. As support in its work, the Internal Audit unit has a number of steering documents GRI network: Responsible for ensuring that the and policies. For example, competition legisla­ Group reports in line with Global Reporting Initi­ tion guidelines are updated every third year. ative guidelines. SCA’s sustainability governance CEO and Board of Directors SVP, Group Function Sustainability Code of Conduct Social Responsibility Committee Environmental Committee Council SCA Group Networks SCA Group Networks SCA Sustainability Report 2013 59 Control and assurance | Environmental data The Resource Management System, RMS SCA operates an extensive system of gathering and presenting data for individAny excess electricity produced at an SCA facil­ ity that is not used internally is supplied to the ual production facilities and entire business units. The Resource Management national grid. In 2013, SCA delivered 37 GWh of System (RMS) allows SCA to analyze data, describing how the company uses electricity to the national grid. energy, water, transport and raw materials, and to monitor waste and emissions SCA supplies secondary heat derived from effluent hot water to district heating systems, levels. mainly in Sweden, which is an effective way of saving energy. In 2013, SCA delivered heat to The RMS data is used for internal control and customer quality requirements. Synthetic mate­ district heating systems equivalent to 37,982 m3 monitoring, external benchmarking and as a tool rials are used in highly absorbent hygiene of fuel oil, corresponding to enough power to for evaluating acquisitions and major invest­ ­products to improve quality and function. The heat 10,000 single-family homes. ments. This year’s RMS data includes five new diagram to the right shows the raw material personal care plants. Three tissues mills were ­distribution of SCA’s products. Transport divested or closed and have been excluded from Raw materials are transported to SCA’s produc­ the RMS data. The tissue sites acquired from Water tion plants and finished products are delivered Georgia-Pacific in 2012 were included in the SCA’s water supply is presented in the chart to SCA’s customers. SCA uses external suppli­ RMS data for half of 2012 and for all of 2013, “Raw materials, energy and emissions”. The ers for most of its transportation needs. SCA’s affecting the data for resources and emissions. ­figures stated are totals for surface water, use of transportation is equivalent to 30.7 billion groundwater and municipal water systems. ton-kilometers. Sea freight accounts for the Resources SCA’s total water intake amounted to 210 Mm3. greatest portion of SCA’s transport and the This section describes SCA’s use of raw materi­ remainder consists of road and rail. Transporta­ als, water, energy and transport in 2013. Energy tion of SCA’s raw materials and products uses Energy use includes purchased energy (heating, the equivalent of 11,676 TJ of fuel and electricity. Raw materials electricity and fuel) supplied to production units, A typical SCA product is made from various types energy generated from wood, liquor, bark, Emissions of wood fiber. It also contains small amounts of sludge and waste paper, and electricity gener­ The company’s total emissions are determined inorganic and fossil organic materials. ated on site. A large portion of the energy used by fuel consumption, which in turn is determined Renewable raw materials (fresh fiber and by SCA comes from the incineration of wood by the level of production. Changes in produc­ recycled fiber) account for the largest share of residuals and from on-site co-generation of tion volumes over the past few years, measured the material used in an average SCA product. electricity. The energy data figures stated there­ in tons and m3, are shown in the tables that pre­ Inorganic materials (kaolin clay and calcium car­ fore include both a fuel component and an elec­ sent Group emissions in 2011, 2012 and 2013. bonate) are used as filler and coating pigment in tricity component. certain types of paper in order to satisfy high Distribution of water supply Distribution of transport usage Emissions from transport, CO2 kton Surface water, 90% Ship, 72% Ground water, 6% Truck, 23% 1,000 Community water, 4% Rail, 5% 800 600 400 200 0 2011 2012 2013 Distribution of electricity supply Distribution of fuel supply Emissions from transport, NOX and SO2 ton Co-generation, 16% Biofuel, 49% 12,000 Grid supply, 84% Oil, 3% 10,000 Electric boiler, 0.5% N-gas+LPG, 47% 8,000 Coal, 0.5% 6,000 4,000 2,000 0 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 NOX SO2 60 SCA Sustainability Report 2013 Environmental data | Control and assurance Emissions to air not included in the tables “Raw materials, Solid waste Air emissions comprise emissions from all com­ energy, and emissions” on page 62, but are pre­ The solid waste reported by SCA is waste that is bustion units at SCA’s production sites, includ­ sented in the diagrams on page 60. sent to landfill, recycled waste and hazardous ing fossil fuel and biofuel emissions and emis­ waste. Recycled waste refers to materials that sions from purchased thermal energy. When Emissions to water can be used as raw materials in other industries, energy (primarily thermal energy and/or electric­ SCA’s effluent water is divided into cooling water such as the cement, brick-making and construc­ ity) is supplied to an external facility, air emis­ and process water. Cooling water has simply tion industries. The main types of recycled waste sions are reduced in relation to the energy been heated and is not contaminated in any way. are ash, sludge, organic waste and plastics. amount delivered and the reduction is distrib­ The total volume of discharged process water is Hazardous waste is primarily waste oil as well as uted among SCA’s main products. 118 Mm3. This water is treated using methods organic solvents, batteries and strip lights. Three chemical compounds are measured similar to those employed at municipal waste­ and reported in relation to air emissions: NOX, water treatment facilities. The figures for 2013 SO2 and fossil CO2. refer to process water emissions. The stated CO2 figures may differ somewhat The emissions to water stated in the tables from those reported to local authorities under comprise COD, BOD, suspended solids, AOX, the EU Emissions Trading Scheme (ETS). This is P and N. Methods of measuring differ in some because the countries participating in ETS use respects. All SCA production of bleached Distribution of raw materials different limits and definitions for their calcula­ ­chemical pulp employs Totally Chlorine Free tions. SCA uses Group-wide established proce­ (TCF) processes. The stated AOX data refers % dures and principles for calculating RMS data so to treatment of incoming raw water. 100 as to create comparability. The Swedish mills in the forest products 80 CO2 emissions from SCA’s use of fossil fuels business considerably improved their emissions 60 corresponded to 1,776 ktons and purchased to water during the year. Running-in the biologi­ 40 electricity to 1,682 ktons during the year. cal wastewater treatment plant in Munksund, for The closure of the coal-fired boiler at the example, led to significant improvements. 20 Gien tissue mill in France resulted in a sharp SCA’s Swedish and Colombian plants 0 r ue decline in sulfur (SO2) emissions during the year. ­substantially reduced their levels of suspended be lp r pe ard ff) m Pu pa bo ss (flu Ti er Ti re solids. Ortviken paper mill reported a major n Ca tio ain ica nt al on Air emissions from transport reduction as a result of phasing in a previously bl Co Pu rs Pe A large portion of SCA’s air emissions is gener­ installed preliminary stage for biological waste­ ated by transport, rather than the company’s water treatment (flotation plant for separating Fresh wood fibre Inorganic material production activities. Transport emissions are pollutants in a partial current, bleach filtrate). Recycled fibres Organic fossil Sågade trävaror MassaTryckpapper Wellpappråvara Personliga Mjukpapperhygienprodukter (fluff) Air emissions, CO2 fossil Air emissions, NOX Air emissions, SO2 ktons tons tons 2,000 4,000 1,200 1,000 1,500 3,000 800 1,000 2,000 600 400 500 1,000 200 0 0 0 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 Water effluents, P, N Water effluents, COD, BOD and suspended solids Distribution of solid waste tons tons ktons 700 30,000 1,500 600 25,000 1,200 500 20,000 400 900 15,000 300 600 10,000 200 300 100 5,000 0 0 0 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 11 12 13 11 12 13 11 12 13 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 P N COD BOD Susp solids Landfill Recovery SCA Sustainability Report 2013 61 Control and assurance | Environmental data Environmental data Raw materials, energy and emissions Forest Products Tissue Products Personal Care SCA Group Total 2013 2012 2013 2012* 2013 2012 2013 2012* Production Paper and pulp ktons 2,276 2,289 3,190 2,871 5,466 5,160 Personal Care products ktons 634 595 634 595 Timber and solid-wood products 1,000 m3 2,194 2,071 2,194 2,071 1. Raw materials Wood/sawmill chips** ktons 4,508 4,431 585 407 0 0 5,093 4,838 Purchased pulp* ktons 67 62 1,486 1,249 375 346 1,927 1,658 Purchased paper ktons 0 0 78 47 233 161 310 208 Recovered paper ktons 318 340 2,087 1,944 4 2 2,410 2,286 Inorganic material ktons 211 207 0 0 0 0 211 207 Organic fossil material ktons 13 12 4 2 319 302 336 316 Water Mm3 111 112 99 96 1 1 210 210 2. Energy Electricity Co-generation GWhe 794 750 521 514 0 0 1,315 1,264 Grid supply GWhe 2,493 2,527 3,990 3,557 482 431 6,965 6,514 Total GWhe 3,287 3,276 4,511 4,071 482 431 8,280 7,779 Fuels Biofuel TJfuel 26,151 25,458 4,057 4,467 0 0 30,208 29,925 Fossil fuel TJfuel 1,478 1,590 28,973 25,289 327 274 30,778 27,154 Electric boiler/hood TJfuel 191 202 79 176 0 0 270 378 Total TJfuel 27,819 27,251 33,109 29,932 327 274 61,256 57,457 of which co-gen. TJfuel 3,366 3,170 3,046 3,109 0 0 6,412 6,279 3. Emissions To air NOX as NO2 tons 1,636 1,614 2,067 1,927 27 24 3,730 3,564 SO2 tons 377 323 287 479 0 0 665 802 Dust tons 255 203 139 166 0 0 394 368 CO2 fossil ktons 114 122 1,644 1,451 18 15 1,776 1,589 CO2 fossil, grid electricity ktons 75 76 1,456 1,372 151 174 1,682 1,622 CO2 biogenic ktons 2,659 2,657 510 568 0 0 3,169 3,225 To water COD tons 14,091 19,135 9,443 9,737 43 15 23,578 28,887 BOD tons 1,514 3,190 1,662 1,700 2 1 3,179 4,891 Suspended solids tons 1,911 2,729 1,471 1,812 3 1 3,384 4,542 AOX tons 11 13 5 3 0 0 16 16 P tons 50 47 41 46 0 0 91 93 N tons 342 334 310 220 2 1 655 555 Effluent water Mm3 45 44 73 71 0 0 118 115 Solid waste Landfill tons 12,614 8,606 450,976 368,784 3,812 3,123 467,402 380,513 Recovery tons 138,382 160,499 1,228,395 963,258 59,373 57,187 1,426,149 1,180,945 Hazardous tons 2,813 1,764 2,038 2,415 192 48 5,043 4,227 Certified volumes, SCA’s main sites ISO 9001 % 91 – 76 – 79 – ISO 14001 % 82 – 78 – 91 – * Including companies acquired in 2012. ** Partly internal deliveries. 62 SCA Sustainability Report 2013 Social data | Control and assurance Social data 2013 2012 2011 Average number of employees 34,004 33,775 43,697 of whom female, % 28 29 27 Employees leaving the company 5,143 3,993 5,207 Employees joining the company 4,426 6,344 4,809 Age distribution, % –20 years 2 2 2 21–30 years 18 17 18 31–40 years 28 28 27 41–50 years 29 30 30 51–60 years 20 21 20 60– years 3 2 3 Employee turnover, % 15 12 12 Academic degree or similar 20 18 14 Competence development, hours per employee 20 17 19 Diversity: Women, of total number of Board members and senior executives, % 21 21 18 Nationalities, senior management1), number 18 23 14 Nationalities, senior and middle management2), number 41 39 44 Female managers, senior management1), % 24 23 17 Female managers, senior and middle management2), % 25 29 21 Health and safety3) Average headcount 30,417 29,409 28,720 Lost Time Accidents, LTA 504 536 487 Contractor Lost Time Accidents, CLTA 57 n.a. n.a. Days Lost due to Accidents, DLA 8,143 8,958 10,159 Accident Severity Rate, ASR 16.2 16.7 20.9 Frequency Rate, FR (LTA /1,000,000 WH) 8.4 9.7 9.2 Incident Rate, IR (LTA/200,000 WH) 1.7 1.9 1.8 Fatalities 0 1 1 Main sites certified according to OHSAS 18001, % 45 30 28 Code of Conduct Business Practice Reviews Czech Republic, Hungary, Central America, South Korea, Spain Malaysia Greece Code of Conduct audits Chile, France, Russia, US, Malaysia, Mexico, Slovakia, Sweden, Poland Russia Taiwan 1) Top 110–150 managers in wholly owned SCA companies. 2) Top 750–1,000 managers in wholly owned SCA companies. 3) Data for 2011 and 2012 is recalculated for acquisitions and divestments. 100% coverage for production and logistics and excluding sales offices and administration. SCA Sustainability Report 2013 63 Control and assurance | About this Report About this Report This Report describes SCA’s sustainability initi­ Reporting principles The RMS covers more than 85 production sites, atives from an environmental, social and finan­ The environmental and social data reported per­ covering virtually the entire company’s environ­ cial perspective. SCA publishes a Sustainability tains to the 2013 calendar year. The figures mental impact and resource utilization from pro­ Report each year. cover the SCA Group’s wholly owned subsidiar­ duction. Each unit reports the following data to The Sustainability Report and the Annual ies and subsidiaries in which SCA owns at least the system: Report should be viewed as a single unit in which 50% of the company. If SCA’s ownership of a • raw material consumption information may be provided in either report or, plant or mill is 50% or more, the entire facility is • incoming and outgoing shipments where appropriate, in both. Corporate govern­ included. Newly acquired businesses are inte­ • production volumes ance is an example of a subject that is referred to grated when they have been part of the Group • energy consumption broken down by hydro­ briefly in the Sustainability Report but a more for one calendar year. Exceptions to this rule are electric power, co-generation and power detailed description is provided in the Annual made when an acquisition is of a significant size. from the grid Report’s corporate governance section. This was the case, for example, with the acquisi­ • fuel consumption broken down by biofuels, tion of Georgia-Pacific Tissue in 2012, which is fossil fuels and electric boilers GRI reporting why data was included for half of the year. When • air emissions, including data on fossil and For the sixth consecutive year, SCA has pre­ adjustments have been made compared with biogenic carbon dioxide pared its Report in accordance with Global earlier reports, a note is appended directly • water emissions Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines, version 3, beside the text or table. Environmental data • solid waste level A+. Accordingly, the Report has been includes data from manufacturing operations structured in accordance with GRI principles, and office locations, but not from corporate The data is reported both internally and meaning that the content is determined by the staffs, offices or employees in joint ventures. externally at the mill level, business group level issues that are most relevant to SCA and its A main site is a production facility that is wholly and for the Group as a whole. stakeholders, and that the content provides a owned by SCA and that has 100 or more complete view of the operations. SCA reports, employees. Comparability with a few exceptions, in accordance with all Certain data is adjusted retroactively to facilitate Global Reporting Initiative recommended key Data collection comparisons. Figures for the preceding year are performance indicators (KPIs) and a number of Data provided in the Report is compiled through available in previous publications of SCA’s Sus­ supplementary indicators. The GRI indicators various systems, primarily the Group’s ABS tainability Reports. This particularly applies to encompass the material parts of the operations. accounting system, Resource Management data encompassed by SCA’s sustainability tar­ The entire Sustainability Report has been System (RMS) and GRI reporting system. Cer­ gets, such as CO2 and health and safety. reviewed by PwC. More detailed information tain social data such as details about salaries, The results of the Group’s CO2 target and about SCA’s work on environmental and social pensions, level of education, costs for skills water target are adjusted each year in relation to issues is available at www.sca.com. development and other data pertaining to production levels. Other environmental data is employees is reported either quarterly or annu­ reported in absolute figures. ally through ABS. Other GRI data is reported annually through the GRI system. 64 SCA Sustainability Report 2013 Assurance Report | Control and assurance Auditor’s Combined Assurance Report on the Sustainability Report To the readers of the Svenska Cellulosa Aktiebolaget SCA (publ) Sustainability Report 2013 Introduction bility issues, and applying analytical and other in all material respects, been prepared in We have been engaged by the management of review procedures. Hence, the conclusion accordance with the above stated criteria. Svenska Cellulosa Aktiebolaget SCA (publ) to based on our review procedures does not com­ Based on our audit, the information in the perform an examination of the SCA Sustainabil­ prise the same level of assurance as the conclu­ SCA Sustainability Report which has been sub­ ity Report for the year 2013. sion of our audit. Since this assurance engage­ ject to our audit procedures has, in all material ment is combined, our conclusions regarding respects, been prepared in accordance with the Responsibility of the Board and Management the audit and the review will be presented in sep­ above stated criteria. for the Sustainability Report arate sections. The Board of Directors and Executive Manage­ ment team are responsible for the company’s Our audit has included the following information: Stockholm 28 February, 2013 activities regarding environment, health & safety, a. environmental data regarding raw material social responsibility, and sustainable develop­ water and fossil fuels on page 62 PricewaterhouseCoopers AB ment, and for the preparation and presentation b. health and safety data regarding Lost Time of the Sustainability Report in accordance with Accidents (LTA) and Accident Frequency applicable criteria. Rate (FR) on page 50 Responsibility of the Auditor The criteria on which our examination is based Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on are the parts of the Sustainability Reporting the Sustainability Report based on our examina­ Guidelines G3, published by the Global Report­ tion. We have performed the assurance engage­ ing Initiative (GRI), which are applicable to the Anders Lundin ment in accordance with RevR 6 Assurance of Sustainability Report, as well as the accounting Authorised Public Accountant Sustainability Reports issued by FAR. The and calculation principles that the company has engagement consists of a review of the Sustain­ developed and disclosed. We consider these ability Report as a whole and an audit of criteria suitable for the preparation of the Sus­ selected information as specified below. tainability Report. The objective of an audit is to obtain reason­ We consider the evidence collected during able assurance that the information in the Sus­ our examination to be sufficient and appropriate tainability Report is free of material misstate­ in order to support our conclusions listed below. ments. An audit includes examining, on a test Fredrik Ljungdahl basis, evidence supporting the quantitative and Conclusions Expert Member of FAR qualitative information in the Sustainability Based on our review, nothing has come to our Report. A review is mainly limited to making attention that causes us to believe that the infor­ inquiries of personnel responsible for sustaina­ mation in the SCA Sustainability Report has not, SCA Sustainability Report 2013 65 Control and assurance | GRI Index GRI Index SCA’s Sustainability Report for 2013 follows Global Reporting Initiative guidelines Commitments to external initiatives (version G3). The following index shows where information can be found: this 4.11 E xplanations of if and how the precautionary principle is ­Sustainability Report (SR), Annual Report (AR), or SCA’s Group website (sca.com/ applied sca.com/GRI GRI), which contains the corresponding GRI index with direct links. The table 4.12 Association to external voluntary codes, principles or other includes all core indicators and the supplementary indicators that are applicable to initiatives sca.com/GRI SCA’s ­operations. 4.13 M embership in organizations SR 9, sca.com/GRI The GRI Guidelines are the most widely accepted and used standard for sustainStakeholder engagement ability reporting. This is the fifth report in which SCA applies GRI guidelines. SCA is 4.14 L ist of stakeholder groups AR 6–7, 16–17, SR 8–11 reporting on the A+ level as defined by GRI, which has been confirmed by PwC. 4.15 B asis for identification and selection of important stakeholders AR 6–7, 16–17, SR 8–11 4.16 A pproach to stakeholder relations AR 6–7, 16–17, SR 8–11 PROFILE 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through 1. Strategy & analysis dialogs with stakeholders AR 6–7, 16–17, SR 8–11 1.1 CEO’s comments SR 2–3 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities AR 60–65 5. Economic performance indicators Disclosure on management approach AR 8–9, SR 14–15, 58–59 2. OrganiZational profile Economic performance 2.1 Name of the organization AR 111 EC1 Direct economic value and distribution SR inside cover, 20 2.2 Primary brands, products, and services AR 12–13, 30, 38, 44 EC2 Risks and opportunities for the organization due to climate SR 7, 30–35 2.3 Operational structure of the organization SR 58–59, AR 24 changes AR 61 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters SR back cover EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined-benefit plan SR 20, AR 101 (Note 26) 2.5 Countries where the organization is active AR 84 obligations 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form AR 18–19 EC4 Financial assistance received from government AR 78, 81 2.7 Markets AR 37, 43, 49 Market presence 2.8 Size of the organization SR inside cover, AR EC5 Range of ratios for standard entry level wage compared to inside cover local minimum wage SR 20, sca.com/GRI 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period AR 25 EC6 Purchases from local suppliers SR 20 2.10 Awards received during the reporting period SR inside cover EC7 Local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community SR 54, sca.com/GRI 3. Report parameters Indirect economic impact Report profile EC8 Infrastructure investments and services provided for public purposes SR 56–57, sca.com/GRI 3.1 Reporting period SR 64, AR 74 EC9 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of 3.2 Date of most recent previous report SR 64 impacts SR 20, SR 56–57 3.3 Reporting cycle (12 months, 24 months, etc.) SR 64 3.4 Contact person for questions regarding the report SR back cover 6. Environmental performance indicators Report scope & boundaries Disclosure on management approach SR 14–15, 58–59 3.5 Process for defining report content SR 10–11 Materials 3.6 Boundary of the report SR 64 EN1 Materials used by weight or volume SR 60–62 3.7 Specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report SR 64 EN2 Recycled input materials SR 60–62 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, etc SR 64, AR 75 3.9 Data measurement and calculation principles SR 64 Energy 3.10 Comparability with previous reports SR 64 EN3 Direct energy consumption SR 60–62 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods EN4 Indirect energy consumption SR 60–62 regarding scope, boundaries, etc. SR 64 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency GRI content index improvement SR 32–35 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in Water the report SR 66–67 EN8 Total water withdrawal SR 40, 60, 62 3.13 Policy and current practice in regard to external verification of the report SR 65 Biodiversity EN11 Location/scope of land owned near protected areas/areas 4. Governance, commitments & engagement of biodiversity value SR 36, sca.com/GRI EN12 Factors that affect biodiversity SR 36, sca.com/GRI Governance 4.1 Governance structure for the organization AR 50–51, SR 58–59 Emissions, effluents & waste 4.2 The Chairman of the Board’s role in the organization AR 50–51, SR 58–59 EN16 Direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions SR 60–62 4.3 Independent and/or non-executive Board members AR 52 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions SR 60–62 4.4 Methods for shareholders and employees to propose EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions SR 15, 32–33 recommendations, etc. to the Board AR 50–51, SR 58–59 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting compounds sca.com/GRI AR 85 (Note 6), EN20 NO, SO, and other significant air emissions SR 60–62 4.5 Remuneration to senior executives sca.com/GRI EN21 Emissions to water SR 60–62 4.6 Processes for avoiding conflicts of interests in the Board sca.com/GRI EN22 Waste SR 60–62 4.7 Processes for determining the competence of Board EN23 Significant spills sca.com/GRI members sca.com/GRI 4.8 Mission, values, Code of Conduct, etc. SR 44 4.9 The Board’s monitoring of the sustainability work SR 58–59, sca.com/GRI 4.10 Processes for evaluating the Board’s own performance SR 58–59, sca.com/GRI 66 SCA Sustainability Report 2013 GRI Index | Control and assurance Products & services Child labor EN26 Actions to reduce environmental impacts of products and HR6 Operations where there is a risk of incidents of child labor sca.com/GRI services SR 24–27, 30–41 and actions taken EN27 Products sold and their packaging materials that are reused SR 17, 61, sca.com/GRI Forced & compulsory labor Compliance HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of sca.com/GRI EN28 Fines and non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with forced or compulsory labor and actions taken applicable laws sca.com/GRI Indigenous rights Transport HR9 T  otal number of incidents of violations involving rights of EN29 Environmental impact from transport SR 60–61 indigenous people and actions taken sca.com/GRI Society 7. Social performance indicators Community Disclosure of management approach SR 14–15, 58–59 SO1 Programs for evaluating the operation’s impacts on communities SR 44–45, sca.com/GRI Employment Corruption Employees SO2 Business units analyzed for risks related to corruption SR 45–46 LA1 Total workforce by function, employment type and region SR inside cover SR 54–55, 63 SO3 Employees trained in the organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures SR 45–46 LA2 Rate of employee turnover SR 54–55, 63 SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption SR 46 Labor/management relations Public policy LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees sca.com/GRI SO5 Participation in public policy development and lobbying sca.com/GRI LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements SR 55 SO6 Total value of financial contributions to political parties, etc. sca.com/GRI LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes SR 55 Anti-competitive behavior Health & safety SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior sca.com/GRI LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in health and Compliance safety ­committees SR 50 SO8 M  onetary value of fines for non-compliance with applicable LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, work related laws sca.com/GRI ­fatalities SR 50–51, 63 LA8 Programs to assist workforce regarding serious diseases SR 52, sca.com/GRI Product responsibility LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with Customer health & safety trade unions SR 50 PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of Training & education products and services are assessed SR 24, 41 LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee SR 55 Product & service labelling LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning sca.com/GRI PR3 Product labelling and information sca.com/GRI LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance reviews SR 55 Marketing communications Diversity & equal opportunity PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards and voluntary LA13 Composition of governance bodies and workforce SR inside cover, 54–55, codes for marketing communications sca.com/GRI AR 56–59 Compliance LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women sca.com/GRI PR9 Monetary value of fines for non-compliance with regulations ­concerning the use of products and services sca.com/GRI Human rights Investment & procurement practices HR1 Consideration of human rights in regard to investments SR 44–45 HR2 Human rights in the supplier chain SR 48 HR3 Training and education in human rights SR 45–46 Non-discrimination HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken SR 46 Freedom of association & collective bargaining HR5 Operations where freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at significant risk and actions taken sca.com/GRI SCA Sustainability Report 2013 67 Control and assurance | Glossary Glossary Anaerobic treatment Anaerobic wastewater treatment Chemical Thermo Mechanical Pulp, CTMP A highEffluent water Water discharged to water courses after uses biological agents in an oxygen-free environment to yield pulp (about 90–95% yield from the wood) which is treatment. remove impurities from wastewater. obtained by heating and then grinding chemically preElectric boiler Electricity supplied for thermal heat (protreated spruce chips in refining machinery. AOX, Absorbable organic halogens Expresses the duction), for boilers and heat pumps, measured at the site amount of chlorine-bound organic substances. Some of Child Labor Refers to the employment of workers who do and converted into GJ. these substances accumulate in fish and fish-eating birds. not meet the applicable national minimum legal age requireEnvironmental Management System The part of the ment. ASR (Accident Severity Rate) The severity of accidents overall management system which includes the structure, defined as the number of days lost due to accidents (DLA) CHP See Co-generation or Combined Heat and Power. practices, procedures and resources for the systematic in relation to the number of lost time accidents (LTA). Refer implementation of the organization’s own environmental Climate Change Also defined as global warming. Human also to FR, IR and Lost Time Accidents (LTA). policy. activity contributes to the warming of the global environBAT, Best Available Technology Officially used terminolment and its resulting effects, which range from higher temEPD, Environmental Product Declaration Quantified ogy to describe the state-of-the-art technology that industry peratures to eccentric weather patterns and melting of the environmental data for a product with pre-set categories of should use in the field of activity concerned (see IED direcice caps. parameters based on the ISO 14040 series of standards tive and BREF). but not excluding additional environmental information. CO2 biogenic The carbon dioxide derived from combusBiodiversity A term describing the multitude of life forms tion of biofuel. It is calculated from the carbon content of ESAVE Structured energy-saving program introduced by and species (flora and fauna) in an ecosystem. An ecosyswood. SCA in its energy-intensive manufacturing units in 2003. Its tem is a biological community living in a particular physical aim is to substantially reduce the consumption of energy in CO2, Carbon dioxide A gaseous compound emitted natenvironment. production units. urally through geological activity during the decomposition Biofuel Renewable fuel from wood and process residues. process and through human activity. Industry and transport ETS, Emission Trading Scheme (or System) Greenand heating/cooling are currently the largest emitters of house gas emission allowance trading scheme for the costBOD, Biochemical oxygen demand Water emission facCO2. effective reduction of such emissions in the European tor which describes the amount of oxygen consumed durUnion. ing biodegradation of dissolved organic matter in effluent CO2 fossil The carbon dioxide derived from combustion of water, without describing the specific substances present. fossil fuels. It is calculated from the carbon content of each Forced Labor This includes indentured, debt bondage or High BOD values indicate depletion of the normal oxygen fuel. involuntary labor of any kind. content of the water environment. It is measured over seven COD, Chemical oxygen demand Water emission factor Fossil fuel Coal, fuel oil and natural gas. days in SCA’s Swedish mills and five days in the rest of which describes the amount of oxygen consumed when Europe, in accordance with national legislative systems. Freedom of Association Refers to the right of employees dissolved matter in effluent water oxidizes. High COD valto lawfully join associations of their own choosing, peaceBREF Best Available Technology Reference Document. ues can indicate a risk of depletion of the normal oxygen fully associate, organize or bargain collectively. This document identifies BAT (Best Available Technology) content in the water environment. for a number of sectors selected by the EU, including the FR, Frequency Rate The number of accidents/incidents Code of Conduct Is a formal statement of the values and pulp and paper industry. per million hours worked. business practices of a company. A code is a statement of Bribery Is the giving or receiving of any undue reward by or minimum standards, together with a pledge by the comFresh wood fiber Also referred to as virgin fiber. First gento any person to influence their behavior in a manner conpany to observe them and to also require its contractors, eration use of raw material derived from wood. trary to the principles of honesty and integrity. subcontractors and suppliers, to observe them. FSC, Forest Stewardship Council An international orgaCarbon sink As they grow, forests transform gaseous carCo-generation or Combined Heat and Power, nization promoting responsible forest management. FSC bon into solid form, thereby absorbing CO2 whilst simultaCHP Combined production of electricity and thermal has developed principles for forest management used for neously producing oxygen. Forests, agricultural land and energy. Co-generation has a high total efficiency. certifying the management of forest holdings, and a system the world’s oceans are considered to be “carbon sinks” by of tracing, verifying and labelling timber and wood products Consumer waste Waste generated after a product has current science. based on FSC-certified forests. SCA is an active supporter been used, for example, used diapers, feminine care prodof FSC. Chain-of-Custody The traceability of the origins of a ucts and tissue. product through all its transformations from raw material to Grid supply The electricity supplied from the national grid. Dow Jones Sustainability Index The share index of finished product. In the SCA context, Chain-of-Custody GWh Gigawatt hours Unit of energy measurement (eleccompanies that are considered leaders in the area of suscertification links SCA’s products with its FSC-certified fortricity and heat). 1GWh=1 million kWh. tainable development and that conduct their businesses ests. accordingly. Hazardous waste Material disposed of by authorized Chemical pulp Pulp from wood fibers processed chemicontractors, as defined by national laws. Dust Particles in the flue gas created during combustion. cally, normally by cooking. 68 SCA Sustainability Report 2013 Glossary | Control and assurance Human Rights Are based on the recognition of the inherMain site A production facility that is wholly owned by Renewable All materials which can be re-grown or proent dignity and the equal and inalienable rights of all memSCA and that has 100 or more employees. duced without depletion of natural resources. bers of the human family, and are the foundation of freeMechanical pulp Debarked wood that is ground or SO2 Total sulfur calculated as SO2 from processes and dom, justice, and peace in the world. They are defined in chipped for mechanical refining to separate the fibers that combustion at the site. Where SO2 is not measured, the the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (1948). form pulp. input sulfur in the fuel is calculated. IED (Industry Emissions Directive) The EU Directive on MSW, Municipal Solid Waste An important fraction SRI, Socially-responsible investment A method of integrated pollution prevention and control. (15%) of the total solid waste. Disposable diapers and selecting stocks for investment using criteria related to a Incidence Rate, IR Number of incidents per 200,000 incontinence products are part of the MSW. company’s environmental, social and ethical performance. working hours. N, Nitrogen A chemical element, also present in wood, Sludge Residue from the production of paper; consists of Inorganic material Covers inorganic fillers and coating that is necessary for plant and animal life. Excess N in water inert materials, mainly small fiber debris, filler and other inert materials supplied to a site calculated at 100% dry subcan cause major increases in the amount of algae, which materials. It used to be sent to landfill. Nowadays used as stances (ds). can lead to oxygen deficiency when the algae decompose. ‘new’ raw material and incinerated with energy recovery. International Labor Organization (ILO) The InternaNewsprint Paper for newspapers produced from Solid-wood products Wood sawn into various dimentional Labor Organization is a United Nations Agency, which mechanical pulp based on fresh fiber or recovered fiber. sions and sizes for furniture, joinery and construction use. establishes Conventions on Labor standards that are bindNon-Governmental Organizations (NGOs) Are Stakeholders Groups of people with whom an organizaing for member states when ratified. There are over 150 ILO national, international, and community-based groups that tion has active relationships, and with whom effective dialog Conventions, eight of which are “Core Conventions” since raise awareness about social, environmental, community is necessary to the functioning of the business. Shareholdthey embody fundamental human rights and set minimum and human rights issues. ers, authorities, customers, employees and professional labor standards. associations are all stakeholders in SCA’s business activiNOX as NO2 The nitrogen oxides NO and NO2, calculated ISO 14001 The standard published by the International ties. as NO2 derived from combustion. Where NOX is not measStandards Organization, specifying the requirements of an ured, a standard value of 100 mg/MJ fuel is used. Suspended solids Particles that are not dissolved in the environmental management system. All SCA European mills effluent water. are certified ISO 14001. Organic fossil material Covers crude-oil-based materials, such as super-absorbents and adhesives calculated at TCF, Totally Chlorine Free Paper pulp which is bleached Kraftliner Packaging paper primarily made of fresh wood. 100% dry substances. without using chlorine in any form. Landfill Solid waste material sent to a landfill. P, Phosphorus A chemical element, also present in wood, TMP, Thermo Mechanical Pulp A high-yield pulp (about Leach/Leachate The percolation of liquids through the that is necessary for plant and animal life. Excess P in water 90–95% yield from the wood) which is obtained by heating earth. The leaching natural process can pollute undercan cause nutrient enrichment. spruce chips and then grinding them in refiners. ground water or surface water, which is situated below a Production waste To SCA, waste comprises only materiTJ, Terajoule A unit used to measure energy (fuel). retention basin of wastewater, or a landfill, which is biologials leaving its production units that cannot be used for any cally active, for example. Tissue Creped soft paper which is the basis for hygiene further useful purpose. Recovered paper and fiber are products such as napkins, toilet paper and towels, and Life Cycle Assessment, LCA A method of assessing the excluded, since they form part of SCA’s main raw materials. toweling products for institutions, hotels, etc. environmental impact of a product, taking account of its REACH, Regulation, Evaluation, Authorization and entire lifespan from raw material extraction to waste disTWh, TeraWatt hour Unit of energy measurement. Restriction of Chemicals European regulation posal. 1 TWh=1,000 million KWh (1,907/2,000/EC) which address the production and (safe) Liquor Substance(s) Used in or resulting from chemical use of chemical substances and their potential impact on Water Represents the sum of surface water, ground water pulp production. White liquor is the cooking liquor (sodium both human health and the environment. Some 30,000 and tap water for processes and cooling purposes. hydroxide and sodium sulphide). Black liquor is the waste chemicals will have to be registered after testing with the Wood/sawmill chips The sum of wood delivered to each liquor from the completed production cycle. Most of it is recentral European Chemical Agency (ECHA) in Helsinki. site. used as fuel and burnt in the recovery boiler. Green liquor is Companies will have to obtain authorization to use hazardan aqueous solution, the residue of burning the black liquor. ous chemicals. LTA, Lost Time Accidents Accidents that cause the RMS SCA’s Resource Management System: a means of absence of an employee from work. collecting and collating all environmental data and resource utilization within the SCA Group. LWC paper, Light Weight Coated LWC paper is a coated paper with a high mechanical pulp content. Used for Recovered fiber Paper-making fiber derived from a sechigh-quality magazines and advertising materials with ondary source, such as used paper and board, used for demanding color-printing requirements. recycling. SCA Sustainability Report 2013 69 Svenska Cellulosa Aktiebolaget SCA (publ) PO Box 200, SE-101 23 Stockholm, Sweden. Visiting address: Klarabergsviadukten 63 Tel +46 8 788 51 00, fax +46 8 788 53 80 Corp. Reg. No.: 556012-6293 www.sca.com Business units SCA INCONTINENCE CARE SCA consumer goods SCA AfH Professional SCA MEIA EUROPE europe HYGIENE EUROPE 34820 AVCILAR ISTANBUL SE-405 03 GÖTEBORG Postfach 1208 Postfach 1208 Turkey Sweden DE-85730 ISMANING DE-85730 ISMANING Visiting address: Universite Mah. Visiting address: Germany Germany Baglarici Cad. No:29 Kat:6 Bäckstensgatan 5, Mölndal Visiting address: Adalperostrasse 31 Visiting address: Adalperostrasse 31 Tel + 90 212 509 38 22 Tel +46 31 746 00 00 Tel +49 89 970 06 0 Tel +49 89 970 06 0 Fax + 90 212 676 01 06 Fax +46 31 746 19 00 Fax +49 89 970 06 644 Fax +49 89 970 06 644 SCA Americas SCA Asia Pacific SCA Forest Products Cira Centre 5th Floor, Building 1 SE-851 88 SUNDSVALL Suite 2600 No.3 Fenyang Road Sweden 2929 Arch Street Xuhui District Visiting address: Skepparplatsen 1 Philadelphia, PA 19104 SHANGHAI 200031 Tel +46 60 19 30 00, 19 40 00 US China Fax +46 60 19 34 97 Tel +1 610 499 3700 Tel +86 21 2426 0000 Fax +1 610 499 3402 GHC GHS GBS (gLOBAL HYGIENE CATEGORY) (Global HYGIENE SUPPLY) (GLOBAL BUSINESS ­SERVICEs) SE-405 03 GÖTEBORG Postfach 1208 Box 200 Sweden DE-85730 ISMANING SE-101 23 Stockholm Visiting address: Germany Sweden Bäckstensgatan 5, Mölndal Visiting address: Adalperostrasse 31 Visiting address: Tel +46 31 746 00 00 Tel +49 89 970 06 0 Klarabergsviadukten 63 Fax +46 31 746 19 00 Fax +49 89 970 06 644 Tel +46 8 788 51 00 Fax +46 8 788 53 80 Contact persons Kersti Strandqvist Patrik Isaksson Lulu Li Senior Vice President, Group Function Vice President, Environmental Affairs Manager, Corporate Social Sustainability E-mail: patrik.isaksson@sca.com Responsibility E-mail: kersti.strandqvist@sca.com Tel: +46 8 788 51 04 E-mail: lulu.li@sca.com Tel: +46 8 788 52 24 Tel: +46 8 788 52 94 Per Brattberg Director, Sustainability Reporting Marita Sander E-mail: per.brattberg@sca.com Communications Director, Tel: +46 8 788 52 58 Sustainability E-mail: marita.sander@sca.com Tel: +46 8 788 52 46 This report is produced by SCA in cooperation with Hallvarsson & Halvarsson. Photo: Torbjörn Bergkvist, Håkan Flank, Juliana Fälldin, Peter Hoelstad, Mariel Kolmschot, Håkan Lindgren, Donna Rizzo, Per-Anders Sjöquist and Rick Tomlinson. Print: Elanders 2014. Translation: The Bugli Company AB.
