l IMPORTACO 2013 INTERACTIVE INDEX Pág. 17 – 21. Profile of the Organization 22, 25. History 26, 31. Corporate Governance 33. Economic information 34 – 49. Sustainable Supply Chain 50 – 59. Committed to the workers 60 – 75. Customer Relations 76 – 81. Environmental Sustainability 82 – 87. Our contribution to society GRI l IMPORTACO 2013 l IMPORTACO 2013 IMPORTACO 2013 97 % service 303 million Euros consolidated 20 innovations launched turnover 20 improved products 9.1 million Euros consolidated net profit 22 international suppliers provide us with 74% of the raw 12 production centres materials 901 workers 4th International Congress of Preferred Suppliers 2 3 90 % permanent contract 96% of the purchase of materials and ingredients from 94 % trained workforce Spanish suppliers 247,871 Euros 19% of the purchase of raw materials invested in training from Spanish suppliers 14 production centres 24 food safety audits of suppliers (Spain, Portugal and Turkey) 13 social audits of suppliers BRC/IFS certification in all production centres INDEX Dear Friends, The year 2013 at Importaco was characterized by the professionalism and responsibility with which all our teams have faced the strategic challenges of the company. If we look back, we realize that the future is full of opportunities and if we work hard we will continue to develop as a company, since, despite the difficulties of the current situation, Importaco has maintained steady growth over the years. In a climate like this: uncertain, demanding and competitive, we need to evolve in procurement management. The time has come to narrow the gap between the field and the consumer. Our relationship with the agricultural sector has always been close, but now we want to go a step further by encouraging its modernization and working under a Model of Responsible and Sustainable Management to ensure maximum food safety. Since we started our integration with the packaging centre in Turkey, progress has been continuous and next year we will have eight professionals located in the countries of origin of the raw materials to perform closer monitoring and advance in the integration of the whole supply chain. In 2013 we have taken 5 the first step, with highly positive results, and we can say that we have added an agricultural supplier to our management. Our supply chain is global, complex and fragmented, making the Integration Project a major challenge. The dispersion of suppliers and varied development of the producing areas are challenges we face through cooperation with our Preferred Suppliers. This year we held the Fourth International Congress of Preferred Suppliers, where we strengthened our commitment to food safety, competitiveness and integration with the source based on collaboration. However, we must not forget that competitiveness should go hand in hand with respect for human rights wherever we operate as a company. Social Audits at Source have enabled us to delve deeper in this respect and make continuous improvement plans to ensure the sustainability of the supply chain. INDEX IMPORTACO 2013 Markets and technologies are constantly changing. Therefore, the present and future of Importaco are focused on innovation, on being a well-informed company that encourages and anticipates change, with a qualified and committed team. That is why this year we have carried out the fourth Working Climate Survey, where workers have openly assessed the management of the company. Thanks to the measures taken, the results show an improved working climate. Importaco is a family company that has worked tirelessly to build a solid foundation on which to base its management. The succession from the second to third generation has been prepared gradually over the years. Currently, we have a Family Council working to ensure the continuity of the family business, a Board of Directors consisting of family members and external advisors, and committed professional teams to carry out the strategic plans formulated. Finally, I would like to end this brief review of the most significant events of 2013 by mentioning the need for the company to be an ethical space that integrates the legitimate expectations of 6 the various stakeholders in order to become a key agent in creating a better society. Francisco Pons Alcoy Chairman of Importaco INDEX INDEX INDEX INDEX INDEX Profile of the Organization Importaco is a company in the food industry whose main business is the processing, packaging and supply of nuts, dried fruits and snacks. Importaco also holds shares in Aguas de Cortes, a mineral water supply company, Helados Estiu, an ice cream manufacturing company, and Foener, a company in the renewable energy sector. Our main markets in Spain are: modern distribution, with Mercadona as the sole client; food industry, hotels, restaurants, catering and wholesale. These markets are supplied by the various group companies: Importaco Casa Pons, Importaco Ingredients and Importaco Food Service. Development of the international market is dealt with mainly by Importaco Poland. 17 Importaco’s business strategy and activities are based on economic, social and environmental sustainability. To formalize our commitment to society, in 2088 we joined the United Nations Global Compact, an initiative that establishes 10 universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour standards, environment and anti-corruption. INDEX IMPORTACO 2013 Profile of the Organization THE WORKPLACES Importaco is a company that operates globally. However, its centre of operations is in Beniparrell (Valencia, Spain), where the key decisions to be implemented in the workplaces in Spain, Poland and Turkey, where 901 people work, are made. POLAND VALENCIAN COMMUNITY Bydgosczc (Poland): Nut processing and distribution plant 1. Vall D’Alba (Spain): Almond processing plant 2. Cortes de Arenoso (Spain): Aguas de Cortes 3. Ribaroja del Turia (Spain): Helados Estiu 18 21 4. Beniparrell (Spain): Nut plant Dried fruit plant Microwave plant Frozen dough plant Training School Technology Centre Foener 5. Picassent (Spain): Izmir (Turkey): Nut processing and distribution plant Dried fruit plant 6. Carlet (Spain): Production plant for meat products and other snacks 7. Chella (Spain): TURKEY Chocolate coatings production plant INDEX l IMPORTACO 2013 IMPORTACO THE WORLD IS OUR HORIZON Countries we import raw materials from Countries we export our products to 20 21 China Chile Netherlands Germany Hungary Portugal Thailand Peru Belgium Algeria Mauritius UK Vietnam Brazil Germany Belgium Japan Czech Republic Philippines USA Moldova Bulgaria Kuwait Romania Indonesia Canada Estonia Cyprus Lebanon Sweden India Tunisia Iran United Arab Emirates Malta Switzerland Turkey South Africa Spain USA Morocco Tunisia Israel France Sri Lanka France Netherlands Argentina England Bolivia Greece Poland INDEX IMPORTACO Historiy “Valencia Market (Lonja de “Opportunities arise when 1940 1975 Francisco Pons Martí Valencia) was a school of Development of the you pay attention to what is starts operations ethics for us: reliability, strategy: “All the nuts happening around you.” with the purchase of dependability and simplicity.” in the world” local products such as peanuts, tiger nuts The first supermarkets “That is how Importaco began and beans at Valencia “Values which have endured in and hypermarkets all its strategic changes.” Market appear the management of Importaco 1950 until the present day.” Move to new 8,000 m2 Installation of premises in Beniparrell the first cleaning, shelling and sorting machines 1965 1982 Due to poor harvests, Launch of peanuts are imported 1972 the sales for the first time Turning point ship: development A ship bearing a plan based on The 2nd generation Russian flag comes Cash & Carry 1996 joins the company: to the Port of Valencia with the opening Creation of the Francisco and Juan with products for of 18 branches Quality Department Antonio Pons Alcoy Importaco. The flag throughout Spain prevents it from Opening of the third disembarking in Spain factory in Beniparrell, 1991 with a surface area of As a result, an import Creation of the 21,000 m2 group is created with brand, Hechos al Sol, 1970 22 Differentiation ten other companies. to supply modern 1992 Major domination of distribution Incorporation of strategy: the company the market the 3rd generation: invests in a machine for homogenizing Eva Pons Casañ peanut shell colour to a uniform honey colour 1973 Importaco becomes a corporation: Importaco 1994 Acquisition of S. A. Elafruse, a company specializing in The company leaves the production of the vegetable business chocolate-coated nuts to focus on the nut market 1974 Creation of the brand, Itac INDEX IMPORTACO Historiy “Coming closer to the client “Sustainable investment 1997 2005 Increased industrial allowed us to adapt our range First quality audit of a allows for continuous development. We focus to suit their needs.” supplier at source development.” more on processing and packaging in small Creation of the PS formats in order to to “Importaco invested in concept –preferred “The overall management come closer to the end processes and quality products suppliers–. High of Importaco is based on customer concentration of that gave added value.” purchases from innovation, quality and Creation of the brand, suppliers exclusive to specialization.” Casa Pons a single product Acquisition of shares 2000 in Aguas de Cortes 2009 Acquisition of majority Opening of the fried stake in Campo Seco, dough factory: churros a company specializing and porras in nuts with flavoured 2006 coatings Acquisition of shares First International in Frutos Secos 2011 Congress of Preferred Castellón, company Creation of the First quality Suppliers, attended by specializing in company, Importaco certification ISO 9001 suppliers from all over ingredients for the Turkey, packaging the world food industry centre 2007 First social audit of First Food Safety suppliers 2001 Acquisition of the Certification (BRC and IFS) First ISO 14001 company, Fritos Pérez, certification specializing in snacks 25 2003 2008 Start of Opening of the internationalization Technology Centre: specialized Acquisition of the laboratories, research Polish company, and innovation 2010 Domat The generational Opening of the changeover begins: Importaco Training Signing of the Family Francisco Pons Alcoy School Protocol is appointed Chairman Opening of the dried and Juan Antonio fruit and microwave Pons Casañ, General popcorn factories Manager 2012 Expansion of the chocolate-coated 2004 nut factory Firm decision to opt for Mercadona as single New factory modern distribution specializing in Food client Service INDEX IMPORTACO 2013 Corporate Governance The governing and managing bodies, along with the Sustainability Commission documents describing the vision, mission and values of This was created to ensure the sustainability of the company from the company from different perspectives, are essential to different fields of management and reports directly to the Chairman. This Commission will enter into force in 2014 and consists of: ensure the sustainability and reputation of the company. The Food Safety Committee GOVERNMENT STRUCTURE Monitors and ensures the harmlessness of food products to guarantee the highest standards of food safety. The corporate governance of Importaco is articulated through the following bodies and institutional and operational mechanisms: The Risk Committee Ensures the safety of people, facilities and goods, and deals with the General Shareholders’ Meeting legal and tax issues of the company. Attended by all the shareholders of the company: the members of the family. Meets at least once a year to approve the financial statements and whenever The ECOFIN Committee requested by the Chairman of the Board of Directors. Ensures the financial sustainability of the company. Board of Directors The Responsible Management Committee Enforces the Code of Ethics, Transparency Policy and Code of Like the General Shareholders’ Meeting, this consists of members of the family Conduct for Suppliers. and has an external advisor. Chair Committee 26 COMPOSITION OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Analyses and discusses strategic issues for the development of business 27 and ensures compliance with the objectives approved by the Board TYPE OF DATE OF of Directors. NAME POSITION DIRECTOR APPOINTMENT Governing Board Francisco Pons Alcoy Chairman Chairman January 20, 2011 This is the executive body and keeps track of all the company’s activities. Its Jerónima Casañ Verdeguer Vice-Chairman Non-Executive January 20, 2011 members are responsible for ensuring compliance with the Management Plans approved by the Board of Directors. Eva Pons Canañ Secretary Executive January 20, 2011 Lucia Pons Sancho Member Executive January 20, 2011 Juan Antonio Pons Casañ Member Executive January 20, 2011 Amparo Pons Sancho Member Executive January 20, 2011 Elena Pons Casañ Member Executive January 20, 2011 Natalia Pons Sancho Member Executive January 20, 2011 Fernando Pons Casañ Member Executive January 20, 2011 Francisco Pons Sancho Member Non-Executive January 20, 2011 INDEX IMPORTACO 2013 Corporate Governance COMPOSITION OF THE GOVERNING BOARD NAME POSITION Francisco Pons Alcoy Chairman Francisco Pons Alcoy Juan Antonio Pons Casañ General Manager Amparo Pons Sancho Corporate General Manager José Domingo Bort Chief Operating Officer of Importaco Casa Pons Salvador Campos Fernández Sales Manager of Importaco Casa Pons Juan Antonio Amparo Santiago Chover Llacer General Manager of Importaco Food Service Pons Casañ Pons Sancho Gaspar Alapont Martínez General Manager of Importaco Ingredients Jesús Olivares Muñoz General Manager of Importaco Poland Javier Mora Puig General Manager of Importaco International 28 29 Teresa Cercós Fortea General Manager of Innovation and Quality José Salvador Santiago Gaspar Jesús Domingo Bort Campos Fernández Chover Llacer Alapont Martínez Olivares Muñoz Jaime Moreno Soler General Manager of Administration and Systems Armando Calatayud Olivert General Manager of People and Values Amancio Muñoz López Purchasing Manager Javier Teresa Jaime Armando Amancio Mora Puig Cercós Fortea Moreno Soler Calatayud Olivert Muñoz López INDEX IMPORTACO 2013 Corporate Governance REPRESENTATION OF IMPORTACO IN OTHER COMPANIES Reliability Agua de Cortes We build our discourse from knowledge, experience, study and advice. We manage reality with objective information. Water bottling company and Mercadona supplier. Importaco is represented by two members on the Board of Directors. Participation Helados Estiu As social beings, our responsibility leads us to contribute to the achievement of the common objectives of the organization, helping Ice cream manufacturing company and Mercadona supplier. Importaco is and encouraging the enhancement of the skills and attitudes of the represented by two members on the Board of Directors. members of the teams we are part of. Foener GUIDELINES FOR ACTION Renewable energy company engaging in the management of photovoltaic assets through the promotion, investment and sale of projects. Importaco is Family Protocol represented by three members on the Board of Directors. To ensure the continuity of the family business, the actions of the members of the Family Board are regulated by specific rules on the property, WHAT UNITES US governance, management and professionalization of the family members. In 2013, the Board members received training in finance, governing bodies Mission and responsibility of directors, in addition to visiting clients and suppliers to 30 learn from their management. 31 We are an international family business group in the food sector, specializing in nuts and snacks, which contributes to the improving the Management Model health and nutrition of consumers through innovation, ethical behaviour and respect for the environment. Includes the basic principles, management systems and rules applied in all areas of governance and business management. This model has been adapted Vision to the strategic plans made 2013. Being leaders in the Spanish market and benchmark company in the panEuropean area, basing our management on the values of trust, reliability and Code of Ethics participation, shared by workers, preferred suppliers and partner clients, to create an international group capable of competing in the markets defined Includes the principles and commitments that should guide the daily work with integrated efficiency. at Importaco. It will be published in 2014 and will contribute to the ethical and responsible management of the companies and of the relationships Values established with the various stakeholders, whether internal or external. The Code includes the Transparency Policy. Trust Code of Conduct for Suppliers Understood as an essential and crucial term that underlies social relationships. We construct reality in terms of security, certainty, Includes the minimum practices we require of any supplier warmth, balance, poise, fortitude and integrity. regarding compliance with human rights, labour practices and environmental performance. It will be distributed after the publication of the Code of Ethics. INDEX Información económica 2013 ECONOMIC INFORMATION 2013 Highlights 303 million Euro Turnover 9.7 million Euro Profit after tax 73 million Euro Equity 5.2 million Euro Investments 32 Sales by volume 33 73 million kilos of nuts IMPORTACO 234 million packets of nuts IMPORTACO 164 million litres of natural mineral water AGUAS DE CORTES 17 million litres of ice cream HELADOS ESTIU 5 million kilowatt-hours of renewable energy FOENER INDEX SUSTAINABLE IMPORTACO 2013 Sustainable Supply Chain The nuts and dried fruits come from all over SUPPLY CHAIN the world, so Importaco has a complex global supply chain. The requirement for high levels of quality means that the relationship with suppliers cannot be just a business relationship for buying and selling products, but must focus on a sustainable relationship based on trust and transparency. Our relationship with suppliers is sustainable and based on trust and transparency Our interest in continuous improvement led us, in 2005, to change the way we interpret relationships with raw material suppliers, starting to establish stable collaboration agreements in order to work in an integrated manner. These suppliers – called PPShave to meet our food safety and sustainability requirements and be able to supply us at a competitive price. The ultimate goal of this management model is to satisfy our 34 customers. Therefore, in 2013, 74% of raw materials were 35 purchased from these suppliers. Responsible and sustainable management of the purchasing process is not focused exclusively on raw materials, but also covers the purchase of ingredients and materials. The continued increase in customer demands has meant that, since 2011, we have been conducting a project for the consolidation of suppliers of ingredients and materials. INDEX IMPORTACO 2013 Sustainable Supply Chain As a result of this project, we engage with those that WALKING TO THE SOURCE meet our quality and food safety requirements at the expense of those that do not provide the same value to the product. Currently, 77% meet the strictest quality and food safety requirements. We engage with suppliers that meet quality and food safety requirements • 19% of raw materials and 95% of ingredients and materials are of Importaco’s procurement process continues to focus on Spanish origin ensuring responsible management from source to production. In 2013, we made a firm commitment in this respect through two projects that will enable us to bring the field to the consumer: the first is aimed at the promotion of the Spanish primary sector and the second aims to achieve greater control of crops and greater presence in the countries of origin of raw materials. These changes have led to a restructuring of the 36 purchasing department and we will now have eight specialists 37 in different regions of South America, North America, Asia SUPPLIER UPDATE and Middle East. New Suppliers in Regular regular the process of suppliers suppliers disengagement 22 7 3 Raw materials 15 5 2 Ingredients and materials INDEX IMPORTACO 2013 Sustainable Supply Chain In line with the new projects, the purchasing managers maintain close relationships with the suppliers and visit them regularly. In 2013, 90% of suppliers were visited and these trips have provided greater understanding of procurement management. ➔ Esteban Lagarda, Purchasing Manager for materials and ingredients, visiting the display stand supplier 38 39 SUPPLY CHAIN QUALITY Food safety is a priority for Importaco and its customers. Therefore, we carry out actions to ensure the health of the consumer, such as controlling the processing of the product in the countries of origin and analysing it when it reaches our facilities. We work to ensure the safety of our products Initial assessment The process of establishing a business relationship with a supplier starts by informing them of the specifications and minimum food safety requirements to be met. Subsequently, they are asked to submit the documents verifying this information and a purchase is made to assess the quality of the product. INDEX IMPORTACO 2013 Sustainable Supply Chain Quality Audit QUALITY AUDITS CONDUCTED IN 2013 Suppliers of Raw material ingredients and suppliers materials 16 8 Continuous assessment The quality department visits suppliers every 18 or 24 months in order to monitor the actions to be implemented following audit. Throughout 2013 we have verified the improvements and investments made by suppliers to meet our food safety and quality requirements. RESPONSIBLE MANAGEMENT 40 41 The fundamental principles of the United Nations Framework for Business and Human Rights establish the obligation of companies to respect human rights and act with due diligence in order not to violate them. At Importaco we undertake to provide the necessary resources to uphold and apply these principles by implementing policies aimed at the sustainability of the supply chain with a double aim: to prevent our activities having negative effects on the communities in which we operate and to prevent and/or mitigate the consequences associated with our operations. We are also inviting suppliers to join the United Nations Global Compact so that we all move forward in After assessing the product, the quality department the same direction. conducts a food safety audit based on the IFS and BRC standards to verify the extent to which the supplier meets Code of Conduct for Suppliers these standards. This audit results in a rating and a plan of action with the improvement opportunities identified. 81% The responsibilities, commitments and expectations of suppliers audited in 2013 meet our quality and food safety that Importaco has in its relationship with suppliers must be requirements. announced publicly. As a result of this requirement, in 2013, we have prepared the Code of Conduct for Importaco Suppliers. This code will be published in 2014 and contains the minimum practices we require of any supplier in relation to compliance with human rights, labour practices and environmental performance. The content of the Code is in line with the INDEX IMPORTACO 2013 Sustainable Supply Chain Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the fundamental Continuous assessment conventions of the International Labour Organization. After the audit, a Plan of Action is prepared, containing Social audits the improvement opportunities identified. The drafting of this Plan gives the supplier the opportunity to improve continuously Social audits have two aims: to ensure supplier by establishing an alliance with them. Audits are conducted compliance with our sustainability standards and to every 18-24 months, although monitoring is continuous. strengthen our relationship with suppliers by increasing transparency and collaboration. 2013 has been a year of review, professionalization and consolidation of the Social Audit System, A STRONGER RELATIONSHIP EVERY YEAR in which we assess supplier performance in labour standards (wages, working hours, child labour, forced labour, training and As a result of the PPS Project, in 2006 we held the first discrimination), health and safety in the workplace, and respect International PPS Congress, which was intended as a place to for the environment. This year the number of social audits of strengthen customer-supplier relationships and take on new raw material suppliers increased by 60% and we have started commitments to meet the needs of our customers. auditing suppliers of ingredients and raw materials. Last year, the fourth Congress was held with the aim of announcing the new Importaco Procurement Strategy and the food safety, quality, competitiveness and sustainability requirements. The congress was attended by raw material Social audits strengthen our relationship suppliers from eleven different countries, funders, Mercadona, Foreign Health representatives and Importaco professionals. with our suppliers 42 43 At the 4th International PPS Congress, the new Importaco Procurement Strategy was SOCIAL AUDITS CONDUCTED IN 2013 announced Suppliers of Raw material ingredients and suppliers materials 8 5 INDEX IMPORTACO 2013 Sustainable Supply Chain ➔ ➔ Amparo Pons, Teresa Cercós, Corporate General General Manager of 44 Manager of Importaco innovation and quality 45 ➔ ➔ Amancio Muñoz, General Purchasing Natalia Pons, Head Manager of CSR INDEX IMPORTACO 2013 ➔ Sustainable Supply Chain Shelled walnut PPS display ➔ ➔ Fig PPS display International PPS Congress attendees 46 47 ➔ Plum PPS display INDEX IMPORTACO 2013 Sustainable Supply Chain 48 49 Visit of the congress attendees to the nut factory INDEX COMMITTED IMPORTACO 2013 Committed to the workers We believe that relationships with employees TO THE WORKERS should be based on ethics, transparency and trust. Training and prevention policies, equality and reconciliation plans, and integration projects are tools that help us create a work environment that encourages the personal and professional development of staff. WORK CLIMATE Transparent communication within a company is essential for maintaining an atmosphere of cooperation and creating a culture based on empathy and trust. One of the actions taken to ensure transparent communication has been the Employee Satisfaction Survey, in which 91.8% of the workforce took part. The purpose of the survey is to determine the staff’s perception of the policies implemented in the company by assessing working conditions, organization, communication, teamwork, innovation and quality, leadership and motivation. The results are shared with all staff and each department 50 sets the plans to be followed over the coming years. The survey 51 shows an improvement of 8.1% since 2003 and the gradual consolidation of the corporate values: Reliability, Trust and Participation. The most highly rated aspects were leadership, motivation and teamwork. Every year corporate values are more consolidated PROFESSIONAL WORKERS The people that make up Importaco are a key element for growth. In a climate like today’s: complex, demanding and competitive, and in a global industry, the involvement of workers in achieving the goals of the company is vital to the implementation of strategic plans. In 2013 we ended the year with a workforce of 733, of which 71% work in the production centres, the lungs of the company. INDEX IMPORTACO 2013 Committed to the workers 52 53 X anniversary of the dried fruit plant INDEX IMPORTACO 2013 Committed to the workers ➔ Training at Importaco Turkey The involvement of workers is vital to the implementation of strategic plans ➔ Document Management course The training of staff is essential for a company to anticipate changes and tackle them effectively. In 2013, 94% of the workforce received training and investment in training amounted to 247,871 Euro. 54 Training increases every year TRAINING ACTIVITIES GIVEN 55 The Importaco Training School was created to provide Basic workers with somewhere to share and acquire knowledge and Food safety, food defence, sustainability and health and safety. experience. The school is used intensively, currently hosting 79% of training activities. The purpose of these activities is Skills to make people more independent, improve their decisionEffective communication, leadership, time management, change making skills and encourage their initiative towards continuous management, emotional intelligence and negotiation. improvement. Bearing in mind this goal, in 2013, 20,230 hours of training were given, 30% more than the previous year. Specific Social audit, languages, carbon footprint, allergens, sensory analysis of food, maintenance, continuous improvement and costs. Managerial development Control and optimization of resources, intangible asset management, management of people, innovation and ethics and business management. Over the years, the company has invested in professionals who, after years of experience and training, are now largely today’s trainers. That is why we promote training with internal trainers in order to convey the company culture in addition to training. 41% of activities were given by internal trainers. INDEX IMPORTACO 2013 Committed to the workers New technologies are an opportunity at the Importaco Training School, and in 2013, we created the AulaImportaco. com platform, through which we conducted three courses. Next year, this classroom will be a resource for the development of online training. THE IMPORTANCE OF SAFETY IN THE WORKPLACE Training staff and raising their awareness of the importance of safety in the workplace is essential to ensure health at work. The creation and monitoring of new habits and the professionalism of the Joint Prevention Service managers make it possible to integrate prevention in the company’s Health and safety training sessions are essential for processes. promoting a culture of prevention within the company and training workers in specific safety aspects of the workplace. Last year, a total of 3,628 of training in prevention were given, 41 % more than the previous year. ATTRACTING AND RETAINING TALENT 56 The commitment to making Importaco an excellent 57 place to work at involves offering a steady, high-quality job, ensuring equal opportunities and valuing workers. In the nut business, there are currently 733 workers, 90% of whom have a permanent contract. The plans carried out to improve the work environment have enabled us to reduce absenteeism to 2.24% and staff turnover to 0.32 %1. Performance assessment At the Importaco Casa Pons nut, dried fruit, dough Another factor that enables us to meet new challenges and microwave production centres, we have implemented is self-awareness in the sense of knowledge of skills, bearing in the management system for health and safety at work mind the objectives we pursue. AVOC Performance Assessment according to the OHSAS 18001 model. Meanwhile, the allows us to analyse and determine the level of compliance in Joint Prevention Services regularly visits the workplaces to terms of objectives, performance and skills. The number of detect any situations and practices that may put workers at workers that has undergone performance assessment was 651, risk. This has enabled us to take 43 actions to minimize risks increasing 10% last year because we added the executive team in the workplace. The result of these efforts has been a very of Importaco Poland to this system. significant reduction in workplace accidents, achieving zero working accidents at the Importaco Casa Pons, Importaco Ingredients and Importaco Poland snack and chocolate-coated nut production centres. INDEX IMPORTACO 2013 Committed to the workers Equal opportunities EQUALITY INDICATORS Men Women At Importaco we are confident of our workers’ possibilities and believe that perseverance, hard work and dedication are the factors that make it possible to progress. Distribution of workforce by gender Hence our commitment to ensuring equal opportunities and avoiding discrimination in any activity carried out by the company. 54 % Meanwhile, Importaco’s commitment to recruit disabled people for regular work is still in force and in 2013 we recruited 733 people 4 disabled people. The recruitment process is carried out by specialized Importaco staff, who place special emphasis on the support of the worker and mentoring in the workplace, creating Access to training by number of hours a triangular relationship between the company, the worker and the family. These workers receive regular support to find out their performance of daily tasks and give them the necessary 47 % information and training to perform their job. 20 230 hours PERCENTAGE OF DISABLED PEOPLE BY COMPANY New additions IMPORTACO CASA PONS 3.16 % 58 47 % 59 IMPORTACO INGREDIENTS 2% 15 additions IMPORTACO FOOD SERVICE 2% Internal promotions IMPORTACO POLAND 5.66 % 40 % At Importaco we have internal equality indicators to 15 internal promotions enable us to carry out plans to ensure equal treatment in access to employment, training and pay. In addition to these indicators, there is a pay policy that ensures there are no wage differences between men and women. We also have positive measures to Positive measures ensure the reconciliation of family and work by offering workers flexible hours, leave for workers with children under three years • 52 workers with reduced hours and reduced working hours. • One leave of absence for child under three years • Eleven licences processed for risk during pregnancy • Optional hiring of medical insurance, food vouchers and nursery vouchers INDEX CUSTOMER IMPORTACO 2013 Customer Relations Importaco considers its activity an exercise RELATIONS of responsibility throughout its business model, which includes serving safe products that meet our food safety and quality standards, while being innovative and competitive. Importaco’s commitment to Mercadona as specialist supplier is to add value from the source, maintaining and developing the best products, always focused on consumer satisfaction, while remaining in line with Mercadona’s Total Quality Model. 60 61 INDEX IMPORTACO 2013 Customer Relations Importaco’s business strategy in other markets — agro FOOD SAFETY AND QUALITY industry; hotels, restaurants and catering; wholesale and international— is based on consolidating partner clients The main goal of Importaco’s commitment to its committed to quality, sustainable development and innovation customers is to offer an excellent product that meets food safety through Customer-Importaco collaboration. and sustainability standards at a competitive price. Currently, all our production plants are certified in the food safety management systems (IFS or BRC) and meet the new Food Defence requirements. Highlight: All production plants are certified in food safety management systems RAW MATERIAL Over the last decade, Importaco has established a supplier food safety audit system to control how raw materials are processed at source. This audit system is completed with the standardization of control methods and the establishment of 62 joint plan to minimize the risk of incidents. 63 Once the raw materials reach our facilities, we perform physical-chemical and microbiological analyses to check that the product meets the established food safety and quality parameters. The results of microbiological analysis are confirmed at random using advanced molecular biology techniques. In 2013 we performed a total of 61,485 analyses of raw material. ANALYSIS IN THE PRODUCTION PROCESS PHYSICAL CHEMICAL MICROBIOLOGICAL 86% 11% 3% INDEX IMPORTACO 2013 Customer Relations ANALYSIS IN THE PRODUCTION PROCESS PHYSICAL CHEMICAL MICROBIOLOGICAL IMPORTACO CASA PONS 44,320 3,034 621 IMPORTACO INGREDIENTS 509 1,968 529 IMPORTACO FOOD SERVICE 3,540 1,107 529 IMPORTACO POLAND 4,795 498 35 64 65 ➔ Cari Barberá, laboratory analyst, performing a microbiological analysis INDEX IMPORTACO 2013 Customer Relations PRODUCTION PROCESS Checking the correct labelling of products enables customers and consumers to receive reliable information Physical-chemical and microbiological checks in on product features. For the assurance of our customers, we production processes are important to ensure the quality perform label checks both at receipt of the raw material and in and safety of the product. This year, teams specializing in the packaging process. analytical techniques have performed 253,077 analyses in our laboratories. ANALYSIS IN THE PRODUCTION PROCESS PHYSICAL CHEMICAL MICROBIOLOGICAL Functional labelling 88 % 11 % 1% PHYSICAL CHEMICAL MICROBIOLOGICAL IMPORTACO CASA PONS 174,639 23,659 931 Ingredients Source of raw material 66 Nutritional information 67 IMPORTACO INGREDIENTS 369 588 793 IMPORTACO FOOD SERVICE 38,668 960 793 IMPORTACO Allergens POLAND 9,700 1,827 150 Safe use of product Disposal of product INDEX IMPORTACO 2013 Customer Relations Improvement plans associated with production production plant, enabling us to increase productivity steadily. processes reduce risks in food safety and quality. As a result of The next step in this direction is to implement it in the these plans, in the last quarter of 2013, important decisions have Importaco Casa Pons snack production plant. In addition to been taken to prevent these risks at all stages between the source this project, other improvements to improve productivity are of the raw materials and our facilities. The most important also made. actions were: installation of an optical sorter, installation of vision cameras at the end of production lines, automation of specific processes, adaptation of ancillary equipment and implementation of a new online control method to improve the shelf life of products. ➔ IMPROVEMENTS MADE IN 2013 Implementation of the Continuous Food Security Quality Improvement System at the logistics centre IMPORTACO CASA PONS 9 18 IMPORTACO 68 INGREDIENTS 4 2 69 IMPORTACO FOOD SERVICE 7 2 IMPORTACO POLAND 2 0 NUMBER OF IMPROVEMENT ACTIONS IMPORTACO CASA PONS 407 IMPORTACO INGREDIENTS 306 CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT IMPORTACO FOOD SERVICE 13 The actions described above were focused on prevention and quality control throughout the value chain. However, it is IMPORTACO POLAND 15 also important for our customers for us to continuously improve the competitiveness of the products we offer them. The Continuous Improvement Project, which aims to identify and reduce activities that do not contribute to the production process, was started in 2010 to provide value to the customer. This methodology is implemented in five Importaco Casa Pons production plants and in the Importaco Ingredients INDEX IMPORTACO 2013 Customer Relations INNOVATION the most important trade fairs in the sector: International Trade Fair, Gulfood, Chengdu Food & Drink Fair, Anuga A new image Fair, Sigep, Foodingredients, World Nut and Dried Fruit Congress, Snackex, International Sweets and Biscuits Fair and In 2013 we modernized the packaging design, changing Expovicaman. the image of all the products sold in Mercadona. Importaco’s innovation process consists of different phases to achieve products and services to meet customer needs. Opportunities are hatched in the idea generation phase. To support the process of developing new products and improving existing ones, this year we have conducted five workshops with multidisciplinary teams. In the product development phase, we implement the project through laboratory research and industrial tests at production plants. After these phases, the products are ready for launch. 70 71 Innovation as a process Importaco considers innovation as a form of management. Our commitment to customers is to observe and analyse the market to find opportunities that give them value and differentiation. That is why, every year, we attend INDEX IMPORTACO 2013 Customer Relations NEW PRODUCT DEVELOPMENTS NUMBER OF IMPROVEMENTS IN PRODUCTS MARKETED Projects implemented Products launched Products in development IMPORTACO CASA PONS 13 IMPORTACO IMPORTACO INGREDIENTS 1 CASA PONS 35 8 191 IMPORTACO FOOD SERVICE 5 IMPORTACO INGREDIENTS 8 2 7 IMPORTACO POLAND 1 IMPORTACO FOOD SERVICE 20 10 10 IMPORTACO POLAND 13 0 10 CARING FOR CUSTOMERS Every year, Importaco devotes space for the views of customers in various aspects. One of the most highly rated is Some innovations developed require prior research. the level of service, whose key points are: forecasting a planning Therefore, the research team works proactively to provide purchases; production; and the capacity of production plants Preparation of an order solutions. The main tasks have been: at the Importaco Casa and warehouses. 72 Pons logistics centre 73 •  Classification of the fat composition of nuts to find out how it affects the shelf life of the product •  Setting a new parameter for more accurate knowledge of the microbiological stability of raw materials •  Studying emerging technologies to reduce biological activity •  Studying a parameter to control rancidity in nuts The research team works proactively to provide solutions INDEX IMPORTACO 2013 Customer Relations SURVEY RESULT Satisfaction level Service level IMPORTACO CASA PONS 90 % 99 % The Soy Vital project was created to provide information to IMPORTACO consumers about nuts and dried fruits and promote healthy lifestyles based INGREDIENTS 81 % 97 % on a healthy and balanced diet. On the Soy Vital website, users can find recipes with nuts and dried IMPORTACO fruits, tips to stay fit and activities to enjoy leisure time. This is an interactive FOOD SERVICE 75 % 93.5 % website where consumers can post their own recipes, participate in surveys and answer nutritional queries. Last year the number of users increased by IMPORTACO 60% and visits by 54%. POLAND 81 % 97 % 74 Our level of service is highly rated by 75 customers As a result of these surveys improvements have been implemented for the aspects given a lower rating. A total of 24 actions have been carried out in all the companies and these are primarily focused on improving customer service, increasing the speed of response to any request or incident, increasing the integration of the source of our raw materials and adapting processing and packaging to the markets. ACTIONS TAKEN IN THE SOY VITAL PROJECT • Consumer surveys (8) • “I am Vital” cooking workshops (4) • Queries answered by experts (143) • Recipes posted by the chef (5) • Recipes submitted by users (100) • Videos with tips from experts (23) • Articles published on nuts and dried fruits (110) • Questions answered on products sold in Mercadona (10 INDEX ENVIRONMENTAL IMPORTACO 2013 Environmental Sustainability We are committed to the fight against climate SUSTAINABILITY change. Therefore, in our business strategy, we have established two courses of action, which will guide management plans from 2013 to 2015 and help us be more sustainable every day. The two courses of action are: •  ore efficient use of natural resources: decreased energy consumption M and waste revaluation. • Improved environmental management in the company: ISO 14001 certification of all production plants. CONSUMPTION OF INGREDIENTS AND MATERIALS We use two types of natural resources in our processes: ingredients used to manufacture the end product and packaging materials. Bothe the ingredients and the materials we use are recyclable. In the case of packaging materials, the most widely used are: plastic, cardboard, glass and metal. 76 Reducing the amount of materials used to 77 manufacture our products is crucial, as it implies a decrease in the consumption of natural resources, thus benefiting the environment and reducing manufacturing costs. This year, the most important initiative was to change the packaging film, resulting in a 68% reduction in the consumption of this material, allowing us to save up to 33 tonnes of film. Other initiatives include: replacement of paper labels by direct marking with ink on the packaging and a 5% reduction in the weight of cardboard for one type of boxes. However, the amount of material used in 2013 was higher than in 2012 due to the increased sales volume of the company. AMOUNT OF MATERIALS AND INGREDIENTS USED (IN TONNES) Oil 1,440 Paper/cardboard 875 Plastics (LDPE, PET, PVC) 866 Metals (aluminium and steel) 646 Glass 8,247 INDEX IMPORTACO 2013 Environmental Sustainability ENERGY CONSUMPTION In order to strengthen our commitment to energy efficiency, in 2013, we implemented an energy audit system. Energy is consumed in production plants due primarily The first factory to be audited was the nut production plant. to the processes of: frying, roasting, packaging and storage. In this audit, we established the indicators that related energy The amount of energy consumed in 2013 per kilo produced consumption by product and by process line. From the analysis decreased by 4 %. of these consumptions, we have decided to install the equipment necessary to monitor consumption continuously and take the energy saving measures identified. Energy audits of the AMOUNT OF ENERGY CONSUMED IN KILOWATT HOURS dried fruit, frozen dough and microwave corn factories will be conducted in 2014. Electricity 9,840,467 Gas 13,035,347 The new energy audit system will allow us Biomass boiler 4,449,660 to be more sustainable Diesel 71,629 TOTAL 27,397,102 Energy produced with solar panels At three production plants we have photovoltaic Our commitment to reducing energy consumption in installations. The energy generated has been used to supply our company includes all management areas, the actions taken 2,219 homes and has offset the monthly carbon dioxide in 2013 by our systems area being worthy of special mention: emissions of 4,839 vehicles for one year. The production process • Replacement of computer servers for more productive ones of this energy does not emit carbon dioxide, and we have 78 with a 65% reduction in energy consumption. avoided releasing 1 tonne of sulphur dioxide and 1.5 tonnes of 79 • Implementation of a barcode identification system allowing nitrates into the atmosphere. a reduction in printer consumables in production plants. CARBON DIOXIDE EMISSIONS IF THE ENERGY HAD BEEN Our commitment to reducing GENERATED BY OTHER TECHNOLOGY energy consumption includes all Coal combustion 1 001 Toneladas management areas Natural gas combined cycle 493 Toneladas Oil 904 Toneladas Energy efficiency project Hydroelectric 6 Toneladas The Energy Management System of Importaco Ingredients was certified under the ISO 50001 Standard in in 2009. This system seeks continuous improvement in the use WATER UPTAKE SOURCES of energy, reducing consumption, associated financial cost and greenhouse gas emissions. In 2013, energy consumption in The water we use does not come from water uptake this factory was reduced by 9.21%, with the resulting benefit sources but from the municipal supply network. Most water is to the environment. Moreover, at this factory we have an used for cleaning and is not recycled or reused. The waste water almond shell biomass boiler, which we use as a power supply. from production processes is sent to sewage treatment plants. This supply system is environmentally friendly and sustainable because it does not use fossil fuels, thus avoiding the emission of greenhouse gases. WATER CONSUMPTION 50 981 m3 INDEX IMPORTACO 2013 Environmental Sustainability In 2013, water consumption was reduced in two of the TRAINING AND AWARENESS ten factories: 52% in the Importaco Casa Pons chocolate-coated nut factory, and 15% in Importaco Poland. However, overall Environmental training is essential to raise awareness of water consumption has increased by 31% due to the launch the importance of protecting and preserving the environment. of a new product that has required the installation of a new Therefore, we include it in the basic training provided to all staff production line. and newly hired people. WASTE ENVIRONMENTAL EXPENDITURE AND INVESTMENT (euros) The waste generated at production plants comes mainly Ecoembes 608 077 from the packaging of raw materials and, to a small extent, from Waste management 139 826 the oil used to manufacture the products. ISO 14001 certifications 14001 5 727 Emission tests 2 575 AMOUNT OF NON-HAZARDOUS AMOUNT OF HAZARDOUS WASTE Acoustic audit 600 WASTE IN TONNES1 IN TONNES Water treatment 103 395 Organic 702 Laboratory reagents 0,82 Cardboard 690 Truck batteries 2,80 Inert 1 047 Contaminated empty containers 1,14 Oil 138 Batteries 0,02 Raffia 93 N-H solvents 1,51 80 Wood 260 Rags and absorbent materials 2,13 81 Scrap 2 Aerosols 0,06 ➔ Fluorescent tubes 0,06 Importaco Ingredients 1 Mineral oil 1 626 biomass boiler Computers 0,802 All waste is recycled except inert waste and raffia, which are sent to landfills. EMISSIONS Emissions from production processes are captured and analysed according to current legislation. The result of these analyses is always satisfactory, since our industry is not very polluting and we do not emit substances that destroy the ozone layer. ➔ Photovoltaic IMPORTACO CARBON FOOTPRINT (Tonnes of CO2) installation Electricity emissions 37 787 Gas emissions 30 503 Diesel emissions 219 INDEX OUR CONTRIBUTION IMPORTACO 2013 Our contribution to society Importaco’s commitment to society is to TO SOCIETY create value in outreach projects. The three lines that have guided the actions carried out in 2013 are: • Being part of institutions related to our business • Sharing our knowledge • Supporting committed and supportive institutions COLLABORATION WITH ASSOCIATIONS, FOUNDATIONS AND INSTITUTIONS EDEM. Escuela de Empresarios Business school located in Valencia and established as a private non-profit foundation. Its mission is to train businessmen, executives and entrepreneurs and promote leadership, entrepreneurship and the culture of hard work. Francisco Pons, Chairman of Importaco, is 2nd ViceChairman of the Business School Foundation. Importaco collaborates with the school by providing teachers in different subjects. 82 AVE. Asociación valenciana de empresarios 83 Voluntary, non-profit association that brings together 100 of the major employers of the three provinces of Valencia. Francisco Pons, Chairman of Importaco, is a member of the Board of Directors of the association. Instituto de la Empresa Familiar State non-profit organization that brings together a hundred leading companies in their sectors. It works to improve the economic, legal and fiscal environment of Spanish family businesses. We are members and attend the National Family Business Congress organized by the Institute on an annual basis. AECOC Business association that helps improve the efficiency and sustainability of relationships between production and distribution companies, bringing added value to the consumer by identifying opportunities for improvement throughout the chain. We are members and attend the Annual AECOC Congress and support the AECOC initiative against food waste. INDEX IMPORTACO 2013 Our contribution to society Fundación Étnor Training sessions given by workers in different Non-profit organization founded in 1991 to promote training centres: acknowledgement, dissemination and respect for the ethical • Session in the Food Technology Specialist course at the values inherent to economic activity and the quality of public Polytechnic University of Valencia and private organizations and institutions. • 15x15: 15 days with 15 leading EDEM employers After our support for the institution as sponsors and • Session in the ABC of EDEM operations and logistics collaborators, in 2013, Francisco Pons was appointed Chairman • Session in the EDEM MBA Junior of the Foundation. • Training on the Border Inspection Post for inspectors from Brussels • Participation in the Ethical Breakfasts programme organized by the Étnor Foundation • Participation in the conference on Strategic sectors in sustainable terms organized by the Spanish Global Compact Network ➔ • Participation in the conference on Co-manager Dialogue Francisco Pons, organized by the journal “Corresponsables”, Étnor Chairman of Foundation and the Polytechnic University of Valencia Importaco, during his appointment as Chairman of the Etnor Foundation ➔ Francisco Pons, Chairman of Importaco, during the 15x15 course 84 ➔➔ 85 FEDACOVA Guillermo Gassó, Purchasing Manager The mission of the Agri Business Federation of of Importaco, during the Region of Valencia is to represent the food industry of the the ABC of logistics Region of Valencia. operations course We are members and Amparo Pons, Corporate General Manager of Importaco, is a member of the ➔ Executive Committee. Juan Antonio Pons, General Manager of Importaco, and SHARING OUR KNOWLEDGE Guillermo Feo, Purchasing Manager of Importaco, with MBA In order to share our knowledge of business Junior students management applied to the food sector, we conduct training sessions, take on trainees and collaborate with various research centres. We have taken on 40 trainee students from secondary schools and university. ➔ We collaborate with the AINIA research institute Participants in the to combine the latest discoveries in nutrition with the Ethical Breakfast improvement and development of new products. INDEX IMPORTACO 2013 Our contribution to society OUR MOST SUPPORTIVE COLLABORATION In addition to donating food to the various associations, we carry out other charity actions on an annual basis: Collaboration with local charity associations is also one of our priorities. Therefore, we donate food to local associations ONG Projecte Niquia for the needy. In 2013, we donated 8,303 kilos to the following Fundraising activities organized by the Importaco local institutions: workers for the Niquia Association, in which 2,186 Euros were raised, which will be used to fund school meals for Valencia Food Bank needy children Non-profit organization whose goal is to recover surplus food from our socitey and redistribute it to those in need, Valencia Blood Transfusion Centre preventing waste or misuse. The campaign to collaborate with the Valencia Blood Transfusion Centre organized annually by the Importaco Joint Prevention Service ➔ Jose Ramón Peiró, Logistics Manager of Importaco, and Aniceto Juliá, Shift Manager in the delivery of food to the Food Bank 86 87 Cáritas de Paiporta In Spain, Caritas plays a major role in the support and social promotion of various social groups in precarious situations and/or at risk of social exclusion. Paula Project Initiative to raise funds for diabetes research. This foundation is financed by public funds and private donations from companies or individuals. Casa Quiquet Restaurant that offers an annual charity meal for the most disadvantaged families in our area. This year we participated by donating presents for children. INDEX IMPORTACO 2013 Profile of the report PROFILE OF THE REPORT This report covers the most important events occurring in 2013 at Importaco Casa Pons, Importaco Ingredients, Importaco Food Service and Importaco Poland. This year we have started to include information in the chapters, Profile of the Organization and Corporate Governance, on Aguas de Cortes, Helados Estiu and Foener, and this information will be expanded every year. The Report is published on an annual basis, the last report being published in April 2012. The report was prepared by the social responsibility area of Importaco. For any queries, please contact: Natalia Pons Sancho nataliap@importaco.com Polígono Carrascal Oest. Ctra Real de Madrid Nord, 83-85. 46469 BeniparrellValenciaSPAIN. Tel. +34 961203000 88 89 INDEX INDEX GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE INDICATORS This report contains some of the basic Content of the Guide for the preparation of GRI reports. Global Compact Principles Importaco is attached to the Global Compact of the UN. The GRI index of the Report lists the different parts of the document that are related to each of the Principals of the Global Compact. Therefore, this Report also serves as a Progress Report. Principle 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally recognized fundamental human rights, within their sphere of influence. Principle 2. Businesses should ensure that they are not involved in the violation of human rights. Principle 3. Businesses should uphold freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4. Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labour. Principle 5. Businesses should uphold the abolition of child labour. Principle 6. Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in 91 employment and occupation. Principle 7. Businesses should take a precautionary approach to enhance the environment. Principle 8. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9. Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Principle 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE INDEX General Basic Content/ Page or direct answer/ Global Compact Strategy and Analysis G4-1 / Statement of the CEO of the company about the relevance of sustainability for the organization and its strategy / P. 5, 6 G4-2 / Main effects, risks and opportunities / P. 5, 6 INDEX INDEX IMPORTACO 2013 Organization profile G4-43 / Measures to develop and improve the collective knowledge of the highest governing body regarding economic, environmental and G4-3 / Name of the organization / P. 17 social issues / P. 29 G4-4 / Most important brands, products and services / P. 17 G4-5 / Location of the organization’s headquarters / P. 18 Ethics and Integrity G4-6 / Countries where the organization operates and countries where it carries out significant operations / P. 18 G4-56 / Values, principles, standards and rules of the organization, G4-8 / Markets it makes use of / P. 17 such as codes of conduct or ethical codes / P. 28, 29 G4-9 / Size of the organization / P. 17 G4-10 / Number of employees by employment contract and sex / P. 57 SPECIFIC BASIC CONTENT G4-11 / Percentage of employees covered by collective agreements / 100 % / Principle 1 and 3 Indicators by aspects G4-13 / Any significant change that has taken place during the reporting period regarding size, structure, stock ownership or the Category: economy organization’s supply chain / N/A G4-15 / External initiatives of an economic, environmental and social nature Economic performance that the organization endorses or has adopted / P. 17, 39 G4-16 / List of the national or international promoting organizations and G4-EC1 / Direct economic value generated and distributed / P. 31 associations which the organization belongs to / P. 81, 82 Category: environment Indentifie material aspects and boundaries Materials 92 General Basic Content/ Page or direct answer/ 93 G4-EN1 / Materials by weight or volume / P. 75 / Principle 8 G4-22 / Describe the consequences of the restatements of the information provided in earlier reports and their causes / N/A Energy G4-23 / Mark every significant change in the scope and coverage of each aspect regarding previous reports / N/A G4-EN3 / Internal energy consumption / P. 76 / Principle 8 G4-EN6 / Reduced energy consumption / P. 76 / Principles 8 y 9 Report Profile Water G4-28 / Reporting period / P. 87 G4-29 / Date of the last report / P. 87 G4-EN8 / Total water uptake according to the source / P. 77 / Principle 8 G4-30 / Reporting cycle / P. 87 G4-EN9 / Water sources that have been significantly affected by water G4-31 / Provide a point of contact to address any questions that may arise uptake / N/A / Principle 8 about the content of the report / P. 87 G4-EN10 / Percentage and total volume of recycled and reused water / P. 77 / Principles 8 y 9 Governance Emissions G4-34 / Governance structure of the organization / P. 24 G4-38 / Composition of the highest governing body and its G4-EN15 / Direct greenhouse gas emissions / P. 78 / Principle 8 committees / P. 24, 25 G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances / N/A G4-39 / Indicate whether the person presiding over the highest governing body also occupies an executive position / P. 24 G4-42 / Highest governing body and senior management functions / P. 24, 25 INDEX IMPORTACO 2013 Effluents and waste Relations between workers and management G4-EN22 / Total discharge of water, by type and destination / P. 77 / G4-LA4 / Minimum notice periods for operational changes / 15 days / Principle 8 Principle 3 G4-EN23 / Total weight of waste managed, by type and method / P. 78 / Principle 8 Health and safety at work Products and services G4-LA5 / Percentage of workers represented in formal health and safety committees / 50 % / Principle 3 G4-EN27 / Mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services / G4-LA7 / Workers whose job has a high incidence or risk of disease / N/A P. 75, 76, 78 / Principle 9 G4-EN28 / Percentage of products sold which are recovered at the end of Training and education their lifespan / P. 75 / Principles 8 y 9 G4-LA9 / Average annual hours of training per employee / P. 52 Regulatory compliance G4-LA10 / Skill management and continuous training programmes / P. 53 G4-LA11 / Percentage of employees receiving regular assessment of their G4-EN29 / Monetary value of significant fines and number of non-monetary performance and professional development / P. 55 sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations / N/A Equal pay for men and women General G4-LA13 / Ratio between the basic salaries of men and women / P. 56 / Principles 1 y 6 94 G4-EN31 / Breakdown of costs and investments for environmental protection 95 / P. 79 / Principles 8 y 9 Assessment of supplier labour practices Environmental assessment of suppliers G4-LA14 / Suppliers examined based on criteria relating to labour practices / P. 40 / Principle 2 G4-EN32 / Suppliers which were examined according to environmental criteria / P. 40 / Principle 7 Complaint Mechanisms for Labour Practices Environmental Complaint Mechanisms G4-LA16 / Number of complaints about labour practices which have been filed, addressed and solved through formal complaint G4-EN34 / Number of environmental complaints which have been filed, mechanisms / N/A addressed and solved through formal complaint mechanisms / N/A Human rights Category: social performance labour practices and decent work Investment Employment G4-HR2 / Employee training on policies and procedures related to human rights / P. 53 / Principle 1 G4-LA1 / Total number of recruitments and average employee turnover / P. 55, 57 / Principle 6 Non-discrimination G4-LA2 / Social benefits for full-time employees / P. 57 / Principle 6 G4-LA3 / Rates of return to work and retention after maternity or paternity G4-HR3 / Number of discrimination cases and corrective measures taken / leave, broken down by sex / 100 % / Principle 6 N/A / Principle 6 INDEX IMPORTACO 2013 Assessment Customer Privacy G4-HR9 / Centres which have undergone tests or impact assessments G4-PR8 / Number of complaints based on the violation of privacy and on human rights / P. 40 / Principle 2 leakage of customer data / 0 complaints Human Rights Complaint Mechanisms Regulatory compliance G4-HR12 / Number of complaints on human rights which have been G4-PR9 / Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws filed, addressed and solved through formal complaint and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and mechanisms / N/A services / N/A Society Regulatory compliance G4-SO8 / Monetary value of significant fines and number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulations / N/A Product liability Health and safety of customers 96 G4-PR1 / Significant products and services whose impacts regarding 97 health and safety have been assessed to promote improvements / P. 61, 62, 64, 66 / Principle 1 G4-PR2 / Incidents resulting from non-compliance with regulations or with voluntary codes concerning the impacts of products and services on health and safety / N/A / Principle 1 Labelling of products and services G4-PR3 / Information and labelling of products and services / P. 65 / Principle 8 G4-PR4 / Number of breaches of regulations and voluntary codes concerning information and labelling of products and services / N/A / Principle 8 G4-PR5 / Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction / P. 72 Marketing communications G4-PR6 / Sale of banned products or products in dispute / N/A G4-PR7 / Number of cases of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications / 0 breaches INDEX Design and layout: IMPORTACO 2013 Enrique Casp Print: Martín Impresores Illustrations: Pau Valls Photos: Provided by workers Special thanks to all those people who collaborated with us, for their interest and their valuable contributions. We keep counting on you. Paper used in this publication has the certificates PEFC y FSC. Contributes to environment respect. 98 INDEX
