Corp or ate Rep ort Sharing values 2013 Key Figures of the Group 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Business Sales € million 1,362.0 1,571.9 1,583.6 1,734.9 1,830.4 EBITDA € million 245.6 331.2 315.9 338.9 373.1 EBITDA margin in % 18.0 21.1 20.0 19.5 20.4 EBIT € million 163.0 244.4 234.4 252.6 283.1 EBIT margin in % 12.0 15.5 14.8 14.6 15.5 Net income € million 84.3 133.5 146.5 157.5 172.3 Balance sheet total (as of December 31) € million 1,895.2 2,059.0 2,120.3 1 2,150.2 1 2,210.4 Capital ratio (as of December 31) in % 36.4 40.9 40.9 1 40.9 1 43.0 Investments € million 56.7 70.5 67.3 70.3 142.9 Net debt (incl. pension provisions and similar obligations) / EBITDA (as of December 31) ratio 3.1 2.2 2.4 1 2.4 1 2.0 Research and development expenses € million 95.7 2 107.9 107.6 113.8 127.0 Operating cash flow € million 225.7 235.1 200.9 219.5 274.8 Capital Market Shares issued as of balance sheet date millions 118.2 118.2 118.2 118.2 118.2 Share price at end of fiscal year (Xetra® closing price) in € 14.98 20.53 20.62 27.12 33.50 Market capitalization at end of fiscal year € million 1,770.2 2,426.1 2,436.7 3,204.9 3,958.8 Earnings per share in € 0.71 1.13 1.24 1.33 1.46 Dividend per share in € 0.50 0.60 0.62 0.65 0.70 3 Environment Carbon dioxide emissions (Scope 1 and 2) 4, 5 kg 748.8 709.0 680.6 644.1 642.8 Direct and indirect energy consumption 4, 5 GJ 8.2 8.0 7.6 7.3 7.3 Waste 4, 5 kg 105.2 115.6 112.4 99.3 96.1 Water consumption 4, 5 cbm 13.1 10.6 10.2 9.9 9.7 Wastewater 4, 5 cbm 12.3 10.0 9.6 9.1 8.8 Employees Employees (as of December 31) FTE 6 4,954 5,288 5,434 5,669 5,959 Fluctuation rate in % 4.4 5.1 5.5 5.3 4.4 Number of accidents MAQ 7 7.0 5.0 3.2 5.3 5.3 Accident severity USQ 8 63 55 43 99 51 1 adjusted as a result of changes to accounting policies in 2012 2 2009 including restructuring expenditure 3 proposal 4 per ton of product 5 In 2013, we redefined the calculation method for our consumption and emission values: We no longer calculate this data per ton of product sold, but rather per ton of product. The values from the previous years have been adjusted accordingly. The underlying trend remains unchanged. 6 not including apprentices and trainees; FTE = Full Time Equivalent 7 MAQ = Number of reportable accidents (> 1 working day) x 1 million/number of working hours 8 USQ = Number of lost working days x 1 million/number of working hours The title image of the corporate report “Sharing Values 2013” is a collage from our “Wall of Inspiration.” This online platform – launched on the occasion of Symrise’s ten-year anniversary – asks the questions: Where do I get my inspiration? What are the moments that enrich our lives, our work and our everyday activities? Our employees were and are able to post everything that they find fun and inspiring. This resulted in a vibrant patchwork of images that comes to life thanks to cultural differences and personal ideas and touches – truly a “Wall of Inspiration.” It is a piece of art, an expression of creativity and simultaneously a virtual reflection of our values. Sharing values Shared values provide the basis for shared goals at Symrise: striving for economic success while taking responsibility for the environment, employees and society. We create value for all parties by integrating the interests of our stakeholders in our corporate activities at every level of the value chain. ­Sus­tain­ability is a fundamental element of our business model. It provides us with specific competitive advantages and s­ ecures the long-term success of our company. “My colleagues and I work in the background: We negotiate with suppliers, procure goods and services and quickly solve occasional problems that arise. In doing so, we ensure that our colleagues work under the best conditions and make an important contribution to Symrise’s success.” Dennis Kang is a Purchaser in the Technical Purchasing department in Singapore. “Logistics is a complex business – particularly in a country such as India. The company must be able to depend on me completely. Transparency, honesty and humility are key character traits – both for my work and my life.” Robert Kenengton is Head of Logistics for both divisions at the Chennai site in India. “In a sense, every satisfied customer is an ambassador for our outstanding flavors. Furthermore, our work can serve to carry out our company’s motto and inspire our customers.” Edith Rivera works in Customer Service and Planning in the Flavor & Nutrition division at Symrise Mexico. “My job would be impossible without my colleagues. We work hand in hand and have to be able to count on one another at all times. Symrise gives us a great deal of freedom in how we achieve our goal of comprehensively satisfying customer needs.” Agnieszka Zimnicka is an Evaluator and Marketing Manager in the Scent & Care division. She works in Poland and is responsible for Eastern Europe. “In my position, I am responsible for ensuring the manufacture of a safe and high-quality product. We are always striving to be as efficient as possible without making any compromises in quality. It’s a challenge that my productive team and I enjoy taking on every day.” Tim Wilcox operates the spray drying systems at the plant in Branchburg, New Jersey, USA. “I keep a constant eye on the market and am particularly proud of one business relationship with an NGO. The result was a product that allowed us to jointly serve the needs of people living on low incomes in a socially responsible, sustainable way.” Aparecida Lopes is responsible for Latin America as a Consumer & Market Insights Manager in Brazil. sha r ing va lu es Table of Contents Table of Contents The Executive Board P. 10–11 Business Activities & Structure P. 12–15 Values, Goals, Strategy P. 16–19 Goals & Measures P. 20–21 Highlights P. 22–23 Local Heroes P. 24–31 At Home with Consumers P. 34–39 Agenda 2020 P. 40–43 Always on the Move P. 46–51 What's next? P. 52–59 Following the Flavor P. 62–67 Our Performance in 2013 P. 68–93 Awards P. 94–95 About This Report P. 96 This printed report is a condensed version of the 2013 corporate report. It was compiled in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) G3 guidelines. The full report, with its in-depth information, complete figures and comprehensive GRI index, is available at cr2013.symrise.com. Links containing additional information are marked with the following symbol and sequential numbering. 1 –8– s ha r ing va lue s Table of Contents P. 46 – 51 P. 40 – 43 P. 24 – 31 P. 34 – 39 P. 62 – 67 P. 52 –59 –9– s ha r i ng va lue s The Executive Board In 2013, we celebrated the ten-year anniversary of Symrise and look back proudly on another successful year. We increased sales and earnings while enhancing our sustainable positioning. You can read how we accomplished this in interviews and articles in the magazine section of this corporate report. We want to show you how, where and why we invest: in sites, technologies and people. We also explain how the portfolio and customer structure at Symrise will develop as we move forward – and where the company plans to be in 2020. Successful and sustainable business are closely related: As a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact, we voluntarily committed ourselves to consistently upholding and implementing principles of responsible business. With a report on onions, one of Symrise’s most important raw materials, we show how the company sustainably and cost-effectively produces a globally used product via close cooperation with local farmers. Meanwhile, we source our vanilla from the other side of the world. With its commitment to over 7,000 farmers in Madagascar, Symrise takes on responsibility, establishing supply security and fulfilling high quality standards. Another story describes how Symrise is investing in the Asia-Pacific region – placing an emphasis on the regional headquarters in Singapore and China’s rapidly growing emerging market. Understanding the needs of consumers and fulfilling their wishes is one of the main tasks of the company – there and everywhere. Around the globe, Symrise researchers and developers are working to develop the right products for these diverse groups. In this report, we also present a number of projects from our new research center in Holzminden. These will help ensure the company’s future growth. We hope that you enjoy reading about the interesting developments here at Symrise. Dr. Heinz-Jürgen Bertram Achim Daub Hans Holger Gliewe Bernd Hirsch – 10 – s ha r i ng va lu e s The Executive Board “Our strategy takes a long-term approach. We want to grow sustainably in order to secure our continued commercial success. “We want to maintain our profitable In doing so, we strive to satisfy the needs growth as we move into the future. of our customers and consumers in all reThis means continuing to achieve a pre-tax gions and markets as well as those of yield between 19 and 22 % – a margin our other stakeholders.” that is ambitious, yet realistic.” Dr. Heinz-Jürgen Bertram Bernd Hirsch “The needs of an aging population and the “With the acquisition of the US fragrance growing awareness of healthy nutrition drive manufacturer Belmay, we opened up our business. That is why we are further new growth fields. We will also continue to expanding our Consumer Health application grow organically through our own efforts. area and developing new products In doing so, we will utilize new technologies for foods with additional functional benefits.” and our own creativity.” Hans Holger Gliewe Achim Daub – 11 – sha r i ng va lu e s Business Activities & Structure Business Activities & Structure 1.8 € billion In 2013, Symrise achieved sales of approximately € 1.8 billion, making it the fourth-largest company in the global flavor and fragrances market. Profile It would be a hopeless undertaking to search for the Symrise perfume oils and active ingredients are generally central func­ brand at local supermarkets or drugstores – the company doesn’t tional components in our customers’ end products and often market its products directly to end consumers. Instead, you will play a decisive role in consumers’ purchasing decisions thanks find products from our over 6,000 customers including manufac­ to their effect on the end product’s characteristics – such as turers of foods, beverages, perfumes, cosmetics, personal care its fragrance or taste. In addition, we provide biofunctional and products, detergents and cleaners as well as pharmaceutical prod­ bioactive ingredients and substances as solutions in the health ucts and nutritional supplements. Although most consumers and personal care application areas. A further focus for Symrise would not recognize the Symrise brand, practically all of them have is on the development of products with additional benefits. Ex­ products around their homes that contain ingredients ­produced amples include flavorings that enable the sugar or salt content by Symrise. of foods to be reduced, or a moisturizing cosmetic ingredient that lowers the proportion of preservatives in care products. With Overall, Symrise develops, produces and sells approximately these products, our customers can differentiate themselves 30,000 fragrances and flavors and cosmetic ingredients based from competitors with their tailor-made end products in the rap­ on roughly 10,000 mostly natural raw materials, including va­ idly changing consumer goods markets. nilla, citrus products or flower and plant materials. The flavors, – 12 – s ha r i ng va lu e s Business Activities & Structure Our product development is based on extensive research and In 2013, Symrise achieved sales of approximately € 1.8 billion, development, which is supplemented by a wide-reaching exter­ making it the fourth-largest company in the global flavor and nal network of research institutes and scientific facilities. Since ­fragrances market. The company sells its products in 160 coun­ the preferences for flavors and fragrances can vary greatly from tries. In 2013, Symrise generated 52 % of sales in industrial region to region, the comprehensive consumer research carried countries in Western Europe, North America and parts of Asia. out in Europe, Asia/Pacific, North America and Latin America rep­ A total of 48 % of our sales were achieved in the emerging mar­ resents a central component of our R & D activities. Symrise has kets in Asia, Latin America, Africa and Middle East and Eastern development centers notably in Germany, Brazil, China, France, Europe. Around 6,000 people work in the two business ­divisions Singapore and the USA . They create the foundation for devel­ at Symrise Group – Scent & Care and Flavor & Nutrition. With oping marketable products that are successful over the long term sites in 35 countries, we have a local presence in our most im­ and that meet the various needs of consumers in different parts portant sales markets. of the world. Structure Along with our innovative spirit, our creativity and our reliable The two divisions are responsible for our operating business. supply chain, our customers increasingly appreciate our commit­ They each have their own research and development, purchas­ ment to sustainability and expect us to deliver it. Together with ing, production, quality control, marketing and sales depart­ the pursuit of excellence and added value, with creativity, com­ ments. Both business divisions are organized into four regions mitment and integrity, sustainability is firmly anchored in our with separate regional managements: Europe, Africa and the ­values and our corporate strategy. We know that organizational Middle East (EAME ), North America, Asia/Pacific, and Latin success and responsibility go hand in hand. That is why we in­ America. Their activities extend across several business units creasingly strive for shared value in our business activity. and application areas. In addition, the Group has a Corporate Center which encompasses the central areas of finance and The Symrise Group resulted from a merger between the German controlling, corporate communications, investor relations, legal companies Haarmann & Reimer and Dragoco in 2003. The com­ affairs, human resources, corporate compliance, internal au­ pany thus celebrated its 10th anniversary in 2013. Symrise’s diting and global process design. roots date back to 1874 and 1919, when the two companies were founded. Fr agr ances be ver ages life essentials savory Scent & Care Flavor & Nutrition aroma molecules swee t or al care Consumer he alth – 13 – sha r i ng va lu e s Business Activities & Structure Scent & Care Fl avor & Nutrition The Scent & Care division’s product portfolio includes fragrance The product range for the Flavor & Nutrition division consists compositions, cosmetic ingredients, aroma chemicals and mint of flavors used by our customers to give their food and beverage products sold in roughly 135 countries around the world. Major products their unique taste. Symrise supplies individual flavor­ subsidiaries are located in Brazil, China, Germany, France, Mexico, ings used in end products as well as complete solutions, which, India, Singapore and the USA . Overall, the division has sites in apart from the actual flavor, can contain additional, functional 33 countries. Scent & Care’s activities are divided into the Fra­ raw materials, food coloring or microencapsulated components. grances, Life Essentials, Aroma Molecules and Oral Care busi­ The globally operating Consumer Health application area serves, ness units, where our products are used in various application among others, the growing market for food supplements and ­areas: pharmaceutical preparations. The business division’s products are sold in 140 countries. The business division has sites in more Fragrances: Perfumers combine aromatic raw materials like than 30 countries in Europe, Asia, North America, Latin America ­aroma chemicals and essential oils into complex fragrances and Middle East and Africa. It has central offices in Brazil, China, (perfume oils). Symrise’s perfume oils are used in perfumes Germany, England, France, India, Japan, Mexico, Singapore and (Fine Fragrances application area), in personal care products the USA . The flavors and ingredients from Symrise are divided (Personal Care application area) and household products into four application areas: (Household application area). Beverages: Our flavorings and beverage bases are used in Life Essentials: The business unit is divided into the Cosmetic non-alcoholic beverages such as refreshment drinks, fruit juice ­Ingredients and UV Protection application areas. The products drinks, energy and sports drinks, tea and coffee drinks, mixed manufactured in this business unit are used in skin care products, milk drinks and functional drinks. Symrise also produces powder­ hair care products, sun creams, after-shave balsams, shower gels, ed flavors for instant beverages such as tea and coffee spe­ wash lotions, shampoos and deodorants. A particular ­focus for the cialties. The range of offerings also includes flavorings, distillates business unit is on products with nurturing properties and alter­ and extracts for nearly all common types of alcoholic beverages. native preservatives. Savory: This application area includes meat flavors, herb and Aroma Molecules: The business unit comprises the Sensates vegetable extracts, flavor compositions for soups, sauces and (Menthols), Special Fragrance & Flavor Ingredients and Fine ­instant foods as well as seasonings for snacks. Special Symrise Aroma Chemicals application areas. In the Sensates application flavorings allow for the reduction of the salt and fat content of area, Symrise manufactures nature-identical menthol, which foods with no loss of flavor. is primarily used in the manufacture of oral care products, chew­ ing gum and shower gels. Special Fragrance & Flavor Ingredi­ Sweet: This application area includes sweets, baked goods, ice ents and Fine Aroma Chemicals encompass aroma chemicals cream and dairy products. A focal point relates to products with (intermediate products for perfume oils) of particular quality. improved release of flavor and flavor systems with masking prop­ These aroma chemicals are used for Symrise’s own perfume oil erties that conceal the often unpleasant flavor of functional in­ production and are also sold to consumer goods manufacturers, gredients. who make perfume oils from them. Consumer Health: This application area includes natural, func­ Oral Care: Here, Symrise offers the entire product range of mint tional ingredients to promote heart and digestive function, fla­ flavors and their intermediate products for use in toothpastes and voring solutions and aromatization for pharmaceutical products other oral care products. as well as natural food colors and coloring foods (specialties). – 14 – s ha r i ng va lu e s Business Activities & Structure Symrise Sites 2013 Symrise sites Regional headquarters 35 Countries With Symrise sites in 35 countries, we have a local presence in our most important sales markets. Symrise products are sold in around 160 countries worldwide. – 15 – sha r i ng va lu e s Values, Goals, Strategy Values, Goals, Strategy Sustain­ability Added Value Excellence Our Values Integrity Creativity Commitment Shared values provide the basis for shared goals at Symrise: striving for economic success while taking on responsibility for the environment, employees and society. our Mission Symrise is recognized worldwide as a leading provider of fragrances In 2013, Symrise looked back on ten very successful years of and flavors and of basic ingredients and active agents for the corporate development: Together with our customers, we increased perfume, cosmetics, pharmaceutical, food and beverages industries. sales and earnings every year. Recognizing important trends at We understand the needs of consumers in various places around an early stage and quickly incorporating these into new products the world. Based on this knowledge and combining it with creativity allowed Symrise to grow faster than the market. Finally, our suc­ and ground-breaking technologies, we develop solutions that cess is closely tied to our values, which are reflected throughout offer our customers real added value. We strive to ensure sustained the company. value creation and allow our employees and shareholders to participate in the company’s success. – 16 – s ha r i ng va lu e s Values, Goals, Strategy Common Values, Common Goals G r o w t h B a s e d o n a B a l a n c e d C u s to m e r P o r t f o l i o The motto for our corporate report, “Sharing Values,” highlights the Symrise’s customer portfolio consists of equal parts international fact that people at Symrise have common values: We want to be customers, regional customers and locally operating customers. the most successful company in our industry over the long term, This balanced customer structure allows Symrise to operate in while enhancing our market position and maintaining our inde­ every global growth region while reducing its dependency on pendence. We are aware that economic success, sustainability individual customers, markets or regions. In our core competenand social acceptance are inextricably linked. Our economic cies – such as citrus, vanilla and mint – Symrise is one of a goals are closely tied to the responsibility we live by and feel every handful of providers able to maintain constant product quality at day for employees, the environment and society. The Symrise all volumes for its customers throughout the world. To ensure set of values forms the foundation of how we think and act and product quality and supply security, backward integration plays a also determines our corporate culture. “Because we care” is major role with our key raw materials as do long-term contracts the guiding principle of Symrise’s commitment to a holistic under­ with our suppliers. Our goal is to cover roughly 40 % of our raw standing of its entrepreneurial activity. material needs with backward integration by 2020. By doing so, we also reduce the impact of volatile raw materials prices on the In order to expand our market position, sales should grow faster performance of the business. Another success factor for Symrise over the long term than the average market volume. This means is in the development of smart processes and structures aimed that Symrise will be increasing its market share and expanding at efficiently serving the needs of our customers in all areas. its lead over competitors. At the same time, Symrise has set itself Together with its customer companies, Symrise is serving the the goal of being among the industry’s most profitable companies. growing demand for sustainably produced and health-promoting By taking into account the requirements of various stakeholders products. By 2020, we want to source all of our strategically im­ at all stages of the value creation process, we are creating values portant raw materials from sustainable sources. With our intensive for all: “Sharing Values.” Symrise is continually refining its integra­ research and development activities, Symrise is in the position to tion of economic, environmental and social goals and strategies. separate itself from the competition and is a valued partner for leading companies in our customer industries. Our close cooper­ On the Way to an Integr ated Corpor ate Str ategy ation with important customers in product development also Symrise’s corporate strategy is based on the three pillars of growth, enhances customer loyalty. efficiency and portfolio. It incorporates aspects of sustainability at all levels in order to enhance the company’s value over the long Emerging Markets Remain a Key Focus term and minimize risks. In this way, we are making sustainability Symrise’s early focus on the rapidly expanding and highly popu­ an integral part of our business model and turning it into a clear lated emerging markets contributed significantly to the company’s competitive advantage. The goal is a completely integrated cor­ above-average growth these past years. We want to continue porate strategy. this trend. Within the framework of our long-term strategy through 2020, we are striving to expand our share of Group sales origi­ Str ategic Approach: Grow th nating from emerging markets up to approximately two-thirds. The global AFF market (Aroma Molecules, Flavors & Fragrances) The rising standard of living in broad segments of the population relevant for Symrise has a volume of € 17.4 billion and is achieving in these regions is creating new consumer needs. As a result, average long-term growth of around 2 to 3 % per year. Symrise’s consumer expenses are increasing much faster than the global market share is currently about 11 %. We want to expand this market average in Latin American, Asian, Arab, Eastern European and share via above-average annual growth of 5 to 7 % (CAGR). By African countries and this trend is expected to continue in the 2020, we aim to have increased our sales by more than € 1.0 bil­ medium to long term. True to the motto “all business is local,” we lion compared to 2012. To accomplish this, we are focusing on believe a good understanding of the local conditions, markets three levers: and consumers is a major key to the successful further expansion of our business. Thus Symrise is represented in key emerging markets with its own operating facilities. With our investments in these markets, we are creating jobs with working conditions in accordance with the International Labour Organization (ILO ) and – 17 – sha r i ng va lu e s Values, Goals, Strategy Symrise Business Strategy Vision Sustainabilit y Growth Efficiency Portfolio values For the ye ar 2020, Symrise has set itself clear, quantifiable goals. We are following them in line with three strategic approaches: growth, efficiency and portfolio. Sustainability is an integral part of our business model. often considerably better than the local norms. By regionally process for new products and applications aimed at optimally sourcing our raw materials and intermediate products, we also satisfying customer needs. The resulting new business units and indirectly support additional jobs for the local population. Symrise’s innovative application areas, which show greater growth potential high standards for product quality and sustainable production than the general market for fragrances and flavors, give Symrise apply to our local sourcing as they do throughout our operations. a unique profile on the market and offer additional growth op­ Furthermore, Symrise is committed to local social issues at its portunities. Symrise is constantly making use of potential from locations. three megatrends: health and well-being, beauty and care, and sustainability. For example, we are committed to skin protection Innovation and Technology Drive E xpansion and healthy nutrition and offer our customers innovative products Market and consumer research, research and development, with additional health benefits. At the same time, our research creation, marketing and sales are closely intertwined at Symrise. and development activities are focused on reducing the fat, sugar Based on the results of our market and consumer research, and salt content of foods without compromising flavor. With Symrise has established a highly efficient research and development regional research and development centers, such as those in – 18 – s ha r i ng va lu e s Values, Goals, Strategy São Paulo (Brazil) or Shanghai (China), Symrise is in a position to our comprehensive approach to environmental management in­ adapt to local preferences in a targeted manner when designing cludes – together with ambitious, long-term goals to reduce products. Furthermore, we receive valuable impulses for innovative energy consumption, CO2 emissions, and water consumption as products and processes from our various partnerships with re­ well as waste and waste water emissions – a systematic process search institutes and universities. These partnerships allow Symrise for continuous improvement. Overall, we want to reduce our en­ to develop chemical processes by successively applying “green vironmental footprint by one-third by the year 2020, while suc­ chemistry” in order to minimize energy consumption and environ­ cessful productivity improvements increase the company’s invest­ mental impacts. Using “white biotechnology,” we are also in­ ment strength and open up distribution options for employees, creasingly able to optimize production processes and make them shareholders and other stakeholders. more environmentally friendly. Finally, we make use of renewable raw materials wherever possible. Str ategic Approach: P ortfolio The enhancement of our product portfolio comprises the third These three strategic levers, which Symrise uses to drive the organic pillar of our corporate strategy. We tap new markets and segments, growth of the company, are supplemented by selective acqui­ and constantly seek to expand our expertise in the areas of nu­ sitions or strategic partnerships as long as these strengthen our trition and care. Symrise is active in dynamic markets – new ideas, business model. new challenges and opportunities are simply business as usual. We want to further separate ourselves from the competition by Str ategic Approach: Efficiency anticipating consumers’ changing needs and preferences as The second approach of our corporate strategy is the continuous soon as possible and fulfilling them quickly, efficiently, creatively efficiency improvement of our operational processes and the and ecologically. At Symrise, innovation doesn’t begin with the focus on products with a high level of value creation. Symrise has research and development of a product, but earlier – with the developed from its medium-sized roots into a corporation with market research that leads to insight and knowledge. Symrise global reach. Though much has changed, cost-consciousness initiated a paradigm shift in the industry: We no longer start by remains a firm part of our corporate DNA . We are constantly talking about molecules or technologies, but rather focus on the seeking to find even better methods for supplying our products consumers. Our customers need a strong and creative partner for in a cost-effective and environmentally friendly manner at a innovation. And innovation doesn’t stop with the manufacture consistently high level of quality. We strive to further optimize our of our products. The close networking of our established business cost structures along the entire value creation chain. Our goal units with new units at the technical level, as well as via the same is to achieve a sustainable EBITDA margin between 19 and 22 % consumer clusters and customers, offers us substantial synergy every year. Accordingly, we aim to generate an EBITDA of more potential, of which we systematically take advantage. The Life than € 500 million by 2020. At the same time, we want to con­ Essentials business unit has been created in the Scent & Care tinually increase the economic and ecological efficiency of our business division. This is where Active Ingredients – the highly company’s business activities. The most important tool for this is effective substances for cosmetic care that slow the aging of the Total Productive Maintenance (TPM ). Since 2007, we have imple­ skin, soothe irritated skin or have an anti-bacterial effect – are mented well over 2,000 improvements as part of this standardized located, for instance. In the Consumer Health application area, process. Our goal is to achieve measurable efficiency gains each Symrise develops natural, functional ingredients that promote year. At the same time, TPM enables us to ensure that changes in heart and digestive function, for example. In the Flavor & Nutrition production processes have a positive effect on our sustainability business division, about one third of our research and develop­ performance. In addition, we use balanced scorecards to optimize ment budget for 2013 was in the area of healthier nutrition. In all the core areas of quality, service, costs, safety and employees. application areas, the proportion of products contributing to Together with our customers, we have established an integrated health and well-being amounted to 26 % of our sales in the 2013 supply chain management system in the form of the Symchronize™ fiscal year. By focusing our product portfolio on the areas of initiative, which comprises the entire value creation chain from raw health and well-being, Symrise sets itself apart from the compe­ materials procurement to the customer’s end product. Likewise, tition, produces tangible benefits for end consumers and paves the way for long-term growth potential. – 19 – sha r ing va lu es Goals & Measures Goals & Measures economy Long-term goals Status in 2013 Goals / measures in 2014 Our sales should grow faster than the Sales growth: +6 % to € 1,830 million market over the long term (2 to 3 % per year Fourth largest company in the F & F industry Growth on average) Market share 11 %1 Sales growth > market growth We want to consistently be among the most profitable companies in the industry EBITDA margin: 20.4 % EBITDA margin: about 20 % We want our shareholders to participate Dividend proposal for fiscal year 2013: in our economic success by way of the € 0.70 per share Profitability attractive dividend we distribute Earnings per share: € 1.46 Earnings per share > 2013 The ratio of net debt2 to EBITDA should be in a corridor between 2.0 and 2.5 in the Finances medium term3 Net debt2/ EBITDA: 2.0 Net debt2/ EBITDA: 2.0 to 2.5 An increase in the proportion of products in our portfolio that contribute to health and Continued above-average growth in the Life well-being 26 % of sales (2012: 25 %) Essentials and Consumer Health segments New research center opened and research loan of € 125 million obtained. We develop new active ingredients for Focus: functional ingredients for cosmetics Continued emphasis on research and Portfolio healthier nutrition and skin protection and healthy nutrition development in these areas 1 Related to the relevant AFF market of € 17.4 billion • 2 Including provisions for pensions and similar obligations • 3 It is possible to exceed this range in the short term, by making acquisitions within the framework of our strategy, for example. Environment Long-term goals Status in 2013 Goals / measures in 2014 33 % less CO2 emissions by 2020 1 Change of – 9.3 % 1 CO2 emissions: –4 %² 33 % less energy consumption by 20201 Change of – 9.1 % 1 Energy consumption: –4 %² 33 % less waste volumes by 20201 Change of –16.9 % 1 Waste volumes: –4 %² 33 % less water consumption by 20201 Change of – 8.3 % 1 Water consumption: –4 %² 33 % less wastewater production by 20201 Change of – 12.3 % 1 Wastewater production: –4 %² Planning a new, energy-efficient powerplant; 66 % of our raw materials (by volume) are now Setting up a framework program on biodiversity Reducing the environmental impact covered by Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) conservation and a research cooperation on of our processes and systems Scope 3 reporting guidelines biodiversity impact assessment Independent DQS audit of internal processes Minimizing Our in research, development, manufacturing and Transfer recommendations from the audit Ecological Footprint Continually increasing process efficiency sales with regard to (environmental) efficiency into business processes Improving the environmental impact Opening of a catalysis laboratory to advance Research projects on renewable sources of of strategic synthetic raw materials8 strategic research in green chemistry key raw materials Consistent Application of Sustainability – GAP5 certification for our onions Developing a corresponding perfomance Criteria – Expansion of SAN4 certification for our vanilla indicator; expanding our total portfolio When Sourcing Source 100 % of key agricultural raw materials – CENSO6 certification for our lavandin of certified raw materials and the volume of Raw Materials from sustainable sources by 2020 3 – Launch of sustainable shea butter from Ghana our RA 7 certified vanilla 1 Compared to the base value from 2010 per ton of product produced • 2 Compared to the previous year’s figure per ton of product produced • 3 The previously separate goals “Increasing the share of raw materials that meet agricultural sustainability standards” and “Increasing the share of raw materials certified according to sustainability standards” have been developed into this new, quantifiable goal. 4 Sustainable Agriculture Network • 5 Good Agricultural Practice • 6 CENSO is a sustainable development approach for the French lavender and lavandin essential oils sector. • 7 Rainforest Alliance • 8 For the sake of clarity, the goal “Performing sustainability and risk evaluations for key raw materials” has been included here. In 2013, it has been addressed by the development of specific environmental impact metrics for aroma raw materials. – 20 – s ha r ing va lue s Goals & Measures Employees Long-term goals Status in 2013 Goals / measures in 2014 Minimizing unwanted employee fluctuation Fluctuation rate: 4.4 % (previous year: 5.3 %) Further reduction of the fluctuation rate Implementation of measures derived Active involvement of our employees from the International Employee Engagement Maintain regular feedback sessions and in the company’s development Survey 2012 team events like townhall meetings Constantly Increasing Employer Transparent communication with Redesign of internal online media and launch Train employees in the use of “SymPortal” Attractiveness our employees of new “SymPortal” employee platform and continue implementation Targeted support of our employees with Providing appropriate and relevant Professional development expenses: training and professional development professional development measures € 2.7 million (previous year: € 2.5 million). through career@symrise “Symrise Future Generation”: Prepare 20 to 30 young talents for key Encouraging professional development Implementation of the introduced placement positions on the basis of an individual and the assumption of responsibility ratio guidelines for internal applicants talent management approach Expansion and Retention Individual career development and succession Promote cross-functional and cross-regional of Employee Introduction of an initiative for career planning within career@symrise for all manager know-how transfer through team events and Know-how development: career@symrise and director level positions assignments Recognition by the Women’s Career Index for high efforts in promoting women at work Promoting Promoting the diversity of expertise organizing their family life in parallel Implement a new long-term goal: Diversity Among “Increasing the share of women in leadership Our Employees High proportion of local employees > 90 % (at previous year’s level) positions to 20 % by 2020” Maximizing Low accident rate (MAQ)1 MAQ: 5.3 (previous year: 5.3) Continuation and Expansion of “Symply Occupational Safety Healthy” awareness campaign and intervenand Health Low accident severity (USQ)² USQ: 51 (previous year: 99) tion program 1 MAQ = Accidents subject to reporting requirements x 1,000,000/working hours (accidents subject to reporting requirements > 1 working day) • 2 USQ = Sick days x 1,000,000/working hours Societ y Long-term goals Status in 2013 Goals / measures in 2014 Assessment of our 250 most important Assessment of at least 50 more suppliers suppliers according to SEDEX criteria by 2015 > 190 suppliers have been assessed according to SEDEX criteria Unilever, Symrise and GIZ1 (on behalf of Development and expansion of strategic BMZ2) launch a 3-year program to support initiatives on sustainable sourcing with a Expansion of initiatives on vanilla, onion and livelihood improvement for 4,000 vanilla focus on creating shared value lavender farmers in Madagascar Co-development of a code of conduct for 100 % vanilla sourcing within the Sustainable Becoming an active member in the Responsible Cooperating with NGOs and other stakeholder Vanilla Initiative (SVI) framework; Joining the Sustainable Spices Initiative and developing Sourcing groups to promote sustainable sourcing 3 Sustainable Spices Initiative (SSI) project partnerships Volunteer teams were formed at sites in every Setting up a framework program “Inspired by Encouraging the involvement of our employees region, in which employees lend their time Nature” with a focus on employee awareness in social projects and development of a and efforts to social and ecological projects – and commitment with regard to biodiversity company-wide volunteer program during their working hours and beyond conservation Our local Care Teams have initiated many locally relevant projects; as an example, Evaluating needs in the areas around our our teams in Asia joined forces to provide Assessing the success of these projects and sites and initiating relevant and focused relevant help after taifun Hayan had hit the further assigning budget and ressources to projects Philippines 2 these areas Guiding principle has been established Promotion of Social Establishment of a global guiding principle and corresponding projects are in place, Projects Relevant for our social commitment – Symrise. e. g. social and environmental volunteer to Our Mission4 Because We Care. days in different countries 3 1 GIZ is a German federal enterprise with operations around the globe. It supports the German Government in the fields of international cooperation for sustainable development and international education. 2 BMZ is the German Federal Ministry for Economic Cooperation and Development • 3 The previously separate goals “Promoting industry standards for sustainable sourcing” and “Cooperation with NGOs and other stakeholder groups” have been merged. The new goal is: “Cooperating with NGOs and other stakeholder groups to promote sustainable sourcing”. • 4 The wording and consequently the focus has been adjusted: “Promotion of Social Projects with a Focus on Education and Health” now reads “Promotion of Social Projects Relevant to Our Mission”. – 21 – sha r ing va lu es Highlights Strategic Acquisition In March 2013, Symrise ac­ quired the Belmay Group’s global Profitable Growth fragrance business. Both the product and customer portfolio optimally sup­ plement the existing activities of the Scent & Care division. At the same In 2013, our sales rose time, we are strengthening our grow­ by 6 % to over € 1.8 billion – ing presence in North America, and thus once again grew more which is Belmay’s quickly than the market. The operating core market. result reached € 373 million and the Sustainable earnings margin could be expanded to Networking 20.4 %. Our shareholders should be able to partake in this success with an increase of the divi­ dend to € 0.70. In 2013, Symrise became a member High of the Sustainable Spices Initiative (SSI ). The sustainable cultivation and purchasing of spices is a central focus for both Symrise and the SSI . This made membership in the SSI the next logi­ cal step for Symrise in its sustainability efforts. Together with customers, suppliers and NGOs, we want to actively cooper­ ate with the SSI , sharing our knowl­ edge while gaining new expe­ rience. Green Company DQS has certified Symrise as a “Green Pioneer in Responsible Company.” The certification con­ firms the high transparency and accountability of our internal cor­ porate processes with regard to products, services and envi­ ronmental standards. Sourcing Symrise is one of the first fragrance companies in the industry to purchase CENSO-certified lavandin oil. This se­ cures Symrise’s access to a key natu­ ral raw material for fragrance crea­ tion while promoting the sustaina­ ble development of the French lavender and lavandin oil industry. – 22 – s ha r ing va lue s Highlights New Research Center Work at the new Symrise research center in Holzminden began following the festive opening celebration in April 2013. Symrise has invested € 10 million in the new building. With the new building, the company is promoting the interdisciplinary research dialogue between its two divisions, Scent & Care and Advancement of Women Flavor & Nutrition. A special point of emphasis was placed on developing functional ingredients for healthy nutrition and conscious personal care. Per year, the Group spends more than Symrise volunteered for an assess­ € 100 million on research and devel­ ment of its performance regarding aspects such as women in management positions, opment. internal commitments on promoting women lights and overall conditions for the advancement of women. The result: With a score of 72 on the Women’s Career Index, we are in the top third of participating companies in Germany. The Women’s Career Index is an initiative of the German Ministry of Family Af­ fairs. Green Chemistry for the Environment In order to further expand our research focus on green chemistry, Symrise opened a catalysis laboratory in 2013: Here, we research new catalytic methods for manufacturing aromatic substances and Recognized flavors while also optimizing existing methods. In this Excellence way, we aim to increasingly develop high-quality prod­ ucts with a reduced environmental impact and take on the upstream stages of production in terms of Our initiative for susbackward integration. The project is being funded tainable vanilla creates added value for everyone – for the farm­ through the NBank via funds from the ers, for us, for our customers and European Regional Development for consumers. This commitment was Fund (ERDF). recognized in 2013: At the Food Ingredients Europe (FIE) trade fair, Symrise received the FIE Excel­ lence Award in the sustain­ ability category. – 23 – sha r ing va lu es Local Heroes – 24 – s ha r ing va lue s Local Heroes Local Heroes It is one of the most important ingredients in nearly every savory dish worldwide, bringing both spice and sweetness. For Symrise, it is also a shining example of efficiency: the onion. The company purchases the vegetable from the surrounding vicinity, making long-term agreements with suppliers while minimizing transport, storage and energy costs. In the end, the onion is in roughly 8 % of all Symrise products and is therefore one of our top raw materials. • Photos Marcus Pietrek Text Marc-Stefan Andres – 25 – sha r ing va lu es Local Heroes On the fields near Bisperode, harvesting machines leave the onions in rows to dry after being dug up. A few days later, they are transported to the storage warehouse by truck. Employees test the vegetables’ pH levels directly after harvesting to verify the product’s quality. Dr. Felix Schuppert (right) is responsible for purchasing agricultural raw materials at Symrise. Together with farmer Markus Stukenbrock, he surveys the harvest and checks the storage conditions on site (right image). – 26 – s ha r ing va lue s Local Heroes 20 hectares of harvested onions, reaching as far as the eye can Demand for onion products is constantly rising – as are the see. Markus Stukenbrock grabs one of the best-looking brown purchase quantities. Symrise has been developing products from specimens, opens his knife and slices through the peel and white the crop for more than 60 years. The end products are sold pre­ flesh. “Looks good,” he says and hands the fist-sized sample dominantly in Europe, but also in other markets as well. Markus to Dr. Felix Schuppert. The Symrise employee responsible for Stukenbrock is one of Symrise’s main suppliers of onions. purchasing agricultural raw materials wipes a little dirt from the He entered into a six-year contract with the company in 2011. dry outer layer. He examines the onion from every side, nodding “Planning security is very important for us,” says the 32-yearin agreement. A high-quality onion. old, who runs the family farm together with his father and two lo­ cal colleagues as a farming cooperative. The partnership’s longOne of Symrise’s most important natural raw materials is grown term nature is also seen in the example of his predecessor, who here in Bisperode, a town of 1,300 residents located just 40 kilo­ filled orders for the company for over 20 years and later helped meters from the company’s headquarters in Holzminden. The Stukenbrock take over. “He ended operations here in the region, company uses the onion in 8 % of its roughly 30,000 products – but helped me through the transition phase for more than a year,” directly as onion juice concentrate or as a base mate­rial for he explains. ­flavors used in innumerable savory products. Felix Schuppert purchases over 5,000 tons in the fall of 2013 in order to have Sustainable Farming 15 months’ worth of raw materials available. A major portion of Along with two other suppliers, the agricultural economist grows these come from Stukenbrock. “We calculate an adequate Sturon onions, which proved to be the most suitable onion species buffer into our planning because we are working with a natural for the local conditions in and around Holzminden according to resource that is subject to weather-related cultivation and har­ a joint research project by Symrise and the University of Hohen­ vest fluctuations.” heim. The land Stukenbrock uses for growing onions consists of about 80 hectares: “We rotate our crops with wheat, potatoes, sugar beets and onions, which are only planted every seven years.” The GAP -certified farm, which stands for “good agricultural practices,” does this to avoid over-farming the soil. When order quantities rise, Markus Stukenbrock can call on colleagues from the region to help meet demand. “We change hectares every year to allow for the best possible soil maintenance.” After the harvest, Stukenbrock stores the vegetables in a large warehouse, which is equipped with an onion dryer, in order to respond as accurately as possible to Symrise’s production needs. He had the ware­ house built specifically for the Symrise contract. “This kind of investment is only possible when you have a fair and reliable partner.” Felix Schuppert shares that viewpoint. “We benefit from this arrangement as well, as we receive a product that is traceable and provides supply security. It also allows us to distance ourselves somewhat from fluctuating market prices,” says the Symrise purchaser. The contract between the parties also facilitates a special partnership, with Symrise making assurances to cover unforeseeable price increases in diesel, insurances or fertilizer while also retaining the opportunity to benefit from falling prices. – 27 – sha r ing va lu es Local Heroes Incoming goods are closely inspected by a Symrise employee to ensure Short Supply Routes, Low Energy Consumption that the quality is sufficient for further processing. The onions travel from Markus Stukenbrock’s warehouse to Holzminden by truck through the winding roads of the Weser country­ side. The trip is short and fuel consumption accordingly minimal. The truck stops next to a plain warehouse in the middle of the factory site. An employee peeks through a small window into the green bed of the truck to quickly confirm its contents. He gives Grothe supervises the entire value chain, develops new product a sign and the driver uses the hydraulic controls, allowing 25 tons concepts and advises key customers, who are increasingly inter­ of onions to slide off the bed into the storage clamp. The eval­ ested in sustainable processes. Symrise is a good partner in uation begins: A maximum of 2 % of the onions can be damaged. that regard. “Our production processes use 100 % of the vege­ Similarly, only a small percentage of soil or other substances table,” says Grothe. In practice, it looks something like this: found on fields is accepted. “If we find a higher than acceptable The onions roll along a conveyor belt into the Symrise production share of undesirable materials, the entire shipment has to be halls. There they are washed, ground and pressed. Only a whit­ ­returned. These factors can impair the effectiveness of our pro­ ish, dry pulp is left, which is put into containers and will later wind cesses – for instance if lactic acid levels are too high due to too up in biogas plants. The precious juice, however, flows into the many spoiled onions,” says Steffen Grothe. The raw material also three-part condensation system, which removes most of the wa­ has to be “crackle dry,” explains the Symrise competency man­ ter from the liquid. Next, the Symrise technology SymTrap® re­ ager for vegetables. moves the final volatile aroma components and saves them for later use. The main product is a golden, honey-like syrup, which Steffen Grothe displays in a small jar in his hand: onion juice concentrate. More than 500 tons of it will result from ten times as many tons of onions – pure, natural and without any additives. And it has the classic sweet-spicy scent of freshly cut onions. “One advantage of the product is its long shelf life, which allows us to forgo elab­ orate cooling processes,” says Steffen Grothe. “This saves us a great deal on energy and related costs – representing a con­ siderable contribution towards sustainability.” – 28 – s ha r ing va lue s Local Heroes Despite their various technical skills, a refined sense of smell and taste remain among the most important competencies for Laurence Guibouret (left) and her flavorist colleagues. Various flavors – with fresh, green, sweet, dark, roasted or slightly bitter notes – are made from the onion concentrate. – 29 – sha r ing va lu es Local Heroes Symrise chef Harry Weber uses the culinary approach. His “prime beef with onion medley” is meant to inspire customers. It certainly left a pleasant impression with Annegret Mönnikes, Head of Application Technology, and Steffen Grothe, Competence Manager Vegetable Flavors. 100 Nearly 100 % of the onion is used by Symrise during the process: The juice is used to make concentrate and flavors, while volatile flavor components are recovered with the Symrise technology SymTrap®. The leftover dry mass is used as fuel for a biogas plant. – 30 – s ha r ing va lue s Local Heroes The Culinary Approach The onion juice concentrate can be shipped off to customers after containers holding various flavors. The French native is mixing a passing an exact quality control inspection. It can be delivered roast chicken marinade using a dozen powders and a recipe in pure form or as one of the many onion flavors made from the printed on a piece paper that she has placed next to her. Though concentrate. When it comes to searching for new applications perhaps only a small amount is used, one of the more than 50 for key customers, Harry Weber is the man for the job. However, onion flavors that Symrise uses daily in the laboratory will wind up the Symrise chef doesn’t initially work with the onion products in this product. to achieve this aim. Instead, he starts with the culinary approach, working in multitasking mode. The 51-year-old steams an entire “We dissolve the mixture in salty, lukewarm water which allows onion until it is nearly transparent, while turning up another burner the flavor to develop,” says the chemical lab technician, who was in the Symrise test kitchen and moving a deep pan with onions trained as a flavorist at the renowned ISIPCA Institute in Ver­ wrapped in batter into the heat. A few seconds later, he turns a sailles. Once the mixture is fully dissolved, it’s time for a sampling: prime rib in a marinade while glancing at another pot simmering Taste, after all, plays a major role in her work. With the help of onions with cardamom and sake. The ingredients for “prime beef gas and thin-layer chromatographs as well as mass spectrometers, with onion medley” as he calls it. “The dish is intended to inspire hundreds of flavors can be detected in a single food. Finding the our customers and show them the diversity and flexibility of onions,” little nuances that make the difference, however, requires a human says Weber, who used to cook in restaurants and hotels around touch. The challenge her job poses is constantly growing, says the world before starting his career in the industry. Laurence Guibouret. “We are using an increasing number of natural base materials, always paying close attention to possible aller­ The chef works in application technology, which is responsible gens and, of course, the price factor for our products as well.” for nearly all savory products – dried soups, sauces, instant foods, frozen foods, fish and meat preparations and mayonnaises. On­ Trends and Experiences as Idea Generators ions that are roasted, fried, grilled, smoked, broiled or sautéed in Laurence Guibouret spends a great deal of time with new products butter have their place in 95 % of all applications – usually as a in cooperation with the application technology and marketing flavor carrier or base material for various foods. “Without the on­ teams. “We use events like the upcoming 2014 FIFA World Cup ion, we wouldn’t have a lot of dishes,” says Weber, who doesn’t in Brazil as inspiration,” adds her colleague Annegret Mönnikes. tire of talking about fresh, green, spicy, sweet, buttery, lightly The office of the Head of Application Technology, who also manages cooked, dark, roasted or slightly bitter onion notes. the test kitchen, is also located in the same hallway. “We offer our customers a wide range of products that have a local flavor: In the case of his prime beef dish, he is using various ways of from meat marinades and seasoning pastes to delicatessen salads.” preparing onions to give everything that perfect flavor. If the end Market research also is playing an increasingly important role at result of a creation tastes as good as he imagines, the recipe is Symrise by analyzing global trends and incorporating these into passed on to the flavorists who aim to recreate the core flavors products. with various natural materials such as onion juice concentrate, essential onion oils and other flavors. These two teams work closely, An important part of their work: Fulfilling customer wishes to as is seen in the way Harry Weber later tests the flavors that replace certain raw materials, for example. “If a customer has the flavorists develop based on natural products – assessing, for been using onion powder, but now wants to switch to a stand­ instance, whether the flavor functions in various mixtures, remains ardized flavor due to availability, quality or pricing reasons, they stable or maintains its flavor in preserves that undergo ultra-high wind up talking to us,” says Annegret Mönnikes. Ideally, the temperature processing. customers send their initial base formula for products like bouillon cubes or instant soups. The application technicians test these Close Cooperation in Product Development products in order to meet the requested standards and keep costs The departments are also located close to one another: Laurence as low as possible. “The process sounds very simple, but it really Guibouret and her flavorist colleagues are only one door down is quite complex as personal preferences play an ever expanding the hall. Every wall in the food technologist’s office is covered with role.” After all, everyone along the value chain agrees: The flavor shelves that go up to the ceiling, which are filled with plastic experience is always the most important. – 31 – s ha r i ng va lu e s Working Together Working Together Thorste n Surburg works at HaWe Tec Holzminde n , which has c o operated with Symrise since many years. 140 people with mental disabilities work at the company, which takes on various tasks from other companies in the region. At Symrise, Thorsten Surburg distributes office supplies, digitalizes data or helps shred documents together with his colleagues Kai Kallinich and Friedhelm Bolte. Symrise sees the inclusion of disabled persons as an opportunity – as is further underscored by our engagement on the other side of the globe in Brazil. In cooperation with the Dorina Nowill Foundation, the company provides visually-impaired people with internships as perfumers or fragrance evaluators. So far, so good: The first candidates have already been hired. – 33 – s ha r i ng va lue s At Home with Consumers At Home with Consumers Creams, toothpaste, shaving gel and perfumes. Beverages, vegetables, fruits, meat and ready-made meals: People around the world use and enjoy these types of products every day. In this age of globalization, where the same product can be found in a village market in China and in a supermarket in New York City, preferences often overlap. And yet great diversity remains, depending on regional habits and income levels as well as purchasing and consumption behavior. A glance into refrigerators and bathroom cabinets around the world highlights the challenges faced by the experts at Symrise: They strive to understand the desires of end consumers and develop corresponding innovations that are ready for the market. – 34 – new york city, usa Single, female, 42 years old, employed, above average income sha r ing va lu es At Home with Consumers germany Apartment shared by five seniors, between the ages of 62 and 79, average retirement income dubai Single, male, 40 years old, employed, above average income russia Single, female, 35 years old, employed, average income – 36 – s ha r ing va lue s At Home with Consumers long island, nj, usa Large family, three generations, average income japan Single, male, 28 years old, employed, average income south korea Family with one child, parents aged 42 and 46, employed, below average income – 37 – sha r ing va lu es At Home with Consumers japan Single, male, 28 years old, employed, average income germany Senior couple, 68 and 72 years old, average retirement income – 38 – s ha r ing va lue s At Home with Consumers india Couple, 40 and 45 years old with one child, both employed, average income dubai Single, male, 40 years old, employed, above average income – 39 – sha r ing va lu es Agenda 2020 Dr. Bertram, Symrise celebrated its ten-year anniversary in 2013. What were the most memorable moments for you from these last twelve months? How would you rate the 2013 fiscal year overall? How important is constant growth for Symrise? Do you also invest in your headquarters in Holzminden? – 40 – s ha r ing va lue s Agenda 2020 First of all, we invested a great deal in all of our key regions and markets over the past ten years – both in areas like research and development, production and various sales channels as well as in sustainability and our employees. The establishment of two new research and development centers in Brazil and here in Holzminden – where we also ex­ panded production of menthol, our largest single product – are just one example from the last year. After winning the German Sustainability Award in 2012, we were certified as a Green Company in 2013 in recognition of our production processes as well as our efforts in areas like occupational safety and environmental protection. We also placed a greater focus on HR policy – on topics such as the advancement of women and working time models for all employees, for example. It was a very good year, in which we once again achieved new records. In terms of sales, we grew by 6 % growth to € 1,830 million and achieved an EBITDA margin of 20.4 %. We have grown continuously since our Initial Public Offering (IPO) in 2006. These accomplishments are enabled by the three pillars of our corporate strategy: Growth – in which we generate sales with international, re­ gional and local customers with an increasing focus on the emerging markets. Efficiency – which focuses on improving our processes sustainably. And our portfolio – which we enhance and in which we occasionally strengthen promising fields with acquisitions and partnerships. We have been growing organically for years. We reinforce this growth through investments: In Brazil, we built a new development center to tap into one of the largest perfume markets. At the same time, we have been operating in China for 30 years. There, we are experiencing above-average growth and are further expanding our capacities. In addition, we are planning to build a new regional center in Singapore. And a new production plant for vanilla extraction will go into operation in Madagascar in 2014. The site remains the heart of our operations. Along with the menthol production facilities, we recently invested in the consolidation of our mixing plant for flavors, which saves on costs and pro­ motes greater efficiency. We will also be opening an extraction facility in 2014 that will help us extract more natural flavors from fruits, vegetables and spices from around the world. Energy efficiency is another area we are focusing on: At the moment, we are planning a new power plant, which should significantly reduce our dependency on fossil fuels. – 41 – sha r ing va lu es Agenda 2020 “We are optimally positioned to further expand our business in the core segments and growth regions. We view the achievement of our set targets as confirmation of our proven strategy.” – 42 – With our new research center , we want to strengthen our expertise in research and development, which represents the basis for our competitive position as well our accelerated growth. A special point of emphasis was placed on researching functional ingredients for healthy nutrition and conscious personal care. Agenda 2020 Symrise ’s thoughts and actions are guided by both commer cial and sustainable principles. The corporate strategy is oriented towards long -term goals. Under the heading “Agenda 2020,” Symrise has summarized the areas of focus that will guide its corporate activit y in e very region and market around the globe for the coming years. • Symrise aims to increase its overall sales by more than € 1 billion by 2020, which would amount to total annual sales of € 2.7 to 2.8 billion. The average target growth rate for each year should therefore be between 5 and 7 %. At the same time, the company wants to increase EBITDA to more than € 500 million. This corresponds to an annual EBITDA margin between 19 and 22 %. • Symrise intends to grow with a clear focus on the emerging markets, such as China, India, Eastern Europe and Latin America. In the future, these markets should account for two-thirds of overall sales. At the same time, the company will maintain its robust customer structure, with each segment (global, regional and local customers) accounting for one-third of our business. • Symrise also set various goals for 2020 to ensure its continued sustainable supply of high-quality raw materials. The most important ten to twelve natural materials – including vanilla, oranges, cloves, lavender, eucalyptus and onions – should come from 100 % sustainable sources by 2020. To ensure availability of these raw materials and therefore the basis for production, backward integration will be further expanded. It will grow to cover 40 % of the company’s sourcing. • Symrise is constantly researching new products and technologies that support further growth. The company will continue to place a particular focus on innovations – for instance, the promising fields of Life Essentials and Consumer Health, which Symrise can serve particularly well thanks to its organizational structure with the Scent & Care and Flavor & Nutrition divisions. • For years, Symrise has been committed to a more environmentally friendly and therefore more sustainable business. An increasing amount of products, buildings and individual processes are being replanned or converted to consume less energy, steam and heat while also reducing waste. By doing so, the company aims to reduce the CO2 footprint of its products by 33 % by the year 2020. s ha r ing va lue s Agenda 2020 When you look at the company’s portfolio, how do you see it developing in the coming years? Over the past several years, we have closely examined the market and its customers. Developments like demographic change and the trends towards more health, naturalness and sustainability influence our business. Alongside our traditional areas of business, we are also becoming more active in the Life Essentials, Consumer Health and Aroma Molecules segments – areas that are underrepresented in our com­ petitors’ portfolios. Symrise is well-positioned for this: We can utilize the synergies of our two business divisions Scent & Care and Flavor & Nutrition. Through the acqui­ sition of Belmay in the USA , we have enlarged our product and customer base in the fragrance segment and we gained valuable know-how in probiotics via our stake in the Swedish company Probi. You have already set very concrete corporate goals for 2020. Why are you taking such a long view? As a publicly listed company, we may submit quarterly reports, but we formulate long-term strategies and goals as well. We want to continually increase the value of our company while taking all our stakeholders into consideration. That’s why we have established targets for the year 2020. These are meant to facilitate an even greater interlinking of our corporate and sustain­ ability strategies. This includes the EBITDA margin between 19 and 22 %. How do you arrive at this figure? We take the industry’s average margin and add a little to it. The reason for the range, rather than one fixed figure, is to account for various uncertainties. For instance, raw material prices fluctuate from year to year. These account for about 40 % of our sales and are therefore the largest cost factor we have. Additionally, the current trend towards natural raw materials from renewable sources means increased purchasing costs. In order to compensate for this, we are increasingly shifting production to the larger markets and procuring goods locally. We are also imple­ menting greater backward integration for our most important raw materials. This is one of our key goals for 2020. – 43 – s ha r ing va lue s Families First Families First Torsten Kulke has three children – and understands just how important it is to have enough time for his family. Maintaining a close dialogue between employees and the company is vital when it comes to finding the right balance between work and family. Family-oriented HR policies have a high priority at Symrise: The company offers over 80 flexible working time models in Germany alone. Promoting a healthy work-family balance and career opportunities for women are constantly priorities at Symrise, which helps explain why the German Federal Ministry of Family Affairs ranked Symrise in the top third of participating companies in its Women’s Career Index. – 45 – sha r ing va lu es Always on the Move – 46 – s ha r ing va lue s Always on the Move Always on the Move Symrise serves all of the major markets around the globe as it seeks to drive further growth. The Asia Pacific region is a great example of this. Symrise is investing approximately € 30 million into the region’s headquarters in Singapore. The Company is also banking on expansion, modern production technology and in-depth knowledge of consumer needs in the different countries in the region. This is evident from a peek into the fastest-growing emerging market: China. – 47 – sha r ing va lu es Always on the Move The plans spread out on the table in front of Mathys Boeren look promising. The sketches show two modern, black-and-white buildings located at Pandan Loop – a long road in an industrial park. “With this project, we want to take our site to the next level. We aim to do this via a targeted expansion of our regional headquarters for Asia,” says the trained chemical engineer, who is responsible for strategy, innovation and marketing in the Flavor & Nutrition division as Senior Vice President at Symrise Singapore. “We will be bringing our two divisions even closer together by improving the spatial conditions on site for that purpose,” adds Norbert Braun, who heads the fields of innovation and technology for the Scent & Care division as Vice President and is overseeing the € 30 million project together with Mathys Boeren. “As one of the market leaders in our industry, we want to continually improve. We also aim to constantly enhance our reputation as an attractive and environmentally conscious employer.” B u il d ing on a F i r m F o u n dation Symrise employs more than 550 people in Singapore, where a center is being built that will lead the Asia Pacific region with significantly improved infrastructure. Many factors speak in favor of the site. Symrise has been at the site since 1979 and has received a great deal of support from the Singapore Economic Development Board (EDB ), which assists companies with their investments. “There are many English-speaking individuals here with solid educations – they hail from various Asian countries and therefore have deep insight into the diverse cultures,” says Norbert Braun. This is also important because Symrise is always More space, more light and comfortable temperatures: The modernization and expansion of the headquarters in Singapore creates a work environment that motivates and inspires. – 48 – s ha r ing va lue s Always on the Move looking for fresh talent. Not that it is lacking in this area, with its At the same time, Symrise is using modern lighting solutions to very experienced and loyal employees in Singapore. “Some of our provide the desired amount of light. Air quality is also being employees have been with us for 25 years. They are very ambitious, optimized, avoiding cross contamination from the different labo­ which is why we have to offer them a steady stream of exciting ratories. And thanks to the building expansions, there will be projects and excellent working conditions to stay ahead of the a lot more space. It’s a good thing, too: “Our staff has grown by competition from other multinational companies in the city.” 30 % over the past four years and will continue increasing over the coming years,” says Mathys Boeren. This includes bringing more light and an improved sitting arrange­ ment into offices and laboratories, explains Mathys Boeren while T h e M i d d l e C l a ss is G r owing pointing to a section of the plans. “We want to create a welcoming “We are making this major investment because the region repre­ and comfortable working atmosphere that inspires and motivates sents one of our core markets,” explains Norbert Braun. About our employees.” The architects have to accomplish this while 60 % of the world’s population lives here – and the middle class is accounting for temperatures reaching up to 35 degrees Celsius growing rapidly. This class is increasingly looking for semi-pro­ daily as well as extreme tropical humidity. This represents a true cessed and ready-made meals, which contain Symrise flavors, or challenge. “Cooling requires a great deal of energy, which is why household and personal care products that use Symrise fra­ we will be using double-glazed windows with special films to help grances. “In the next four to five years, about 300 million more reduce energy consumption and therefore our CO2 emissions.” Chinese consumers will be earning enough to afford these kinds of products.” – 49 – sha r ing va lu es Always on the Move An inspiring atmosphere for Jeff Yao and his team: Symrise’s China Creative Center for the Scent & Care division is located in a converted steel factory in Shanghai’s Red Town district. A further reason that will lead to strong growth: “The multinational 31 Y e a r s of E x p e r i e nc e : Sy m r is e in C h in a corporations, many of which are among our customers, are The great variety within the markets, customers and products in shifting their priorities to emerging markets. And there are also Asia is seen with a visit 3,800 kilometers to the north. Symrise’s many regional and local companies we are serving as well with China Creative Center for the Scent & Care division is located in our products. We do business with all three groups and want to Shanghai. The company has been in China since 1982 and was maintain an equal balance between them,” says Mathys Boeren. the first international manufacturer of fragrances on the Chinese “When these companies develop new products, we have to be right mainland. 250 individuals work in the two divisions spread across there. To accomplish this, we have to know the market, under­ four sites. stand consumers and brands and be able to directly meet the requirements of our customers.” This applies equally to both divisions. – 50 – s ha r ing va lue s Always on the Move Jeff Yao and his team work across three floors and 1,700 square T wo V e ry Diff e r e nt S a l e s C h a nn e ls meters in a converted steel factory in the Red Town district – Even the companies that Symrise serves differ widely from one a former commercial and industrial area. Today, the district is another. The trend towards globalization, however, is clear in this bustling with clubs, restaurants and extravagant shops. “It pro­ region as well. “The international companies are acquiring many vides a very creative atmosphere, with a multicultural flair,” explains local brands and replacing them with their own,” Jeff Yao explains. the Vice President of Scent & Care while describing the site in “And yet traditional sales, which are organized over multiple Shanghai. Jeff Yao is responsible for Northeast Asia and therefore levels all the way to the millions of tiny village shops, will continue the huge market containing the world’s most populous country. to exist.” To keep up its strong growth, the company continues to study consumer preferences very closely. “We combine numer­ Business has grown by 10 % every year for the past several years, ous integrated consumer research tools at our Global Navigator though it seems almost wrong to refer to China as a single mar­ Center in Shanghai, in order to constantly identify and explore ket. “The preferences of consumers in China are very diverse, so developing trends.” each region needs to be served individually,” says Jeff Yao. The middle class is growing from the north to the south and the east The knowledge is there and our technologies are constantly being to the west, with cultures differing from each other as do fra­ improved. “For Scent & Care, we are expanding our production grance preferences. “For example, people in northern China pre­ of perfume oils. Additionally, environmental aspects are becoming fer very strong, natural fragrances while those in the south tend increasingly important in China,” explains Jeff Yao. “By the end towards subtle fragrances that stimulate the imagination.” of 2014, we will have installed a system for regenerative thermal oxidation at our production site in Shanghai, which will help reduce odor accumulation. This is good for our employees, the environment and the people living nearby. And it represents another example of how the sustainability dimension of our global strategy is brought to life at the regional and country level.” 10% In recent years, business has grown in China by about 10 % each year. Symrise supplies international corporations as well as local and regional customers there. – 51 – sha r ing va lu es What's next? What's next? Symrise supplies the international markets with sustainable products that are in demand. These products are based on the work of hundreds of researchers and developers around the world. The new research center in Holzminden pools the best ideas from the researchers working in both divisions and creates synergies – even extending to its processes and technologies. Here is a closer look at Symrise’s innovative abilities. – 53 – sha r ing va lu es What's next? “The subjects of sustainability, green chemistry and naturalness call for completely new approaches. The work we do here will impact products around the world, which is why we work in close cooperation with colleagues in Brazil, the USA or China.” Bright sunshine pours in from three sides, illuminating white pil­ primarily involved with fragrances, aroma molecules and oral lars and the smooth, gray stone floor. Gerhard Krammer and care. Another raw material that has cross-divisional importance Torsten Kulke stand in the center of this cavernous hall, peering is ginger, which is used in sweets and as a medicinal plant for at the screen of a tablet and discussing the use of a certain raw skin health. “We exchange technical data, analyze and evaluate material. The Symrise Heads of Research meet regularly in the materials all while learning from our colleagues,” explains Kulke. new Symrise research center in Holzminden. Since April 2013, it has been supplying 90 workstations as well as spacious com­ In his work, Gerhard Krammer focuses on functional ingredients munications and conference areas across four floors and 2,400 for healthy nutrition that are natural and sustainable. “They need square meters. to taste good as well,” the researcher adds. “The flavor experi­ ence has become even more important over the past few years.” The glass center, in which Symrise invested € 10 million, con­ Krammer also has to constantly keep international aspects and nects four pre-existing buildings. The center now hosts research­ preferences in mind. “The work we do here will impact products ers from both divisions. About 20 % of Symrise’s total staff works around the world, which is why we work in close cooperation in research and development. “The subjects of sustainability, green with colleagues in Brazil, the USA or China.” chemistry and naturalness call for completely new approaches for research and development. These often evolve out of a close Torsten Kulke sees additional trends influencing research: “Many cooperation between all of the various areas of research and de­ raw materials have become increasingly scarce over the past ten velopment. The new research center has made this process much years and therefore more expensive – while the global popula­ easier from day one,” says Flavor & Nutrition Head of Research tion is growing and therefore demand is rising.” Symrise’s chal­ Krammer. For him, it is also a sign that the business divisions will lenge is to ensure the availability of its raw materials at a con­ be collaborating more closely. “We are seeing an increasing num­ stant quality while improving its processes to make them more ber of joint project possibilities. Now, more than ever, we can in­ efficient. corporate each other’s work – in scientific lectures or customer events that are held here, for example,” says Krammer. “It is also One of the many ways Symrise accomplishes these goals is with inspiring for our customers to hear us talk about how botanical open innovation networks, where Symrise cooperates with col­ extracts, for instance, are generated sustainably and can be im­ leges, suppliers and customers in many regions. “We often meet plemented in both cosmetics and beverages.” in the new research center, which has a nice side effect,” ex­ plains Torsten Kulke: “By moving offices and conference rooms When talking about synergies, Torsten Kulke can’t help but men­ into the new building, we suddenly had new space to work with tion the work taking place in the mint segment: “Oral care and in our segment. We used this space to install new facilities such chewing gum are two application areas at Symrise where we have as the catalysis laboratory, which we use to examine and develop been developing successful innovations to market maturity to­ cutting-edge approaches like green chemistry for Symrise. This gether for a very long time,” says the Head of Research, who is kind of research is becoming increasingly important for us.” – 54 – s ha r ing va lue s What's next? Sustainable Production with Green Chemistry – what’s known as a Friedel-Crafts reaction. This results in a large Kerstin Schroeder and Bernhard RuSSbüldt amount of byproducts.” With fixed-bed catalysis, on the other Generally speaking, it’s really quite simple: When two highly ac­ hand, the chemist hopes to create a more environmen­tally friend­ cessible alcohols react with each other, it results in Symrose® ly process – which would allow the catalyst to be used over a – a synthetic rose fragrance that offers a viable alternative to long period. natural substances that may irritate the skin. It was patented by Symrise in 2006 and has been in production ever since. It will take some time, though, until the process can be adapted to So far, the biggest challenge has been manufacturing the prod­ the technical standards. For now, the researchers are testing vari­ uct in sufficient quantities at competitive costs. ous catalysts in a smaller system, explains Bernhard Rußbüldt. He starts with a few drops of catalyst – the final process will use ex­ “We have been seeing increasing demand and want to use ponentially larger amounts. Until then, he is examining a series of Symrose® in greater volumes in detergents and household prod­ factors: In the catalysis process, very different parameters can be ucts,” says Kerstin Schroeder, who is responsible for synthesis optimized, such as pressure, temperature and raw material input. research in the Scent & Care division. The chemist supplied the solution as well: catalysis – a green chemistry method where The research effort will pay off in the end, adds Kerstin Schroed­ fixed-bed catalysts improve reaction processes. “We added a er. “Eventually, we will be able to produce substantially more at new laboratory at the end of October 2013, where we have ac­ lower costs and with less energy. That creates advantages for us cess to this technology and are working on enhancing our meth­ and our customers.” Another aspect is also very important to ods and techniques,” says Kerstin Schroeder. The use of heter­ her: “The know-how that we are developing with our innovation ogeneous catalysis has advantages over conventional methods, partners is incredibly valuable. By developing our own techno­ as Bernhard Rußbüldt explains, using Symrose® as an example. logies and production competencies, we establish greater supply “Until now, we have been combining these raw materials using security and become even more independent of the market.” “ We optimize our processes in the new catalysis laboratory. This provides ­advantages for us and our customers.” – 55 – sha r ing va lu es What's next? “We are constantly enhancing our processes and methods or developing new ones. Our internal efforts are very important for this – but so is a clear awareness for what is happening outside of Symrise.” Research Requires Communication – also coordinates one of the three Scientific Advisory Boards. Co­ Johannes Panten operation with the Flavor & Nutrition division has also intensified Listening, collaborating, transferring: These are just three of the over the past few years. “Sometimes our colleagues there apply many terms used to describe the work of Johannes Panten. The methods that we don’t have a lot of experience with in fragrance chemist, who has been with Symrise for 22 years, has been man­ manufacturing. We are using this kind of know-how more and aging the Technology Scouting & Sustainability department for more.” the research areas Fragrances, Aroma Molecules and Oral Care for the past four years. “We are constantly enhancing our pro­ In white biotechnology, for example, Panten recognizes great po­ cesses and methods or developing new ones. Our internal efforts tential for his segment. “The processes are selective, which are very important for this – but so is a clear awareness for what means that they generate a very pure product.” This is done by is happening outside of Symrise.” using enzymes to react with raw materials. The classic example is the production of vanillin, which was the cornerstone that start­ “Open innovation” is the motto under which Panten combines ed the company nearly 140 years ago. Back then, the flavor was his many contacts at universities and other research institutions. produced using a chemical synthesis using lignin. Today, however, “The idea behind this network is to check whether we have a natural vanillin is a key product for Symrise: “In addition to sus­ technology in our own portfolio or whether we could cooperate tainably sourced bourbon vanilla from Madagascar, we also use with our partners.” This can look very different from partner to our specialty SymVanil. The natural, biotechnological manufac­ partner: “In some cases, we have a specific research task that turing method uses by-products that are derived from rice husks.” an institute takes on for us,” explains Panten. “Or, at other times, The result of this process, which Symrise would also like to use we finance basic research for a doctoral thesis and then use the for fragrances, is notable: It uses less energy in production and findings.” This can lead to joint patents. doesn’t use as many chemicals while producing fewer waste products. “Our work in this area is by no means finished,” says Johannes Panten is currently supervising more than 20 projects Panten. “We want to make this method even more efficient and in which internal and external specialists are collaborating. He sustainable for us.” – 56 – s ha r ing va lue s What's next? Research Focus: Healthy Food – Sabine Widder Another trend is also providing the team with plenty of work. Metabolic disorders can have a profound effect on people’s “An increasing number of people suffer from food-related illness­ lives. For instance, an enzyme defect can result in certain food es, such as obesity, type 2 diabetes and cardiovascular diseas­ ingredients not being properly digested within the body. This es.” One of the reasons for this is that a lot of what consumers then leads to an accumulation of certain substrates or to a lack around the world like to eat contains large portions of sugar, fat of metabolites. Symptoms of various kinds can result from these or salt. Thankfully, a growing number of alternative products with conditions. “These kinds of situations can be avoided with spe­ healthier nutritious profiles are becoming available. “To ensure cial diets,” says Sabine Widder, who heads Health & Nutrition that the flavor of these healthier products meets consumers’ ex­ Research at Symrise. People affected by these conditions have pectations, we work on the development of complex natural to try to avoid consuming these incompatible ingredients when­ ­flavor formulas,” says Sabine Widder, who has been working at ever and wherever possible. They also often require a balanced Symrise for 18 years. diet in order for their body to grow and perform normally. Bioactive natural substances are another part of her work re­ These dietary products contain all of the important components lated to the fight against obesity: “We asked ourselves if there of a healthy diet without the respective unsuitable ingredients. are ­flavors that make you feel full.” Sabine Widder and her col­ “The problem is that these concoctions often taste very bitter, leagues started a research project together with the University salty or metallic,” says the food technologist. Masking one of of Vienna. “We are making very good progress and have already these undesirable flavors or aftertastes is no small feat – but gained some promising results,” says the researcher. “The topic ­Sabine Widder’s six-person team specializes in exactly that. of healthy foods is very diverse and exciting. That makes my job “The development process can last up to half a year. We perform very satisfying – even if the successes are relatively small ones.” sensory tests on individual flavor substances regarding their ­effectiveness and finally combine them with one another,” ex­ plains Sabine Widder. “In doing so, we work closely with the ­Ingredient Research Team, which provides us with new, specially developed substances. The result is a complex flavor that masks unwanted taste elements and gives the product an enjoyable flavor.” “To ensure that the flavor of healthier products meets consumers’ expectations, we work on the development of complex natural flavor formulations.” – 57 – sha r ing va lu es What's next? “Only a product that meets consumers’ desires exactly can be successful in the long run.” The right aroma and the right process for every sired effect has been achieved. In that way, we get closer and product – Gerald Glaubitz and Christopher Sabater closer to the taste experience that the consumers expect.” The tempting scent of white wine, cheese and onions permeates the laboratory of Gerald Glaubitz. The Symrise flavorist is devel­ Some products call for a specific flavor release behavior, for ex­ oping an aroma for a French onion soup. His challenge goes well ample long-lasting flavor in chewing gum. For other applications, beyond getting the right combination of different aromatic com­ the focus might be on protecting sensitive flavor components, pounds – temperature, pH level, air and many other factors will for example when it comes to preserving freshness over the en­ change an aroma when manufacturing and preparing the food. tire duration of storage. In such cases, the researchers use en­ And they affect the taste experience. At Symrise, flavorists and capsulation technology. A number of such processes are availa­ food technologists work closely together for that reason. “Only ble to Symrise. “We are currently working on making these even a product that meets the consumers’ desires exactly can be suc­ more effective,” Sabater explains. “That way we will be able to cessful in the long run.” protect particularly short-lived notes of freshness and flavor pro­ files from creation to consumption. That opens up completely new “Food is comprised of highly complex natural products,” Symrise opportunities for us and our customers.” researcher Christopher Sabater explains. “Because of this, to create a ‘winning taste’ we first analyze the data of the foods When the French onion soup smells and tastes like its culinary using the ‘sensory guided analysis’ method and apply what we role model and when consumers around the world enjoy it, then learn from that analysis in the first flavor compositions. Every Gerald Glaubitz and Christopher Sabater are proud to have food matrix releases flavors differently, so we apply the com­ found another ‘Winning Taste.’ positions directly and analyze using the senses whether the de­ – 58 – s ha r ing va lue s What's next? New Aromatic Compounds Via Efficient Screening Technologies – Jakob Ley Green tea is healthy. It is known to have dozens of positive at­ tributes. But: The first infusion tastes bitter. What to do? Make a second brew. But when it comes to the industrial production of instant teas, the answer looks a bit different: The bitter-tasting catechins are filtered out of the product. But there is a catch here as well. You remember those positive attributes mentioned before? Without this bitter substance, most of them disappear. One solution could then be to add sugar to try and counteract the taste. Another would be to isolate and weaken the undesired flavor. Symrise offers its customers this masking solution using flavor systems. Jakob Ley has been searching for molecules that are up to this task for over ten years. They usually come from plants that traditionally are used in manufacturing foods or fla­ vored extracts. The challenge for the organic chemist is therefore significant, as there are very few indicators that a molecule could have flavor-­ modifying properties, in contrast to the flavors used for extracts, which are easy to smell or taste. “We have to filter through the thousands of molecules to find the few effective flavor-modifiers,” says Jakob Ley in explaining his ambitious task. The process has so far looked like this: The company takes sam­ “For a long time, we have been ples from plants or their extracts, which are collected by spe­ cialized companies or cooperation partners around the world. reducing the use of chemical Next, these samples, or the molecules based on them, are ana­ ­synthesis in our products – which lytically evaluated and, after passing a toxicological exam, their sensory properties are tested. is resulting in innovative flavor In order to save time and money, Symrise is increasingly turning systems that are manufactured in to virtual screening. “We use computer programs to preselect completely natural processes.” possible candidates from a large number of previously researched natural substances and previously defined substance models,” says Ley. The result: “With this pre-selection, we reduce the effort involved in sample collections and have only a small number of substances to test with our extensive sensory analysis.” For mask­ on isolating the flavors and aromatic substances in renewable ing bitter flavors, for example, the virtual screening program elects raw materials via modern extraction and separation methods two promising candidates from the many thousands to choose or by generating these using biotechnological processes. “Chemi­ from. “We will continue to refine this method.” cal synthesis is being used in progressively fewer products,” says Ley. “In this way, we create innovative flavor systems that The molecules that Jakob Ley’s Ingredient Research Team dis­ are made from completely natural processes.” cover are mostly of natural origin – and that will stay that way when used in products later on. Symrise therefore concentrates – 59 – s ha r ing va lue s Intercultural Workplace Intercultural Workplace Symrise is a global company. As such, intercultural diversity is not only desirable, but necessary for understanding the various local markets. One way to facilitate this diversity is by bringing together employees from different backgrounds and allowing them to share their experiences and knowledge in a team setting, while learning from the others. The Day of Cultural Diversity at Symrise in the USA is another avenue for promoting this kind of cooperation while enhancing understanding for other cultures. All six sites participated, with roughly 140 employees from more than 20 nations exchanging information with their colleagues on the customs, cuisine and traditions of their native countries or those of their ancestors. A high level of cultural diversity is also present at our Holzminden headquarters, where employees from 32 different nations work together. – 61 – Following the – 62 – s ha r ing va lue s Following the Flavor Flavor Vanilla is one of the most popular flavors around the world. Symrise uses the “Queen of the Spices”, as it is often called, in several thousand products. The company is highly committed to ensuring that the important raw material is com­pletely sustainably sourced by the year 2017 – as evidenced by a trip to follow the flavor. • photos Marcus Pietrek Text Marc-Stefan Andres “Mm, vanilla,” says the little girl with the dark blond curls, her whole spicy and cinnamony, all the way to smoky. Vanilla can be found face lighting up with pleasure. The vanilla ice cream that the fivein almost all cookies and cakes. It flavors and harmonizes with year-old is enjoying is one of the many delightful products that chocolate as well as ketchup or cola. It is the most popular flavor Symrise makes available to consumers around the world with for ice cream worldwide. The raw material is even used by the over 1,000 vanilla flavors. The variety is so large because not all fragrance industry: for perfumes, ambient scents or care products. vanilla is the same. Its flavor ranges from creamy and buttery to – 63 – sha r ing va lu es Following the Flavor What few consumers know, however: Behind vanilla lies a highly complex supply chain, which leads all the way to the far-off jungles of Madagascar. There, in the northeastern part of the island off the coast of Africa, thousands of small-scale farmers cultivate the vanilla orchid. They foster and care for their orchids carefully, pollinating the blossoms by hand and finally harvesting the ripe, a single harvest, Symrise has now provided them with 87,000 green pods. But it is a long way until that vanilla is finally – in fer­ cocoa seedlings and 50,000 clove seedlings. In addition, the com­ mented and extracted form – on its way into the little girl’s ice cream. pany has started its own health insurance fund, invested in education and provides microloans for rice during the dry season. For Symrise, the journey is worthwhile: The vanilla business is “We aren’t doing all of this simply out of charity. With our involve­ growing each year at a double-digit rate. In recent years, the com­ ment, we are encouraging the economic strength and independ­ pany has fundamentally reorganized and continuously expanded ence of the farmers. That increases quality – and trust,” says its supply chain – directly at the source in Madagascar, where it Oliver Nembach. purchases around 10 % of the national vanilla harvest each year. The strategy was clear from the beginning: “We want to secure our source of high-quality vanilla for the future,” says Oliver Nembach. “And we quickly learned that this is only possible if we simultane­ ously increase the vanilla farmers’ living standards, improve their levels of education and also secure their futures.” Symrise now helps more than 7,000 farmers to improve their economic position and become more independent. The larger goal of the company is ambitious: “We want to com­ pletely cover our vanilla needs in a socially and ecologically responsible manner by the year 2017,” says the Global Compe­ tence Director for vanilla. When the initiative began eight years ago, this was not an easy task by any means. The vanilla purchasers were dependent upon distributors. In 2006, Symrise was the first company in its industry to invest locally and thus began to work directly with cooperatives and even with the individual farmers themselves. “This was new territory for us, which is why we cooperated closely with development aid organizations and NGOs,” recalls the 49-year-old. Today, Symrise is connected to many vanilla farmers as part of a long-term partnership. “We teach the farmers how to increase the quality and yield of their harvests, and show them how they can make use of other cultivation opportunities.” While the farmers used to only grow vanilla and were thus dependent upon Cultivating and harvesting the vanilla beans are just the first steps in a long process. The production of high-quality vanilla requires a high level of both care and experience in all processing stages. – 64 – s ha r ing va lue s Following the Flavor Around 80 % of the global demand for vanilla comes from Madagascar, where Symrise processes its vanilla. This is unique in the industry and c­ ontributes to the ­local creation of value. Passionate Pioneers At Food Ingredients Europe 2013, the largest industry trade fair in Europe, Symrise was able to come out on top against well-known competition: The company was presented with the FIE Excellence Award in the sustainability initiative category for its involvement with vanilla in Madagascar. The jury emphasized that Symrise was working as a “passionate pioneer” for the sustainable sourcing of vanilla. Back in 2012, Symrise received the German Sustainability Award for its work with vanilla in Madagascar. Since then, the company’s initiative there has been developed significantly. Symrise is now working together directly with more than 7,000 farmers and is dedicated to the long-term improvement of their living conditions. – 65 – sha r ing va lu es Following the Flavor Symrise is now active in almost 90 villages near Sambava, Andapa, Vohemar and Antalaha. More than 30,000 people benefit from this. Symrise cooperates as a partner with the farmers and trains them in sustainable agricultural standards. – 66 – s ha r i ng va lu e s Following the Flavor For Symrise, this involvement makes sense because it also helps traded products. Another partner focuses on products certified business. A core element of sustainability activities is economic by the Rainforest Alliance,” says the key account manager, who is success – both for the farmers and for Symrise. Only then can responsible for a multinational food company. “We offer every projects be successful over the long term and thus sustainable. customer the vanilla product that best suits their brands and “When we still worked with middlemen, we often only received products – whether it is certified or not.” minimal information about the origins of the vanilla and the conditions under which it was grown, processed and traded. Through The pods and extracts from Madagascar are finally used in flavor this direct cooperation with the producers, we now know all production in Holzminden, and are prepared in various combi­ of that in great detail,” says Nembach. “In this way, we can offer nations for local, regional and global customers. In addition to the customers high quality, the greatest possible supply security pure extracts, there are various types of flavors that are being and absolute traceability – in other words, truly added value.” worked on by flavorists and application technicians in Germany. Consumers’ taste preferences are included in the development More than 100 Symrise employees are now located in Madagascar, process. “We carry out intensive market research and approach ensuring that everything goes smoothly. From the daily dialogue the specific markets and their particular wishes individually, so with producers about the traditional fermentation of the pods to that our customers are always able to sell the right product,” says the extraction of the vanilla, everything is in Symrise’s hands. Gabriele Beier. The global Symrise vanilla team cooperates closely “We are not just interested in more sustainability – we have an with customers. That is incredibly important, says the key account overview of the local value chain in its entirety,” says Oliver manager. “Only then can we ensure that we are using vanilla’s Nembach. “In 2013, we opened a new fermentation and storage diversity appropriately – and thereby creating value for everyone. complex. And we have begun constructing a modern extraction From Madagascar to Manhattan.” plant that will be inaugurated shortly. These investments in the location are evidence of our long-term interest.” The wishes of the customers can be better served through the broad local positioning, according to Gabriele Beier. And increasing importance is placed on sustainability – in various forms: “Some of our large partners, for example, offer organically grown or fairly Achieving More Together Together with our customer Unilever and the German Society for International Cooperation (GIZ ), we have launched an comprehensive initiative in order to enable better living conditions for around 4,000 vanilla farmers in the Sava region of Madagascar. The development partnership includes a three-year program that will reach 32 communities and 44 schools. The program has the potential for improving the lives of 24,000 people in one of the poorest regions of the world. To achieve this goal, the program focuses on practical training classes, known as “farmer field schools,” in order to train the farmers in proven cultivation methods. In addition, agricultural schools for training the next generation will be formed, thereby improving access to further education. The development partnership is being co-funded as part of the develoPPP.de program of the German Federal Ministry for Economic Cooperation and Development. – 67 – sha r ing va lu es Our Performance in 2013 – 68 – s ha r ing va lue s Our Performance in 2013 Our Performance in 2013 B usi n e ss P e r f or m a n c e 70 – 71 m a n ag e m e n t 72 – 75 S ourci n g 76 – 79 I n n ovatio n s 80 – 83 E n v iro n m e n t 84 – 87 E m ploy e e s 88 – 91 S oci e t y 92 – 93 Awards 94 – 95 A bout this r e port 96 – 69 – sha r ing va lu es Business Performance Business Performance Once more, sales for the Symrise Group grew faster than the overall market in 2013. The profitability of our business increased as well. We are confident in our ability to continue this trend of success moving forward. Global Economic Conditions figures at local currency by 11 %. As in the previous year, the The international economic landscape showed mixed develop­ emerging markets’ share of total Group sales amounted to 48 %. ments over the course of 2013. The upturn of the past few months has been increasingly carried by the industrialized nations. In The Scent & Care division generated sales of € 960 million in the USA , the growth rate increased from quarter to quarter. Mean­ 2013. Sales were therefore up 9 % on the previous year’s level. while, the eurozone seems to have moved beyond its low point EBITDA amounted to € 195 million – up 21 % compared to the and be on the road to recovery. In 2013, the economy in the euro­ previous year. The EBITDA margin therefore amounted to 20.3 % zone still decreased slightly by 0.4 %. By contrast, the German in 2013 compared to 18.2 % in 2012. The Flavor & Nutrition divi­ economy managed to grow 0.4 % in 2013. In the emerging markets, sion increased its sales by 2 % to € 870 million. EBITDA for the particularly China and India, economic growth accelerated sub­ division was slightly higher than last year, amounting to € 179 mil­ stantially during the second half of the year. Overall, the global lion in 2013. The EBITDA margin amounted to 20.5 %, com­ economy grew a modest 3.0 % in 2013. pared to 20.9 % in the previous year. De velopment of Essential Sales Markets EBITDA – earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amor­ The Symrise Group is globally active in the market for flavors and tization on property, plant and equipment and intangible assets – fragrances as well as in the market for aroma chemicals and of the Symrise Group increased by 10 % from € 339 million to ­cosmetic ingredients. The market relevant for Symrise has a to­ € 373 million. The Group’s EBITDA margin, as based on sales, im­ tal volume of € 17.4 billion and is achieving average long-term proved from 19.5 % to 20.4 %. growth of around 2 to 3 % per year. In 2013, the cost of sales rose by € 25 million, or 2 %, to € 1,060 Sales and E arnings million (2012: € 1,034 million). The disproportionately low rise in The Symrise Group’s sales rose by 6 % to € 1,830 million in the costs in view of the growth rate of sales can be mainly attributed 2013 fiscal year. Sales in the EAME region were up by 5 %. The to a lower raw material cost ratio and lower levels of depreciation North American region generated a sales increase of 11 % com­ and amortization. Gross profit increased by 10 % and amounted to pared to the previous year. Business in the Asia/Pacific region € 771 million (2012: € 701 million). The gross margin was 42.1 %, was up about 4 % while the Latin America region increased sales 1.7 percentage points higher than in the previous year (40.4 %). by 2 %. Sales in emerging markets exceeded the previous year’s Selling and marketing expenses were up by 8 % compared to the Overvie w of Ke y Performance Indicators Change in % in € million 2012 2013 Change in % at local currency Sales 1,734.9 1,830.4 6 10 EBITDA 338.9 373.1 10 13 EBITDA margin  in % 19.5 20.4 Net income 157.5 172.3 9 Earnings per share  in € 1.33 1.46 9 Net debt (incl. provisions for pensions and similar obligations) to EBITDA (Dec. 31) 1)ratio 2.4 2.0 1) Prior-year figures adjusted as a result of changes to accounting policies (see note 2.2). – 70 – s ha r ing va lue s Business Performance previous year, amounting to € 290 million (2012: € 267 million). Sales De velopment of the Sy mrise G roup (€ million) This corresponds to 15.8 % of Group sales (2012: 15.4 %). R&D ex­ Flavor & Nutrition Scent & Care penses increased by 12 % to € 127 million (2012: € 114 million). The R&D rate came in slightly above the previous year’s level at 6.9 % (2012: 6.6 %). Administration expenses increased by 5 % to € 85 million (previous year: € 81 million). Administration expenses 2,000 1,830.4 as a share of Group sales improved again slightly from 4.7 % in 1,800 1,734.9 2012 to 4.6 % in the reporting year. 1,600 1,400 960.4 The Symrise Group’s net income rose by € 15 million to € 172 mil­ 882.8 1,200 lion in the 2013 fiscal year. With an unchanged number of shares, 1,000 earnings per share improved from € 1.33 in the previous year to 800 € 1.46 in the reporting year. The Executive Board and Supervisory Board will propose to increase the dividend from € 0.62 to € 0.70 600 per share at the Annual General Meeting on May 14, 2014. 400 852.1 869.9 200 Financial Position 0 As a result of the improved result, cash flow from operating ac­ 2012 2013 tivities in 2013 amounted to € 274.8 million, € 55.3 million, or more than 25 %, higher than in the previous year (€ 219.5 mil­ lion). The Symrise Group’s liquidity increased by € 18 million to € 135 million as of December 31, 2013. Net debt decreased to Outlook € 744.8 million as of the reporting date for 2013, mainly due to Estimates for the AFF market project 2 to 3 % growth worldwide higher cash balances and lower pension provisions. The ratio of for the year under way. Both divisions, Scent & Care and Flavor & net debt to EBITDA was 2.0 as of the 2013 reporting date and Nutrition, continue to target sales growth at local currency no­ thus remains within the targeted corridor of 2.0 to 2.5. tably above the market rate. Assuming that raw materials prices remain at the level of 2013 and exchange rates do not change Net Assets significantly from 2013, we once again anticipate an EBITDA mar­ The balance sheet total amounted to € 2,210 million as of De­ gin of about 20 % for 2014 in both business divisions. cember 31, 2013, an increase of € 60 million compared to the reporting date in the previous year. This was mainly due to a Thanks to our global positioning, innovative strength, good rela­ growth-related rise in inventories and higher trade receivables. tionships with key customers and our unique product portfolio, The Symrise Group’s liquidity increased over the course of the we are confident that we will exceed the market’s annual rate of year, by € 18 million to € 135 million. Symrise AG’s equity growth of 2 to 3 % in both 2014 and 2015. The Symrise Group climbed by 8 % to € 951 million as of December 31, 2013. As of will do everything it can to maintain and continue its sustainable the 2013 ­reporting date, the equity ratio amounted to 43 %, af­ and profitable growth course. ter 41 % on December 31, 2012. Sales by Region Change in % in € million 2012 2013 Change in % at local currency EAME 785.4 828.3 5 7 North America 316.8 350.3 11 14 Asia /Pacific 404.5 419.6 4 10 Latin America 228.2 232.2 2 12 Total 1,734.9 1,830.4 6 10 – 71 – sha r ing va lu es Management Value Creation at symrise 2013 5.3 % For credit providers 13.5 % For the state Sales € 1,830.4 million 24.5 % For shareholders & the company Value creation 38 % Other income 1% Depreciation and amortization 5% 56.7 % For employees Other advance payments 12 % Material costs 44 % Management Responsible management is a prerequisite for sustainable value creation and Symrise’s continued success. It allows us to gain the trust of our customers, employees and investors – both for the present and the future. Resp onsible Management Symrise wants to increase its value and the sustainability of its Symrise derives its strategy from its corporate goals and imple­ business activities over the long term. That is why the mana­ ments them at the various departmental levels while observing gement and supervisory committees at Symrise AG align their the principles of responsible management. A management man­ activities with various principles of responsible management. ual gives employees insight into management’s standardized The aims of the German Corporate Governance Code serve as processes for achieving goals. These defined core processes and the standard for good management in both the Executive and supporting processes are regularly reviewed for their effective­ Supervisory Boards. The ten principles of the UN Global Com­ ness and adjusted to current developments as necessary. pact, which we signed in 2012, provide additional guidance for our entrepreneurial actions. – 72 – s ha r ing va lue s Management A compulsory guiding principle for all employees is our Code Integrated Management System of Conduct. Developed in 2006, we update it regularly – most Our integrated management system is based on the international recently with fundamental changes in 2011. The Code refer­­ standards on quality (ISO 9001), environmental protection (ISO ences ethical and legal challenges that can arise in the work­ 14001), work safety (OHSAS 18001), sustainability (ISO 26000), place, as part of business relationships or when handling infor­ energy (ISO 50001), social responsibility (SA 8000), the general­ mation. It regulates behavior with key Symrise partners and ly accepted audit standards of the Global Food Safety Initiative ­ensures transparent and reliable processes. In the interest of (GFSI) and other recognized local standards that promote a con­ all employees and the company, we react swiftly to violations tinuous improvement in performance. against the Code and rectify their causes. Misconduct is con­ sistently prosecuted in accordance with national laws. More With our risk management system, we want to not only avoid po­ on corporate governance at Symrise: 4 tential risks for the environment, society and our company, but also recognize opportunities arising from global developments at Sustainabilit y in Business an early stage. To accomplish this, we comprehensively incorpo­ In 2009, we founded the Symrise Sustainability Board – a glob­ rate sustainability topics: from environmental and industrial risks al, cross-divisional body that facilitates the integration of sus­ to procurement risks, product risks and operational risks. 5 tainability into our core processes. Multiple times per year, rep­ resentatives from upper management come together within this Determining risk is also the task of Corporate Compliance. Symrise framework to ensure that sustainability-relevant topics and the views compliance as a holistic organizational model. It includes concerns of our important stakeholder groups are considered the observance of legal regulations and internal ­company guide­ along the entire value chain. lines as well as their corresponding processes and systems. The Corporate Compliance department consists of all the functional The Sustainability Board sets sustainability goals, which are then units from Integrated Management System (IMS) and Corporate directly implemented in the respective segments. For this reason, Audit as well as Risk and Sustainability Management. 6 the Executive Board and Sustainability Board appointed global ambassadors to be responsible for the coordination of sustaina­ To keep our employees informed about existing compliance re­ bility efforts in the Flavor & Nutrition and Scent & Care divisions quirements and adhere to them, we provide classroom lessons in 2011. Together with representatives from the Corporate Com­ as well as a growing number of internet-based training sessions. pliance and Corporate Communications departments, they repre­ The tests that follow the training sessions show whether the sent the Sustainability Core Team, which manages sustainabi­lity content has been understood by the participants. New Symrise strategy across the Group. The direct responsibility for stra­tegy employees are also comprehensively informed about their posi­ lies with the Chief Executive Officer of Symrise AG, who receives tion-related requirements and our Code of Conduct. In 2013, our quarterly reports on the progress of all sustainability activities. employees received a total of around 30,000 hours of training Furthermore, the company’s sustainability targets flow into individ­ on work safety, health, environment, hygiene and compliance. For ual performance targets and thereby into executive ­remuneration. 2014, we are planning to intensify training with those employee groups that, due to their responsibilities, are more exposed to the Additionally, a global network of voluntary sustainability ambas­ risk of misconduct as well as with employee groups that can act sadors actively raises awareness for our sustainability strategy: as multipliers for the training content within the company in ad­ So-called “care teams” contribute to a deeper integration of dition to our ongoing training. 7 sustainability into our business model by implementing targeted initiatives locally at all of the company’s regional headquarters We installed an Integrity Hotline already in 2006 which allows as well as numerous international sites. ­violations of ethical and legal standards to be reported. With this hotline, employees are able to contact Corporate Compliance using toll-free telephone numbers that have been specially set up in individual countries. An intermediary service provider en­ sures that employees retain their anonymity and can report their concerns in their native language. 8 – 73 – sha r ing va lu es Management Audits Corporate Audit and the IMS audit regularly assess whether man­ agement requirements and national legal regulations are ob­ served. According to our auditing strategy, we audit every com­ pany at least once every four years and essential business pro­ cesses on an annual basis – which corresponds to 25 % of the audit spectrum. Further criteria, such as acquisitions, organiza­ tional changes, material importance to the Group or results from risk reporting also influence the audit strategy. Internal IMS au­ Clear Commitment to Sustainabilit y dits are carried out in accordance with ISO standard 19011. The In 2012, Symrise signed the United Nation’s Global Compact and committed itself to upholding its ten principles Executive Board and the Supervisory Board’s Auditing Commit­ of entrepreneurial responsibility. tee are informed at regular intervals about the results and meas­ ures implemented. External audits conducted by customers, au­ thorities and independent certification organizations also provide confirmation to Symrise of the ongoing improvement being made Dialogue With Our Stakeholders to its management systems. Symrise is in active dialogue with its stakeholders across the globe. After all, we can only develop the best possible solutions If any inconsistencies are uncovered during audits or quality if we know and understand the needs and interests of our most ­inspections, the division concerned introduces corrective meas­ important stakeholder groups. These include customers, employ­ ures and documents these accordingly. Additionally, possible ees, shareholders, lenders, neighbors, politicians, non-govern­ ­effects on other processes are analyzed in order to be able to mental organizations and business partners. ­react directly with preventative measures. The same applies to complaints. In 2013, there were no material complaints that A number of internal and external formats and channels enable would have led to fines, nor were any fines imposed due to Symrise to maintain a lively dialogue with its stakeholders. In breaches of statutory regulations governing the provision and 2012, we once again carried out a global employee engagement use of our products. survey, where over 80 % of our employees assessed our compa­ ny’s strengths and weaknesses. In 2013, we initiated measures Beyond the numerous existing requirements for the fragrance and based on the results of the survey. With the help of the SEDEX flavor industry, we have made further commitments to additional platform, we also maintain close contact with numerous raw ma­ standards – and work actively on their development. We do this as terial suppliers on ethical topics. We keep our customers and members of associations like the IFRA (International Fragrance ­investors up-to-date on developments within our company with Association) or the IOFI (International Organization of the Flavor road shows and innovation days. The expectations of our stake­ Industry). Symrise also joined the Responsible Care Initiative in holders shared with us via these interactions inspire us and rep­ 1997 and adopted its guidelines for continual improvement in the resent the basis for our work. areas of safety, health and environmental preservation. A materiality analysis helps us assess various topics according to Symrise assesses the performance of its suppliers’ and con­ their strategic relevance for Symrise and its stakeholder groups. tractual partners’ management systems as part of its supplier In multiple workshops in the past, we have intensively worked out audits. With the help of the official and globally recognized how our behavior affects various stakeholders and what influence ­platform SEDEX (Supplier Ethical Data Exchange), we assess these groups have on Symrise. All business divisions were incor­ the performance of our key suppliers on factors such as en­ porated into these analyses. The result was a materiality matrix vironment, health and safety, integrity and other ethical audit that we validated and refined with the help of an international points. Symrise’s long-term goal is to assess all of its suppliers survey of our stakeholders. To perform the survey, we invited the using this system. We also perform global audits to safeguard most important stakeholder groups and asked them about their our supply chain (FSSC 22000). 9 They concentrate on core stance on sustainability topics as well as on our performance in topics such as food safety and protection against sabotage, ter­ specific areas and along our entire value chain. rorism and unauthorized access to our raw materials and products. Numerous initiatives worldwide demonstrate the ways in which we breathe life into our commitment to sustainable corporate governance every day. Read about our progress at www.symrise.com/sustainability. – 74 – s ha r ing va lue s Management Symrise Materiality Matrix Business Relevance for Symrise Medium High Very High Ensuring greatest possible product safety Observance of human rights Occupational health and safety Supply chain excellence Efficient use of raw materials Very Hig h Compliance Innovative and sustainable product solutions Stakeholder E xpectations Conservation of resources and reducing emissions Biodiversity Dialogue and collaboration Responsible with stakeholders sourcing Employee promotion and development Attractiveness as an employer Reducing noise Transparency and credibility Creation of shared value and odor emissions Diversity and equality of Using renewable opportunity raw materials Involving employees Hig h in sustainability issues Medium Donating, sponsoring and volunteering In the 2013 reporting year, we began further systematizing our stakeholder management. This included the formulation of various goals for our cooperation with various stakeholder groups. As a result, we can maintain a more targeted dialogue with our stakeholder groups and generate more joint benefits from the various formats. We are also currently developing new possibilities for updating our materiality analysis within this framework. In the future, we want to place a greater focus on the analysis of the most essential sustainability effects for Symrise and confirm the results of these analyses together with our most important stakeholder groups. – 75 – sha r ing va lu es Sourcing Sourcing The sourcing of raw materials is a central component of Symrise’s sustainable value creation. The various expectations of our stakeholders and a variety of practical challenges require a holistic approach for realizing our sustainable procurement principles. We use approximately 10,000 natural and synthetic raw materials Long-term growth is only possible if we continue to be in the from over 100 countries to manufacture our products. They are position to ensure both raw material availability and quality, while the basis for manufacturing our approximately 30,000 different remaining competitive when it comes to pricing. Social and products in the areas of fragrances, flavorings, cosmetic active environmental circumstances have a significant influence on these ingredients and raw materials, as well as functional ingredients. aspects. That’s why implementing the highest standards in our Our products consist mainly of value-adding preliminary products, procurement processes is not only a question of responsibility, meaning aromatic compounds and active components, in addition but also of long-term profitability. to carriers such as ethanol. We place a special focus on these ingredients in our sourcing strategy. We are constantly adapting the organizational structure of our purchasing department to the changing conditions on the market. – 76 – s ha r ing va lue s Sourcing Procurement at Symrise is organized decentrally in the two In 2013, we purchased 208,000 tons of raw materials and pro­ business divisions of Scent & Care and Flavor & Nutrition so that cessed them into products. Our relatively small process losses we can manage purchasing processes in a more targeted manner arise mainly from the extraction and distillation processes, and continually optimize the supply chain. The scorecard system which we reduce via recycling wherever sensible. For example, successfully established in 2012 was further adapted to the we purify solvents used in production processes in order to reuse specific needs of the purchasing department in 2013. It supports them multiple times. buyers with relevant key figures. Local Value Creation With our responsible sourcing model, we rely on close and con­ The emerging markets currently account for approximately 48 % tinuous cooperation with our suppliers, on social and ecological of our business. We want to continue to expand our market share commitment locally, and on strategic partnerships with our key in this segment in the future. Our positioning in the most important customers. country markets offers us not only a solid basis for business with regional and local customers, but also provides us with access Growth to important raw materials. In 2013, we continued to follow this We secure our raw material supplies on a long-term basis approach and expanded our operations in Madagascar, among We make a contribution to the conservation of biodiversity other things. We help growers to diversify We improve growers’ living standards To increase supply security regarding key raw materials, Symrise We increase local added value has for years successfully pursued a backward integration approach. With regard to important core competences, we have Efficiency deliberately chosen locations for our international production We reduce emissions from transportation facilities that have local availability of the raw materials primarily We invest in renewable sources of energy used. Our citrus initiative in Brazil and our vanilla initiative in We boost productivity by means of training courses Madagascar are just as much cases in point as the vegetables We invest in local infrastructure sourced from the immediate vicinity of the German site in Holz­ minden and also processed there. We not only purchase our raw P ortfolio materials in the local economy but are also integrated into “it”, We offer our customers responsible products produce in “it” and create value there. We achieve high quality and yields We create transparency, for example by means of certification 100 % over 50 % of our raw materials of our key agricultural raw are purchased from local suppliers. materials should come from sustainable sources by 2020. around 25 % of our demand for raw materials is already covered by our backward integration approach. – 77 – sha r ing va lu es Sourcing This integrative approach provides us with numerous advantages The international platform of the Supplier Ethical Data Exchange such as a high yield, secure supply, top quality and the highest (SEDEX ) is a valuable tool with which we can more easily assess possible traceability. At the same time, we are supporting local suppliers and deliver our own data to customers. Since 2006, we socioeconomic structures and making a contribution toward local publish information on working conditions and employee rights, added value. In doing so, we not only save on costs and transport health and safety as well as on environmental and ethical business distances, but also reduce climate-impacting emissions. In 2013, practices via this platform. Every Symrise production site has we spent 59.3 % of our procurement budget on suppliers based in been SEDEX registered. Since 2012, we have also invited 250 of domestic and bordering regions of our main corporate locations. our most important suppliers to register with SEDEX and to For the backward integration of our supply chain, we established disclose their data to us. Overall, 204 Symrise suppliers are now corporate guidelines on due diligence and defined correspond­ registered with SEDEX . Therefore we can assess about 50 % of ing processes that also consider environmental and social risks. our purchasing volume in terms of compliance with sustainability criteria in the supply chain. Supplier Management Independent of the source, we place a high value on the sustain­ Standards and Certificates able, efficient handling of raw materials – internally and by our National and international legal requirements on the protection suppliers. With the help of a systematic management approach, of natural resources comprise a core component of Symrise’s we ensure that suppliers meet our standards: As part of this, purchasing policy. For example, the use of animal and plant-based new suppliers must provide information on quality, product safety raw materials listed by the Convention on International Trade in and environmental aspects as well as on their sustainability pro­ Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES) is only per­ grams, social responsibility guidelines within their supply chains mitted throughout the Group if the supplier is able to prove their and compliance with ethical standards. A truthful answer to this sustainability. supplier acceptance questionnaire is the non-negotiable basis for Symrise entering into a business relationship. We require the With an increasing number of natural raw materials, we are pur­ safeguarding of general human rights, an undertaking not to make chasing materials with certified origins. For example, palm oils use of child labor or forced labor of any form, and compliance and palm oil derivatives, which we use around the world, are with statutory health and safety at work requirements. Furthermore, mainly procured from sources that are certified by the Round Table we expect our suppliers to allow their employees the right to on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO ). Roughly 1,500 raw materials freedom of assembly and collective bargaining, to observe at least are available at Symrise for use in organic and fair trade products. the statutory provisions on working times and pay, and to make This corresponds to about 15 % of our raw material portfolio in a clear commitment against discrimination and abuse. These the EAME region. Our customers have primarily requested certified standards constitute part of our Group-wide risk management products in regards to iconic ingredients like vanilla or lavender. system. As part of this, we carry out systematic risk and perfor­ In 2013, Symrise became the first fragrance company to purchase mance assessments of all suppliers on the basis of economic, CENSO -certified lavandin oil. ecological and social aspects. 10 Another pilot project is our sustainable vanilla approach in We carry out audits for suppliers posing an especially notable risk Madagascar, where we helped a total of 2,457 vanilla farmers to stemming from the crucial raw materials they supply or regarding become Rainforest Alliance certified in 2013. Our sustainable problems that have come to light in the assessment. The focal vanilla sourcing also impressed the jury in two preliminary rounds points of these audits are product safety, quality management, for the Supply Chain Management Award, where we were among health and safety at work, the environment and social respon­ the four finalists in 2013. Our vanilla initiative was also awarded sibility. If suppliers don’t meet our defined standards, we jointly the FIE Excellence Award in the sustainability initiative category develop and implement improvement measures. If these standards in 2013. are still not upheld after such attempts, the business relationship is terminated as a last resort. Cases in which a supplier relation­ Country-specific conditions can also impact our product portfolio: ship was terminated due to a breach of relevant criteria did not Particularly in the Middle East and North Africa, the demand for occur in 2013. products that are certified kosher or halal is especially significant. – 78 – s ha r ing va lue s Sourcing In 2013, Symrise became a member of the Sustainable Spices Initiative (SSI). The sustainable cultivation and purchasing of spices is a central focus for both Symrise and the SSI. Together with customers, suppliers and NGOs, we want to actively cooperate with the SSI, sharing our knowledge while gaining new experience. These certifications are also becoming increasingly important result in complex social and environmental effects in many cases: in major parts of Asia as well as in the USA . Globally, 49 % of our A greater use of natural raw materials often leads to increased raw materials are certified as halal and 51 % as kosher. competition for land used for food production and can endanger the preservation of biodiversity due to the development of mono­ The proportion of raw materials of animal origin that we use is cultures. Synthetic raw materials also often take less energy to very low at approximately 2 %. Nonetheless, we place a high manufacture than the energy required to harvest and transport value on the responsible handling of animals and require our natural ones. suppliers to comply with legal requirements and industry stan­ dards on animal rights. 11 It therefore cannot be our objective to completely switch to naturally occurring raw materials. Our focus is more on achieving We use very few genetically modified raw materials; they amount a further reduction in our dependence on finite raw materials. to around 2 % of our raw materials portfolio worldwide. 12 We have therefore made the identification of alternative means of generating raw materials a focal point of our research. Irre­ Synthetic Versus Natural R aw Materials spective of the source of the raw material, we attach importance End consumers increasingly desire products with natural raw to using resources sustainably and try to maximize our yields. materials. Natural raw materials already account for more than We encourage our suppliers to follow this strategy as well. half of our portfolio and their share is constantly increasing. Numerous initiatives worldwide demonstrate the ways in which we breaA complete conversion to natural raw materials, however, would the life into our commitment to sustainable corporate governance every day. Read about our progress at www.symrise.com/sustainability. – 79 – sha r ing va lu es Innovations 1 1,160 new employees in R & D research worldwide center in Holzminden more than 10 international awards 33 patents 100 % € 127 focus on health, indulgence and million well-being in expenses for R & D Innovations Symrise offers a wide range of products with its two divisions, Scent & Care and Flavor & Nutrition. Our customers particularly appreciate the innovative products and sustainable solutions that we regularly provide. Symrise serves manufacturers of perfumes, cosmetics, and designing our products with global trends in mind, we meet various foods in addition to the pharmaceutical industry and producers customer preferences arising from social and cultural differenc­ of n­ utritional supplements on a global scale. We are success­ es. Symrise’s product portfolio ranges from fragrance and flavor fully active in both established markets as well as in emerging solutions to cosmetic active ingredients and raw materials as countries in Asia, Latin America or the Middle East. By actively well as functional ingredients. – 80 – s ha r ing va lue s Innovations Our product development is equal parts centralized and decen­ and Therapeutic Peptides (USA) among others. For years, both tralized: The individual divisions manage and guide their own divisions have received assistance from international scientific ­respective research and development (R & D) activities. At the advisory boards consisting of internationally renowned research­ same time, the individual business units share information ers specializing in various fields. These committees accompany to take advantage of synergy effects. Release systems and bio­ and provide advice on the implementation of the latest research active ingredients as well as analytical and sensory research, findings in new product innovations. for example, are subjects with cross-divisional importance that we approach together and implement accordingly. Our research and development activities are highly regarded within the scientific community. In 2013, Symrise submitted 33 A company-wide uniform stage gate process with decision filters patents and was therefore at the top of the industry – as evi­ guides the innovation process at Symrise from idea to market-­ denced by our high level of innovative strength. 13 ready product. This allows us to react to changing customer needs and market conditions at an early stage. Growth plans that have Beaut y, Scents and Care been coordinated with our customers also allow us to bring our The Scent & Care division with its four business units – Life Es­ innovations to the market more quickly. Numerous projects with sentials, Fragrances, Aroma Molecules and Oral Care – offers international key customers in 2013 underscore our belief that its customers competencies in fragrances, beauty and care. The sustainability and profitable growth go hand in hand and provide main goal for this division is the development of safe, efficient all parties with long-term benefits. and sustainable products and processes. We also aim to combine creativity and efficiency with resource Life Essentials develops new active ingredients that follow conservation and environmental preservation. The open inno­ the trends in beauty and health with its technical expertise in vation approach is our guiding principle in this matter: We incor­ the areas of phytochemistry, efficacy screening and analytical porate our regional and international customers in numerous chemistry. In 2013, three sustainable products were launched developmental projects and collaborate with them. Symrise has based on microalgae research: SymBronze® 1659 (biological received many customer awards in the area of innovation as a skin tanner), SymHairTM Force 1631 and SymLashTM 1631 (vo­ result of these successful collaborations. lumizer for hair and lashes). The awards these products re­ ceived, including the “Best Ingredient Silver Award” from the When it comes to consumer wishes, our market research shows “in-cosmetics Innovation Zone 2013” and the “BSB Innovation a clear trend towards products that not only appeal to the senses, Award,” highlight the high level of innovation within Life Essen­ but also provide positive benefits for overall health and well-­ tials’ research department. In the field of multifunctional sub­ being. We have integrated this desire into our business strategy stances, the intensive research initiatives of the past few years and aim to continually increase sales with products that con­ resulted in the launch of SymSaveTM H, a true multi-talent with tribute to health, nutrition, skin care and skin protection. In 2013, very good anti-irritant, antioxidant and anti-microbial effective­ Symrise AG received a loan of € 125 million for the research of ness as well as outstanding emulsion-stabilizing properties. functional ingredients for skin care and healthy nutrition from Directly after reaching the market in 2013, SymSaveTM H took the European Investment Bank. first place at the SEPAWA Innovation Awards. Networked Research In the Fragrances business unit, we combine aromatic raw Beyond our internal research and development departments, materials, like essential oils and aroma chemicals, to create the Scent & Care and Flavor & Nutrition divisions both maintain complex perfume oils. In 2012, we began to hold special comprehensive partnerships with other companies, renowned ­training sessions for our perfumers to increase the usage of universities and research institutions in Bochum, Braunschweig, renewable raw materials in fragrance compositions. Out­ Dresden, Düsseldorf, Giessen, Greifswald, Halle (Saale), Hano­ standing product innovations in 2013 included Sultanene® – ver, Munich, Münster, Potsdam and Rostock. Across the globe, a highly efficient captive that can be used in doses 100-times we worked with institutions such as Queen Mary University in smaller than conventional fruit esters. Or SymCap® K LD, London, University of Tours in France and the Monell Chemical which conserves fragrances in microcapsules, allowing for Senses Center in Philadelphia (USA) in 2013, as well as companies their release over time through the application of light pres­ like Cutech (Italy), EcoBiotics (Australia), Essen BioScience (UK) sure on a fabric. For the first time, this type of technology is available for liquid detergent. – 81 – sha r ing va lu es Innovations Aroma Molecules develops a broad spectrum of aromatic lowing for the reduction of sugar, salt, fat or flavor enhancers. compounds and flavors in various classes. An important appli­ Additionally, our researchers develop new systems for masking cation area involves biodegradable, synthetic musk fragranc­bitter flavors in high-protein foods with special health require­ es. These adhere to hair, skin and textile fibers sub­stantially ments. These have already been successfully implemented in better and are a crucial component of perfume oils. We have Europe and North America. also been committed to the protection of the musk deer, which our industry used to hunt for its valuable glan­dular secretions, Standards and Certificates since 2011. Good manufacturing practice is the global basis for responsible behavior with products and manufacturing processes. These The Oral Care business unit was expanded in 2013 as a core guidelines steer quality control for both production processes competence of Scent & Care. We also established Think Mint® and the production environment and apply to the manufacture as a cross-divisional brand for mint flavors with the Flavor & of pharmaceuticals and active ingredients as well as for cosmet­ Nutrition division. In doing so, we pool our many years of ex­ ics, food and animal feed products. They are defined by the laws pertise for all of the major mint product groups and research governing pharmaceuticals, cosmetics and foods. together on new substances and technologies that offer eco­ nomic and ecological benefits. One example here is our cool­ Many requirements apply across product groups, such as quality ing substances. Furthermore, we are attempting to offer our requirements, clear product labeling and hygiene requirements. customers added value with the development of new key tech­ Moreover, legislators have passed corresponding regulations that nologies, such as probiotics. To achieve this, we signed a re­ define requirements specifically for individual product groups. search and development cooperation contract with the Swedish Here, Symrise particularly differentiates between the product biotechnology company Probi AB in 2013. groups flavors, pharmaceutical agents and pharmaceutical addi­ tives as well as cosmetic active ingredients and raw materials. Moreover, we also further expanded our research focus on green 15 chemistry in Scent & Care and began operations in a catalysis laboratory in 2013. Here, Symrise researches catalytic methods 125 for new molecules, develops chemical processes and optimizes existing methods for aromatic substances and flavors as well as for Life Essential products. This increases raw material efficiency, which in turn has a positive impact on our environmental footprint. Delightful and Healthy Nutrition Modern consumers expect foods that taste great while promot­ ing a healthy lifestyle. Our Flavor & Nutrition division therefore € million ­focuses not only on flavor, quality and safety, but also increas­ ingly on the development of taste solutions for healthier prod­ Symrise AG has obtained a long-term loan of ucts as well as functional ingredients that promote good health. € 125 million from the European Investment Bank 14 At the same time, Symrise is serving the growing market to fund its intensive research and development for food supplements and pharmaceutical preparations. Natural activities. The company’s work here focuses on carrying raw materials combined with scientific methods form the basis out research into functional ingredients used for the development of our products. Independent of whether in the areas of skin care and healthy nutrition. they offer particular health benefits, all of our products must pro­ vide excellent flavor. To achieve this, Symrise develops innova­ tive methods that retain authentic flavors while simultaneously al­ – 82 – s ha r ing va lue s Innovations Hundreds of researchers and developers around the globe work on innovation and sustainable products at Symrise. The new research center in Holzminden brings the best ideas together and creates synergies. We aim to ensure the safety of our products throughout their en­ Our customers are informed about technical characteristics tire life cycle. To do this, we integrate all of the relevant steps, and how to safely handle our products via corresponding data from supplier orders to customer delivery, into our product safety sheets, product specifications and additional, individually tai­ policy. Symrise ensures compliance with legislation, require­ lored informational materials. There were no significant breach­ ments laid down by associations and internal standards and con­ es of safety or health regulations in relation to our products at tinuously monitors this compliance. Symrise in 2013. The Global Product Compliance Competence Center is respon­ At the end of 2013, the consumer organization Stiftung Warentest sible for product safety: It implements regulatory requirements, rated a product of the Ritter Sport brand as “poor,” claiming ­undertakes the toxicological evaluation of raw materials and that chemically produced piperonal had been used contrary to the products and prepares the data for customers and employees product labeling. Contrary to these claims, Symrise had delivered around the world. This Competence Center also documents entirely natural aroma to Alfred Ritter GmbH & Co. KG for the prod­ customer ­restrictions while taking the regulatory environment uct in question and Ritter had declared to ingredients from Symrise into consider­ation (the ruling out of certain substances) and is correctly on the label. Ritter has obtained a preliminary injunction in charge of monitoring, testing and registering new substances. against Stiftung Warentest. The Munich District Court I dismissed It commissions product tests from approved laboratories and the appeal from Stiftung Warentest. evaluates test reports. All administrative processes, legislative Numerous initiatives worldwide demonstrate the ways in which we breaissues, safety reports, classification into hazard classes and the the life into our commitment to sustainable corporate governance every labeling of raw materials and products are handled centrally day. Read about our progress at www.symrise.com/sustainability. and coordinated globally by the Competence Center. Regulatory Affairs and Competence Center employees represent Symrise in the leading international associations of the flavor and fragrance industry. – 83 – sha r ing va lu es Environment Production Volumes Carbon Dioxide Emissions: Scope 1 and Scope 2 in 1,000 tons in kg per ton of product* 709 254 681 239 644 643 218 226 2010 2011 2012 2013 2010 2011 2012 2013 * In 2013, we redefined the calculation method for our emission values: We no longer calculate our emissions per ton of product sold, but rather per ton of product. This allows us to account for the increasing complexity of production and establish greater comparability with the emission values of our competitors and customers. The values from the previous years have been adjusted accordingly. Environment For Symrise, investing in resource-efficient technologies and processes is one of the most ­important measures for sustainably increasing the company’s value. We have set ambitious goals to continually optimize our environmental footprint: By 2020, we want to reduce our energy and water consumption, our CO2 emissions and our wastewater as well as waste volumes per ton of product by 33 %. A comprehensive analysis of our own processes and their impact tics: We examine every link along our value chain and every on the environment is the most important prerequisite for suc­ stage in the product life cycle to identify areas needing work cessful environmental management. From raw materials sourcing and those with potential for reducing our energy, water and and processing to product development, production and logis­ ­resource consumption as well as our emissions. – 84 – s ha r ing va lue s Environment Environmental Management Tota l P r o d u cti v e M a int e n a nc e Our environmental management is based on the ISO 14001 The focus of Total Productive Maintenance ( TPM ) is on the effi­ standard around the world. About 76 % of our sales volume is ciency of our systems. With the use of this tool, we develop loss produced at sites with ISO 14001 certification. The Corporate trees, which allow us to identify efficiency losses in a targeted Compliance unit coordinates our global environmental mana­ manner. This knowledge then enables us to better grasp the situ­ gement. Together with the business divisions involved, it devel­ ation and optimize the processes involved. The Symrise employ­ ops guidelines and procedural instructions from the global ees involved in this process work in 56 cross-hierarchical teams ­principles defined by the Executive Board and assesses com­ with over 46 TPM coordinators to develop solutions and put them pliance with legal requirements and obligations. With regular into practice. Since 2007, we have implemented well over 5,000 ­internal and external audits, we want to further improve our en­ improvements and could meet our goal of increasing efficiency vironmental performance. Symrise did not incur any penalties each year. for environmental offenses during the reporting period. B a l a nc e d S co r e c a r d s The Executive Board and the Symrise Sustainability Board define Since 2005, we have been using Balanced Scorecards at all of our environmental goals that apply for the entire Group. In order to re­ global production sites. With the scorecards, we aim to op­timize liably meet these goals, we are focusing on a series of measures: the key areas of quality, service, costs, safety and employee moti­ vation. Each of these segments receives globally unified key fig­ Loc a l R e sponsi b iliti e s ures and goals that we assess every month and refine each year. Our global sites independently determine the best environmen­ tal measures for their situation. Locally, the heads of our sites Sy mc h r oni z e ™ and production facilities are responsible for ensuring that these Symchronize™ is a new type of integrated supply chain manage­ goals are met. We also appointed sustainability ambassadors in ment. With this Symrise initiative, we optimize our entire value 2012, who help raise awareness for and assist the implementa­ chain, from raw materials sourcing to when customers receive the tion of our goals at the various sites. end product, in close cooperation with our customers and sup­ pliers. It focuses on need-oriented supply, increasing productivi­ En v i r onm e nta l Asp e ct An a lys e s ty via optimized resource usage and synchronizing processes. 66 In environmental aspect analyses, we systematically analyze the greatest environmental impacts that our systems and processes cause and determine corresponding mitigation measures based on this data. Environmental aspect analyses are undertaken regu­ larly at all ISO 14001 certified locations. A holistic software solu­ tion for tracking environmental data introduced in 2012 allows us to precisely analyze our consumption and emissions. A total of 18 environmental advisors are also testing the environmental effi­ ciency of our sites. TESIUM TESIUM is our service company in the areas of technology, safety and the environment. The wholly-owned subsidiary of Symrise % plans investments and reliably implements them. In doing so, T­ ESIUM considers environmental, safety and energy aspects We work continuously to improve the collection across the entire life cycle of the systems. T­ ESIUM also offers this of data regarding our Scope 3 emissions. In this way, bundled expertise to other companies as well. we are already able to record the emissions for nearly 66 % of our raw materials portfolio. – 85 – sha r ing va lu es Environment Total Energy C onsumption in gigajoules per ton of product Steam Gas Fuel Electricity 7.94 7.60 7.28 7.28 1.97 1.89 1.84 1.81 2.41 2.24 2.11 2.24 2.88 2.76 2.73 2.64 0.68 0.71 0.60 0.59 2010 2011 2012 2013 Emissions We have been systematically recording our greenhouse gas place a stronger focus on reducing emissions as part of Total emissions and reporting these according to Scope 1 (direct Productive Maintenance. To further improve the environmental emissions) and Scope 2 (indirect emissions) of the GHG Pro­ ­efficiency of our chemical production, we will also work on tocol since 2006. 16 We have also set reduction goals based ­enhancing the management of byproducts from our existing on these: By 2020, we aim to reduce our CO2 emissions per ton ­processes. of product by a third compared to our values from 2010. So far, we have managed to reduce our CO2 emissions per ton of Since 2011, we also record our indirect emissions according product by 9.3 % compared to the base year of 2010. to Scope 3 of the GHG Protocol. In 2013, these CO2 emissions amounted to 836,171 tons. We are constantly working to im­ While the past few years saw us make some good progress to­ prove the ascertainment of Scope 3 emissions – for instance wards our long-term environmental goals, the trend did not con­ through the creation of a product carbon footprint. In this way, tinue as successfully in 2013. Though we did indeed remain within we are already able to record the Scope 3 emissions for nearly our tolerance zone for our long-term goals thanks to the positive two-thirds of our raw materials portfolio. momentum from previous years, we only managed to reduce our CO2 emissions slightly this year due to increased customer de­ Beyond this, we have also been submitting our greenhouse gas mand for more energy-intensive products. This is also reflected emissions to the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP ) since 2006. in our energy consumption (see page 87). After always improving our rating in past years, our score on the transparency index dropped slightly to 81 points this year. Our In 2014, we will therefore focus increasingly on decoupling our CO2 performance remained ranked at B (on a scale of A to E). dynamic growth in the corresponding application areas from Even though we still managed to post good results, the outcome their possible environmental impacts. We will further optimize serves as additional incentive for us to further reduce CO2 emis­ the energy balance in key areas via additional measures and sions. 17 – 86 – s ha r ing va lue s Environment Energy consumption at these sites using a series of initiated programs Nearly every one of our production processes requires the use and improved wastewater treatment. In order to train every sin­ of energy. It stands to reason then that the efficient use of ener­ gle employee on handling water efficiently, we started sensitivity gy is of great strategic importance to us. By 2020, we want to training at sites in places like Brazil, Colombia and Singapore and operate our production facilities and processes efficiently and implemented measures to help increase efficiency. Whenever reduce our energy consumption by a third per ton of product possible, we reuse water in our production processes by recycling compared to our usage in 2010. Similar to our CO2 emissions, it ourselves. we only managed to reduce our energy consumption per product slightly in 2013. The reason behind this was a shift in demand Our waste management consists of waste avoidance, thermal re­ towards products whose production requires more energy (see cycling of waste to generate energy, reuse of waste and recy­ also page 86). Compared to the base year 2010, we have already cling. In 2013, we reduced our waste volumes by 16.9 % per ton saved 9.1 % on energy consumption. 18 of product compared to the figure from 2010 and therefore are well on track for meeting our goal of producing 33 % less waste We also aim to use less fossil fuels and successively increase our by 2020. Chemicals, oils or solid waste were not released into use of renewable energies. Already 17 % of the electricity used the environment in material quantities in the reporting period. comes from renewable energy sources. We also process produc­ 21 tion waste for thermal utilization and saved approxi­mately 2,744 tons of heating oil in 2013 as a result. A major portion of our ener­ Biodiversit y gy consumption takes place at our head­quarters in Holzminden, Nature is an irreplaceably valuable source of natural raw mate­ due to the high production volumes generated there. Our subsidi­ rials for Symrise. That is why we closely assess our influence on ary TESIUM therefore developed concepts for completely reno­ ­biodiversity, to ensure the long-term availability of natural re­ vating our energy supply systems in 2012. This should reduce our sources. As part of this, we participated in a biodiversity check dependency on fossil fuels, increase our energy efficiency and performed by the Global Nature Fund and the corporate consult­ substantially lower our CO2 emissions. In 2013, we performed ini­ ing firm dokeo in 2011 and 2012. The check examines the inter­ tial feasibility studies and added greater detail to our plans. actions between biodiversity and a company’s own activities and derives opportunities and risks along the product life cycle. As Water , Wastewater and Waste the results showed, Symrise has recognized the importance of We have committed ourselves to an efficient and careful use of this issue and sets itself apart in terms of its commitment, clear the precious resource water: By 2020, Symrise wants to reduce responsibilities and regular materiality analyses. We do however both its water consumption and wastewater emissions per ton of see a need for improving our systematic method for recording product worldwide by a third. In 2013, we used 9.72 cubic me­ data on the direct and indirect influences on biodiversity, which ters of water per ton of product. This means that our water con­ also includes the development of specific indicators for impact sumption has dropped 8.3 % compared to the base year of 2010. evaluation. These results flow into our strategy and into the de­ 19 For 2013, our wastewater emissions were down by 12.3 % velopment of suitable measures so that we can better assess our compared to the 2010 figures at 8.81 cubic meters per ton of influence on essential locations both inside and outside of con­ product. 20 The greatest water consumption was recorded at servation areas. 22 We also want to expand our cooperation our site in Holzminden. with scientific and social actors and more actively involve our employees. Some sites are located in areas that are currently experiencing Numerous initiatives worldwide demonstrate the ways in which we breaa water shortage or are likely to be confronted with a lack of wa­ the life into our commitment to sustainable corporate governance every ter in the future. We especially want to further reduce our water day. Read about our progress at www.symrise.com/sustainability. Since 2010, we have been able to reduce our wastewater emissions per product by 12.3 %. During the same time period, the chemical oxygen demand (COD) declined by 24.9 %. – 87 – sha r ing va lu es Employees Employee Turnover worldwide in % 5.5 5.3 5.1 4.4 2010 2011 2012 2013 Employees Responsible HR policy is part of our corporate culture: It conveys goals and establishes common values. It also includes further qualification and training for our employees, promoting diversity among the workforce and enhancing compatibility between professional and private life. When assessing the results of our employee engagement survey prove. For example, our employees have expressed a desire for from 2012, we can be especially proud: Symrise Germany is greater developmental and career prospects. Achieving an improved among the top 15 % of most attractive employers with regard to balance between work and family is also taking on an increas­ employee satisfaction and motivation. Our employee turnover ingly im­portant role. In view of these results, we worked on the rate is also solid, amounting to only 4.4 % globally – further evidence matters referenced by our employees during the past year and in­ that our employees feel at home here at Symrise. 23 The opin­ troduced a diverse series of measures. As a result, succession ions collected also highlighted areas where we still have room to im­ planning, developing managers and making Symrise an even more family-friendly employer were leading HR policy focuses in 2013. – 88 – s ha r ing va lue s Employees Principles of the Personnel P olicy company targets we have set by means of a variable remuneration Our Integrated Management System is binding throughout the geared toward results and performance – applies to about company and based on the provisions of the SA 8000 social 70 managers with global or regional responsibilities. We also are accountability standard. This standard is based on the conventions working on further incentive and bonus concepts worldwide. of the International Labor Organization (ILO ), the Universal After all, employee performance should pay off at Symrise. 25 Declaration of Human Rights and the UN Convention on Children’s Rights. Humane working conditions, decent employment and Young Talent and Personnel De velopment due consideration for the social aspects of employment are the Recent studies show that 90 % of the knowledge one acquires on foundation for how we act at every location. The abuse of the job is learned either through practical experience or from employees’ rights or safety at work provisions is illegal and is not colleagues and managers. That is why Symrise follows a strong tolerated in any form at Symrise. We guarantee a compensation implementation-oriented approach to personnel development. that, at the very least, corresponds to the legal or standard wage One major focus of this approach is placed on succession planning: levels for the respective industry. Treating the interests of our For key positions that are especially relevant to business perfor­ employees fairly also means that we base our remuneration policy mance, we systematically identify and develop potential successors. on the collective agreements for our industry. Our training activities are pooled under the Symrise Academy, With regard to working hours and paid vacation, Symrise complies which consists of four strategic pillars: with local statutory provisions, wage agreements and national practices in the countries where we operate. We also attach great Flavorist and perfumer school importance to participation by employee representatives in the Technical / specialist training for our employees spirit of partnership. A clear commitment to freedom of association Training for sales personnel and the right to membership in a labor union are a matter of Developing managerial staff course for us. Around the world, the overwhelming majority of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. Our flavorist and perfumer school has enjoyed great success In Germany, the figure is 100 % for those covered by wage agree­ around the world. Every year, young employees complete their ments. There were no strikes in the company in 2013. 24 training as junior flavorists or perfumers. Since 2009, we have been offering diverse training opportunities to semi-skilled em­ Remuneration ployees in production that qualify them as flavor specialists or Flexible and performance-related remuneration systems are process chemical technicians as well as, more recently, chemical an integral part of a modern remuneration policy and increase production specialists and inventory specialists. Another core a company’s attractiveness as an employer. Symrise Germany component of our educational landscape is the qualification of has had a transparent remuneration structure in the form of re­ sales personnel, for example through high-performance sales muneration ranges since 2010. These enable supervisors and training. In the future, we will develop our junior managers in a more employees to actively develop their remuneration in parallel to targeted manner and, in order to do so, we have implemented further professional training. These models were also recently the global program “Symrise’s Future Generation” in addition to introduced in France and Asia. Their structured and clearly defined regional initiatives. Starting in 2014, 20 to 30 talented individuals remuneration methods are advantageous and simplify inter­ will be trained for key positions based on an individual potential national comparability in particular. In addition, a separate global analysis. Experienced managers will accompany the junior performance bonus plan – with which we aim to achieve the managers as mentors. Symrise Academy Leadership Flavorist Technial / Sales Training Development & Professional Training Courses & Perfumer Succession Academy Planning – 89 – sha r ing va lu es Employees We have also reinforced our investment focus on training future a fast exchange of knowledge, particularly business-relevant in­ specialists and expanded capacities in the training laboratory formation in the Marketing, Sales and Research departments. used to train chemical-technical personnel, among other measures. The web-based systems are interactively and dynamically geared As of December 31, 2013, a total of 126 apprentices and train­ to the user. ees were employed at our sites in Germany. This corresponds to a training rate of around 2.1 %. In an effort to motivate young Diversit y and Equalit y of Opp ortunit y people for training at Symrise, we are involved in numerous orien­ Diversity among employees enriches Symrise, thanks to the various tation events for students such as the Idea Expo in Hanover or viewpoints, cultural influences and experiences. We appreciate regional career info days. the diversity of opinions, genders and cultures as well as the diver­ sity of cohabitation constellations in society. Our employees Furthermore, we also want to develop the personal competencies should have equal opportunity regardless of their gender, sexual of our employees in the sense of lifelong learning and therefore identity, age, nationality, religion or disabilities. We hold to the offer a diverse training and educational program that ranges from principle of equal opportunity for equal qualifications. 26 safety training and language courses to project management and IT classes. In 2012, Symrise finalized a wage agreement The majority of our employees and managers hail from the regarding further training with social partners in Germany that respective country of Symrise’s global sites. But we also actively should help foster the systematic promotion of employees in promote intercultural diversity with personnel development addition to existing initiatives. At Symrise, we spend about measures. As part of our diversity efforts, we pay special attention € 2.7 million annually on training and personnel development to the share of women at Symrise. 27 Worldwide, 38.8 % of measures worldwide. In 2013, approximately 600 internal and our employees are women. Our upper management positions, external training sessions were organized in Germany, where roughly however, are currently underrepresented compared to the over­ 1,350 employees participated. The average length of a training all staff, with only 14 % of such positions held by woman. We want session amounted to about 10 hours per participant. to change this and have set an ambitious goal: By 2020, the share of women in upper management positions should reach 20 % The individual training needs of employees are discussed as part globally. We define upper management as all employees world­ of their annual performance review. Here, managers evaluate wide who are employed in the first three management levels. In existing competencies, set goals and determine suitable personnel order to simplify entry into these management positions for women, development measures together with their individual employees. we are implementing targeted incentives as part of our talent management and the promotion program “Symrise’s Future Gen­ Knowledge Management eration.” As a globally operating and integrated company, the transfer of knowledge plays an important role in Symrise’s commercial success. We want to create a workplace that allows our employees to better Via numerous platforms, our approximately 6,000 employees harmonize their professional and private lives. That’s why Symrise can easily share important information with each other. In 2013, offers its employees flexible working time models, part-time we developed new internal communication systems that enable employment and job sharing. In Germany alone, around 92 % of Global Share of Women in Management P ositions at Symrise 2011 Share 2012 Share 2013 Share Share of Women of total workforce worldwide 2,214 39.7 % 2,298 39.6 % 2,369 38.8 % Share of Women of upper management worldwide 6 11 % 7 12 % 8 14 % Basis: Fixed-term and permanent employees, not including apprentices, as of December 31 of the respective year. Definition of upper management: All employees worldwide that are employed in the first three management levels. – 90 – s ha r ing va lue s Employees 20 Occupational Health and Safet y We are committed to providing our employees with a workplace free of dangers to their safety or health. To accomplish this at all sites worldwide, we operate various programs on workplace safety. Specific measures are implemented at the sites individually in order to best conform to local situations, guided by corre­ sponding systems and working groups. 2020 % Regular training courses in safety at work are compulsory across 14 the Group. Should an accident occur, we work together with the employees in the affected departments on measures to avoid similar incidents in the future. After a slight increase in the frequency and intensity of such incidents in 2012, we established a task force to precisely analyze the accidents and develop countermeasures. The increase in accident frequency was halted thanks to these measures, with the number of accident-related 2013 % sick days being nearly cut in half (minus 48 %). 28 Since 2012, our company has been certified with regard to occupational safe­ ty according to OHSAS 18001 at our Holzminden site. Symrise wants to actively promote diversity. That’s why the company has set the goal of increasing the share Along with work safety, health precautions via corporate health of women in upper management worldwide to 20 % by 2020. management are another important aspect of our personnel policy. Our motto: Equal opportunity for equal qualifications. At nearly all sites around the globe, we offer our employees a wide range of health promotion activities. They range from free flu vaccinations and regular health checks to in-house and external sport and wellness facilities and advice to medically coordinated our employees can arrange their working time flexibly. Employees reintegration after a lengthy illness. who have already worked for three years at Symrise have the opportunity to take 12 months of leave to care for family mem­ We attach great importance to “operational health management” bers. Beyond the state-mandated parental leave allowances, these and have agreed with the company’s social partners on a pro­ employees are also entitled to an additional parental leave gram that includes further training and educational events. To package for a duration of up to one year. We also cooperate with recognize and minimize ergonomic burdens, health circles were various day care centers at our headquarters in Holzminden to set up with certain focal points and work stations were system­ make child care easier. atically analyzed for weaknesses. In addition, Symrise regularly organizes health days on key issues such as healthy nutrition or In 2013, we were recognized by the German Federal Ministry of stress management. In the management training program, the Family Affairs for our family-oriented personnel policies and the issue of addiction and addiction prevention is addressed. advancement of female employees’ careers: Symrise received a Numerous initiatives worldwide demonstrate the ways in which we breagrade of 72 in the Women’s Career Index and therefore was among the life into our commitment to sustainable corporate governance every the top third of participating companies. Along with acknowledging day. Read about our progress at www.symrise.com/sustainability. our previous performance, we also recognized potential for im­ provement thanks to this benchmarking process. We identified the share of women at the various levels of management as well as the development of even more flexible working time models as areas needing greater attention in the future. The recognition of our current efforts provided Symrise with even greater incentive to improve in these areas. – 91 – sha r ing va lu es Society Fr ance: USA: Because We Care Pl aster and Paint About a third of Symrise employees in In October 2013, Hurricane Sandy made France took part in the first “Because We landfall on the east coast of the USA and Care Day” and supported a good cause left considerable damage in its wake. with a variety of activities. Colleagues from Symrise Teterboro helped families in need to repair damage from the storm. Philippines: Haiyan Relief The typhoon Haiyan left a trail of destruction in the Philippines. The Symrise Team in Singapore quickly organized a series Br a zil: of relief actions. Creating Awareness The Symlive Team in Brazil launched an employee survey in 2013 about sustainability. Events involving all of the employees were then India: held based on the topics that were Symrise is Cleaning Up identified. 38 employees from Chennai removed Madagascar: garbage from a long stretch of the city’s Building Bridges beach as part of the Chennai Coastal Shopping for a good cause: Symrise employees Cleanup Project. in Germany have supported a number of community projects in Madagascar with the purchases they made at the volunteer-run spice bazaar. Society Trust is the most important basis for our operations. Symrise is aware of this and accepts its social responsibilities: At our sites around the world, we are committed to making a positive impact on the communities in which we live and work. Our guiding principle for social commitment, “Because we care,” Partnering With Communities highlights Symrise’s understanding of its place as a responsible In order to better understand how our operations effect our sur­ member of society. We want to be a valued, accepted and active rounding environment, Symrise maintains contact with its neigh­ partner in our surrounding communities. That’s why Symrise pro­ boring communities and residents at its more than 30 sites. 29 motes the concept of shared value: When we account for the de­ A neighborhood newsletter, for example, helps keep the residents mands of our various stakeholder groups across the entire value living near our headquarters in Holzminden informed about the chain and make a positive influence on society while enjoying the company’s activities. We want to engage in partnerships with the direct economic advantages of this, we create value for all par­ communities surrounding our international locations as well. ties. And that, in turn, secures the long-term success of our com­ In Brazil, Germany and Madagascar, which are key countries for pany. sourcing citrus fruits, vegetables and vanilla, we place great im­ – 92 – s ha r ing va lue s Society portance on supporting and promoting the local economic struc­ We also invest in the future by supporting scientific advance­ tures in addition to our business operations. ments and providing people with access to a quality education. We support preschools, schools, universities and other non-­ Corp orate Volunteering profit institutions both in education and training as well as re­ Our local employees are the most important link between our search. A requirement here is that the project to be supported sites and the local communities. Over 90 % of the management is local to one of our company sites or is relevant to our busi­ staff are from the local area. Many ideas for the non-profit pro­ ness activities. jects we participate in come from our employees. We support their commitment in both material and financial form. It is our We prefer to support projects where we can put our expertise to aim to have every employee contribute to the sustainability of good use. For example, we support the project “Grow with me” our company and business activities. To accomplish this, we in Cleveland, Ohio, which teaches children in the USA about the ­initiated a global employee network of volunteer sustainability importance of a healthy diet via a community garden. In Brazil, ambassadors to solidify our sense of entrepreneurial responsi­ we cooperate with the Dorina Nowill Foundation, which is com­ bility. These ambassadors work to generate even more motiva­ mitted to the inclusion of vision-impaired individuals: We also tion for social projects – e.g. through workshops and targeted provide training materials for vocational training in the fragrance sensitivity measures. industry. Furthermore, with our help, the educational project ­operated by the Brazilian NGO Beleza & Cidadania offers people The existing volunteer initiatives at nearly every Symrise site tes­ with low incomes low-priced training in personal care. In Mada­ tify to our employees’ willingness to get involved with social pro­ gascar, well over 10,000 people now benefit from our support in jects. In India, for example, multiple Symrise employees joined the areas of health, nutrition and education in the communities together and organized a blood drive, participated in garbage col­ where we source vanilla. We also promote a scholarship program lection projects or projects aimed at helping the homeless. The for students from low-income families in the Philippines. 13 members of the Symlive team in Brazil also have been creative ­in finding ways to inspire others to live more sustainably. And in As experts in UV protection, Symrise also helps children that suf­ France, the Care Team organized a so-called solidarity afternoon fer from the so-called “children of the night” disease – a genetic in November 2013, where colleagues could participate in various defect that prevents the body from being able to repair damage social initiatives. More information on the various volunteer pro­ resulting from UVA and UVB radiation. Accordingly, we awarded jects our employees participate in can be found online: 30 a three-year grant on the research of possible treatments at the Leibniz Research Institute for Environmental Medicine (IUF ) in D o n at i o n s a n d S p o n s o r i n g Düsseldorf. At the same time, Symrise also supports sick children Topics like nutrition, hygiene, skin protection, care and well-be­ and their families and even invited some young patients to a night­ ing are just as important to our company as they are to society. time workshop in Paris. That’s why we offer support beyond our business activities for organizations, institutions and projects that make a non-profit In 2013, we invested a total of more than € 800,000 in commu­ contribution to these areas. To ensure that we create added val­ nity interests across the Group. This amount includes social ue, we perform needs analyses before we commit to larger pro­ ­projects, donations and sponsorships. An extensive overview jects. Our global donation and sponsorship activities are coor­ of our various social commitments around the world can be dinated centrally, while providing our local companies with the found online: 31 freedom to make independent decisions and implement them. Numerous initiatives worldwide demonstrate the ways in which we breaWith our donation and sponsoring guidelines, we ensure that the life into our commitment to sustainable corporate governance every funds are distributed worldwide according to uniform principles day. Read about our progress at www.symrise.com/sustainability. and in line with our corporate strategy. Corporate Audit regu­ larly assesses these donations and sponsoring contributions for their compliance with these guidelines and the Symrise Code of Conduct. Politicians and political parties do not receive any contributions from Symrise. – 93 – sha r ing va lu es Awards Awards Women’s Career Index With a score of 72 in the Women’s Career Index, Symrise is in the top third of participating PWC Supply Chain companies that proactively create better working conditions for women. The Women’s Excellence Award Career Index is an initiative of the German Ministry of Family Affairs. Our sustainable vanilla sourcing earned us a place among the four finalists for the Supply Chain Management Award. From the vanilla bean to customers’ end products, Symrise shows full transparency and creates added value for all stakeholders along the vanilla value creation chain. Numerous Successes for Symrise Life Essentials The achievements of Symrise were accoladed a total of five times at the in-cosmetics 2013: SymHairTM Force 1631 earned a silver Best Ingredient Award in the Innovation Zone. Dr. Klaus Stanzl, President Life Essentials at Symrise, was given a Life Achievement Award. Symrise also took home prizes at the BSB Awards: SymFit ® nat 1750 won first place while Sym3D® and SymBronze® 1659 each won second place. FIE Excellence Award At Food Ingredients Europe 2013, the largest industry trade fair in Europe, Symrise was able to come out on top against strong competition: The company was presented with the FIE Excellence Award in the sustainability initiative category for its commitment to vanilla in Madagascar. – 94 – s ha r i ng va lu e s Awards Industrial Merit Award Mexico Our company was given the Industrial Merit Award for the location in Monterrey, Mexico, which has been a reliable employer in the region for seven decades. Green Company DQS has certified Symrise as a “Green Company.” The certification confirms the high transparency and accountability of our internal corporate processes with regard to products, services and environmental standards. International Microentrepreneurship Awards Two microenterpreneurs from projects supported by Symrise received an International Microentrepreneurship Award from the French foundation PlaNet Finance: Marie-Claire Tombozandry from Madagascar (project: micro-health insurance) and Fatimata Abdulai from Ghana (project: shea butter). SEPAWA Innovation Award The cosmetic multitalent SymSave® H received the SEPAWA INNOVATION Award, which was awarded for the first time this year. SymSave® H has an antioxidant effect and soothes the skin. It also boosts the effectiveness of the preservatives in cosmetic formulas. – 95 – s ha r i ng va lue s About This Report Online Report This print publication is an abridged version. The complete report is available online at cr2013.symrise.com. About This Report This 2013 corporate report provides a holistic depiction of Symrise’s performance in 2013 – both from a business perspective as well as from a sustainability standpoint. We have reported on our sustainability activities annually since 2006. The 2013 financial report, which contains the complete consolidated financial statements, the Group management report and all other legally required elements, is provided as a supplement to this corporate report or can be viewed electronically and ordered in print form at www.symrise.com/investors. The auditor’s report refers solely to the parts of the financial report that are relevant for certification and is only included therein. The Symrise 2013 corporate report was published simultaneously with the 2013 financial report on March 10, 2014. Both reports are available in German and English. The environmental data contained in the corporate report relates solely to production sites. All other data, unless stated otherwise, relates to the Symrise Group, which consists of the parent company Symrise AG and the companies that it has under its control (subsidiary companies). The publication date of the corporate report for the 2014 fiscal year is March, 2015. Additional information on our company’s activities can be found at www.symrise.com. GRI Application Level Check Statement The Corporate Report 2013 was compiled in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) G3 guidelines and fulfills the highest reporting standard A. The GRI Certification Notation can be viewed online at cr2013.symrise.com. – 96 – Imprint Financial Calendar Publisher M a rc h 10 , 2 014 Symrise AG, Mühlenfeldstrasse 1 Corporate and Financial Report 2013 Corporate Communications 37603 Holzminden, Germany m aY 6 , 2 014 T +49 55 31.90 – 0 Interim Report 1st Quarter 2014 F +49 55 31.90 – 16 49 m aY 14 , 2 014 Concep t and Editing Annual General Meeting PvF Investor Relations, Eschborn akzente kommunikation und beratung, A u g u s t 7, 2 014 Munich Interim Report 2nd Quarter 2014 Concep t, Design and re aliz ation n o v e m b e r 4 , 2 014 3st kommunikation, Mainz Interim Report 3rd Quarter 2014 tr ansl ation EnglishBusiness AG, Hamburg Rep ortage Marc-Stefan Andres, Münster Photogr aphy Marcus Pietrek, Düsseldorf Samuel He, Singapore Stefan Falke, New York Santhosh Photography, Chennai Ruben Arrieta, Mexico Danny Santos, Singapore The FSC® logo iden­tifies products which contain wood from well-managed forests certified in accordance with Printed by rules of the Forest Stewardship Council. Westdeutsche Verlagsund Druckerei GmbH, Mörfelden-Walldorf Publication Date of the Report March 10, 2014 Symrise on the Interne t www.symrise.com www.symrise.com/sustainability www.symrise.com/investors cr2013.symrise.com Forward Looking Statements This Corporate Report contains forward-looking sta­te­ments that are based on current assumptions and forecasts by Symrise AG. The future course of business and the results actually achieved by Symrise AG and its affiliates are subject to a large number of risks and uncertainties and may therefore differ substantially from the forward-looking statements. Many of these factors are outside of Symrise AG’s sphere of influence and cannot be assessed in detail ahead of events. They include, for example, unfavorable development of the global economy, a change in consumer behavior, and changes to laws, regulations and official guidelines. Should one of these uncertainty factors, named or otherwise, occur or should the assumptions on which the forward-looking statements are based prove to be incorrect, the actual results may differ significantly from the results anticipated. Symrise undertakes no obligation to update forwardlooking statements contin­uously and to adjust them to future events or devel­opments. © 2014 Symrise AG
