SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 TOWARDS A SUSTAINABLE GIGABIT SOCIETY Making light make sense CONTENTS CEO’s Statement 4 About Transmode 6 Sustainability strategy 8 Employees 12 Environment 16 Products & Technology 20 Customers & Suppliers 24 About the Report 26 GRI & Global Compact Index 28 2 TRANSMODE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Introduction REPORTING ON SUSTAINABILITY This is Transmode’s third Sustainability Report, and responsibility, customers, suppliers and products. provides an overview of our sustainability program This Report is also Transmode’s annual communicaand activities. In this Report, we communicate our tion on how our company complies with, and applies, work on those aspects of sustainability that are relthe UN Global Compact’s Ten Principles for Responevant and material to our business and stakeholders. sible Business. This Sustainability Report is primarily This Sustainability Report supplements the informaintended to serve as a reference for our stakeholders tion in our Annual Report. and the general public. Report content is based on GRI G3.1 Guidelines for A full list of GRI Indicators and UNGC requireApplication Level C and describes actions taken and ments disclosed in this Report are stated in the Index achievements concerning employees, environmental on page 28. Transmode joined the UN Global Compact, an initiative promoting corporate work on human rights, labor standards, environment, and anti-corruption, in 2011. TRANSMODE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 3 CEO’s Statement COMMITTED TO SUSTAINABLE GROWTH ”Transmode is committed to contributing to a more sustain­ able society as we grow and develop. We want to be a top performer in our industry.” 4 TRANSMODE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 CEO’s Statement Our contribution to sustainable development Openness Builds Trust Transmode’s energy-efficient products, which enaContemporary society is applying higher standards ble a substantial increase in transmission capacity on openness and transparency regarding financial, through optical networks, are its most important environmental, social and ethical business conduct. contribution to sustainable development. Low Openness is increasingly important in customer relapower consumption is a top priority in product tionships, as a foundation for building trust and good development. We provide products and solutions collaboration. Transparency creates a clear competiwith industry-leading low-power capabilities, with tive advantage. For Transmode, openness, internally power consumption up to 75% lower than other and externally, have been important right since our packet-optical solutions. Our Low Power Design foundation, and we have made it one of our core valconcept is our way of making the market aware of ues. We strive to spread this approach in our supply this potential. chain and to our partners and resellers. New Markets, New Challenges Employees Are the Key to Success As Transmode expands and enters new markets outOur ability to hire and retain the right people is a critiside northern Europe, one challenge is to promote cal success factor. We put a big emphasis on being an good social conditions, environmental responsibilattractive employer with stimulating duties, a good ity and ethical business. Transmode joined the UN working environment and competitive employment Global Compact in 2011, supports its ten principles terms. We continued recruiting throughout 2013, and for sustainable business, and will continue to do many new colleagues joined us, mainly in product this in forthcoming years. Our Code of Conduct development and sales. defines the environmental, social and ethical principles we will comply with, and in 2013, all employees A Focused Approach to Sustainability took web-based training on these themes. We also Transmode is committed to contributing to a more established a Code of Conduct for partners, which sustainable society as we grow and develop. We want we have started to implement. Before starting new to be a top performer in our industry. A Materiality business relationships, we systematically evaluate Assessment has enabled a more focused approach potential business risks to ensure compliance with that will guide our decisions and allocation of our Code of Conduct. We adopt a similar approach resources. We’ll be focusing on anti-corruption and for our supply chain. Manufacture of all our hardware supply chain issues in 2014. We want to do what’s products is subcontracted and we have a growing right in every situation and ensure this ambition is base of component suppliers in Asia. To ensure high shared by all our key stakeholders—employees, cusenvironmental standards and fair working conditions tomers, partners and suppliers. Because we can’t in our supply chain, we are actively implementing succeed without them. our Supplier Conduct Principles, and audited our key suppliers for quality, technology and corporate responsibility in 2013. Karl Thedéen, CEO Stockholm, Sweden, 2014 TRANSMODE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 5 About Transmode GLOBAL PROVIDER OF NETWORKING SOLUTIONS Transmode is a global provider of packet-optical netthan 45,000 systems for over 550 fixed and mobile working solutions that enable fixed line and mobile network operators, service providers, large enternetwork operators to cost-effectively address the prises and public institutions in over 50 countries capacity needs created by the rapid growth of video across the globe since 2000. and data traffic. These solutions are important buildTransmode received several awards in the year. The ing blocks in next-generation high-speed optical company was a finalist in the Light Readings Leading networks that support services such as broadband Light Awards 2013 as Public Company of the Year, and backhaul, mobile data backhaul, video delivery serreceived the Global Telecoms Business Award for vices and cloud computing. Innovation in Fixed Network Infrastructure for the Transmode’s solutions are designed to increase build-out of an optical network for Surf Telecoms. the capacity, flexibility and functionality of metro Transmode was also the winner of the Core Network and regional networks, and are based on WaveProject of the Year in Telecom Asia Reader’s Choice & length Division Multiplexing (WDM) and transport Innovation Awards 2013 jointly with its customer HGC. technologies such as Ethernet. Transmode’s Native Packet Optical 2.0 architecture gives customers key Organizational Structure and Profile advantages such as cost-efficient Ethernet services, Transmode conducts its operations from its headultra-low latency, low power consumption and quarters in Stockholm, Sweden, where research and future-proof network design. development, deliveries and logistics, marketing, Transmode is headquartered in Stockholm, sales support, technical support, finance, administraSweden, and listed on NASDAQ OMX Stockholm tion and management are located. Transmode also Exchange (TRMO). The company has installed more has a support and service center in Dallas, US and Figure 1. Transmode AB’s Operational Structure in 2013 CEO Human Resources Executive Assistant Quality & Sustainability/IT Product Operations & Marketing & Sales Nordic/ Management Finance Customer Services R&D Communication MEA/RUS/CIS & Sales Support Sales Europe Sales America Sales APAC 6 TRANSMODE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 About Transmode Employees at Transmode’s HQ in Stockholm. a smaller support center in Hong Kong. Transmode Scale of Our Organization has local resources in the UK, Germany, Switzerland, At year-end 2013, Transmode had 284 employees, Poland, the Netherlands, Finland, Italy, Spain, France, an increase of 15 on the previous year. The company Russia, Malaysia, Indonesia, Singapore, Thailand, has employees in 12 countries, including Sweden, and Japan, Canada and Mexico. more than 550 customers in more than 50 countries Transmode AB is the parent company of the across the globe. Sales are through the company’s Transmode Group. The parent company owns and own sales force, resellers and partners such as NEC manages shares in subsidiaries and also sells cerin Japan and Cygate in Sweden. Sales amounted to tain intra-group services to subsidiaries. The parent SEK 1,029.1 (1,010.9) m in 2013, an increase of 1.8% company has one directly held subsidiary, Transmode (10.2) on 2012, or 4.7% adjusted for exchange rate Systems AB. The indirectly owned subsidiaries are fluctuations. Operating profit was SEK 148.5 (170.7) located in the UK, the USA, Germany, Singapore, m, which corresponds to an operating margin of Canada, and Italy. 14.4% (16.9%). Cash flow from operating activities was 174.7 (176.7) m. TRANSMODE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 7 Sustainability strategy TOWARDS A SUSTAINABLE GIGABIT SOCIETY People are exchanging information at an everrial risks and exploit the business opportunities in our accelerating rate, while communication methods value chain. Each year, we break down these overall are becoming more and more sophisticated. The targets into quantifiable targets and performance key drivers are the robust increase in transmission of indicators. video, greater demands for mobility and the expanding usage of cloud computing services. For example, Focused Approach to Sustainable Development mobile data traffic is forecast to grow at a CAGR1 of Sustainable business development is inherently long 66% between 2012 and 2017. To keep improving the term and encompasses a wide range of issues. Some ways we communicate, we need to build the digital of them are under our direct control and influence; superhighways of a contemporary and sustainable others are more indirect. The level of impact also difgigabit society, without increasing energy consumpfers. By accepting that our resources need to be allotion. Transmode’s energy-efficient products, which cated to those areas that are material to Transmode enable a substantial increase in transmission capacand our most important stakeholders, we adopt a ity through optical networks, are its most important more focused approach to sustainability and concontribution to sustainable development. ducted materiality analysis. The analysis identified a number of prioritized Our Strategy for Sustainable Business aspects of sustainability considerations where we Our overall target is to contribute to a sustainable will focus in the coming years. The analysis involved society by maintaining a profitable and sustainmembers of management, including the CEO, and able growth. Our strategy to achieve this is to keep other key functions at Transmode. This methodology expanding our customer base and geographical is also compliant with fourth-generation Guidelines footprint, develop innovative solutions and work effifrom the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), G4, with ciently and in an environmentally sound way. These materiality analysis applied to define the scope of activities will be channeled through four dimensions, Sustainability Reporting. G4 Guidelines will be comeach critical to our success: satisfied customers, pulsory for all GRI reporting organizations by 2015. motivated employees, responsible citizenship and Transmode will fully implement the new guidelines shareholder value. To achieve our overall targets, we in next year’s Sustainability Report. also need to ensure we identify and manage all mateFigure 2. Transmode’s Model for Sustainable Business PROFITABLE & SUSTAINABLE GROWTH Efficient & Customer & geographic Innovative environmentally sound expansion solutions operations Satisfied Motivated Responsible Shareholder Customers Employees Citizenship Value 1 CAGR = Compound Average Growth Rate. Source: Cisco VNI May 2013 8 TRANSMODE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Sustainability strategy Stakeholder Perspective Our Value Chain Transmode’s daily business impacts on, and is influTransmode’s value chain set the context and frameenced by, the company’s stakeholders. Our priority is work for its materiality assessment. It identified relto address the issues of interest of our key stakeholder evant impacts, aspects and topics in our operations, groups through our business and sustainability stratas well as impacts upstream in our supply chain, and egy. Accordingly, our materiality assessment included downstream where our products are used. This mapcloser consideration of who we interact with, to idenping and analysis will guide our decisions on what tify which stakeholders are most important in terms of aspects are most relevant and effective for us to level of influence and interaction. We established that focus on to mitigate risk and exploit opportunities. our key stakeholders are those that we have interact Our products are based on materials like aluwith directly and actively in daily business—customminum, steel, plastic, copper, silicon, gold, tin solder, ers, employees, resellers/partners and suppliers. All semiconductor compounds, glass, ceramics, etching are crucial to enabling us to achieve our overall targets chemicals and rare earth metals. Product packaging and sustainability objectives (see page 11), and if we consists of cardboard and plastic. succeed, it will be mutually beneficial. However, this We currently collaborate with approximately will also create value for important stakeholders that 25 key component manufacturers. In terms of purare not part of our direct business relationships, such chased amounts, our most important suppliers are as our shareholders, trade unions and other parties located in China, the US and Sweden, and the bulk that we engage with on a regular basis. of our suppliers are located in Asia. All Transmode’s To understand the aspects our stakeholders put hardware products are manufactured by global submost emphasis on, the analysis included an outlook contractors at plants in Sweden, Poland and China. on views and questions that have been presented to Our operations are concentrated in Stockholm, us by customers, employees and investors, through Sweden, and consist of R&D, Delivery & Logisevaluation and dialogue. We also applied the GRI tics, Marketing, Sales Support, Technical Support, framework as a benchmark to define the general Finance, Administration and Management functions. agenda of aspects of sustainability. We also have a support and service center in Dallas, US, and a smaller scale support center in Hong Kong. In some markets, we collaborate with partners and resellers for sales and distribution. Our customers Figure 3. Transmode’s Key Stakeholders Vision Transmode’s vision is to become The Global Optical Star through etitors • L Comp oca innovation and efficiency, with the e rs• l co us Industry a m m most satisfied customers, the best employees d rs • sso En esto cia and the most satisfied shareholders on the ity n v t i global telecom market. • Reseller reholders • F ees un abor community s/ oy Sha utu •L re ns io m rs e • Em ers • Suppl rtn to pl ie us Tranmode´s overall targets Pa C rs • To grow faster than the market • To grow profitably • To have very satisfied customers • To be an attractive employer • To contribute to a sustainable society TRANSMODE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 9 Sustainability strategy are tier 1 and incumbent operators, mobile operators, There are additional aspects that will be prioritized cable TV operators and other alternative operators as a part of our sustainability objectives and targets: and enterprises, in EMEA, the Americas and APAC. • The protection of human rights in specific countries where Transmode conducts operations, has suppliPrioritized Aspects ers or customers, starting with a risk assessment. The aspects identified in the materiality analysis were • Optimization of logistics and mode of transport in ranked and prioritized based on their level of actual our supply chain, inbound and outbound, aiming impact and how they affect the views and decisions at reducing total carbon footprint. of our key stakeholders. A number of prioritized • Keeping the level of business travel at a minimum issues were highlighted. In all cases, the conclusion as we grow and intensify our sales efforts. was that there are systems or processes in place • Assuming product responsibility by being proactive within Transmode to manage activities and progress. regarding new legislation and the safe and efficient handling of equipment during and after use. We concluded that the prioritized aspects of our activities in 2014 should be: • Fostering anti-corruption in the sales/customer interface through the continued implementation of our Code of Conduct, in current and new markets, and the implementation of an internal risk evaluation process. • Continued focus on Low Power Design and on reducing our customers’ environmental footprints. • Enhancement of good labor practices and human rights in our supply chain, through further implementation of our Supplier Conduct Principles, including audits. Figure 4. Prioritized Aspects of Sustainability in Our Value Chain Transmode: Transmode: Product Components SubRaw materials Design, test & Sales and Customer end of life manufackturers contractors configuration distribution Anti-corruption Low Power Design Labor practices Human rights in specific countries Mode of transport and logistics Mode of transport and logistics Business travel Transmode Value Chain Product Product responsibility Prioritized Aspects responsibility Additional Aspects 10 TRANSMODE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Sustainability strategy Sustainability Objectives based on the Global Compact’s ten principles, was The prioritized aspects relate to Transmode’s overall launched in 2012. The purpose of the Code is to define sustainability objectives, which have guided our work those ethical principles the company should comply lasting recent years. Annual targets are established with. We initiated a whistleblower function coinciand monitored for each objective so we can develop dent with our Code of Conduct, enabling employees our business sustainably, efficiently and continuously. to report any breaches of its principles. The Code of Conduct is available at Transmode’s website. Reduce overall carbon footprint related to revenue The standpoint Transmode has adopted throughTarget areas: out its organization supports and respects the pro• Environmental performance in supply chain tection of internationally accepted human rights, not • Efficient logistics inbound and outbound only in the workplace but also within Transmode’s • Business travel sphere of influence. Within labor, this includes • Energy consumption at our facilities respecting the rights of all employees and workers to freely and voluntarily establish and join any legitiIncrease awareness and participation in mate and lawful organizations of their own choice. corporate social responsibility (CSR) activities We also need to ensure that no person below the Target areas: minimum legal age is employed, and that Transmode • Initiatives to create a more inclusive labor market does not treat employees differently or less favorably because of characteristics unrelated to their merits Minimize environmental impact of products or the inherent requirements for the job. Anti-corTarget areas: ruption is another segment we focus on as we expand • Improve the process for ROHS 1 and REACH 2 and enter new geographical regions. compliance All employees sign the Code of Conduct every • Identify and communicate Low Power Design year. In 2013, all employees also took one-hour metrics web-based training based on a number of ethical dilemmas. All new employees sign the Code and Improve awareness and internal processes to take the training package as a part of their introducsecure ethical behavior and fair business practices tion program. Transmode also introduced systematic Target areas: working methods for managing ethical issues and • Implement internal risk evaluation process risk assessments. • Continued Code of Conduct implementation internally, for suppliers and partners Responsibility in the Supply Chain • Health & Safety Policy Ensuring good social conditions, environmental responsibility and ethical business methods in our Our Code of Conduct supply chain is one of our greatest challenges. TransTo be able to deliver profitable and sustainable mode’s requirements on critical suppliers and congrowth, our company is dedicated to satisfying the tract manufacturers in this segment are described highest standards of business ethics, environmental in our Supplier Conduct Principles. Implementation care and social responsibility. Transmode has been a of our principles commenced in fall 2011 and conmember of the Global Compact Leadership Initiative, tinued through 2012 and 2013. Transmode’s Supplier founded on ten universally accepted principles in the Conduct Principles set standards for suppliers and segments of human rights, labor, environment and contract manufacturers on compliance with local anti-corruption since 2011. Our Code of Conduct, laws, human rights, labor law issues, discrimination, working conditions, health and safety, and the environment. The principles also cover issues such as corruption, gifts, money laundering and limita1 EU Directive for Restriction of Hazardous Substances, which restricts tion of competition. In 2013, the number of affiliated ­certain dangerous substances commonly used in electrical and electronic equipment. Restricted substances are lead, cadmium, mercury, hexavalent suppliers increased, and several main suppliers were chromium, polybrominated biphenyls (PBB) and polybrominated diphenyl audited to ensure compliance with the principles, ethers (PBDE). and to identify opportunities for improvement. We 2 EU Directive for the Regulation on Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals. It entered into force on 1st June 2007. It stream­ also established a Code of Conduct for partners and lines and improves the former legislative framework on chemicals of the EU. resellers in the year, and work on affiliating collaboration partners commenced. More on page 25. TRANSMODE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 11 Employees EMPLOYEES HOLD THE KEY TO INNOVATION Our employees are the most important asset in our mode matched their expectations. New employees business—they are the key to innovation. Accordcompleted questionnaires 1, 3, 6 and 12 months after ingly, our efforts are focused on fostering a working joining the company, with the intention of achieving environment where all our employees can develop a positive induction into the company and identifying and fulfill their ambitions. Transmode is an expansive opportunities to improve. The survey was qualitative global company and we are determined to achieve and revealed a high level of satisfaction, albeit with this without compromising employee satisfaction. some notable comments in areas where Transmode can improve. In 2014 an employee satisfaction survey Our Core Values will be conducted on all employees. Our corporate culture can be summarized in five Employee turnover was below 6% in 2013, an core values, defining the company and its people: increase on the previous year (2% in 2012 and 6% in Competence, Innovation, Openness, Dedication, and 2011). Although the figure is higher than 2012, exit Business Focus. Every year we reward employees who interviews did not reveal any alarming tendencies. embody the company’s core values. The winners are Some staff had retired or relocated, while others had selected annually in a nomination process that is taken a completely new career path, but nevertheopen to everyone. less, all of them would recommend Transmode as an employer. Employee Satisfaction and Openness We also endeavor to create the right potential To help maintain its growth and progress in the right for internal mobility and greater opportunities to direction, Transmode has been conducting a comwork in other countries. We regard this approach pany-wide employee satisfaction survey for a numas especially important for maintaining steady prober of years. The survey is based on a global ESI index gress of our business and satisfied customers in for(Employee Satisfaction Index) method, designed to eign countries, as well as satisfied employees. With help identify vital areas of improvement. Transmode many different nationalities represented among our achieved an employee satisfaction index of a high employees, this approach offers many benefits. level of 77% in 2012. The survey trigged a number of actions in 2013, including occupational health and Competence and Innovation safety improvements in noise and lighting. In 2013, a Learning is essential for innovation, motivation and year of extensive recruiting, the survey focused exclubusiness development. All employees have annual sively on new employees, to measure how well Transplanning and appraisal interviews with their managers. However, we did not succeed in achieving 100% participation in 2013. As we consider this is a very important part of employee development, and to improve participation for 2014, we have prepared a Figure 5. Transmode’s Core Values Performance Management System for implementation in 2014, designed firstly to provide more clear follow-ups on individual targets, and secondly to Competenc further improve competence development and e employee potential for professional development Ope within the company. nn es This will provide all our employees with a peron ovati s sonal competence development plan based on their Inn unique skills and potential. Plans are updated yearly and reviewed twice yearly. In addition to courses and certification training, we encourage our people to seek alternative learning methods actively, such as Bu sin attending workshops, seminars, conferences, exhibies on sF ti tions and participating in professional networks or oc ic a us Ded forums on the Internet. 12 TRANSMODE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Employees We believe that one critical future success factor Dedication and Business Focus is closely linked to our corporate values and leaderAt Transmode, dedication means driving customer ship skills. Accordingly, internal and external trainsatisfaction, but also delivering the highest standing, meetings and discussions on ethics and values ards of business ethics, environmental care and are an integral component of our daily business. social responsibility. Our latest Employee SatisfacThey are also an important part of our performance tion Index (ESI) survey corroborates our commitappraisals. ment to the needs of our dedicated employees. Our Internal workshops and learning activities initiated goal is to keep growing without compromising our by employees and managers are another important employee commitment. In this process, our central part of our competence development and learning priority is maintaining sound systematics in our processes. Our objective is to stimulate a cross-funcworking methods and project management. Teamtional exchange and strengthen our organization by building and clarity of duties are also part of sustainsharing knowledge. This also enables employees to ing our high employee motivation. grow in their professional roles Our Research & Development function uses agile Employer Branding working methods, based on iterative and incremenWork on reinforcing the image of Transmode as an tal development. Teams are self organized and cross attractive employer intensified in 2013. This included functional, with all the competences necessary for a range of activities at universities as well as netdelivery. Agile methods encourage and promote working events, which resulted in a number of people adaptive planning, evolutional development and being hired. We also met secondary school students delivery, a time-boxed iterative approach and rapid ahead of their choice of high school education, to and flexible response to change. encourage them to choose technical education programs. Transmode’s Research & Development function uses agile working methods, based on iterative and incremental development. TRANSMODE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 13 Employees Employee Diversity and Equal Opportunities Table 1. Average Number of Employees* The average number of full-time employees in 2013 was 270, compared to 255 in 2012. Hiring in the year 2013 2012 2011 was mainly in the R&D and Sales functions. We Total Men Total Men Total Men consider employee diversity and equal opportuniSweden 231 71%*** 220 78%*** 190 79%*** UK 14 100% 12 100% 10 100% ties crucial for creating a workplace that supports Germany 7 100% 7 100% 8 100% imaginative thinking and innovation. Social and USA 17 88% 15 87% 8 88% professional diversity are invaluable. People with Italy 1 100% 1 100% 1 100% contrasting backgrounds create a dynamic working Spain** 3 100% 3 environment, which stimulates innovation. We are Finland** 1 100% 0 proud to have some 15 different native languages in Japan** 2 50% 2 our organization, spanning a spectrum of employMexico** 0 100% 1 ees with very diverse social and professional backMalaysia** 2 100% 2 grounds. Analysis of appointments in 2013 in terms Netherlands** 2 100% 2 of gender and ethnic background revealed that 20% Poland** 3 100% 3 of new staff are women and 20% had a foreign backSwitzerland** 1 100% ground–good figures for our industry, although we Group total 270 81% 255 80% 217 82% are continuously endeavoring to improve them. The average age range of staff hired in 2013 revealed an In Canada. Thailand, France, Russia, Hong Kong, Indonesia and Singapore Transmode hires consultants on terms and conditions resembling even distribution, the largest representation being employment. in the 30–39 age group (40%). * Share of part-time employees is 2%. We are committed to maintaining equal oppor** Employed in the Swedish company. tunities for everyone in our organization, regularly *** Percentage of men includes all employees employed in the Swedish company, i.e. Sweden and all countries indicated with**. monitoring employee financial equality, for example. The latest follow-up was conducted in 2011 and indicated generally positive gender equality. However, our findings did cause us to adjust the salaries of Table 2. Board Members and Other Senior Managers three female employees. We also developed a com2013 2012 2011 pany-wide gender equality plan, which is updated Total Men Total Men Total Men regularly. Increasing gender diversity is a priority and Board members 7* 86% 7* 86% 8* 88% challenge for us, as it is for the entire industry. Chief Executive Officer and other Senior Managers 12** 83% 8** 88% 8** 88% *Age groups 2013; 30-50—2; over 50—5; 2012; 30-50—1; over 50—6; 2011; 30-50 years 2; over 50 years 6 ** Age groups 2013: 30-50—7; over 50—5; 2012; 30-50—3; over 50—5; 2011; 30-50 years 4; over 50 years -4 14 TRANSMODE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Employees Health and Wellbeing Another of our challenges is motivating our employHealth and safety at work are critical to building ees to maintain active lifestyles to avoid injury stema sustainable business. Many of our employees’ ming from what is largely sedentary work. As an duties require little physical activity. No accidents aid, most employees have adjustable-height desks were reported in 2010-2013, and absenteeism was to improve ergonomics and to reduce the health generally low (see Table 3). But to ensure it remains risks associated with prolonged low physical activproactive, Transmode maintains a Safety Committee ity. Further, the benefits package offered to all our representing employees (5) and management (2). staff includes private health insurance, a wellness The employee representatives include people from grant, disability cover and parental leave. However our largest functions; Research & Development and the extent of these packages varies between counOperations & Customer services. The percentage of tries due to differing regulation. the total workforce, including management, represented in the Safety Committee is 69%. The ComEngaging with Society mittee meets quarterly to discuss the progress and In 2012 Transmode committed itself to the Korta status of health and safety issues at work. Vägen (“Fast Track”) project run by the University of Stockholm, intended to create internships for graduates with non-European backgrounds. In 2013 we had Table 3. Absenteeism* totally two internships, and one of these trainees was 2013 2012 2011 hired in 2013. The goal was to offer two internships Men 2.7% 3% 2% per semester, but in the fall we were not able to take Women 2% 3% 3% any internship due to high staff hiring. Total 2.6%** 3% 2% Transmode does not give any Christmas gifts to customers or employees. Instead we support multi* Percentage of absent days of total workdays over a given period. Only includes employees located in Sweden, due to incomparability of accounting national aid organization Doctors without Borders. absentee days for employees outside Sweden. We measure and report the In 2013, we donated SEK 75,000. number of accidents and absenteeism according to Swedish Work Environment Authority principles. ** of which 0.92% long-term illness. TRANSMODE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 15 Environment OUR ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY Environmental responsibility is a vital part of our Minimize environmental impact of products business. If we are to deliver products with minimal Targets 2013: environmental impact, we need to ensure that our 1. 90% of our components should be 6/6 compliant processes and working methods are environmentally with the RoHS Directive1, i.e. they should comply safe and secure. We regularly evaluate our products, with all six of the substance restrictions in the services and working methods to identify potential Directive. for improvement. Transmode has been certified Result: By the end of 2013, 92.6% of our compoaccording to ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 since 2005. nents were 6/6 RoHS compliant. Environmental Objectives 2. 60% of our boards in the TM-Series, representing Each year, we set specific targets or environmental 95% of sales, should be measured according to indicators linked to our overall environmental objecthe new standard (ATIS-0600015.2009) for power tives, and monitor performance regularly to ensure consumption. continuous improvement. Result: 62% of our sales are active boards in TMSeries have been measured according to the standReduce overall carbon footprint relative to revenue ard. All new boards are measured according to the Targets 2013: ATIS standard, but Transmode has decided against 1. Percentage increase of CO2 emissions from busimeasuring all older boards retrospectively. ness travel should not exceed percentage increase in revenue compared to 2012. Increased Awareness and Result: CO2 emissions from business travel Participation in CSR Activities increased by 10%, while revenue increased by 1.8%, In addition, Transmode sets annual activity targets or 4.7% adjusted for exchange rate fluctuations. for increased awareness and participation in CSR The increase is mainly due to business travel related (Corporate Social Responsibility) activities. The to continued geographical expansion in 2013, and activity targets for 2013 included continued impleus improving the level of detail for calculating envimentation of Code of Conduct and participation in ronmental impact to also include hotel stays. Korta Vägen (“Fast Track”). Although we did not fully achieve our targets, we have made progress in both 2. Percentage increase of waste should not exceed the segments in the year. Read more about our activities percentage increase in revenue, compared to 2012. and performance on pages 11, 15 and 25. Result: Generated waste increased by 40%. The increase mainly relates to more electronic waste and energy recovery waste, see table 7. 3. Activity targets for transportation, electricity consumption and implementation of videoconferencing equipment. Result: activities related to electricity consumption, implementation of videoconferencing equipment and consolidation of transportation were implemented. New transportation solutions were evaluated but no new more environmental friendly transportation was identified and implemented. Environmental responsibility is a vital part of Transmodes business. 1 EU-directive for Restriction of Hazardous Substances, which restricts certain dangerous substances commonly used in electrical and electronic equipment. Restricted substances are lead, cadmium, mercury, hexavalent ­chromium, polybrominated biphenyls (PBB) and polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDE). 16 TRANSMODE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Environment Energy and Carbon Footprint The increase is mainly due to business travel related Transmode measures energy consumption and CO2 to continued geographical expansion in 2013, as well emissions from its operations every year. In 2013, our as improvements to carbon footprint calculations. total energy consumption increased by 37% on 2012, The main improvements are the addition of comsee table 4. The increase is related to an expansion muting to and from headquarters, hotel stays during of office space at the Stockholm headquarters and business travel, as well as office supplies such as fruit inclusion of the US support & service center. and coffee. In 2013, calculations also included the carbon footprint of our US premises. CO2 emissions per revenue increased by 34% to 3.55 g CO2 per SEK Table 4. Energy Consumption (MWh) revenue, see Figure 6. We also saw a 30% increase in 2013 2012 2011 CO2 emissions per employee in the year, see Figure 7. Direct fuel consumption 4 4 8 The expansion of our business has resulted in Diesel 4 4 8 increased business travel, sales activities and transportation of goods. In 2013, business travel repreIndirect energy consumption 1,144 833 762 sented 67% of our total CO2 emissions and transport Electricity—hydropower 460 241 235* of goods 25%. CO2 emissions from electricity and Electricity—mixed sources 104 0 108 heating corresponded to 2% of total CO2 emissions. District heating—mixed sources 580 592 350 Since 2011, we purchase electricity from renewable Heating—oil 0 0 69 sources exclusively for our Swedish facilities and use Total 1,148 837 770 district heating rather than oil-based heating fuel. *D ue to incomplete information on electricity consumption for 2011, the preTransmode utilizes online meeting tools to reduce sented data is a little lower than the actual consumption. CO2 emissions from business travel, such as voice, We estimate the carbon footprint of our business in video and audio functionality. Transmode also set up accordance with Greenhouse Gas Protocol principles. a videoconferencing system at our offices in StockOur total CO2 emissions in 2013 increased on 2012, holm and Dallas in 2013. The equipment is now being see Table 5. used on a regular basis, for management and Board meetings, for example. Table 5. CO2 emissions (tonnes of CO2) Figure 6. CO2 Emissions per Revenue (gCO2 per SEK revenue) 2013 2012 2011 Direct emission sources 1.3 1 2 Company owned vehicles 1.3 1 2 4.0 Indirect energy consumption 3.55 (Scope 2) 97 41 57 3.5 Electricity 3.0 —hydro power 4 0 0 2.55 2.65 2.5 Electricity —mixed sources 53 N/A 5 2.0 District heating 40 41 33 1.5 Heating—oil N/A N/A 19 1.0 Other Indirect emission sources 0.5 (Scope 3) 3,610 2,636 2,275 Business travel 0.0 2011 2012 2013 (air, car) 2,488 2,260 1,924 Transportation of goods (air, road) 940 375 350 Office supply 13 1 1 Commuting 163 N/A N/A Upstream emissions scope 1 & 2 5 Total 3,708 2,678 2,334 TRANSMODE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 17 Environment our business annually. We strive to be at the leadFigure 7. Emissions per fulltime employee ing edge for minimizing our own carbon footprint (tonnes of CO2) and being proactive when managing the risks and opportunities presented by climate change. 15 13.7 Transmode is a growing, global company. The 12 physical changes linked to climate change, such 10.8 10.5 as flooding, drought, hurricanes and temperature 9 extremes constitute a potential financial risk, as they influence our company’s and our customers’ abil6 ity to grow and conduct business. Climate change mitigation is manifestly essential for sustainable 3 business and development. Furthermore, the regulatory risks1 associated 0 2011 2012 2013 with climate change pose a potential financial risk to Transmode’s business. Changes in fossil fuel taxation, for example, have led to higher transport and To reduce the climate impact of business travel, Transdelivery costs. To minimize those risks, we endeavor mode has compensated for around 70% of emissions to choose transportation alternatives with the lowarising from business travel in 2013 (corresponding est emissions, depending on the local conditions and to 1,722 tonnes of CO2) via Plan Vivo, a carbon offset available options. project in Mexico. This project generates CO2 emission At the same time, the challenges linked to climate reductions through a range of land use activities such change pose significant opportunities because of a as afforestation and reforestation, agroforestry, forest potential increase in demand for Transmode’s prodrestoration and deforestation avoidance. In addition ucts. Increasing fossil fuel taxes, for instance, are to carbon sequestration, the project delivers a host of expected to contribute to more widespread use of environmental and social co-benefits, including biodivideo and online technologies, (rather than relying on versity maintenance and poverty reduction. travel), which will boost demand for network capacTo reduce CO2 emissions from distribution, we priity, a core business for Transmode. oritize road transport rather than air freight whenever We focus on Low Power Design and functionality possible. Our goal is for no more than 30% of our outto create products that help our customers succeed, bound shipments in Europe to be air freighted, and now and in the future. Use of Transmode’s Low Power achieved this goal in 2013. In 2013, less than 10% of our Design products offer the potential to alleviate envitransports in Europe were air freighted. We are also ronmental impact and ease the necessary transitions evaluating ways to consolidate transport to improve to tackle the effects of climate change. efficiency and reduce emissions. In 2013, we consolidated transports to Norway and our target for 2014 is Producer Responsibility to consolidate inbound freight on one supplier. Transmode has clear design rules to ensure that products have a low environmental impact and are as energy efficient as possible. We measure the energy consumption of our products according to the ATIS-0600015.2009 standard, which will eventually improve the comparability of our energy consumption with other vendors. Electronic waste is the fastest-growing type of waste globally. Transmode is committed to meetRisks and Opportunities Due to Climate Change ing the requirements of the European Union’s Climate change is a global challenge with direct Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive financial implications for the telecom industry. To (WEEE). This directive requires producers of electrimap our risks and opportunities, we measure the cal and electronic equipment to finance returns for amount of greenhouse gas emissions arising from product re-use or recycling. The Transmode Recy1 The cost of activities and systems to comply with new regulations. 18 TRANSMODE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Environment cling Program has been created to collect equipTable 6. Material Usage (tonnes) ment for re-use or recycling. Equipment returned to us through this program will be disposed of in 2013 2012 2011 an environmentally safe manner, using processes Packaging Plastic 11 5 4 that comply with all electronic waste regulations. Cardboard 26 28 30 In 2013, 510kg of electronic waste was returned for Products recycling. Our goal is to ensure that all customers Plastic 34 33 30 receive information about our Recycling Program and Metal 55 62 58 instructions for product returns. Total 126 128 122 We are also committed to satisfying the requirements of the European Union’s Directive on the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment (RoHS). This Table 7. Waste (kg) Directive regulates the use of six hazardous subSweden US 2013 2013 2012 2011 stances, including lead, mercury and cadmium. Hazardous waste for Their usage is restricted and these substances are recycling only permitted in very low concentrations. However, Metals (kg) 300 36 150 1,300 there are few exceptions permitted for specific prodElectronic waste (kg) 2,605 0 800 530 ucts in the telecom industry, due to a shortage of Batteries (no.) 0 0 20 0 viable technical alternatives. Some of Transmode’s Fluorescent lamps (no.) 100 105 0 0 products are included in the exceptions, but we are Low energy lamps (no.) 0 0 0 0 endeavoring to comply with all six RoHS criteria. In Non-hazardous waste for recycling 2013, 92.6% of our components complied with all six Cardboard (kg) 6,800 0 8,000 2,840 RoHS criteria, thus achieving our goal for 2013 (90%). Paper (kg) 2,000 53 1,880 950 However, all other Transmode products fulfill five of Mixed waste to energy the six criteria, and due to the aforementioned exceprecovery (kg) 14,168 500 7,630 1,4390 tions, are accordingly legally compliant. Plastic (kg) 990 26 760 0 To provide customers with the right information, we enclose the following information with delivered products: • The origin of components of the product or service • Content, including compliance with RoHS, WEEE, NEBS, IEC/EC, FDA, FCC, ELT etc. • Safe usage of the product and service information • Disposal of the product and environmental/safety considerations Materials and Waste In 2013, a total of 89 tonnes of materials were used in our products and 37 tonnes of cardboard and plastic were used in packaging material, see Table 6. All our hardware products are manufactured by subcontractors, with only system configuration and quality control at Transmode’s production facility in Stockholm before delivery. Accordingly, most waste generated in our production facility consists of combustible material and cardboard from packaging materials, see Table 7. To reduce transportation bulk, we process waste such as paper and cardboard, (cutting and compressing), before it is transported for recycling. TRANSMODE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 19 Products and Technology SOLUTIONS FOR MORE EFFICIENT NETWORKS The rapid traffic expansion of mobile and fixed telethe ability to tailor functionality to specific customer phone and data networks worldwide is increasing the needs. Another consideration is that products are no demand for our products and solutions. The strongmore complex than they need to be. Simplicity helps est single explanation for this traffic expansion is the to reduce costs and delivers more reliable operarobust growth in the transmission of video, which is tion, with reduced power consumption, resulting in highly bandwidth intensive. Users also increasingly a lower environmental impact. Transmode’s product want to access information anywhere, which means portfolio consists of: the TM-Series, TS-Series and more traffic being delivered mobile. Another critiTG-Series, plus Enlighten™. cal driver is the usage of local data centers, which are expanding traffic volumes in metro networks. Technology Moreover, more numerous and more advanced terTransmode delivers packet-optical networking soluminals like tablets, smart phones, gaming consoles tions based on WDM (wavelength division multiplexand laptops are also connecting. ing) and transport technologies, such as Ethernet, This increased traffic means that our customers for transporting data, voice and video traffic. The need to expand the capacity of their networks—while technologies’ fundamental benefits are: also keeping costs down. Additionally, fiber build-out • WDM radically increases the transmission capacis increasing generally, and optical fiber is proliferity of fiber, up to 80 times over in metro networks. ating further out in networks, reaching right out to • By utilizing multiple wavelengths, different traffic enterprises, mobile base stations or access points types can be transmitted simultaneously in the in residential areas. Transmode is addressing these same fiber. challenges by offering huge increases in transmission • Ethernet is a protocol optimized to manage capacity and flexibility on existing and new optical increasing data traffic. fiber networks. • WDM and Ethernet technology are used worldThe use of our products and solutions is helping wide by enterprises and operators. reduce greenhouse gas emissions in two ways. Firstly, we design our products for low power consumption. Energy-efficient Products through Secondly, our products enable the efficient use of Low Power Design services such as web conferencing and teleconferWhen developing products, Transmode places a encing. By employing these services, Transmode can great emphasis on low energy consumption, see case help achieve the reduction of global travel and its story below. Transmode started measuring energy associated negative environmental impact. consumption according to the ATIS-0600015.2009 standard in 2012. This will eventually improve the Products comparability of energy consumption with other Transmode’s products address metro and regional vendors’ solutions. Transmode’s Low Power Design networks, where customer needs for data capacoffers lower cost and reduced environmental impact, ity are increasing rapidly. Scalability is a consistent and the company has clear design rules to ensure theme of Transmode products, which enable custhat its products are as environmentally friendly and tomers to expand capacity and functionality progresenergy efficient as possible. sively as their needs change. This also means that there is limited initial investment. These products have modular design, conferring great flexibility and 20 TRANSMODE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Products and Technology Low Power Design 75% Power savings compared Lower power to many competing packetconsumption optical solutions Smaller on-site DIRECT footprint SAVINGS Less need for in-building cooling Avoid expensive power upgrade INDIRECT SAVINGS Reduced CO2 emissions Higher electricity costs. Limited space. Availability Avoid expensive power upgrades issues. Just a few challenges you face in developing Lower power consumption makes it easier to deploy tomorrow’s advanced transport networks. systems in areas where power is limited. Competing systems have significantly higher power requireIn all types of networks – from power-hungry data ments which requires expensive power upgrades as centers to locations at the edge of the network – the a consequence. pressure is on to reduce CO2 emissions. Our transparency gives you power Transmodes Low Power Design offers a way to meet To make it easier for customers and prospects to all of these needs while reducing the environmental understand and compare what they are getting, we impact. By providing products and solutions with share detailed power consumption data in accordindustry leading low power consumption up to 75% ance with the industry-standard recommendations can be saved compared with other leading packetof the Alliance for Telecommunications Industry optical solutions. Solutions. Less need for cooling Transmodes Low Power design means the need for cooling is reduces. Every kilowatt saved in equipment power saves up to 0.5 kilowatt of air conditioning as the system generates less heat. Low Power Design is Transmode’s way to minimize power consumption throughout its whole product portfolio, while simultaneously optimizing environmental performance. TRANSMODE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 21 Products and Technology Avoiding CO2 Emissions—Case Story Consider the example of triple play broadband trial users in 2012), the savings for this operator backhaul for an operator that wanted a solution are €21,700 annually. At the same time, this solufor Ethernet transport. The configuration is a tion will reduce the amount of CO2 produced by up Transmode TM-Series solution with a compact to 170 tonnes a year, depending on energy source. chassis equipped with a Dual 10G Lite Transponder The reduced need for in-building cooling, which can providing 2 x 10 Gbit/s from the node. With power add a further 50 percent, subsequently increased consumption of less than 20 W for the node, it financial savings to €32,550 annually, and the posoffers savings of 40-60 W compared to solutions sible reduction in CO2 emissions to 255 tonnes a from other leading vendors. Let’s take 50 W as an year. With a ten-year network lifespan, the savaverage saving. ings could be €325,500 (2012 energy prices) and As this operator is accessing 400 exchanges, the a reduction of 2,550 tonnes of CO2 over the life savings of 50 W become 20,000 W, or 175 MWh of the network. This reduction in CO2 is the same over one year. With the average price of electricity as taking approximately 100 new cars off the road in Europe at 124 €/MWh (average price for indus(2012 model average car). R&D continuous development to enable customers to Transmode’s product development process focuses benefit from new products and functionality. on five segments: increased capacity and reach, The core of the company’s R&D work has continued increased flexibility, integrated Ethernet functionto migrate towards software. Some two-thirds of the ality, WDM access and operation and maintenance company’s developers now work on software. Accordsystems. ingly, Transmode has the skills breadth to span all In metro networks, the most common transmistechnology segments that are central to its business; sion speeds of optical fiber are still 1–10 Gbit/s (Gigasoftware, hardware, optics and Ethernet. Research bit per second) per wavelength but customer needs and development expenses amounted to SEK 155.6 m, for capacity are increasing constantly. In early-2013, or 15.1% of the company’s sales, an increase of 19.2%. Transmode delivered the first products that enable 100 Gbit/s per wavelength. R&D collaborations Flexibility is crucial for the remote control of As well as ongoing efforts to limit the environmental wavelengths and data streams and enhancing netimpact of our products, we collaborate with leading work functionality as needs change. Transmode’s universities on projects with an explicit environmenproducts offer this potential. tal focus. The development of Ethernet products is intended The Greenhaul project headed by KTH (the Royal to improve the control of data traffic further, and to Institute of Technology, Stockholm), researched the integrate it into optical networks simply and costenergy efficiency and cost performance of various efficiently. The demand for this type of product is mobile backhauling technologies. As industry partin high growth, and the segment is a top priority for ners, Transmode and Telia stated their requirements Transmode. and expectations from system vendor and operaIn the access segment, Transmode is developing tor perspectives, as input to the project. The work products for needs that arise as fiber further out resulted in a number of peer-reviewed publications. in networks. The combination of intelligent access Transmode is participating in the reference group products and cost-efficient optical filters enable for the Energy-Efficient Optical Fiber Communicahigher capacity at a lower price. tion research program directed by CTH (Chalmers Transmode’s operation and maintenance sysUniversity of Technology, Gothenburg). This recently tem Enlighten™ enables customers to manage and commenced five-year interdisciplinary program has develop their networks efficiently. The system is in the objective of energy-optimizing the system solu22 TRANSMODE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Products and Technology tions used in optical transport. Its ambitious target, a 5-10 times improvement in power efficiency over current state-of-the-art systems, is indicative of what is necessary to enable continued rapid expansion of the Internet in the coming years. Effective Development Transmode ensures effective product development by harboring substantial development competence, and by its R&D function’s work being closely linked to production, customers and subcontractors. Understanding customer needs is fundamental to effective product development. Customers’ new requirements are rapidly reflected in the orientation of development work, and products are designed for efficient production right from the start. Transmode continuously endeavors for its development work to satisfy customer needs more completely. Agile development methods were further developed by the whole R&D function in the year, enabling new solutions and functionality to be quality assured at far shorter intervals than previously, so enhancements can also be delivered to customers far faster and more frequently. By maintaining a close dialog with subcontractors, Transmode can benefit from their R&D capacity, influence their direction and thus launch innovative solutions quickly. Operations largely being conducted at a single building—the Stockholm headquarters—is an important contributor to this highly efficient development work, and to the company overall. This building houses the R&D, Delivery & Logistics, Marketing, them. It also enables quick feedback, enables fast Sales Support, Technical Support, Finance, Admindecision-making processes and a clear understanding istration and Management functions. Having all of the significance of each function to the big picture. these functions accessible within a few minutes’ The effect is developing the right products with the walk facilitates close collaboration between all of functionality that customers want in a short time. Figure 8. Key Development Segments INCREASED INTEGRATED OPERATION AND INCREASED WDM CAPACITY AND ETHERNET MAINTENANCE FLEXIBILITY ACCESS REACH FUNCTIONALITY SYSTEMS TRANSMODE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 23 CUSTOMERS & SUPPLIERS BUILDING BUSINESS ON LONG TERM RELATIONS Our business grows through customers, and our customers grow through by using our products and Figure 9: Transmode’s Customer Base solutions. Together we can build the digital superhighways of the Gigabit Society. Transmode has a broad customer base, mainly consisting of cable TV operators and alternative operators, as well as Tier 1 and mobile operators, traditional/large/tier 1 and incumincumbent operators bent telecom operators and enterprises. The company has installed more than 45,000 systems for Mobile operators over 550 fixed and mobile network operators, service providers, large enterprises and public institutions in over 50 countries worldwide. Cable operators / MSO Building Long-term Customer Relationships Alternative Operators We strive to build long-term customer relationships, which is why our product range is complemented Enterprise customers by a broad portfolio of services that are crucial for maintaining customer relationships and customer satisfaction. Transmode’s Technical Assistance Transmode focuses on the Cable Operators and Alternative Operators but has customers in all segments above. Center offers software upgrades, global servicing and support 24/7. Transmode offers 24-hour spare parts delivery from a central warehouse or local spare parts depots that can cut delivery lead-times Figure 10: Customer Satisfaction Index (CSI)* for spare parts to a few hours, anywhere worldwide. 100 Transmode also provides pre-staging, which means equipment is assembled and preconfigured 79 80 82 80 prior to delivery, enabling faster and simpler instal66 lation for the customer. Pre-staging can cut instal60 lation lead-times on site by up to 50% compared to traditionally delivery. Transmode also offers general 40 and customer-specific training packages including web training in network design, implementation, 20 operation and maintenance. 0 2011 2012 2013 CSI Average Customer Satisfaction We believe that satisfied customers are the proof * 2013 average in the Telecom Equipment Industry B2B. Scale for CSI: 0–49 Poor; 50–59 Approved, 60–69 Satisfied; that we manage our business optimally. According 70–74 Good; 75–80 Very Good; 81< Best in Class. to our independent customer satisfaction survey, Source: CFI Group. our customers are consistently very satisfied, as is reflected in their high repeat purchase frequency. More evidence is offered in our annual independent their satisfaction within different segments of Transcustomer satisfaction survey conducted by consultmode. They can also provide personal feedback. ing firm CFI Group (Claes Fornell International). The According to the latest survey, our customers are 2013 survey result showed an improved index figure; satisfied and loyal; the likelihood of them recom82 on a scale of 0-100, a world-class result according mending Transmode to others is very high. Overall, to CFI Group (see figure 10). customers are consistently positive about maintainThe customer satisfaction survey applies a proven ing future relationships with us. We’re particularly methodology used worldwide, in the American Cusproud that we have managed to improve the score tomer Satisfaction Index (ACSI) and elsewhere, so related to our partners. Partner business is an imporresults can be benchmarked. This survey is conducted tant segment for us, and by adding new competences via an e-mail questionnaire, with customers rating and resources, we managed to improve the score. 24 TRANSMODE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 CUSTOMERS & SUPPLIERS and the bulk of our suppliers are located in Asia. All Transmode’s hardware products are manufactured by global subcontractors at plants in Sweden, Poland and China. This creates focus and efficiency, while allowing the company to grow without investing significant resources in manufacturing. Transmode has established processes for qualifying suppliers, as well as monitoring existing suppliers and contract manufacturers that include technical, quality, environmental, social and financial standards. The assessments are based on a dialogue with the supplier or a physical audit. If a supplier does not satisfy our performance standards, we formulate improvement measures in consultation with the supplier. Supplier Conduct Principles We continued to implement our Supplier Conduct Principles, the requirements we place on significant suppliers and contract manufacturers, through 2013. These principles include performance standards governing suppliers’ behavior in terms of local legislation, human rights, labor rights, discrimination, One of our main focus segments and challenges working conditions, health, safety, and the environfrom this year’s results will be to establish a dialogue ment. The principles also highlight issues like corrupwith our customers regarding improvements and to tion, bribery, money laundering and restrictions on continue to maintain and secure a high level of cuscompetition. Implementation of the Supplier Contomer satisfaction—while continuing to grow. duct Principles began in late-2011, and by the end of As an appreciation of our customers’ contribution 2013, most of our significant suppliers and contract to our survey, we made a donation to the WWF— manufacturers had signed agreements to comply World Wide Fund for Nature—which will plant 888 with our standards. trees as a part of its project to restore the world’s We also implemented our process for evaluation rainforests. The world’s forests play a central role and follow-up of supplier performance related to in climate. our Supplier Conduct Principles in the year. In 2013, the number of affiliated suppliers increased, and several main suppliers were audited for compliance with these principles, and to identify opportunities for improvement. Partner Code of Conduct Transmode sells products and services through its own salespeople, as well as resellers and partners; the company has a total of over 50 resellers. Developing Supplier Relationships collaborations with resellers and partners continued Transmode maintains close cooperation with key in 2013. The split between direct and reseller sales suppliers to ensure high product quality and delivvaries between regions, but for the company overall, ery performance. Our component suppliers are reseller and partner sales were 19% of total in 2013. in the electronics, optics, plating, processing and We also prepared our Partner Code of Conduct and packaging industries. We currently collaborate with started to implement it in 2013, to further enhance approximately 25 key component manufacturers. good business practice in our sales operations. The Based on purchased amounts, our most important implementation will continue in 2014 with the objecsuppliers are located in China, the USA and Sweden, tive of all partners signing the Code in the year. TRANSMODE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 25 About the Report ABOUT OUR SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Reporting Principles The purpose of this report is to serve as a central This is our third Sustainability Report, which offers reference for information on the status and progress an overview of our sustainability program activities of our sustainability work. Its content is based upon and the actions taken under the United Nations GRI G3.1 Reporting Guidelines at Level C, actions Global Compact principles in the period 1 January-31 taken on United Nations Global Compact, and December 2013. This Report is based on the Global achievements concerning employees, environmenReporting Initiative guidelines (www.globalreporttal responsibility, customers, suppliers and products. ing.org) GRI G3.1 Level C (see Figure 11 below). The This Sustainability Report is intended primarily as a Report is self-declared and accordingly, has not been key point for our stakeholders and is also available subjected to third-party review. Our ambition is to to the general public. publish Sustainability Reports annually to demonA full list of disclosed GRI G3.1 information and strate our intent to maintain high levels of business UNGC requirements in this report are stated in the ethics, environmental care and social responsibility. Index on page 28–29. This report covers the Transmode Group’s activities, including subsidiaries outside Sweden. However, suppliers’ environmental, social and financial performance are not covered in this Report. Figure 11. GRI Guideline Application Levels (Source: GRI Guidelines G3.1) Report Application Level C C+ B B+ A A+ Report on: Report on all criteria Same as requirement 1.1 listed for Level C plus: for Level B Profile 2.1-2.10 1.2 3.1-3.8, 3.10-3.12 3.9, 3.13 Disclosure 4.1-4.4, 4.14-4.15 4.5-4.13, 4.16-4.17 Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Standard Disclosures Not Required Management Management Approach Disclosures Approach disclosed Disclosures for each Indicator for each Indicator on Management Category Category Approach Report fully on a minReport fully on a minRespond on each core Performance imum of any 10 Perimum of any 20 Per& sector supplement* indicators & sector formance Indicators, formance Indicators, indicator with due inc at least one from inc at least one from regard to the materisupplement each category of: each category of: ality Principle by Performance Indicators social, economic & economic, enviroeither a) reporting on enviroment. ** ment human rights, the indicator or b) labor, society, prodexplaining the reason uct responsibility. *** for its omission * Sector Supplement in final version ** Performance indicators may be selected from any finalized Secor Supplement, but 7 of 10 must be from original GRI Guidelines *** Performance indicators may be selected from any finalized Secor Supplement, but 14 of 20 must be from original GRI Guidelines 26 TRANSMODE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 About the Report Data Inventory and Specifications Transmode measures and reports employee statistics, number of accidents, and absenteeism according to the Swedish Work Environment Authority’s principles. Transmode applies Greenhouse Gas Protocol principles for estimating the carbon footprint of business operations. Some limitations apply for the following reported indicators: • Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change (EC2), disclosed information includes a narrative description of Questions on this Report the potential financial implications and other should be addressed to: significant risks and opportunities due to climate change. Transmode has not conducted the quanLena Båvegård titative estimate of the potential implications. Vice President, Quality and Sustainability • Employee diversity (LA13), disclosed information: Transmode (i) number of different languages represented in Email: lena.bavegard@transmode.com the organization, (ii) gender, (iii) percentage of Phone: +46 (0)8 410 88000 new employees that are women or have foreign www.transmode.com background respectively, and (iv) the largest age group represented among new employees during 2013. The number of employees in different age groups is not fully reported due to limited access to data. • Energy-efficient products (EN6), disclosed information: (i) existing initiatives on the energy requirements of major products, (ii) estimated average energy savings, (iii) a calculation example (case story), and iv) R&D collaborations. • Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products (EN26), disclosed information: (i) reclaiming of products for recycling or reuse, (ii) materials use, (iii) emissions, and (iv) toxic materials/compounds. • Significant environmental impacts of transports (EN29), disclosed information includes (i) energy use and CO2 emissions from the use of company vehicles, and (ii) CO2 emissions from transporting goods and products, and business travel. TRANSMODE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 27 GRI & GLOBAL COMPACT INDEX GRI & GLOBAL COMPACT INDEX Global Reporting initiative (GRI) and the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) indicators Profile Indicators UN GC Page requirements 1.1 Statement from CEO, about the relevance of sustainability to the organi• 4–5 zation and its strategy 2.1 Name of the organization 6–7 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services 6, 20–23 2.3 Operational structure of the organization 6–7 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters 30 2.5 Countries where the organization operates 6–7 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form SR 6, AR 2013, www.transmode.com 2.7 Market 6, 20, 24 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization (number of employees, net sales or 6–7 net revenues, quantity of products or services provided). 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, AR 2013 or ownership www.transmode.com 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period 6 3.1 Reporting period 26 3.2 Date of most recent previous report June 7th, 2013 3.3 Reporting cycle 26 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents 27 3.5 Process for defining report content 26 3.6 Boundary of the report 26 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report 27 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries 27 3.10 Explanation of any re-statements of information provided in earlier 27 reports. 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods. 27 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report 28–29 4.1 Governance structure of the organization. AR 2013 www.transmode.com 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an AR 2013 executive officer www.transmode.com 4.3 Number of members of the highest governance body. AR 2013 www.transmode.com 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendaSR 11, AR 2013 tions or direction to the highest governance body www.transmode.com 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 9 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to 9 engage SR = Sustainability Report AR = Annual Report 28 TRANSMODE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 GRI & GLOBAL COMPACT INDEX Performance Indicators UN GC Page Principle EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed AR 2013 www.transmode.com EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organiza7 18 tion’s activities due to climate change EN1 Materials used by weight 8 19 EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source 8 17 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source 8 17 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements 8, 9 17 EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy-based prod8, 9 20–23 ucts and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight 8 17 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight 8 17 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved 7, 8, 9 17–18 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 8 19 EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, 7, 8, 9 16–23 and extent of impact mitigation EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other 8 17–18 goods and materials used for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce LA1 Total workforce 14 LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management– 1 15 worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and 1 15 total number of work-related fatalities by region LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career devel6 12–13 opment reviews. LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per cat1, 6 14 egory according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures, and per7, 8, 9 19 centage of significant products and services subject to such information requirements PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys 24–25 measuring customer satisfaction. HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors, and other business part1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 25 ners that have undergone human rights screening, and actions taken HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning 1, 2, 3,4, 5, 6 11 aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 1, 2, 6 No cases SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption poli10 11 cies and procedures SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption 10 No cases SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, poli10 None ticians, and related institutions by country TRANSMODE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 29 Headquarters Transmode AB P.O Box 42114 SE-126 14 Stockholm, Sweden +46 8 410 88 000 www.transmode.com Visiting address Fredsborgsgatan 24 SE-117 43 Stockholm; Sweden
