Annual report 2013 Konecranes is an industry shaping, global group of dynamic Lifting Businesses™. We are committed to providing our customers with products and services of unrivaled quality, safety, and reliability – and helping improve the efficiency and performance of our customers' businesses. By leveraging our unique know-how and technology, we are able to develop innovative integrated lifting solutions. With our remote services, we can gather real-time information on how our customers’ equipment is performing and help improve operational safety, as well as provide maintenance when it is needed. With solutions that help increase customers’ safety performance and productivity, we are not just lifting things, but entire businesses. Konecranes annual report 2013 Contents 2 Konecranes in a snapshot 18 Regional overview 52 Group Executive Board 4 2013 Highlights 20 Research & Development 54 Senior Management Team 6 CEO’s review 23 Product overview 57 Financial statements 2013 8 Chairman’s letter 26 Corporate responsibility 122 Shares & shareholders 10 Company cornerstones 32 GRI 126 Investor information 12 Business environment 34 Corporate governance 128 Contact details 14 Business Area Service 44 Risk management, internal control, and internal auditing 16 Business Area Equipment 50 Board of Directors Contents Konecranes 2013 1 Konecranes is a global industry-leading group of lifting businesses. Everything we do is targeted at one goal: improving the safety and productivity of our customers’ operations. Konecranes In a snapshot BUSINESS AREAS ing process industries, the nuclear sector, industries handling heavy loads, ports, interService modal terminals, shipyards, and bulk material terminals. Products are marketed through Konecranes offers specialized maintenance a multi-brand portfolio that includes services and spare parts for all types and Konecranes and the Group’s power brands: 40% 60% brands of industrial cranes, lifting equipment, STAHL CraneSystems, SWF Krantechnik, Verand machine tools through a global service linde, R&M, and Sanma Hoists & Cranes. network of 600 locations in almost 50 countries. Products Industrial cranes, including industrial crane Products products, industrial crane solutions, and Sales by Business Area, 2013 ■ Equipment 1,329.2 MEUR Konecranes’ extensive service offering covworkstation lifting systems; components, ■ Service 889.1 MEUR ers inspections, preventive maintenance including wire rope hoists, crane kits, electric programs, repairs and improvements, on-call chain hoists, manual hoists and accessories; service, spare parts, modernizations, and an nuclear cranes; port cranes; cranes for interarray of consultation services. modal terminals, bulk material unloaders; lift TRUCONNECT Remote Services lie at the trucks; and shipyard cranes. Konecranes core of Konecranes’ offering and provide a Agilon is a patented materials management range of information-based services, includsolution for managing, storing, picking, and ing periodic data reporting, real-time diagnosreplenishing components that offers im60% 40% tics, and remote technical support and proproved efficiency in material handling. duction monitoring. The product offering features a number of advanced technologies, such as automation Market position and smart features, including sway control, Konecranes is the clear market leader in load positioning, and shock load prevention. crane service, with the world’s most extenEBIT by Business Area, 2013* ■ Equipment 54.3 MEUR sive crane service network. The Group is Market position ■ Service 80.6 MEUR also one of the largest providers of machine Konecranes is the world’s largest supplier of *Excluding restructuring costs tool services. industrial cranes, and a world leader in explosion-protected crane technology. It is also Service contract base a global leader in electrical overhead traveMore than 430,000 units are covered by ling cranes for process industries and shipKonecranes maintenance contracts. The mayard gantry cranes; and a strong global supjority of this equipment has been manufacplier of cranes and lift trucks for container tured by companies other than Konecranes. handling and heavy unitized cargo and bulk Expert maintenance is provided for any brand material unloading. 52% 48% of equipment from any manufacturer. Annual production Equipment Thousands of standard cranes, tens of thousands of wire rope hoists, trolleys, and elecBusiness Area Equipment offers compotric chain hoists, and hundreds of heavy-duty nents, cranes, and material handling solucranes. Hundreds of heavy-duty lift trucks. Personnel by Business Areas, 2013 ■ Equipment 5,626 tions for a wide range of customers, includ■ Service 6,151 2 Konecranes 2013 Konecranes in a snapshot Market leader One of in industrial cranes and components, the largest as well as crane service suppliers of port cranes and lift trucks IndustryEUR 2,100 leading million technology and global of net sales in 2013 modular product platforms 11,800 13 employees in 2013 countries with production facilities Sales and service in Head office in Hyvinkää 48 Finland countries Listed on NASDAQ OMX Helsinki, Finland Konecranes in a snapshot Konecranes 2013 3 2013 Highlights Focus on strategic initiatives Challenging Service outperformed • Personnel decreased by 315 as Konecranes expanded actions to improve market environment Equipment productivity and reduce costs due to • Demand for maintenance services was • Net sales in Business Area Service grew unsatisfactory profitability and the stable overall, with North America conby 0.6 percent in 2013. The main con­challenging business environment. tinuing to outperform Europe. The slugtributors were crane maintenance and • Despite restructuring activities, R&D gish pace of global economic growth and spare parts operations in the Americas. investments were maintained at 1.2 customers’ hesitancy to make investThe operating margin before restructuring ­percent of net sales. Key IT investments ment decisions impacted demand for costs was 9.1 percent of sales. Profitalso continued, to improve the Group’s new equipment. Equipment orders rose ability improved due to higher volumes operational efficiency and transparency. in Asia-Pacific, thanks to a large port and the continued streamlining of opera• Development of the TRUCONNECT automation order from Indonesia, but fell tions. ­Remote Services offering continued onin the Americas and EMEA. Order intake • Net sales in Business Area Equipment schedule. Konecranes’ goal is to offer a decreased by 2.5 percent in 2013. were 5.9 percent lower than in 2012. full range of remote services, extending • Konecranes’ order book as of the end of This was mainly attributable to heavyfrom periodic data reporting to real-time the year was 5.2 percent lower than in duty industrial cranes. The operating diagnostics, technical support, and 2012. margin before restructuring costs was ­production monitoring. • Net sales decreased by 3.3 percent 4.1 percent of sales. Profitability was • Konecranes introduced the Automated compared to 2012. While net sales grew impacted by lower sales, an intense RTG (ARTG) system for container hanslightly in Business Area Service, net ­competitive environment, and extra costs dling use. ARTG enables port operators sales came in below 2012 in Business related to project deliveries. to use their existing yard infrastructure Area Equipment, due to a smaller order as they switch to automated RTG operabook at the start of the year and lower order intake during the year. New strategic focus tion. • A new crane manufacturing plant was • The operating margin before restructuring areas and restructuring commissioned in Jejuri, India and all costs was 5.5 percent of sales. Profitability improved in Business Area Seractions manufacturing operations in India were consolidated at the new facility. vice, but declined in Business Area • Konecranes clarified and simplified its Equipment. strategic focus areas during 2013. The Group’s key strategic initiatives are ­Industrial Internet, Emerging Markets ­Offering, and oneKONECRANES. • Konecranes acquired certain assets from Linde Material Handling, including product rights and spare parts operations related to container handling lift trucks – and became a long-term supplier of container handling lift trucks to Linde Material Handling’s worldwide distribution network. 4 Konecranes 2013 2013 Highlights 1,896.4 2,099.6 991.8 1,896.1 138.3* 942.7 893.5 1,920.8 2,171.5 1,671.3 118.8* 117.2* 115.5* 10% 115.1* 1,546.3 756.2 1,970.1 1,536.0 1,348.9 8% 607.0 6% 4% 2% 0% 09 10 11 12 13 09 10 11 12 13 09 10 11 12 13 Sales/orders, MEUR EBIT, MEUR/EBIT margin, % Order book, MEUR ■ Sales ■ Order intake * Excluding restructuring costs 1.47 18.1 18.8 24.2 1.35 15.5 19.3 1.08 1.11 0.85 14.6 18.4 1.00 1.05 17.1 1.00 0.90 1.05* 10.9 11.6 09 10 11 12 13 09 10 11 12 13 09 10 11 12 13 Earnings & dividend per share, Return on equity, % Return on capital employed, % EUR ■ Earnings per share, basic ■ Dividend per share * The Board’s proposal to the AGM 320.0 219.8 1,821.3 295.5 289.4 1,495.4 187.3 1,463.8 181.8 191.6 1,122.1 138.8 50.5 831.7 39.3 42.1 -77.7 -17.4 -19.1 -3.8 09 10 11 12 13 09 10 11 12 13 09 10 11 12 13 Year-end net working Year end net debt, Year end market capital, MEUR MEUR/Gearing, % capitalization*, MEUR ■ Net debt ■ Gearing * Excluding treasury shares 2013 Highlights Konecranes 2013 5 CEO’s review Strategy realigned for strengthened competitiveness Dear Shareholders, cyclical, so it was too early to see any real trial customers in our main markets was low, Konecranes had an average annual growth evidence of the expected world economic and delivery volumes dropped 6 percent durof 14% between 2003 and 2012. This was recovery. Sales of EUR 2,100 million can be ing the year. In addition to low volume, profit a good achievement, especially since the seen as a reasonably good achievement, performance was impacted by new system period included a severe market collapse given the prevailing market conditions. Deimplementations, execution issues in some during the 2009–2010 recession, followed spite volume challenges, I would like to highlarge projects, and investments in India, by significant overcapacity in most of our cuslight one milestone that we are particularly where our main customer segment, the steel tomer industries that still persists to some proud of: for the first time in history, our industry, invested very little compared to preextent to this day. In my review for the 2012 sales to the Americas exceeded USD 1 bilvious years. Unfortunately, these issues overAnnual Report, I noted that forecasting future lion. Our team there has done an excellent shadowed the very good underlying result demand development had rarely been so difjob and I believe there is more to come. development in the equipment business that ficult. My concern was, unfortunately, wellThe year was not an easy one from a profwe made in several countries, such as Gergrounded and we saw our growth come to a itability point of view. We made good promany and Australia. halt in 2013. We started the year with a regress on several fronts, but faced challenges Since we did not want to rely simply on cord-high order intake during the first quarter, elsewhere. Our service business continued market conditions improving, we announced boosted by large port crane orders. In March, to perform well, and our operating margin a new cost reduction program in summer we booked the single largest order in our hisimproved to 9.1 percent. This is good pro2013 aimed at trimming our annual costs by tory, worth over EUR 100 million for a new gress after 7.0 percent in 2011 and 8.4 perEUR 30 million by the end of 2014. This procontainer terminal to be built in Indonesia cent in 2012. In addition to the traditionally gram is proceeding according to plan, and and automated with Konecranes technology. strong performance of the North American the somewhat weak order intake we saw durOur order intake for port cranes in 2013 was region, several other large countries iming the second half of 2013 confirmed the an all-time high. As a whole, the year was a proved their service business result signifinecessity of these actions. The program will difficult one, however, from a volume point of cantly. Germany, France, and China were continue throughout 2014. view. Despite some positive developments in good examples of this development. We made an exciting addition to our offermacroeconomic indicators, especially in the Our equipment business suffered from ing in April 2013, when we launched the new second half of the year, we were not able to both market-related and internal issues dur‘Agilon’ service for the automated material grow in 2013 and fell just short of the record ing the year. Our operating margin here was management of small items in the manufacsales of EUR 2,170 million that we booked only 4.1 percent, down from 6.0 percent in turing industry. The system includes several in 2012. Most of our end-markets are late 2012. New equipment demand among indusbreakthrough technology innovations and has 6 Konecranes 2013 ceo’s review Agilon Agilon can be used for storing hundreds or even thousands of different components and it allows real-time information on parts to be shared via a portal linking supply chain partners. already been adopted by over 20 customers. our way of working and modernize our inforWhile it is still at an early stage, the potential mation systems to boost productivity and of this new service seems promising. reduce operational costs. Each of these iniIt is clear that our profit generation ambitiatives will offer substantial potential for adtions cannot be met through cost cutting ditional growth and profit in the coming alone. We also need to invest heavily in new years. development. We realigned our strategy durIn addition to advancing these three strating the year and decided to focus our longegies, our operational focus in 2014 will be term development on three key strategic inion completing our ongoing cost reduction tiatives. In the first of these, Industrial programs, sales management to regain volInternet, our focus will be on making maume growth, and project execution. Our cost chines intelligent and aware of their own base development has been promising, so condition, and networking them to create any market recovery that could bring addireal-time visibility for enhanced safety and tional volume can now be expected to deliver productivity. This unique service will differenfast returns for our bottom line. tiate us from our competitors and warrants I would like to thank all our customers a price premium. Our second initiative, and employees for their support and efforts Emerging Markets Offering, is focused on during the year. The fact that market uncerdeveloping high-quality, ‘mid-market’ prodtainty has become the new norm in today’s ucts at lower price points and strengthening world does not make our life easier, but I our position in emerging markets. After living believe that we are on the right track with in Asia for the past 18 months, I am congood programs under way, both for the short vinced that this is where a significant part of and the long term. our long-term future success will be decided, despite the recent weakness of emerging markets. The first products to be developed as part of this initiative are due to be launched this year. The third initiative, Pekka Lundmark oneKONECRANES, is intended to streamline President and CEO CEO’s review Konecranes 2013 7 Chairman´s letter Well positioned for future growth and profitability Dear Fellow Shareholders, Our profits were also impacted by several 2013 was a difficult year for our Group. The costly Group-wide projects that I believe will world economy, and Europe’s in particular, enhance our profit capacity in the future. continued to struggle. In China, for many Our Service business continued to deyears the industrial locomotive of the world, velop well, in accordance with the Group’s the change of leadership took a toll on the long-term strategy. While the economy overall economy. did not support investments, our Service acOf course, the picture was not entirely tivity was able to post both growth and imgloomy. In the US, the government, through proved profitability. decisive and well-timed actions, returned the I therefore feel proud to report that we economy to a growth track. In Asia and in managed to maintain our total sales level on Africa, there were also pockets of healthy last year’s level. Our operating profit also regrowth. mained on last year’s level, but one-time It is obvious that in this environment our items had a serious impact. In the stock Group was forced to fight hard for every ormarket, we were able to defend the market der, be vigilant to seize every opportunity, value of our stock reasonably well. We did and defend our positions. Our equipment not succeed, however, in growing the value business had to fight a worldwide battle to of our stock. Our dividend capacity remained win orders. In relative terms, we were sucintact. cessful, but running projects in previously In this situation, your Board of Directors unknown, new environments taxed the profitdid not revert only to cost-cutting. Certainly, ability of our equipment business. capacity must always be trimmed to stay on 8 Konecranes 2013 Chairman’s letter NEO crane The NEO crane is the first crane of its kind to offer a significant reduction in energy consumption. It can carry heavy loads with maximum care and light loads with maximum speed. Combined with our TRUCONNECT service package, this offers a unique level of performance and user experience. a par with demand, and cost cutting was an move has greatly improved our top managecost and best equipment availability. In everyday exercise through the whole year. ment’s understanding of the requirements of short: improving our customers’ profitability. But the Board and Management also emthe Asia-Pacific region. Fellow shareholders, let me end this letter barked on a number of forward-looking proWe are now taking the next steps in winon a positive note. Our American business jects. ning market share in Asia. Originally, we enhas continued to develop extremely well. The largest project relates to the Group’s tered the markets there, not with a scaledWhen I started my career in the Group in global management systems. With its hisdown product portfolio, but with an offering 1982, our sales in America amounted to tory of multiple acquisitions, the Group’s reflecting our best available corporate techUSD 14 million. In 2013, our sales in Amermanagerial tools have been a patchwork of nology. Through this policy, we earned a marica reached USD 1 billion. We owe our Amerdisparate systems – a practical patchwork, ket position as a premium producer, with a ican team a deeply felt thank-you-so-much but not one up to the demands of a modern high level of desirability. and our congratulations. We wish them all a multinational group. We are now in the process of broadening good journey on their way to reaching the During the year, the speed of the roll-out our product portfolio. With our premium portUSD 2 billion mark. accelerated. Although project expenses were folio, as successful as it has been, we can 2013 was not an easy year, not for the high, the first benefits in terms of improved only reach top market segments. The Group world economy and not for the Group. We operational performance became evident. We is now creating a new range of products, tarwere able to hold on to our positions, and we are confident that we will be able to improve geted towards the mid segment of emerging completed a number of actions putting us significantly in areas such as customer sermarkets. We will not scale down on safety into a position for future growth and growing vice, efficient logistics and production schedand performance, but given our good producprofits. uling and product costs. tion presence in low-cost China and India, we My special thanks go to our dedicated During the year, the Group’s venture into believe we will be in a position to offer a workforce. During the year, the number of India gained pace. Unfortunately, the Indian high-performance, yet competitively priced employee shareholders reached 1,761, i.e. economy did not develop very favorably. Derange. We will position our new range careapproximately 15% of our total workforce. I spite many promising customer relations and fully on the market, in order not to cannibalcannot think of any better proof of the good a number of interesting orders, our venture ize our premium segment. spirit in all of our companies, around the into India is performing far from corporate Our long-standing initiative of linking cusglobe. standards when it comes to output and proftomer equipment through the internet to our I also want to thank our loyal shareholditability. maintenance base (‘internet of things’) is ers and to say welcome to all our new ones. For a number of years, the Asian market progressing well. With over 5,000 separate and other emerging markets have been a installations on line, we have been able to special development initiative. In 2012, our prove the benefit of this approach to our cusStig Gustavson CEO moved his office to Singapore. The tomers: fast adequate service, for the lowest Chairman of the Board Chairman’s letter Konecranes 2013 9 company cornerstones Key strategic initiatives steer investments for the future Values Trust in people We want to be known for our great people. Vision Mission Total service commitment We want to be known We know in real time how for always keeping our millions of lifting devices ­promises. and machine tools perform. Not just We use this knowledge lifting things, around the clock to make but entire our customers’ operations businesses. safer and more productive. Sustained profitability We want to be known as a ­financially sound company. 10 Konecranes 2013 Company cornerstones Megatrends People and society Generation Y behaves differently. They are IT Key strategic initiatives savvy, and may seek a different work/life balance, challenge leaders of companies and countries and expect ethical behaviour, including good governance and workplace safety. Industrial Internet We make machines intelligent and aware of their condition, and network them to create real-time visibility for enhanced safety and proWorld demographics ductivity. This unique service that Urbanization, new megacities, reverse brain we offer our customers differentidrain with talent returning to emerging counates us from our competitors and tries. The age pyramid favors emerging counwarrants a price premium. tries over Western countries. Emerging markets will represent a major part of the world’s growth. Emerging Markets Offering Technology We develop ‘mid-market’ products Advances in data analytics, automation, senwith high quality but lower price sors, wireless networking and nanotechnology points, and strengthen our position are enabling intelligent ‘self-aware’ machines. in emerging markets. Energy and environment The need to save energy, find new sources of energy, control emissions and develop clean oneKONECRANES energy. Environmental awareness is also growWe streamline our way of working ing in emerging markets; waste of any kind is and modernize our information sysincreasingly unacceptable. tems to boost productivity and lower our cost level. Company cornerstones Konecranes 2013 11 The world’s manufacturing sector activity increased modestly in 2013, but gained steam towards the end of the year. Activity remained strong in the US, but stayed sluggish in the Eurozone. In emerging markets, economic growth was lower than expected and did not provide the anticipated impetus to the global economy. Business environment Service demand stable, equipment orders affected by modest economic growth World manufacturing half. US manufacturing capacity utilization was relatively stable compared to 2012. lization in the European Union was below 2012 on average, but relatively stable comindustry activity PMI surveys showed that Eurozone manupared to the second half of 2012. Some In terms of macroeconomic development, facturing activity was depressed during the signs of a small uptick could be observed 2013 was very similar to 2012, as the US first half of the year, but expanded slightly towards the end of 2013. outperformed most other regions. US ecoduring the second half. Although this expanFollowing a slowdown in 2012, economic nomic activity in the manufacturing sector, sion was modest, it was generally interpreted growth in emerging markets was expected to measured by the purchasing managers’ inas marking a potential turning-point, as it accelerate and provide an impetus to the dex (PMI), increased throughout most of the followed a period of contraction over the preglobal economy in 2013. Purchasing managyear, and even improved during the second vious two years. Manufacturing capacity utiers’ indexes in Brazil, Russia, India, and 12 Konecranes 2013 Business environment Konecranes’ global market positions: • Market share of 16 percent • #1 in crane maintenance services • #1 in industrial cranes & components • #3–5 in port cranes • #2–4 in lift trucks. China (BRIC countries) signaled an expan& paper industries. Geographically, demand growth rates. In terms of the largest markets sion of industrial output at the beginning of remained weak in Western Europe, China, for these services, demand increased in 2013. PMIs in BRIC countries lost momenand India. In North America, demand for inNorth America while European demand was tum by mid-year, however, leading to downdustrial cranes fell back after the solid prostable. Demand fell in Asia-Pacific. Within graded growth forecasts. Chinese PMI data gress seen in 2012, while demand for crane emerging markets, the Middle East and Afagain pointed to a slow rise in manufacturing components remained stable. Demand derica saw the strongest growth. output towards the end of the year, but there velopment was positive in the Middle East. The trend in steel and copper prices rewere few signs of this in the real economy. Global container traffic grew by approximained downward in 2013. After relatively Overall, manufacturing sector activity mately 3 percent in 2013, and project activstable development during the first half of worldwide, according to the aggregated ity with container ports was satisfactory. Orthe year, the euro appreciated somewhat JPMorgan Global Manufacturing PMI, inders for new automated port solutions were against the US dollar during the second half. creased modestly in 2013, but remained lower compared to 2012, as several new below the long-term survey average. automated container terminals were already under construction. Geographically, the most Demand for lifting active markets were North America, Southeast Asia, Australia, and Africa. Demand was equipment and services sluggish in Europe, in contrast. Demand for Compared to 2012, demand for lifting equipshipyard cranes continued to be concentratment among industrial customers decreased ed in Brazil. globally in 2013. Demand for process cranes Overall demand for lifting equipment serwas particularly weak due to a lower level of vices was stable, with regional developments investment in the mining & metals and pulp reflecting differences in industrial production business environment Konecranes 2013 13 Konecranes Business Area Service offers a comprehensive range of service products, maintenance programs, spare parts, and modernization options for all brands and makes of industrial overhead cranes, port equipment, and machine tools. Despite continued uncertainty in the world economy in 2013, there were positive developments in all of Konecranes’ markets, creating demand for lifting equipment services. Business Area Service Value-added technologies and expertise With 600 locations in almost 50 countries, during 2013, two areas that are the core of about future opportunities in Japan and Konecranes has the largest service network Konecranes Service offering. As a result, Southeast Asia. in the industry. Service customers operate in overall demand for lifting equipment services Business Area Service continued to priora variety of industrial environments, from reremained stable throughout the year. itize profitability over growth during 2013, pair shops and general manufacturing sites North America continued to act as a key and recorded steady financial development. to paper and steel mills, power plants, and driver for Business Area Service, both in With a focus on operational improvements, ports. terms of growth and profitability. The resurcost control, market segmentation, and pricAll aspects of the Konecranes service ofgence of the local oil & gas industry was a ing, the Business Area recorded improved fering are designed to improve the safety and key factor here, and the automotive sector profitability despite only minor top-line productivity of customers’ businesses. was also a strong contributor. Developments growth. Both the annual value of the mainteKonecranes’ specialized maintenance serwere also positive in South America; Chile nance contract base and the number of vices range from inspection of a single piece continues to be a strong market for pieces of equipment covered increased comof equipment to completely outsourced crane Konecranes and operations are expanding in pared to the end of 2012. maintenance and operations. Services are Brazil. bundled into tailor-made programs designed to meet the unique needs of each customer. Europe showed encouraging early signs of an upswing, with Germany being the bigNew technologies A commitment to usage-based maintegest driver. and broader scope nance and real-time service supports Konecranes’ Industrial Internet key strategic The Middle East and Africa, while still at an early stage in terms of service demand, of services initiative, supported by sustained investshowed clear signs of growth. There is also Business Area Service continued to launch ments in new technologies. upside potential for Konecranes in China, new technologies and broaden the scope of where efforts are being focused on segits services during 2013. Stable demand for lifting ments that appreciate the benefits of preventive maintenance, a reliable source of quality Operational improvements continued in line with the Group’s oneKONECRANES key equipment services spare parts, technical expertise and cusstrategic initiative and the roll-out of various Leading industrial companies continued to tomer service. Konecranes is also optimistic new systems. invest in improving safety and productivity 14 Konecranes 2013 Business area service Advanced service offering Intelligent, self-aware machines are opening up the way for new service concepts. For us, this translates into things like realtime condition monitoring and an increasingly advanced service offering. Konecranes’ new CRM system is now in Proportion of Group Change, use across all service units, and the Maintenance Management system has been deKey figures total, % 2013 2012 % ployed in three pilot countries, with major Orders received, MEUR 35 715.9 735.0 -2.6 rollouts scheduled for 2014. Order book, MEUR 14 128.1 147.2 -12.9 Business Area Service continued to exNet sales, MEUR 40 889.1 884.0 0.6 plore business models tailored to the needs of emerging markets. Customer feedback Operating profit (EBIT), excluding restructuring costs, MEUR 60 80.6 74.6 8.0 has shown that price is not the only purchase criterion in these markets. An increasOperating margin (EBIT), excluding restructuring costs,% 9.1% 8.4% ing number of customers in these countries appreciate Konecranes’ preventive mainteOperating profit (EBIT), MEUR 64 67.8 74.6 -9.1 nance approach and new technologies, inOperating margin (EBIT), % 7.6% 8.4% cluding the added value offered by remote Personnel at the end of period 52 6,151 6,119 0.5 services. Development of the TRUCONNECT offering continued on-schedule. Konecranes’ goal is to offer a full range of remote services, ranging from periodic data reporting to Optimized operations and increased real-time diagnostics, technical support, and productivity with TRUCONNECT Remote production monitoring. The TRUCONNECT product family has been well-received, not Services only as a technology platform, but also beThe scope of the TRUCONNECT Remote Services family, which provides real-time usage cause of the access it gives customers to and condition monitoring of customers’ equipment, was further extended during 2013. the expertise of Konecranes’ people. The • TRUCONNECT Remote Monitoring and Reporting for industrial cranes and lift momentum behind this approach will contrucks is now available in most of Konecranes’ markets, and there are now more tinue into 2014, as Konecranes builds on the than 5,000 active connections worldwide. foundation of real-time service and the Indus• TRUCONNECT Remote Support and Diagnostics is used by customers around trial Internet. Further growth and improved the globe in a number of critical process applications. Konecranes’ experts procustomer experience through the strategic vide remote technical support for these customers on a daily basis. release of new services and products can be • TRUCONNECT Production Efficiency, designed for machine tools, has been rolled expected. out at various pilot locations. Development work is continuing, with additional A large and ongoing effort is under way products being adapted to work with popular brands of machine tool controls. aimed at supporting global customers throughout the entire lifecycle of their prodRead more about remote services ucts with customized service programs that www.konecranes.com/service/crane-remote-services are unique to the industry. Business area service Konecranes 2013 15 Konecranes’ Business Area Equipment offers components, lifting equipment, and material handling solutions for industries and ports. The focus during 2013 was on reducing the cost base to improve profitability in a slow marketplace and continuing to strengthen Konecranes’ competitiveness by making strategic investments in product and process development. Business Area equipment Strategic investments continued, despite a challenging market environment Proportion of Group Change, Konecranes is the world’s largest supplier of industrial cranes, and a global leader in shipKey figures total, % 2013 2012 % yard gantry cranes and electrical overhead Orders received, MEUR 65 1,319.6 1,340.4 -1.5 traveling cranes for general manufacturing Order book, MEUR 86 765.3 795.6 -3.8 and process industries, as well as a strong Net sales, MEUR 60 1,329.2 1,412.7 -5.9 global supplier of material handling solutions Operating profit (EBIT), excluding restructuring such as cranes and lift trucks for container costs, MEUR 40 54.3 84.2 -35.5 handling. Business Area Equipment serves Operating margin (EBIT), excluding an extensive and diverse global customer restructuring costs,% 4.1% 6.0% base, with general manufacturing being the Operating profit (EBIT), MEUR 36 37.8 78.4 -51.8 largest single customer segment. Operating margin (EBIT), % 2.8% 5.5% Weak overall demand Personnel at the end of period 48 5,626 5,973 -5.8 in 2013 The expected improvement in global ecoDemand remained low in China, however, and tive indicators, such as a slightly stronger nomic development did not materialize in deteriorated in other emerging markets. purchasing managers’ index in the fall, which 2013. Weaker currencies in a number of countries helped boost demand for Konecranes’ chain The year began with high expectations made it more difficult for foreign companies hoists in the region. Demand for Konecranes that demand in emerging markets, especialto compete in these markets. Problems conequipment in North America continued at a ly China, would increase after the summer. tinued in Europe as well, despite some posistrong level in general manufacturing, but 16 Konecranes 2013 business area equipment Intelligent machines Our intelligent ARTG and SMARTON cranes have several hundreds of control and measurement points to be used for advanced analytics. That’s a lot of intelligence in a crane that can be used to improve the safety and productivity of our customers, especially if combined with fast data networks and data analytics. was weak in process industries. Demand in Konecranes customers in Finland were using the container handling segment was stable, Agilon by the end of 2013, and the system’s but the number of new larger automation future opportunities are very promising. projects started was lower than in 2012. The NEO crane, an upgraded CXT standGiven these difficult market conditions, ard crane, was introduced in Germany. This Product range Business Area Equipment’s financial perforhigh-technology crane features new motor • Lifting equipment for industrial use mance was weaker than in 2012. Lower-thantechnology and remote monitoring as stand• Container handling solutions expected orders led to reduced sales and ard. NEO is sold with a TRUCONNECT main• Cranes for shipyards profitability. Profitability was also impacted tenance contract, which has proved an attrac• High-capacity grab unloaders for by various project execution-related issues. tive package. Development work is bulk material terminals continuing, aimed at adding further intelli• Material handling equipment for Key strategic initiatives gent features. Moving forward, the plan is to introduce the NEO crane in other markets. nuclear power plants • Agilon materials inventory and will guide future success Konecranes’ new crane manufacturing management system While continuing measures to reduce its cost plant in Jejuri, India was commissioned in base, Business Area Equipment also priorApril and all manufacturing operations in InSee page 23 itized product and process development dia have now been consolidated at the new for product overviews. within the framework of Konecranes’ three facility. In addition to the Indian market, the Group-level key strategic initiatives: Industrial Internet, Emerging Markets Offering, and plant is well-placed to serve other markets in Asia, the Middle East, and Africa. Most important oneKONECRANES. Several completely new product families customer segments An automated RTG (ARTG) system for are being developed for emerging market • General manufacturing the container handling industry was introneeds, as these markets will account for a • Ports duced. This offers RTG terminal operators major share of the world’s future industrial • Shipyards operational cost savings, greater productivity, growth. Konecranes’ offering for customers • Energy and increased safety – and is a good examin emerging markets will remain a key area • Mining ple of the type of pioneering technology that of development work over the next few years. • Automotive is widening the gap between Konecranes and Group-wide harmonization of processes • Steel the competition. continued, with a particular emphasis on the • Pulp & paper Agilon, a new innovative materials mannew ERP system. This is already being used • Nuclear agement solution, was also launched. This in the US and will soon be launched in Eu• Intermodal & rail service solution consists of a net portal, a rope and elsewhere. • Oil & gas shelving system, and a robot that picks parts, brings them to a service point, and sends refill orders to the supplier. Several Business area equipment Konecranes 2013 17 Konecranes is committed to becoming a global force in the lifting business. To understand the operations and needs of different industries and build long-term customer relationships, Konecranes’ operations are divided into three geographical regions: Americas (AME), Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA), and Asia-Pacific (APAC). Regional overview Close to customers worldwide Main production sites Sales and service locations Americas (AME) PERSONNEL SALES LOCATIONS Largest US, Canada, Brazil, Chile, and Mexico markets: Operations: 2,711 employees, 140 locations 23% (2,711) 36% (752.9 M€) 8 140 Manufacturing: 8 plants manufacturing industrial and process cranes, including nuclear cranes, hoists, parts, and related Production Sales & components sites service Key brands: Konecranes, R&M, STAHL CraneSystems, Crane Pro Parts and P&H® (through Morris Material Handling). Konecranes holds a strong position in the Konecranes’ service orders continued growica. Equipment orders, on the other hand, fell Americas, particularly the US, which is the ing in the US during 2013, thanks to favorain the Americas after a strong 2012. General most developed market in terms of outble general economic development and manufacturing, steel, and automotive are the sourced crane services; more than half of strong demand in the automotive and oil & largest market segments. Konecranes’ sales in the Americas are sergas industries in particular. Demand for service-related. Using comparable currencies, vices also continued to grow in South Amer18 Konecranes 2013 Regional overview Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) PERSONNEL SALES LOCATIONS Largest Germany, the UK, France, Finland, markets: Sweden, Russia, Poland, Austria, the UAE, Saudi Arabia, Egypt, South Africa, Nigeria, and Morocco 53% (6,246) 47% (979.8 M€) 10 347 Operations: Manufacturing: 6,246 employees, 347 locations 10 plants manufacturing cranes and Production Sales & hoists, lift trucks, and steel structures sites service for larger cranes Key brands: Konecranes, STAHL CraneSystems, SWF Krantechnik, and Verlinde. EMEA is Konecranes’ largest region and comcontinued to improve its position across both a high level of interest across the region in prises both mature markets, with a high proits key business areas. Manufacturing activKonecranes’ equipment and service offerportion of service sales, and fast-growing ity in the region was slow during the first half ings. economies where service is still small comof 2013, but improved slightly towards the Demand in Africa is growing, with many pared to equipment sales. end of the year. Equipment and Service orcountries continuing to invest in ports and In the mature Western European and Norders received in 2013 were lower than in other infrastructure. Equipment accounts for dic markets, the customer focus is primarily 2012. The largest market segments are gena high percentage of sales, primarily related on enhancing efficiency and productivity in eral manufacturing, power, waste-to-energy, to logistics and mining. Demand for services material handling to offset high labor costs. automotive, and steel. is still relatively small, but showing definite Konecranes has a very strong market posiThe Middle East continues to show high signs of growth. Strong overall development tion in the Nordic countries and an extensive potential, with large investments taking place continued in Africa during 2013. customer base in both equipment and serin infrastructure, petrochemicals, and power. vice. In Eastern Europe, Konecranes has Demand is developing positively, as there is Asia-Pacific (APAC) PERSONNEL SALES LOCATIONS Largest China, India, Australia, and Indonesia markets: Operations: 2,875 employees, 113 locations 24% (2,875) 17% (366.9 M€) 5 113 Manufacturing: 5 plants, including joint ventures, manufacturing hoists, industrial cranes, lift trucks, and port cranes Production Sales & Key brands: Konecranes, STAHL CraneSystems, sites service SWF Krantechnik, Verlinde, and Sanma Hoists & Cranes. Konecranes is recognized as the technology Compared to 2012, the overall demand order received from Indonesia. Other equipleader in the Asia-Pacific region, and is the for lifting equipment in APAC was weaker durment and service orders declined slightly commarket leader in industrial cranes and crane ing 2013. Economic growth in India and pared to 2012. service, with a strong and growing position China continued to slow, as did the AustralGeneral manufacturing remains the largin lift trucks and port cranes. Overall, the ian economy. South-East Asian countries ofest customer segment. Paper, power, steel, majority of Konecranes’ APAC sales come fered Konecranes more opportunities than in ports, waste-to-energy, and mining, especialfrom equipment, although the service busi2012, however. ly in Australia, are the other major areas. ness exceeds equipment in more mature Konecranes’ equipment orders in APAC markets such as Australia. grew in 2013, mainly due to a large port crane regional overview Konecranes 2013 19 Award-winning chain hoist series Research work for the Red Dot Award winning chain hoist series started already in 2008 and focused strongly on ergonomics and user interface. Therefore users were involved during the whole design process. Konecranes is committed to continuously developing its equipment and service offering by making innovative use of the latest technology. The main focus of R&D activities during 2013 was on developing Konecranes' offering to provide real-time visibility for equipment and advanced predictive maintenance. Research & development Creating real-time visibility using the Industrial Internet Konecranes’ service contract base covers EUR 25.6 million (25.8), equivalent to 1.2 safety and the environment. Making maalmost 440,000 items of equipment sup(1.2) percent of net sales. chines intelligent and networking them to plied by Konecranes and other manufacturKonecranes’ focus on research and innoprovide real-time visibility on their status has ers, and it represents an important source vation has been strengthened by establishbeen one of Konecranes’ most important of input for Konecranes' product developing a specialized Research & Innovation development areas over the last few years. ment work. 3,993 service personnel around (R&I) function. The Industrial Internet was defined as one of the world and close to 1.6 million customer Konecranes' three key strategic initiatives in contacts annually give Konecranes a thorough understanding of its customers’ needs. Industrial Internet is a 2013, and extensive development work was concentrated in this area. Konecranes is continuing to invest in key development area TRUCONNECT Remote Services, launched product development to further strengthen Konecranes’ R&D work aims at developing in 2011, is an important area related to the its competitiveness. Research and product efficient products and services that increase Industrial Internet. The scope of TRUCONdevelopment expenditure in 2013 totaled customers’ productivity while prioritizing NECT services was extended in 2013, and 20 Konecranes 2013 Research & development Key priorities of Konecranes’ R&D work Safety Environmental issues In addition to state-of-the-art technology, safety is always a key Environmental issues are taken into account throughout the area of focus for Konecranes. Preventing both injuries and life cycles of Konecranes’ products. Particular attention is damage to loads are top priorities in research and product given to things such as efficient material usage, recyclability, development. TRUCONNECT Remote Services, active, sensorand energy efficiency. Over 98 percent of the material used in based safety features, shock load elimination, and sway cona typical Konecranes crane is recyclable. Energy-saving fretrol features are just some examples of Konecranes’ innovative quency converter technology is available with Konecranes solutions to improve safety. equipment and enables up to 70 percent of braking energy to be fed back into the network. Productivity Konecranes develops efficient products and services that inIndustrial design crease the productivity of its customers’ operations by deliverIndustrial design forms an important part of Konecranes’ proding the best life cycle value. Konecranes’ smart solutions uct design process and helps differentiate the Konecranes make cranes much easier to handle by simplifying difficult brand. High standards of industrial design also allow maneuvers, eliminating load sway, and helping position loads Konecranes to incorporate greater efficiency, user-friendliness, in predefined locations. TRUCONNECT Remote Services help cost savings, and new materials into its products. optimize maintenance by enabling it to be based on actual crane usage. Research & development Konecranes 2013 21 the size of the equipment base covered by remote monitoring and service grew rapidly. new-generation CLX chain hoist family introduced in 2012 was extended with further Global innovation Analysis of the data collected and making applications. Field tests on the world’s first community efficient use of it represent an important renew hybrid reach stacker for container hanKonecranes has been shifting from local and source for future development work. dling continued. This employs an electrical project-based innovation operations towards New products and services featuring adsystem that offers significantly lower operata global innovation organization over the last vanced technology introduced in 2013 ining and maintenance costs and improved few years. This has resulted in the creation cluded Agilon, an innovative materials manproductivity and reduces a stacker's environof an innovation community of 30 ‘innovation agement solution, and the CXT NEO crane, a mental impact. agents’, who work closely with customers to high-technology crane package specially deidentify new ideas. Input from this commusigned for developed markets. Agilon is a patented materials inventory and manageContinued work on nity is already helping Konecranes create new, innovative products and services to ment system that rapidly and automatically Konecranes' offering for meet its customers’ needs and is expected stores, picks, and replenishes items weighing up to 25 kg, using a robot to handle both emerging markets to become even more important in the future. component transfers and refill orders. The Konecranes serves customers in different CXT NEO crane package includes a number markets using common technological platof advanced features and TRUCONNECT reforms and solution sets that are configured mote monitoring equipment as standard. and tailored to meet local customer specifiThis is a new marketing concept for cations and needs. As the number and proKonecranes and has generated a great deal duction volumes of customers in emerging of interest among customers. Development markets are growing, Konecranes is highlightwork on CXT NEO cranes is continuing and ing the needs of these customers in its curwill focus on adding further intelligent fearent R&D work. tures and extending marketing from Germany Emerging markets can be divided into and Switzerland into new areas. three distinctly different segments in terms Another example of Konecranes’ pioneerof equipment and solution requirements. ing technology is the Automated RTG (ARTG) Konecranes is active in the advanced highsystem for the container handling industry. tech solution and midmarket segments, This has eliminated the main barriers to fullwhile the lower-specification segment is scale automated RTG operation: yard surface mainly covered by smaller, local companies. variations and the complexity of handling Konecranes' main focus during 2013 was on truck traffic flows along container stacks. The developing mid-segment products. system is built around Konecranes’ marketAlthough products for emerging markets leading 16-wheel RTGs and includes a commust be competitively priced, they cannot be plete package of truck guidance infrastrucjust downgraded versions of products deture, a Remote Operating Station with a signed for industrialized markets. The spespecially developed Graphical User Interface cific needs of these markets must be taken (GUI), and an IT system that interfaces with into account, while keeping costs in check a customer’s Terminal Operating System using the latest technological innovations. (TOS). The system enables RTG terminal opQuality and safety can never be comproerators to take an important step towards mised, whatever the market. During 2014, automation by upgrading their existing yard Konecranes plans to further enhance its infrastructure. emerging markets offering with a number of Development work on already launched new product launches. products also continued during 2013. The 22 Konecranes 2013 Research & development Product overview Service Konecranes offers specialized maintenance and modernization services for all types of industrial cranes, lifting equipment, and machine tools. These services can cover everything from individual pieces of equipment to customers’ entire operations, boosting the productivity and safety of industrial processes. A commitment to excellent, proactive, and real-time service is one of our strategic priorities. Konecranes continuously develops its service offering by drawing on its extensive R&D know-how and over 60 years of maintenance expertise. Extensive maintenance programs based on harmonized processes are combined with a comprehensive range of services, advanced modern maintenance tools, and online crane usage information. TRUCONNECT Remote Services TRUCONNECT Remote Services represent the latest innovation in Konecranes’ service business, ranging from periodic data reporting to real-time diagnostics, technical support, and production monitoring. TRUCONNECT gives customers access to actual equipment usage data that can be used to enhance the safe use of cranes, optimize maintenance activities, and plan modernization needs. CLX Electric Chain Hoists Workstation Cranes ATB Airbalancers have been designed to meet and exceed reoffer ergonomic handling for loads up to can handle loads up to 350 kg. Thanks to quirements across a wide range of different 2,000 kg. Typical customers include manutheir air-powered design and floating load industries and to provide a reliable solution facturing, process industries, and the autounits, AirBalancers offer an invaluable aid for for numerous processes. CLX technology ofmotive sector. picking, lifting, moving, and placing items. fers a wide range of options and speeds, together with lifting capacities of up to 5,000 kg. Product overview Konecranes 2013 23 Industrial Crane Solutions are engineered for demanding lifting applications. Konecranes’ product range includes pre-engineered cranes capable of lifting up to 500 tons and tailored cranes for a variety of demanding lifting needs. Typical customers include the steel, aluminum, mining, general manufacturing, pulp & paper, petrochemical, shipyard, power, and waste-to-energy industries. Industrial Crane Products include standard cranes with lifting capacities up to 80 tons. Konecranes’ offering in this category ranges from chain hoist cranes to wire rope hoists and cranes – typically used in general manufacturing and the automotive, steel, pulp & paper, construction, renewable energy, aerospace, and petrochemical industries. Forklift Trucks Container Lift Trucks Reach Stackers with lifting capacities ranging from 10 to 65 can handle empty and laden containers, with lifting capacities ranging from 10 to 80 tons are used in various applications and weighing 8–10 tons and 33–45 tons respectons are used in container handling, interheavy-duty work in the steel, pulp & paper, tively, at ports and intermodal terminals. modal, and industrial applications. and oil & gas industries, and at ports. Goliath Gantry Cranes are used for heavy-duty assembly lifts at shipyards, offshore facilities, and other heavy industrial sites. Loads weighing thousands of tons can be moved hundreds of meters horizontally and over a hundred meters vertically and positioned to assembly tolerances of just a few millimeters. 24 Konecranes 2013 Product overview Straddle Carriers are multi-purpose machines used in small to medium-sized container terminals. They typically have a lifting capacity of 50 tons and can stack containers one-over-three high. The BOXRUNNER straddle carrier keeps containers flowing between quayside STSs and yard container stacks, enabling fast ship turnaround times. The BOXRUNNER can also load and unload trucks, as it stacks two containers high. Ship-To-Shore Cranes are used for loading and unloading containers from ships. Konecranes’ STS cranes have a lifting capacity of up to 65 tons and an outreach of up to 70 meters. Yard Cranes are used in larger container terminals, and include RTGs, RMGs, automated RMGs (ARMGs), and automated RTGs (ARTGs). These cranes usually have a lifting capacity of around 50 tons and can stack one-over-six containers high and eight-plus truck lanes wide at container ports and intermodal terminals. RTGs can be powered by diesel or electricity fed through a cable or busbar. Nuclear Cranes and specialized lifting equipment are used throughout the industry for a wide range of operations, from lifting reactor heads to handling nuclear fuel, at nuclear power plants, radioactive waste facilities, and nuclear fuel production sites. Our SUPERSAFE™ single failure-proof cranes and hoists are used to handle critical lifts. Konecranes’ nuclear quality control program meets strict regulatory requirements, such as NRC 10CFR50 Appendix “B”, ASME NQA-1 and KTA 1401. Brands The Group’s brand strategy is based on the corporate Konecranes master brand, complemented with a portfolio of freestanding power brands. Konecranes-branded products are sold directly to end-users, while power-branded products are sold to distributors and independent crane builders. Konecranes’ power brands include R&M, STAHL CraneSystems, SWF Krantechnik, Verlinde, and Sanma Hoists & Cranes. Product overview Konecranes 2013 25 Konecranes is committed to continuous improvement in lifting our customers’ businesses and increasing the value of our shareholders’ investment. Respecting our employees, the environment, and our stakeholders is fundamental for sustainable development. Corporate responsibility Meeting stakeholders’ needs and expectations Corporate responsibility is an integral part of Konecranes’ corporate responsibility foKonecranes’ corporate what we do. Our vision statement highlights cus areas are Safety, Smarter Offering, Fair responsibility focus areas the priority we give to increasing the safety Play, the Environment, and People. To overof our customers’ operations, while our comsee the management of these focus areas SMA mitments to international initiatives and conand other corporate responsibility issues, RT ER TY ventions, such as the UN Declaration of HuKonecranes has formed the Konecranes CorFE OF S A man Rights and the UN Global Compact, our porate Responsibility Steering Group. This NG RI Code of Conduct, and our values define how includes senior managers and representaFE we manage our supply chain and our own tives from our business areas, production, operations responsibly. product development, human resources, leCorporate Konecranes operates in almost 50 coungal affairs, and Konecranes’ European Works E responsibility FAIR P tries; everywhere we operate, we abide by council. The Steering Group met twice during OPL LA good corporate governance practices and 2013. PE Y local laws. Our operations support the develKonecranes follows Global Reporting Iniopment of local communities through the tiative (GRI) principles in its reporting on corENV creation of local jobs. porate responsibility, and aims to meet the IRO N M ENT 26 Konecranes 2013 Corporate responsibility Hybrid reach stacker Konecranes’ hybrid reach stacker concept means that it is an electric vehicle with on-board generation of electric power. expectations of its stakeholders – such as customers, owners, and current and future Konecranes’ stakeholders personnel – and build a solid foundation for Konecranes aims to recognize and meet different stakeholders’ needs and expectaengaging stakeholders on corporate respontions in the area of corporate responsibility as elsewhere. In this chart, we have listed sibility issues. This report follows G3 guidsome examples of stakeholder groups and how we engage in dialogue with them. ance. Reporting complies with GRI Level C requirements, based on our self-assessment. A table of GRI compliance can be found on pages 32–33. Corporate responsibility reporting follows Customers Personnel the same timeframe as our financial reportContinuous dialogue as part of normal There are multiple channels for eming, the calendar year, and currently covers business and through customer satisployee dialogue, for example the all our major production units and operafaction indicators and surveys. Konecranes employee satisfaction surtions. Businesses acquired or closed during vey and various feedback channels. 2013 are not included, however. The reported indicators have been chosen because they are the most relevant for our operations and stakeholders. The data has been gathered via internal information systems and Suppliers and subcontractors Students, universities, and supplemented with information sourced • Continuous dialogue as part of research institutes separately. Some of the data included has normal business and the Supplier • Student cooperation in the form of been scaled up to provide an overall view of Days event. trainee and thesis work opportuniour performance, which could result in inac• Environmental and ethical requireties. curacies in some figures. The method used ments included in general terms • Cooperation in different kinds of for calculating environmental performance and conditions. research programs with universiindicators is being revised and we are changties and research institutes. ing our environmental data reporting significantly to provide more transparent and accurate information on how we can influence various factors and should enable us to show the progress we make more clearly. Shareholders There are also many other stakeholder Konecranes’ most important stakeholdThe Annual Report is one way of progroups, such as local communities, ers have not changed, and include our shareviding information on Konecranes’ corthe authorities, media, interest holders, customers, personnel, suppliers and porate responsibility performance and groups, trade unions, and non-governother partners, the authorities, local commuactions for investors and engaging in mental organizations. We use multiple nities, and the media. dialogue. dialogue channels for communicating with these groups. Corporate responsibility Konecranes 2013 27 Summary of progress and challenges linked to Konecranes’ five corporate responsibility focus areas Focus area Main achievements Challenges Safety Steady improvement in lost time accident Even more efficient use of proactive leading frequency. indicators and preventive measures. People Fair labor conditions evaluations in our own Company restructuring due to economic operations. High employee satisfaction. Low reasons. employee turnover. Environment Environmental data reporting and local follow-up Global environmental data and KPI within the Group has improved significantly over calculations. the last two years. Fair Play Rollout of Code of Conduct e-learning over two Supplier safety, environmental and quality years covering more than 90% of personnel. management coverage. Our target is to systematically cover our top 250 suppliers in these areas Smarter Offering Numerous product launches improving fuel Publish more environmental product efficiency, reducing emissions, and improving declarations. safety during 2013. Safety is a top priority Lost Time Accident Frequency Safety is imperative for Konecranes, as we operate in a multitude of different working LTA1, LTA1, LTA1, LTA1, conditions, geographical areas, and cultures. Business area 2013 2012 2011 2010 We strive to ensure the safety of our personKonecranes total 8.6 9.5 9.5 11.7 nel, as well as that of our suppliers’ and Equipment 7.3 9.9 8 13 customers’ personnel, throughout the lifecycle of our products. We want everyone to Service 10.6 10.3 11.7 12 arrive home in good health after the working LTA1= (number of accidents/working hours performed)* 1,000,000 including operatives and office staff day – and we want to be the safety leader in our industry. Konecranes continued improving and harhelping us focus our injury prevention and satisfaction and engagement of the Group’s monizing global occupational safety requireawareness-raising activities. employees. It is also a channel for employments and instructions during 2013. CorpoOur occupational safety key performance ees to express their views regarding their rate minimum requirements of safety in indicators show good improvement on Group work and workplace. The response rate to electrical work, working at height, and using level as well as in Business Area Equipment. the 2013 survey was similar to that for the personal protective equipment were impleIn Business Area Service, the figures re2012 survey: 85 percent (2012: 86%) for the mented further down in the organization and mained approximately on the same level as Group as a whole. The total number of reincorporated into common safety training. last year. The total number of reportable ocsponses was 10,281 (2012: 10,383). This Occupational safety requirements and incupational accidents declined by 10% on was the seventh survey to be organized to structions will continue to be developed over Group level, by 25% in Equipment and 2% in date. the next few years. Konecranes continued Service. Accident frequencies also improved When compared to benchmark data, our expanding its global Health, Safety and Envion Group level and in Business Area Equipoverall results continue to be positive, deronmental (HSE) network to new units and ment. In Business Area Service, we remained spite the challenging economic environment. countries, and continued promoting internal on about the same level as last year. There In 2013, our employees rated Konecranes’ cooperation via online meetings. were no fatalities or serious injuries. values and objectives worth aiming for and Proactive safety management progressed reported that they consider their work interand the number of safety observations and near-hit reports carried out by Konecranes Positive results from esting and challenging and that they feel that good work is acknowledged within the Group. personnel increased during 2013. Although Employee Satisfaction Stress levels are seen as an issue in many we are clearly on the right track here, this remains an area where we want to see furSurvey and annual areas, however, and people feel that there is unnecessary bureaucracy. ther improvement. The main reasons for development ESS results are discussed at all levels of safety observations and near-hits continued to relate to the loss of control of equipment, discussions the Group as standard practice, and units and teams create their own improvement such as hand-held power tools, equipment Konecranes’ annual Employee Satisfaction plan based on their results. failures, and housekeeping. Near-hit data is Survey (ESS) is used to assess the level of 28 Konecranes 2013 Corporate responsibility Annual development discussions – known as Trust, People and Performance (TPP) dis15% 23% cussions at Konecranes – are one-to-one 24% meetings between managers and employees, during which people’s goals and personal development plans are discussed and systematically documented. Development dis85% 53% cussions are a key part of performance management and ensure that Konecranes and all its employees have the competencies and motivation needed to meet the Group’s curGender structure Workforce by region ■ Female ■ Male ■ AME 2,711 ■ EMEA 6,246 rent and future business challenges. Our aim ■ APAC 2,875 is to hold annual development discussions with all employees; the actual rate in 2013 was about 80%. The importance of development discussions is also reflected in ESS results. The 5% correlation between annual development dis20% 19% cussions and the general job satisfaction of all Konecranes employees worldwide contin54% 46% ued to be clearly visible in the results of the 25% 31% 2013 survey. Sharing our way The Konecranes Employee Share Savings Age structure Employment structure ■ <30 ■ 30–39 ■ 40–49 ■ Staff ■ Operatives Plan, launched in July 2012, continued in ■ 50–59 ■ >60 2013. The plan is designed for all employees, except those in countries where it cannot be offered for legal or administrative 11,651 12,147 11,832 11,917 11,947 10,998 reasons. Participation is completely volun10,042 9,811 9,739 tary. The aim of the plan is that participants 9,782 save up to five percent of their gross salary every month. This money is used to buy Konecranes shares from the market on behalf of participants. Savings are made for an agreed time period, which extended from July 1, 2012 until June 30, 2013 for the first plan period and extends from July 1, 2013 until June 30, 2014 for the second period. If par09 10 11 12 13 09 10 11 12 13 ticipants still hold shares at the end of the agreed saving time (February 2016 for the Number of personnel at the Number of personnel, first plan period and February 2017 for the end of the year average second plan period), they will receive one matching share for each two initially purchased. We believe the plan will positively influably affected during 2013. Actions to reduce The total number of emloyees decreased ence our mutual sense of being part of the the Group’s annual cost base by EUR 30 milby 315 in 2013 due to restructuring. Turnocompany, worldwide and at all levels of the lion by the end of 2014 were started during ver, including voluntary and involuntary deparorganization. The participation rate is curthe second half of the year. These are aimed tures was 11.2%. rently about 16 percent, which is considered at adjusting the company’s cost structure satisfactory. and capacity to bring them in line with the weaker market situation and secure Caring for our people Economic situation Konecranes’ future competitiveness. The actions being considered are expected to affect Konecranes initiated self-evaluations in the areas of well-being and fair labor conditions effecting personnel a maximum of 600 people globally, through during 2013 – to understand, promote, and The world economy has been very unstable redundancies, temporary layoffs, and early ensure that well-being and fair labor condifor some time and personnel were unavoidretirement by the end of 2014. tions are thoroughly taken into consideration Corporate responsibility Konecranes 2013 29 by local management. The results of these agement and office staff with access to a PC, Environmental data reporting has been self-evaluations have been good, and the is now used in 30 countries and has reached revisited, and the coverage of reporting and subsequent discussions based on online 950 people. how figures are calculated have been signifiresponses have been considered useful. Promoting energy efficiency within the cantly changed. In terms of energy consumpThere have been no major findings in the Group continued during 2013. Several units tion, we will now start reporting the energy area of labor conditions, but smaller improvecontinued with or launched energy efficiency usage of our production facilities in Business ment opportunities have been identified and programs aimed at reducing the use of difArea Equipment, in addition to fuel consumplocal improvement actions have been taken. ferent forms of energy. A major facility imtion in Business Area Service. We believe provement project covering heat recovery at that energy usage and waste generation at Ensuring a positive trend the Hämeenlinna gear factory in Finland, for example, was completed at the end of 2013, our production facilities is a much more material topic for us than a globally scaled estiin environmental impact and we expect this to result in significantly mate including all small rented service office We work hard to develop our environmental lower district heat usage there in the future. locations. management and apply the model of conWater-related questions have become tinuous improvement in our environmental management. Our main environmental asEnvironmental aspects more and more prominent in sustainability assessments in recent years. Although pects are energy efficiency, recycling, waste Konecranes’ two business areas have quite Konecranes’ manufacturing processes do disposal, and chemical management. different types of environmental aspects. For not consume significant quantities of water, We have continued developing our enviBusiness Area Service, the most important we have started tracking our water consumpronmental competencies through environmental aspects are fuel consumption tion and are now reporting our water conKonecranes’ global Health, Safety and Enviand vehicle emissions; while for Business sumption for the first time. The total volume ronment (HSE) network via information sharArea Equipment, energy usage, waste hanof water used in our production facilities was ing and online meetings. An environmental dling, and chemical storage and usage are 160,100 m3 in 2013. e-learning package was announced in the the most important. Environmental indicators third quarter of 2012 outlining the fundamentals of Konecranes’ environmental aspects related to key environmental issues are reported in the Environmental Data Table beSmarter offering and how to manage environmental impact. low. Usability, eco-efficiency, and safety are the This tool, which is primarily aimed at manguiding principles in the lifecycle of Environmental data 2013 Energy consumption and emissions 2013 2012 2011 Total emissions / sales tCO2e /M€ 28 28 32 Total energy consumption / sales MWh / M€ 82 80 95 Scope 1, energy consumption and direct Fuel consumption, MWh 96,100 91,200 88,500 emissions Natural gas consumption, MWh 18,800 21,400 27,600 Direct emissions, tCO2e 28,900 28,500 28,700 Scope 2, energy consumption and indirect Electricity consumption, MWh 41,600 41,500 41,400 emissions District heat consumption, MWh 16,000 19,600 21,900 Indirect emissions, tCO2e 20,900 21,100 20,900 Scope 3, other indirect emissions Business travel, tCO2e 9,000 11,100 11,100 Waste (tons) Metal scrap 1) 8,500 10,000 9,700 Cardboard, paper and wood 1) 1,600 1,700 1,300 Hazardous and electronic and electrical waste 2) 550 450 550 Mixed waste 3) 2,700 2,900 2,650 Environmental data reporting coverage and calculation have been changed. Instead of calculating our global reporting footprint, we now report figures for our manufacturing locations, except fuel consumption, which also includes the service vehicle fleet. 1) Waste streams go for recycling 2) Waste stream handling split into recycling, incineration and other adequate treatments depending on location 3) Waste stream handling split into recycling, incineration, composting and landfill depending on location 30 Konecranes 2013 Corporate responsibility Konecranes’ lifting equipment and service consumption; average fuel consumption Online training is mandatory for all offering. We are proud of the eco-efficiency when a truck is running laden, empty or Konecranes employees. An online invitation and safety features of our overall offering, idling; average fuel consumption per load; to take part in the program is sent out to and of the user experience, both tangible and top and average speed; load spectrum; travpersonnel who have recently joined intangible, that we are able to give customelling distance; and other parameters. Konecranes every six months. Other work on ers. Numerous advanced features have been The new automated RTG (ARTG) system improving people’s awareness of the Code of part of our offering for years. for the container handling industry provides Conduct is also continuing. Using the anony2013 was an active year in terms of prodRTG terminal operators with all the benefits mous information generated by the online uct launches enhancing environmental effiof automation: operational cost savings, training database, we can target further camciency and safety. New products launched greater productivity, increased predictability, paigns addressing specific gaps or risks reduring the year included a hybrid reach stackand better safety. The Konecranes ARTG syslated to the areas covered by the Code. er, a new Auto Start-Stop function, remote tem is built around Konecranes’ marketWe pay special attention to cooperation monitoring for lift trucks, and an automated leading 16-wheel RTG, which has a unique with our suppliers. Beginning in 2013, our RTG system. ability to tolerate rough yard surfaces. The aim is to ensure that our top 250 suppliers Konecranes introduced the world’s first system includes a complete package of truck have safety, environment, and quality manhybrid reach stacker for container handling. guidance infrastructure, a Remote Operating agement systems in place by the end of With a lifting capacity of 45 tons, this feaStation with a specially developed Graphical 2015. We are actively tracking progress totures a hybrid diesel/electric driveline, an User Interface (GUI), and an IT system that wards this target and have organized a numelectrified hydraulic lifting system, and superinterfaces with the customer’s Terminal Opber of internal training courses for personnel capacitor-based energy storage. These innoerating System (TOS). responsible for supplier relationships vations cut fuel consumption and emissions, In addition to new product launches, Konecranes understands that different while offering improved performance in terms 2013 was also successful for Konecranes in customers and industries have different reof acceleration and lifting response to driver terms of the recognition it received for the quirements, and aims to develop strong, commands. The new hybrid reach stacker ofdesign of its products. In the spring, long-term customer relationships. Our existfers customers substantial cost and environKonecranes received the Red Dot Award: ing customer partnerships, together with our mental benefits. Estimated fuel consumption Product Design 2013 for its multi-branded service contract base, offer us an excellent is around 10 liters/hour during normal hanelectric chain hoist series launched in 2012. foundation for growth, by expanding cooperadling of fully loaded containers, significantly The Red Dot Award is an international design tion and selling additional services. less than that of conventional reach stackaward created by Design Zentrum NordrheinPlease contact corporate-responsibility@ ers. Westfalen in Germany. The technology platkonecranes.com on corporate responsibility The new Auto Start-Stop feature for lift form underpinning these new chain hoists is matters. trucks turns off the engine whenever a unit modular and scalable, according to market is idle for a specified period of time and reneeds and business targets, and includes starts it automatically when needed. The identities for the Konecranes brand and the benefit here is very clear-cut: when an engine Group’s Verlinde, SWF Krantechnik, R&M, is not running, fuel consumption is zero. The and STAHL CraneSystems power brands. Auto Start-Stop system recognizes the difference between a temporary stop and the end of a job, and it will not restart the engine if Fair play the driver’s seatbelt is undone, if the cabin As we are a part of a complex business ecodoor is open, or if engine stoppage time has system, we want to ensure that we act as exceeded a pre-set time-out value. The Auto transparently as possible and are fully acStart-Stop feature is designed to reduce fuel countable. consumption and CO2 emissions significantOur Code of Conduct is publicly available ly, and will typically save 5–15% in fuel conon the Konecranes website, and we also ofsumption, depending on operating condifer personnel and other stakeholders a contions. It also reduces noise levels and driver fidential e-mail channel (compliance@ fatigue, and extends engine service intervals konecranes.com) for reporting misconduct. based on running hours. We take all reports of misconduct received TRUCONNECT for lift trucks monitors the through this and other channels seriously actual usage of machines through a remote and initiate a prompt response wherever misconnection and provides an online window to conduct is found. monitor efficiency and productivity. Condition The rollout of online training covering monitoring units in trucks collect operating Konecranes’ Code of Conduct continued and data and transmit it wirelessly to the completion rate was approximately 90% Konecranes’ Remote Data Center. The online as of the end of 2013. Online training reviews and reports provided to customers views the various aspects of the Code of contain information that helps improve fleet Conduct and includes test questions that efficiency, productivity, and safety: total fuel users must pass to complete the program. Corporate responsibility Konecranes 2013 31 GRI content index Global reporting initiative content index Page Comment Profile 1 Strategy and analysis 1.1 CEO's statement 6–7 1.2 Key impacts, risks and opportunities 6–9, 12–13, 28, 44–49 2 Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization 34 2.2 Primary brands, products and services 23–25 2.3 Operational structure 2, 34 2.4 Location of organization's headquarters 4 2.5 Number of countries and location of operations 3 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 3 2.7 Markets served 2, 17–19 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization 2–3, 5 2.9 Significant changes 4 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period 31 3 Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period 27 3.2 Date of most recent report 27 3.3 Reporting cycle 27 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding report 31, 126–128 3.5 Process for defining report content 27 3.6 Boundary of the report 27 3.7 Limitations on the report's scope or boundary 27 3.8 Basis for reporting subsidiaries and joint ventures 27 3.9 Data measurement techniques and bases for calculations 27 3.10 Explanation of re-statements 27 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods 4, 27, 30 3.12 GRI content index 32–33 4 Governance, Commitments and Engagement 4.1 Governance structure 34 4.2 Independence of the Chairman of the Board 36–37 4.3 Independence of the Board members 36–37 4.4 Mechanism for shareholder and employee consultation 27, 35–36 4.5 Executive compensation and linkage to organization's performance 40–43 4.6 Processes for avoiding conflicts of interest 34–38 Partly covered 4.7 Processes for determining expertise 36 4.8 Values, mission and business conduct principles 10, 31 4.9 Procedures of the Board for overseeing risk management 44 4.10 Processes for evaluating the Board's performance 37 4.12 External initiatives 26 4.14 List of stakeholder groups 27 4.15 Identification of stakeholders 27 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement 27, 35–36 32 Konecranes 2013 GRI Global reporting initiative content index Page Comment Management approach and performance indicators (core indicators, unless marked to be additional) Economic EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, 67–106 Financial review part employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligation 100–101 EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government 83 Labor practices LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract and region 18–19, 29 LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and region 29 Partly covered LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of 28 workrelated fatalities by region LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews 29 (additional indicator) Human rights HR 5 Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective 28–30 Partly covered bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. HR 6 Operations identified as having risk for incidents of child labor and measures taken to 28–30 Partly covered contribute to the elimination of child labor. HR 7 Operations identified as having risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and 28–30 Partly covered measures to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor. Society SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption 47 Partly covered SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures 31 Product responsibility PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are 20–22, 30–31 assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures. Environmental EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source 30 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source 30 EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, 21–22, 30–31 and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives (additional) EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved (additional) 30 Partly covered EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 30 Partly covered EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight 30 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight 30 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved (additional) 30 Partly covered EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 30 EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of 21–22, 30–31 impact mitigation GRI Konecranes 2013 33 Corporate governance Konecranes Plc (Konecranes, Company) is a Konecranes complies with the Finnish Corporate Governance Statement based on Finnish public limited liability company, which Corporate Governance Code 2010 that came Recom­mendation 54 of the Code and a complies with the Finnish Companies and into force on October 1, 2010 and was apRemuneration Statement based on RecomSecurities Market Acts, the rules of NASDAQ proved by the Board of the Securities Marmendation 47. See www.konecranes.com > OMX Helsinki, and other regulations concernket Association. The Code can be found at Investors > Corporate Governance for deing public companies, as well as Konecranes’ www.cgfinland.fi. Konecranes complies with tails. Articles of Association, in its decision-making all the recommendations of the Code with and administration. no exceptions. Konecranes has issued a Corporate governance structure of the Konecranes Group in 2013 KONECRANES GROUP Konecranes Plc Articles of Association General Meeting Auditor (Shareholders) Code of Conduct Group’s internal rules, regulations and Group Board of Directors Policies Laws, rules Audit Committee Internal and Audit regulations Nomination and Compensation Committee President and CEO Group Administration and Support Group Executive Board Functions Senior Management Team BA Equipment BA Service Component Business units and Business units and manufacturing and regions regions strategic sourcing 34 Konecranes 2013 Corporate governance General meeting The Company shall disclose on its weberal Meeting or a shareholder’s number of The General Meeting of Shareholders is the site the date by which shareholders shall votes. Company’s highest decision-making body, notify the Board of Directors of any issue that A registered shareholder wishing to parthrough which shareholders exercise their they wish included in the agenda. ticipate in a General Meeting must notify the decision-making power and right of superviThe Company will publish the decisions Company of his/her intention in the order sion and control over the Company’s busimade at General Meetings as stock exand during the period prescribed in the Noness. change releases and on the Company’s webtice of the Shareholders’ Meeting. A notificaAn Annual General Meeting (AGM) must site without delay after meetings. The mintion by a holder of nominee-registered shares be held within six months after the end of a utes of the General Meeting, including those for temporary inclusion in the Company’s financial year. An Extraordinary General Meetappendices of the minutes that are part of shareholders’ register is understood as prior ing (EGM) must be held if shareholders with decisions made by the meeting, will be postnotice of participation in a General Meeting. at least 10 percent of shares so demand in ed on the Company’s website within two writing to consider a specific issue. weeks of a General Meeting. Proxy representative and Matters to be discussed at the AGM are powers of attorney defined in Article 10 of Konecranes’ Articles Attendance of shareholders A shareholder may participate in a General of Association and in Chapter 5, Paragraph Holders of nominee-registered shares are Meeting in person or through proxy represen3 of the Companies Act. These matters inadvised to request their custodian bank to tation. A proxy representative shall produce clude the adoption of the financial stateprovide them with instructions regarding rega dated proxy document or otherwise demments, the distribution of profits, discharging istration in the Company’s shareholders’ onstrate in a reliable manner his/her right to Board members and the Managing Director register, the issuing of proxy documents, and represent the shareholder at a meeting. from personal liability, the election of Board registration for the General Meeting well in When a shareholder participates in a Genmembers and auditors, and the fees payable advance of a meeting. Custodian banks’ aceral Meeting through several proxy repreto them. Konecranes’ Articles of Association count management organization will register sentatives representing the shareholder’s can be consulted at the Company’s website a holder of nominee-registered shares wishshares held in different securities accounts, at www.konecranes.com > Investors > Coring to participate in the General Meeting to the shares by which each proxy representaporate Governance. be temporarily entered in the Company’s tive represents the shareholder shall be idenshareholders’ register. In order to be entitled tified during registration. Information on General Meetings to attend an AGM or EGM, a shareholder Shareholders are requested to inform the for shareholders must be registered as a shareholder in the Company of any proxies for a General MeetThe Board of Directors (Board) shall convene Company’s shareholders’ register maintained ing when they notify their participation. A an AGM or EGM by publishing a notice on the by Euroclear Finland Ltd. on the record day shareholder and his/her representative may Company’s website or in one or more nafor the meeting. A shareholder whose shares bring an assistant to a meeting. tional newspapers or by sending a written are registered in his/her personal Finnish notice to shareholders by mail no more than book-entry account is registered in the ComShareholder’s right to ask three (3) months and no less than three (3) pany’s shareholders’ register. Changes in questions and make proposals weeks before a meeting. The notice shall shareholdings that occur after the record for resolutions include the proposed agenda. date of a General Meeting do not affect a Every shareholder at a General Meeting has shareholder’s right to participate in a Genthe right to ask questions related to an item Corporate governance Konecranes 2013 35 on the agenda. A shareholder may send his Responsibilities no provision in the Articles of Association to or her question to be submitted to the meetThe Board is responsible for the administraappoint Board members according to a speing to the Company in advance. A shareholdtion and proper organization of the Compacific order. er also has the right to table draft resoluny’s operations. The Board is vested with Candidate Board members will be antions at a meeting in matters that fall within powers and duties to manage and supervise nounced in invitations to General Meetings, the competence of the General Meeting and the Company’s administration and operations provided that the proposal has been made that are on the agenda. as set forth in the Companies Act, the Artiby the Nomination and Compensation Comcles of Association, and other applicable mittee, or if the candidate is supported by at Attendance of Board members, Finnish laws and regulations. The Company least 10 percent of the total votes of all the Managing Director, and aims to comply with all applicable rules and Company shares and the candidate has givAuditors at a General Meeting regulations affecting the Company or its afen his/her consent. Any candidates proThe President and CEO, holding the position filiates (Group Companies) outside Finland, posed after the invitation has been sent out of Managing Director under the Companies provided that such compliance does not conshall be announced separately. The Company Act, the Chairman of the Board, and a suffistitute a violation of Finnish law. will publish the biographical details of candicient number of directors shall attend GenThe Board has a general obligation to purdates on the Company’s website. eral Meetings. In addition, the Company’s sue the best interests of the Company and In 2013, the Board of Directors consisted Auditor shall be present at Annual General all its shareholders, and is accountable to of eight (8) members: Meetings. the Company’s shareholders. Board mem• Mr. Svante Adde A person proposed as a director for the bers shall act in good faith and with due • Mr. Stig Gustavson (Chairman) first time shall participate in the General care, exercising their business judgment on • Mr. Tapani Järvinen Meeting that decides on his/her election unan informed basis in what they believe to be • Mr. Matti Kavetvuo less there is good reason for not attending. the best interests of the Company and its • Ms. Nina Kopola The Annual General Meeting for 2013 was shareholder community as a whole. • Mr. Bertel Langenskiöld held on March 21, 2013 in Hyvinkää, FinThe Board shall decide on the business • Ms. Malin Persson land. A total of 371 shareholders representstrategy of the Company, the appointment • Mr. Mikael Silvennoinen ing approximately 44.3 percent of votes parand dismissal of the President and CEO, the ticipated either in person or by proxy. deputy to the President and CEO, and other Biographical details of the Board of Directors senior management, Group structure, acquiare presented on pages 50–51 and can also Documents relating to sitions and divestments, financial matters, be found at www.konecranes.com > InvesGeneral Meetings and investments. It shall also continuously tors > Corporate Governance. The Notice of a General Meeting, the docureview and monitor the operations and perments to be submitted, and draft resolutions formance of Group Companies, risk manageIndependence of will be available on the Company’s website ment, and the Company’s compliance with the Board of Directors at least three weeks before the meeting. applicable laws, as well as any other issues Under the Finnish Corporate Governance determined by the Board. The Board shall Code 2010, the majority of directors shall be Board of directors keep itself informed of issues and business activities of major strategic importance to independent of the Company. In addition, at least two directors of this majority shall be Charter of the Board of Directors the Company on an ongoing basis. independent of the Company’s major shareThe Company’s Board of Directors has apThe Board shall appoint a secretary to be holders. The Board shall evaluate the indeproved a written Charter governing its work. present at all Board meetings. pendence of directors and report which direcThis supplements the provisions of the Finntors it determines to be independent of the ish Companies Act and the Company’s ArtiElection and term of office Company and which directors it determines cles of Association. Information in the CharThe AGM elects the Company’s Board of Dito be independent of major shareholders. ter is intended to enable shareholders to rectors for a term of one (1) year. According All other members elected to Konecranes’ evaluate the operation of the Board. The to the Articles of Association, the Board shall Board of Directors, except Mr. Stig GustavsCharter can be consulted on the Company’s have a minimum of five (5) and a maximum on, are deemed independent of the Compawebsite at www.konecranes.com > Investors of eight (8) members. The Board elects a ny. Mr. Gustavson is deemed dependent on > Corporate Governance. Chairman from among its members. There is the Company based on the Board’s overall 36 Konecranes 2013 Corporate governance evaluation relating to his former and current regular meetings a year; the Board may conshall have at least three (3) non-executive positions in Konecranes, combined with his vene whenever necessary in addition to Board members that are independent of and substantial voting rights in the Company. these meetings. not affiliated with the Company. At least one All other Board members are independent The Board convened nine (9) times during member must be independent of major of the Company’s major shareholders except the 2013 financial year. The attendance of shareholders. Mr. Bertel Langenskiöld, who is deemed to members at meetings is shown in the table The Audit Committee assists the Board in be dependent on major Company shareholdon Board Meetings 2013 below. its responsibilities relating to the appropriate ers based on his current position as the The Board and its Committees shall conarrangement of the control of Company acManaging Director of Hartwall Capital Oy Ab. duct an annual performance evaluation to counts and finances pursuant to the CompaHTT KCR Holding Oy Ab holds more than 10 determine whether the Board and its Comnies Act. The tasks and responsibilities of percent of Konecranes Plc’s shares and mittees are functioning effectively. The Board the Committee are defined in its Charter, votes, and is a subsidiary of Hartwall Capital shall establish the criteria to be used in which is based on a Board resolution. The Oy Ab. these evaluations, which will be conducted Charter of the Audit Committee can be conMore detailed criteria for independence as internal self-evaluations. The performance sulted on the Company’s website at www. are listed in Recommendation 15 of the Finnreview shall be discussed with the entire konecranes.com > Investors > Corporate ish Corporate Governance Code 2010, which Board after the end of each fiscal year. Governance. can be consulted online at www.cgfinland.fi. Under its charter, the Audit Committee Meeting procedure and Board committees shall meet at least four (4) times a year. The Chairman shall present a report on each Auself-assessment The Board is assisted by the Audit Commitdit Committee meeting to the Board. In addition to the Board and its secretary, the tee and the Nomination and Compensation As of March 21, 2013, the Board’s Audit Company’s President and CEO and CFO shall Committee. Both committees were first Committee comprised the following four (4) attend Board meetings. The agenda of Board formed in 2004. members: meetings and background material will be • Mr. Svante Adde (Chairman), delivered to Board members prior to meetAudit Committee • Mr. Tapani Järvinen (member), ings. The Board shall meet as often as necThe Board shall appoint the members and • Ms. Malin Persson (member), essary to properly discharge its responsibilithe Chairman of the Audit Committee from • Mr. Mikael Silvennoinen (member). ties. There shall be approximately eight among its members. The Audit Committee Board meetings in 2013 Nomination and Compensation Board Meetings Audit Committee Meetings Committee Meetings Member Attendance Percentage Attendance Percentage Attendance Percentage Stig Gustavson 9/9 100% 2/2 100% Svante Adde 9/9 100% 4/4 100% Tapani Järvinen 9/9 100% 4/4 100% Matti Kavetvuo 9/9 100% 2/2 100% Nina Kopola 9/9 100% 2/2 100% Bertel Langenskiöld 9/9 100% 2/2 100% Malin Persson 9/9 100% 4/4 100% Mikael Silvennoinen 9/9 100% 3/4 75% The average attendance of members at Board meetings was 100 percent. Corporate governance Konecranes 2013 37 All the members of the Audit Committee Mr. Stig Gustavson is deemed to be dependplanning, finance, financial planning, reportare deemed to be independent of the Coment on the Company, while all other members ing, and risk management. pany and its significant shareholders. All are independent of the Company. All other members have sufficient corporate managemembers are deemed independent of the President and CEO’s contract ment expertise. In addition, Mr. Svante Adde Company’s major shareholders, except Mr. of employment and Mr. Mikael Silvennoinen have a degree Bertel Langenskiöld. The terms and conditions of the President in business administration and/or economThe Nomination and Compensation Comand CEO’s contract of employment are specics. mittee convened twice (2) in 2013, and the ified in writing in a document approved by the The Audit Committee convened four (4) average attendance of members at meetings Board. times in 2013, and the average attendance was 100 percent. Attendance is shown in the The President and CEO’s contract of emof members at meetings was 94 percent. table on Board meetings on page 37. ployment may be terminated with six months’ Attendance is shown in the table on Board notice at any time by either the President and meetings on page 37. Remuneration paid to the Board of CEO or the Company. In the event that the Directors Company terminates the contract without Nomination and Compensation The remuneration paid to Board members is due cause, the Company shall pay the PresiCommittee resolved by the Annual General Meeting. dent and CEO compensation corresponding The Board shall appoint the members and More information on the Board’s remunerato 18 months’ salary and fringe benefits, in the Chairman of the Nomination and Comtion can be found on page 40 under Remuaddition to the salary for the notice period. pensation Committee from among its memneration of the Board of Directors. When the President and CEO reaches the bers. The Nomination and Compensation age of 63 years, both he and the Company Committee shall have 3–4 non-executive Board members, the majority of whom shall President and CEO may request his retirement. The President and CEO participates in an additional defined be independent of the Company. Konecranes’ President and CEO holds the contribution plan with an annual payment set The Committee shall prepare matters reposition of Managing Director under the Comat 18.6 per cent of his annual salary excludlated to things such as the appointment of panies Act. The Board decides on the aping performance-based compensation (anthe members of the Board of Directors, the pointment and dismissal of the President nual or long-term incentives). President and CEO and other senior manageand CEO. The President and CEO may be a ment, evaluate the President and CEO’s performance and remuneration, and make recmember of the Board of Directors, but may not act as its Chairman. The current PresiGroup Management ommendations on the Company’s incentive dent and CEO, Mr. Pekka Lundmark, is not a Konecranes has a two-tier operative managecompensation plans. The Committee’s tasks member of the Board of Directors. ment structure consisting of the Group Exand responsibilities are defined in its Charecutive Board (GXB) and the Senior Manageter, which is based on a Board resolution. Responsibilities ment Team (SMT). The latter replaced the The Charter of the Nomination and CompenUnder the Companies Act, the President and Extended Management Team (EMT) as of sation Committee can be consulted on the CEO is responsible for the day-to-day manFebruary 1, 2013. Company’s website at www.konecranes.com agement of the Company in accordance with > Investors > Corporate Governance. instructions and orders given by the Board. Group Executive Board The Nomination and Compensation ComThe President and CEO may only undertake The Group Executive Board consists of the mittee shall meet at least once a year. The actions which, considering the scope and following members: Chairman shall present a report on each nature of the Company’s operations, are • Mr. Pekka Lundmark, President and CEO Nomination and Compensation Committee unusual or extensive with the authorization (Chairman of Group Executive Board) meeting to the Board. of the Board. The President and CEO shall • Mr. Hannu Rusanen, Executive Vice PresiAs of March 21, 2013, the Board’s Nomiensure that the Company’s accounting pracdent and Head of Business Area Equipnation and Compensation Committee comtices comply with the law and that its finanment prised the following four (4) members: cial affairs have been arranged in a reliable • Mr. Fabio Fiorino, Executive Vice Presi• Mr. Bertel Langenskiöld (Chairman), manner. The President and CEO is also redent and Head of Business Area Service, • Mr. Stig Gustavson (member), sponsible for preparing matters presented to Chief Customer Officer; as of June 1, • Mr. Matti Kavetvuo (member), the Board and for the Company’s strategic 2013 acting Head of Region APAC (Asia• Ms. Nina Kopola (member). Pacific) 38 Konecranes 2013 Corporate governance • Mr. Mikko Uhari, Executive Vice Presi2013 acting Head of Region APAC (Asia• Mr. Lars Fredin, Vice President, Head of dent, Strategy and Technology Pacific) Business Unit Lift Trucks (as of February • Mr. Teo Ottola, Chief Financial Officer • Mr. Mikko Uhari, Executive Vice Presi1, 2013) • Mr. Antti Koskelin, Chief Information Ofdent, Strategy and Technology • Mr. Jukka Paasonen, Vice President, ficer (GXB member as of January 1, • Mr. Teo Ottola, Chief Financial Officer Head of Industrial Crane Products (as of 2013) • Mr. Antti Koskelin, Chief Information OfFebruary 1, 2013) • Mr. Timo Leskinen, Senior Vice President, ficer • Mr. Marko Tulokas, Vice President, Head Human Resources (as of August 1, • Mr. Timo Leskinen, Senior Vice President, of Industrial Crane Solutions (as of Feb2013) Human Resources (as of August 1, ruary 1, 2013) • Mr. Ari Kiviniitty, acting Chief Technology 2013) • Mr. Juha Pankakoski, Vice President, Officer (GXB member until January 31, • Mr. Ari Kiviniitty, Senior Vice President, Head of Business Unit Parts (as of Febru2013). Head of Product Management and Engiary 1, 2013) neering (as of February 1, 2013) • Mr. Topi Tiitola, Director Business AnalyThe biographical details of Group Executive • Mr. Pekka Lettijeff, Chief Supply Chain sis and Support (as of November 1, Board members can be found on pages 52– Officer, Head of Supply Chain Manage2013). 53. ment (until August 31, 2013) The Group Executive Board assists the • Mr. Ilkka Ylänen, Chief Supply Chain OfThe biographical details of Senior ManagePresident and CEO, but has no official statuficer, Head of Supply Chain Management ment Team members can be found on pages tory position based on legislation or the Ar(as of September 1, 2013) 54–55. ticles of Association. In practice, however, it • Mr. Aku Lehtinen, Senior Vice President The Senior Management Team focuses on plays a significant role in the Company’s and Head of Region IMEA (India, Middle a systematic review of the progress of stratmanagement system, strategy preparation, East and Africa) egy implementation. and decision-making. • Mr. Tomas Myntti, Senior Vice President Business Areas’ operations are interand Head of Region EUR (Europe) linked and synergy-driven. Business Area Senior Management Team • Mr. Tom Sothard, Senior Vice President Executive Vice Presidents are responsible for In addition to Group Executive Board memand Head of Region Americas the day-to-day management of their Business bers, the members of the Senior Manage• Mr. Ryan Flynn, Senior Vice President and Areas, which are ultimately responsible for ment Team include the Heads of Konecranes Head of Region Asia-Pacific (until May the Group’s financial performance. Regions; the Equipment Business Unit 31, 2013) Regional Senior Vice Presidents are reHeads and Heads of Business Lines Indus• Ms. Sirpa Poitsalo, Vice President, Gensponsible for managing the Group’s activities trial Crane Products and Industrial Crane eral Counsel in geographical areas. The Regional organizaSolutions; the Heads of Customer and Ser• Ms. Jaana Rinne, Vice President, Human tion brings together Business Areas to form vice Technology, Business Unit Parts, Product Resources (until April 30, 2013) a uniform customer interface for the Group, Management & Engineering; the Vice Presi• Mr. Mikael Wegmüller, Vice President, with the primary goal of maximizing the dent, General Counsel; the Vice President, Marketing and Communications Group’s position within each Region. RegionMarketing & Communications; the Director, • Mr. Marko Äkräs, Vice President, Head of al Senior Vice Presidents have line responsiInvestor Relations; the Director, Business Customer and Service Technology, Depubility for equipment sales and service, within Analysis and Support; and the Chief Supply ty Head of Business Area Service the guidelines given by Business Areas. AdChain Officer. • Mr. Miikka Kinnunen, Director, Investor ditionally, they are responsible for coordinatThe Senior Management Team consists Relations (as of February 1, 2013) ing and providing administrative services for of the following members: • Mr. Tapani Tilus, Vice President, Head of operations not directly reporting to them, • Mr. Pekka Lundmark, President and CEO Light Lifting (as of February 1, 2013) such as manufacturing. • Mr. Hannu Rusanen, Executive Vice Presi• Mr. Kari Utriainen, Vice President, Head Group Staff forms a common resource for dent and Head of Business Area Equipof Business Unit Alfa (as of February 1, handling matters of importance for the entire ment 2013) Group. • Mr. Fabio Fiorino, Executive Vice Presi• Mr. Mika Mahlberg, Vice President, Head dent and Head of Business Area Service, of Business Unit Port Cranes (as of FebMeeting Practices Chief Customer Officer; as of June 1, ruary 1, 2013) The GXB convenes as frequently as necessary, normally on a monthly basis. The SMT Corporate governance Konecranes 2013 39 convenes regularly twice a year. In addition, and numerical evaluation is used whenever the total remuneration package of the PresiGroup-level results are reviewed monthly unpossible. dent and CEO. der the chairmanship of the President and All remuneration schemes are designed The Nomination and Compensation ComCEO. Business Areas and Regions have their to meet both global and local needs, and mittee also evaluates and prepares for Board own management teams that convene on a may differ between locations as a result. decision the remuneration packages of regular basis. Group Executive Board members who report Decision-making process directly to the President and CEO. The remuRemuneration The Annual General Meeting adopts resolutions and decides the remuneration of the neration packages for other Senior Management Team members are decided on by the Principles applied to remuneration Board of Directors and the Board’s CommitPresident and CEO. schemes tees annually. The Nomination and CompenAll Konecranes remuneration issues are All Konecranes remuneration schemes are sation Committee reviews the President and decided by the ’one above’ principle, i.e. a designed to promote high performance and CEO’s performance. Based on the review and manager’s superior must always confirm the emphasize focus and commitment to busiother relevant facts, the Board determines remuneration of an employee. ness targets. Remuneration schemes promote competitiveness and the long-term financial success of the Company and contribute to the favorable development of shareholder value. Fees payable to the Board of Directors The objective is that all Konecranes emEUR Annual fee in 2013 ployees should have a variable component based on their performance as part of their Chairman of the Board 105,000.00 overall remuneration. The size of this variaVice Chairman 67,000.00 ble component varies according to a person’s Board member 42,000.00 position in the organization. Typically, these Fee per Board Committee meeting 1,500.00 variable components are based on the financial results of the Group and/or the unit in Chairman of the Audit Committee per AC meeting 3,000.00 question and personal achievements. Remuneration schemes are drawn up in writing Board members are also reimbursed for their travel expenses. Total compensation paid to the Board of Directors in 2013 Committee Cash, EUR Shares, EUR Shares, # meetings, EUR TOTAL, EUR Gustavson Stig, Chairman of the Board 52,523.22 52,476.78 1,873 3,000 108,000.00 Adde Svante, Board member 21,014.89 20,985.11 749 12,000 54,000.00 Järvinen Tapani, Board member 21,014.89 20,985.11 749 6,000 48,000.00 Kavetvuo Matti, Board member 21,014.89 20,985.11 749 3,000 45,000.00 Kopola Nina, Board member 21,014.89 20,985.11 749 3,000 45,000.00 Langenskiöld Bertel, Board member 21,014.89 20,985.11 749 3,000 45,000.00 Persson Malin, Board member 21,014.89 20,985.11 749 6,000 48,000.00 Silvennoinen Mikael, Board member 21,014.89 20,985.11 749 4,500 46,500.00 TOTAL 199,627.45 199,372.55 7,116 40,500 439,500.00 40 Konecranes 2013 Corporate governance Remuneration of Remuneration of not required to, set certain strategic targets the Board of Directors the President and CEO that can trigger an additional incentive, which The remuneration of Board members is reThe Nomination and Compensation Commitcan be a maximum of 50 percent of the solved by the AGM. Remuneration payable to tee reviews the President and CEO’s perforPresident and CEO’s annual base salary. Board members as confirmed by the latest mance. Based on this review and other relThe pension scheme for the President AGM is shown in the table on page 40. evant facts, the Board determines the total and CEO sets his retirement age at 63 and 50 percent of annual remuneration is paid compensation package paid to the President the defined contribution at 18.6% of his anin Konecranes shares purchased on the marand CEO. nual salary, excluding performance-based ket on behalf of Board members. RemuneraThe compensation package includes base compensation (annual or long-term incention may also be paid by transferring treasury salary, fringe benefits, a pension scheme, a tives). shares based on the authorization given to performance-related annual variable pay, and The annual salary and benefits paid to the the Board of Directors by the General Meeta long-term performance-related share plan. President and CEO in 2013 and 2012 are ing. In the event that payment in shares canThe President and CEO’s variable pay is shown in the table below. not be carried out due to reasons related to based on Group profitability and growth, and either the Company or a Board member, anthe maximum bonus is 60 percent of the nual remuneration shall be paid entirely in President and CEO’s annual base salary. Adcash. ditionally, the Board of Directors can, but is Compensation paid to the President and CEO Salary, bonus and other benefits 2013 2012 1. Salary and benefits 506,036 EUR 468,196 EUR 2. Benefits abroad 150,005 EUR 85,407 EUR 3. Annual variable pay 120,000 EUR 262,800 EUR 4. Option rights owned (# of options 31 Dec.) 80,000 80,000 5. Share rights allocated (PSP) 67,200 48,000 6. Shareholding in Konecranes Plc (# of shares 31 Dec.) 225,520 263,749 7. Retirement age 63 years 63 years 8. Target pension level Defined contribution plan Defined contribution plan 9. Period of notice 6 months 6 months 18 months salary and fringe 18 months salary and fringe 10. Severance payment (in addition to notice period compensation) benefits benefits As part of his temporary relocation to SingaPresident and CEO Pekka Lundmark with an Remuneration of pore, the President and CEO’s monthly base interest rate of 12 month euribor + 1 perGroup Management salary was amended to EUR 40,000 a month centage point. The interest rate is adjusted (Group Executive Board) as of August 1, 2012. In addition to his annually on November 5 or the next banking The Nomination and Compensation Commitmonthly salary, he has standard work-related day. The loan relates to a tax payment resulttee evaluates and prepares for Board decibenefits (e.g. mobile phone) and is compening from the incentive scheme directed to the sion the remuneration packages of Group sated for his housing and travelling expensPresident and CEO in 2006. There is a tax Executive Board members who report directes. appeal pending against the imposed payly to the President and CEO. The remuneraAt the end of 2013 Konecranes had a ment and the loan is effective until the aption packages for other Senior Management loan receivable of EUR 225,336.14 from peal process is concluded. Team members are confirmed by the PresiCorporate governance Konecranes 2013 41 Remuneration paid to management Group Executive Board, excluding the President and CEO 2013 1. Salary and benefits 1,283,773.08 EUR 2. Annual variable pay 246,130.80 EUR 3. Option rights owned (# of options 31 Dec.) 141,500 4. Share rights allocated (PSP) 163,200 5. Shareholding in Konecranes Plc (# of shares 31 Dec.) 170,786 dent and CEO. Compensation packages norPerformance Share Plan, out in the first quarter of 2016. Under the mally include basic salary, fringe benefits 2012–2016 2013–2015 Plan, if the maximum perfor(typically use of a company car and mobile As of the beginning of 2012, Konecranes mance level is achieved, the President and phone), contribution-based pension launched a new long-term incentive plan for CEO will be eligible for 48,000 shares and schemes, annual performance-related incenkey employees and discontinued the use of the other members of the Group Executive tive schemes and a long-term performancestock option plans. Board (GXB) for a total of 120,000 shares related share plan. The purpose of the Performance Share (the maximums are gross numbers). Incentive schemes are always based on Plan (PSP) is to motivate key personnel to The members of the Group Executive written contracts. Incentive criteria vary, but contribute to the long-term success of the Board, including the President and CEO, have are usually based on the Group’s five Key Company and to create shareholder value. It an obligation to continue owning at least Performance Areas: Safety, Customer, Peois also intended to create a joint sense of 50% of the shares they earn annually through ple, Growth, and Profitability. Annual variable common ownership among managers, which the Performance Share Plan until they own pay is related to an individual’s performance, is seen as valuable for a company like Company shares with a value equal to their to the Group’s performance and the perforKonecranes with operations covering many annual salary including benefits. mance of the unit that he/she belongs to. countries, cultures, and customer industries. Numerical performance criteria are used The Board decides on the allocation of Stock Option Plans rather than personal assessments, whenshares annually through a proposal made by In the past, the Company has issued stock ever possible. The annual variable pay perthe President and CEO. In allocating shares option plans for key employees, including top centage is based on an individual’s responto the President and CEO, the Board acts and middle management, and employees in sibilities and is a maximum of 50 percent of independently. certain expert positions. All these plans were his or her annual base salary. adopted by the relevant General Meetings. The Finnish members of the Group ExecuDiscretionary period, 2012–2014 The Board has decided to discontinue the tive Board (GXB) participate in a defined The 2012 Plan has one criterion for perforuse of these plans until further notice. contribution-based group pension insurance mance during fiscal 2012 and one for 2012– Konecranes Plc’s remaining outstanding scheme, which can be withdrawn from the 2014. Earned shares will be paid out in the stock option plans are Stock Options 2009A, age of 60. However, the retirement age is set first quarter of 2015. Under the 2012–2014 2009B, and 2009C. according to the Finnish Employees Pensions Plan, if the maximum performance level is The subscription periods for these plans Act (TyEL). Finnish GXB members have life achieved according to both criteria, the Presare: insurance and disability insurance cover. ident and CEO will be eligible for 48,000 • Stock Options 2009A: Non-Finnish members of the GXB participate shares and the Extended Management Team 1 April 2012 – 30 April 2014 in a defined contribution pension plan and (EMT) of 2012 for a total of 240,000 shares • Stock Options 2009B: have local insurance cover. (the maximums are gross numbers). 1 April 2013 – 30 April 2015 There were no loans issued by the Com• Stock Options 2009C: pany to the Group Executive Board (excluding Discretionary period, 2013–2015 1 April 2014 – 30 April 2016 the President and CEO) as of the end of DeThe 2013 Plan has one criterion: cumulative cember 2013. EPS 2013–2015. Earned shares will be paid 42 Konecranes 2013 Corporate governance The terms and conditions of Konecranes’ Insider administration Audit stock option plans and the number of unsubThe Board has approved a set of Insider The main function of statutory auditing is to scribed stock options, based on outstanding Rules for Konecranes based on the Finnish verify that Konecranes’ financial statements stock option plans and the number of emSecurities Markets Act, standards issued by represent a true and fair view of the Group’s ployees concerned, can be consulted at the the Financial Supervision Authority, and the performance and financial position for the Company’s website at www.konecranes.com NASDAQ OMX Helsinki Guidelines for Insidfinancial year, which is the calendar year. The > Investors > Share information > Stock opers in force as of July 1, 2013. Auditor reports to the Board’s Audit Committion plans. Konecranes’ Public Insider Register intee on a regular basis and is obliged to audit As of the end of 2013, approximately 180 cludes the members of the Board of Directhe validity of the Company’s accounting and employees were part of the Group’s stock tors, the President and CEO, the Secretary to closing accounts for the financial year and to option plans. More information on stock opthe Board, the Auditor, the members of the give the General Meeting an auditor’s report. tions can be found in the Financial StateSenior Management Team, as well as other Konecranes’ Auditors are elected by the AGM ments. persons holding a comparable position in the and hold office until further notice. The same Group, as decided by the Company. In addiauditor with principal responsibility may not Employee Share Savings Plan tion, Konecranes’ Company-Specific Permaserve for more than seven financial years. A Konecranes launched a new Employee Share nent Insiders include persons defined by the proposal for the election of external auditors Savings Plan on July 1, 2012 for all employCompany, who regularly possess inside informade by the Audit Committee shall be inees except those in countries where the Plan mation due to their position in the Company. cluded in the invitation to the AGM. The Audit could not be offered for legal or administraPersons registered in the Public Insider Committee strives to put the selection of the tive reasons. A new plan period started on Register and the Permanent Insider Register external auditor out to tender at regular inJuly 1, 2013. are not allowed to trade in Konecranes secutervals. The Plan also covers top management rities during a period commencing on the first Ernst & Young Oy, Authorized Public Acand the President and CEO. Participation is day after the end of each calendar quarter countants, has been the Company’s external voluntary for all concerned. and ending upon the publication of the Comauditor since 2006. Mr. Heikki Ilkka served pany’s corresponding interim report or finanas Principal Auditor in 2013. Ernst & Young Plan period 2012–2013 cial statement bulletin. Trading is also not Oy and its affiliated audit companies reParticipants saved a monthly sum up to 5% allowed during the entire day on which received EUR 1,727,000 in fees for auditing of their gross salary, which was used to buy sults are announced. The Company mainKonecranes Group companies in 2013 and Konecranes shares from the market on betains Project-Specific Insider Registers for all fees of EUR 820,000 for non-audit services. half of participants. Savings were made from insider projects. People listed in these regisJuly 1, 2012 to June 30, 2013. If particiters are prohibited from trading in pants are still in possession of these shares Konecranes shares until termination of the on February 15, 2016, they will receive one project concerned. matching share for every two initially purThe General Counsel maintains chased. Konecranes’ register of insider holdings and is responsible for monitoring compliance with Plan period 2013–2014 insider guidelines and declaration requireThe Plan allows participants to save a monthments. The Company maintains its public ly sum up to 5% of their gross salary, which insider register in Euroclear Finland Ltd.’s is used to buy Konecranes shares from the SIRE system. market on behalf of participants. Savings will The share and option holdings held by be made from July 1, 2013 to June 30, Konecranes’ public insiders can be consult2014. If participants are still in possession ed using the NetSire register. of these shares on February 15, 2017, they will receive one matching share for every two initially purchased. Corporate governance Konecranes 2013 43 Konecranes’ Board of Directors has defined and adopted a set of risk management principles based on widely accepted international good management practices. The Audit Committee evaluates and reports on the adequacy and appropriateness of internal controls and risk management to the Board. Risk management, internal control, and internal auditing Risk management company or operating unit is responsible for its own risk management. This approach Significant risks principles guarantees the best possible knowledge of for Konecranes Risk is anything that will clearly affect local conditions, experience, and relevance. Konecranes has assessed its strategic, opKonecranes’ ability to achieve its business The Group’s risk management principles erational, financial, and hazard risks. The list objectives and execute its strategies. Risk define risk management as a continuous and of risks below and the risk management management is part of Konecranes’ control systematic activity aimed at protecting emmethods described here are intended to be system and is designed to ensure that any ployees from personal injury, safeguarding indicative only and should not be considered risks related to the company’s business opthe assets of all Group companies and the exhaustive. erations are identified and managed adeGroup as a whole, and ensuring stable and quately and appropriately to safeguard the profitable financial performance. By minimizMarket risks continuity of Konecranes’ business at all ing losses due to realized risks, and optimizDemand for Konecranes’ products and sertimes. ing the cost of risk management, Konecranes vices is affected by the development of the The Group’s risk management principles can safeguard its overall long-term competilocal and global economy, regional and counprovide a basic framework for risk managetiveness. try-specific political issues, as well as the ment across Konecranes, and each Group business cycles of Konecranes’ customer 44 Konecranes 2013 Risk management industries. Capital expenditure on industrial brand-specific business risks. In the product Konecranes continuously monitors gencranes varies with the development of indusdevelopment area, particular emphasis was eral market trends, technological developtrial production and production capacity, placed on developing an offering matching ments, competitors’ actions, customer bewhile demand for port equipment follows market-specific needs to ensure that the havior, and developments in various industry trends in global transportation and, over the Group offers an appropriate mix of products segments in order to identify signs of potenshorter term, port investment cycles. The lift suitable for local markets. tial changes that could impact us. truck cycle follows other product segments. Dedicated, process-driven product develDemand for maintenance services is driven Customer credit risks opment operations have sustained by customers’ capacity utilization rates. In Challenges with customer payments could Konecranes’ leadership in offering advanced addition to risks related to sales volumes, adversely affect Konecranes’ financial situatechnologies, products, and services to lift adverse changes in demand can also result tion. To limit this risk, we apply a conservaits customers’ businesses. Acquisitions can in overcapacity and affect market prices, as tive credit policy in respect of our customers. also be used to gain access to advanced can the actions of competitors. It is Konecranes practice to review customtechnologies where appropriate. By working Konecranes’ aim is to increase the proers carefully before entering into a formal with outside research organizations and uniportion of service revenue in its total revenue business relationship with them and to reversities, we secure both access to and stream and thereby reduce its exposure to quire credit reports from new customers. The awareness of technological development imeconomic cycles. In general, the demand for credit risks of our customers are mitigated portant in our field of operations. Konecranes service is less volatile than that for equipwith advance payments, letters of credit, payensures that its innovations are protected by ment. ment guarantees, and credit insurance where international patents wherever applicable, As part of its strategy, Konecranes strives applicable. By using these tools and careand protects its trademarks. to maintain a wide geographical presence to fully monitoring customer payments, we have During 2013, Konecranes continued an balance out economic trends in different successfully been able to limit our credit internal project aimed at enhancing our offermarket areas. Konecranes also aims to limit risks. ing for emerging markets. As a part of this the risks resulting from changes in demand During 2013, Konecranes enhanced its effort, special emphasis was put on developin different customer segments and demand receivables collection process. Development ing internal processes concerning intellecfor certain products by maintaining a diverse projects improved our potential to make tual property rights, reflecting our commitcustomer base and offering a wide range of more systematic use of customer credit ment to proactively protecting our rights in products and services. By active product dedata. this area. velopment, Konecranes also strives to difTo secure our future market position, we ferentiate itself from its competitors and reTechnology risks continued to focus on developing solutions duce the competitive pressures that it Konecranes recognizes that there are various leveraging the benefits of the Industrial Interexperiences. threats and opportunities related to the denet. This will see the intelligence of our lifting In 2013, Konecranes continued controlled velopment of new products and services in devices increase further, as will that of our geographical expansion into long-term lucraits business. Active management of intelleccustomer services offering based on intellitive areas and maintained a broad industrial tual property rights is essential in the global gent data. This data also serves as an excelsegment presence. Ongoing brand building marketplace. lent source of information for future product continues to positively balance out possible development. Risk management Konecranes 2013 45 Conducting business in emerging Effective management has been central and inventory values. Inefficiencies in these and developing markets to developing employee satisfaction in recent areas could affect the performance of Konecranes sells in many developing counyears and 2013 was no different. The recogKonecranes adversely. Konecranes manages tries and has its own personnel and manunition given to people for good work has its purchases and the logistics of materials facturing and supplier networks in these arproved successful and helps keep employee and components of substantial importance eas. Sudden changes in the political satisfaction at a high level. Employees’ perfor its operations on a centralized basis. environment, economic, or regulatory frameception of Konecranes’ overall leadership Contracts with key suppliers are designed to work of these areas can have an adverse culture is also very good. Fairness in rewardoptimize these purchases globally. effect on Konecranes’ business. By having ing and involving employees in decision-makDuring 2013, Konecranes continued to our own presence in some of these couning continues to be a key priority. develop the quality and scope of supplier tries, Konecranes gains direct information on Succession planning and talent managecooperation and its audit process. We have changes affecting the local business environment has been conducted to ensure that also continued to improve demand-supply ment. Additionally, Konecranes conducts Konecranes has a solid pipeline of future monitoring, balancing, and forecasting to imcareful evaluations of the political, social, leaders. prove our ability to respond to customer and economic environment in specific counneeds rapidly. In addition, we are further detries to ensure that it is aware of developAcquisitions veloping our use of cloud-based solutions to ments there. Unsuccessful acquisitions or a failure to sucprovide a real-time communication flow beThe risks related to emerging and develcessfully integrate an acquired company tween our supply base and manufacturing oping markets are balanced by Konecranes’ could result in reduced profitability or hamper entities. strong global presence and stable service the implementation of corporate strategy. operations in developed countries in Europe Konecranes reduces the risks associated Quality risks and North America. with acquisitions by carrying out thorough High-quality products, business procedures, Emerging countries represent a significant due diligence analyses, using external adviprocesses, and services play a key role in and ongoing market opportunity, as economsors when needed. minimizing Konecranes’ business risks. Most ic growth is expected to be faster there than The emphasis of acquisition process decompanies in the Group and all major Group the global average; and Konecranes will convelopment work during 2013 focused on joint operations use certified quality procedures. tinue its efforts to expand its presence in venture arrangements. Several existing quality certificates were upthese areas both through organic growth and dated and new ones received in 2013. Deacquisitions. Production risks termined certification work is continuing in In 2013, the focus was mainly on conKonecranes’ strategy is to maintain in-house line with Konecranes’ principles in this area. tinuing the development of existing operaproduction of key components that have high During 2013, Konecranes continued detions. Training personnel in our risk manageadded value and/or provide core competitive veloping both its local and global quality imment processes, including Konecranes’ Code advantages. There are specific risks involved provement processes. Lean Six Sigma trainof Conduct, was also prioritized. with different aspects of production, such as ing has been boosted to ensure continuous production capacity management, operationcompetence development to carry out sysPersonnel al efficiency, continuity, and quality. tematic process and quality development, Konecranes’ ability to operate is dependent Efforts have continued to further develop both locally and globally. Our product lineon the availability, expertise, and compeproduction operations. Continuous replacebased factory acceptance test system has tence of professional personnel. ment investments and enhanced maintebeen further developed as part of continuous Konecranes is continuing to develop its nance of production equipment have been improvement. Supplier quality has been deemployer brand, onboarding, recruiting, and carried out. The capacity of acquired compaveloped in the same way. resourcing practices to ensure that it has nies has become an integral part of the professional and engaged employees. global production network on a phased baSupplier risks Economic uncertainty continued to be an sis. Risk management is an essential eleKonecranes recognizes that price and contiissue in 2013 and also impacted Konecranes ment of production strategy. The safety and nuity risks are associated with some of its and its employees. security of key facilities continued to improve key suppliers, as they could be difficult to Despite uncertainty during the year, during 2013. replace. In the event of major production Konecranes continued to invest in training problems, this could undermine Konecranes’ and developing its employees. Particular emMaterial management delivery capability. Quality risks and defects phasis was given to increasing technical and procurement risks associated with subcontracted components training and starting the development of Material management and procurement opare quality risks for Konecranes. sales personnel. Employee engagement reerations require a proactive approach and To reduce subcontracting risks, mained at a high level. development to avoid risks related to issues Konecranes constantly seeks competitive such as pricing, quality, capacity, availability, alternative suppliers while improving coop46 Konecranes 2013 Risk management eration with existing suppliers. When availproducts and services. These may involve these risks through various insurance proable, alternative suppliers enhance price contractual disputes, warranty claims, prodgrams and by continuously improving its precompetition, increase production capacity, uct liability (including design defects, manuparedness to deal with various potential criand reduce Konecranes’ risks of single supfacturing defects, failure to post appropriate sis situations. plier dependency. warnings, and asbestos legacy), employment, During 2013, Konecranes continued harDuring 2013, Konecranes continued to auto liability, and other matters involving monizing its global occupational safety refocus on ensuring the quality of cooperation claims related to general liability. These risks quirements and instructions. Corporate to generate mutual benefits with critical supare managed by continuously monitoring opminimum requirements of safety in electrical pliers. Improving Konecranes’ quality proerations, improving product safety, training work, working at height, and using personal cesses enhanced the links between supplier customers, and making use of detailed sales protective equipment were implemented furquality and our customers’ quality experiterms. Konecranes also issues written polither down in the organization and integrated ence. cies in some cases to ensure compliance into common safety training. Improving harwith legislation, regulations, and Konecranes’ monization in these areas will continue over IT risks own principles across the Konecranes Group. the next few years. Konecranes IT is responsible for all IT serParticular emphasis is placed on training to vices, applications, and assets used by ensure that employees are aware of and Financial risks Group companies. Konecranes’ operations comply with the applicable legislation, regulaKonecranes manages most of its financial depend on the availability, reliability, quality, tions, and principles relating to their work. risk on a centralized basis through its Group confidentiality, and integrity of information. Konecranes’ Legal Department retains outTreasury. Group Treasury operates through Any and all information security risks and side experts to assist here when necessary. Konecranes Finance Corporation, which acts incidents may affect business performance as a financial vehicle for the Group at Corpoadversely. Illegal activities rate Headquarters. Konecranes Finance CorKonecranes uses reliable IT solutions and Konecranes aims to comply with all applicaporation is not a profit center that strives to employs efficient information security manble laws and regulations, but breaches of the maximize its profits, but rather its role is to agement to avoid data loss and prevent the company’s policies resulting in illegal activihelp the Group’s operating companies reconfidentiality, availability, or integrity of data ties can threaten the company. Konecranes duce the financial risks associated with from being compromised. User care and supconsiders the potential risks involved to be global business operations, such as market, port is exercised with internal and outlimited, however, although it recognizes that credit, and liquidity risks. The most signifisourced IT services to ensure the high availeven small-scale illegal activity could damage cant market risk relates to foreign currency ability, resiliency, and continuity of services, its reputation and affect its financial conditransaction risk. and rapid recovery in the event of any temtion and results adversely. Internal proceThe responsibility for identifying, evaluatporary loss of key services. dures, supervision, audits, and practical ing, and controlling the financial risks arising During 2013, Konecranes continued imtools are used to reduce Konecranes’ expofrom the Group’s global business operations plementing global IT applications, following sure to these types of risks. is divided between business units and the first pilots and business process harmoDuring 2013, Konecranes continued imKonecranes Finance Corporation. nization work. Implementations of this type proving and deploying tools and processes Units hedge their risks internally with always include risks in terms of schedule, related to good governance and management Group Treasury. The majority of the Group’s cost and content. Realization of schedule practices. Thanks to a concentrated effort, financial risks are channeled through risk may lead to delays in business benefit the vast majority of employees completed Konecranes Finance Corporation, where they realization. Content risk can be realized if a training on Konecranes’ Code of Conduct. can be evaluated and controlled efficiently. business model cannot be implemented as Almost all funding, cash management, planned with selected applications. Delays Damage risks and foreign exchange transactions with in schedules and challenges with implemenDamage risks include business interruption banks and other external counterparties are tations may lead to higher total project costs. risks, occupational health and safety-related carried out centrally by Konecranes Finance Konecranes IT operated as a business risks, environmental risks, fire and other disCorporation in accordance with the Group’s support function in 2013, with a presence in asters, natural events, and premises secuTreasury Policy. Only in a few special cases, roughly 20 countries. rity risks. Konecranes identifies and assesswhere local central bank regulations prohibit es these risks continuously as part of its the use of Group services for hedging and Contract and product liability risks business processes. To mitigate these risks, funding, is this done directly between an opKonecranes can be subject to various legal we have adopted a number of occupational erating company and a bank under the superactions, claims, and other proceedings in health and safety guidelines, certification vision of Group Treasury. various countries typical for a company in its principles, rescue planning, and premises Konecranes Finance Corporation uses a industry and consistent with a global busisecurity instructions. Konecranes has also treasury system that enables transactions to ness that encompasses a wide range of sought to prepare for the materialization of be processed in real time and provides inRisk management Konecranes 2013 47 depth records of activities and performance. other requirements covering listed compaCorporate governance and business manStandard reporting is done on a weekly basis nies. Risk management is considered an agement at Konecranes are based on the and covers Group-level commercial and finanintegral part of running the Konecranes busicompany’s values of trust in people, total cial cash flows, foreign currency transaction ness. Konecranes’ corporate risk manageservice commitment, and sustained profitaexposure, debt positions, derivatives portfoment principles provide a basic framework bility. The control environment is the foundalios, and counterparty credit exposure for fifor risk management, while each Group comtion for all the other components of internal nancial transactions. In addition, all Group pany or operating unit is responsible for its control and for promoting employees’ awarecompanies participate in monthly managerial own risk management. This principle is also ness of key issues. It supports the execution and statutory reporting. followed in risk management related to finanof strategy and regulatory compliance. The See Note 3 to the Financial Statements cial reporting. Board of Directors and Group Management and the Board of Directors’ Report for a deManagement of financial risks is deare responsible for defining the Konecranes tailed overview of financial risk management. scribed in Note 3 of Konecranes’ Financial Group’s control environment through corpoStatements 2013. rate policies, instructions, and financial reInsurance porting frameworks. These include the The Group reviews its insurance policies as Control environment Konecranes Code of Conduct and the part of its overall risk management on a conKonecranes simplified its operational model Konecranes Controller’s Manual, which continuous basis. Insurance policies are used as from January 1, 2013 to further improve stitutes the main tool for accounting and fito cover all risks that are economically feasiresult accountability, clarity, speed, and cost nancial reporting principles in respect of ble or otherwise reasonable to insure. efficiency. The main changes were as follows: providing information, guidelines, and instrucThe Market Operations and Business tions. The interpretation and application of Internal Auditing Area Service organizations have been conaccounting standards is the responsibility of Konecranes’ Internal Audit function is an insolidated under a single executive in the the Global Finance function. Guidelines and dependent, objective assurance and consultGroup Executive Board (GXB), thus eliminatinstructions for reporting are updated when ing unit, which assists the organization in ing the earlier matrix structure in Business necessary and are reviewed at least once a achieving its objectives. The unit evaluates Area Service and allowing it to be managed year. the efficiency of risk management, control, as a straightforward line organization accordand governance processes and investigates ing to the regional structure. Control activities all reports of suspected incidents. The latter Business Area Equipment continues to Konecranes Group management has operacan be made in person or through a confidenoperate as a matrix organization where Globtional responsibility for internal controls. Fitial e-mail reporting channel. al Business Units form one dimension and nancial control activities are integrated into Internal Audit operates according to an Geographical Regions the other dimension. the business processes of the Konecranes audit plan approved by the Board’s Audit Global Business Units have end-to-end result Group and management’s business superviCommittee. The unit’s working methods are accountability. sion and monitoring procedures. The Group based on the professional standards laid The regional structure of Konecranes has has identified and documented the signifidown by the Institute of Internal Auditors (IIA) been changed to give it a more natural geocant internal controls that relate to its finanand focus on process-oriented engagement graphical alignment. The new internal regioncial processes either directly or indirectly rather than solely entity-based auditing. al structure (Geographical Regions) includes through other processes. The total number Administratively, Internal Audit reports to newly configured Region Europe (EUR) and of identified financial internal controls is apthe Group CFO; and Internal Audit activities Region India, Middle East and Africa (IMEA). proximately 120. All legal entities and busiare reported to the Board’s Audit Committee Regions Americas (AME) and Asia-Pacific ness units have their own defined controller on a regular basis. (APAC) continue as before. functions. Representatives from controller Financial targets are set and planning/ functions participate in planning and evaluatInternal control and risk follow-up activities are executed along both dimensions of the matrix organization in acing unit performance, and ensure that monthly and quarterly financial reporting follows management related to cordance with the overall business targets of the Group’s policies and instructions and financial reporting the Konecranes Group. The operations of the Service business are typically monitored that all financial reports are delivered on time in accordance with schedules set by the Internal control related to financial reporting based on profit-responsible service branches Group. is designed to provide reasonable assurance (345 in 2013), which are further consolidatManagement follow-up is carried out concerning the reliability of financial reported to country and region levels, and business through monthly management reporting rouing and the preparation of financial stateunits (6 in 2013). The Equipment business tines and performance review meetings. ments for external purposes in accordance is mainly monitored via business units (5 in These meetings are conducted by business with generally accepted accounting princi2013), which are divided into business lines. units/business areas, on country and reples, applicable laws and regulations, and gional, as well as Group level, and cover a 48 Konecranes 2013 Risk management Control Environment Main features of Internal Control related to financial reporting Board of Directors Review of financial performance Audit Committee Overview of financial reporting process External Audit Business supervision CEO and Group management Feedback and monitoring Internal Audit Management teams in Business supervision Business Areas and Regions and monitoring Feedback Reporting units Business Controlling Konecranes financial reporting manual (Controller’s Manual) FUNCTION CONTROL ACTIVITIES review of the competitive situation, market Committee review all external financial reDuring 2013 sentiment, order intake and order book, ports before they are made public. Konecranes continued its IT system project monthly financial performance, quarterly and The Group has a confidential e-mail re(ERP for both the Service and Equipment rolling 12-month forecasts, as well as safety, porting channel (Whistleblower channel) business areas, CRM and People system) to people, and customer topics. Group managethrough which matters related to suspected further develop and implement harmonized ment follows up separately most important misconduct can be reported. All notices of processes, increase operational visibility and development activities; for example major IT suspected incidents are investigated by Inimprove decision-making, and reduce the development activities are monitored by the ternal Audit and findings are reported to the overall number of various IT systems. The Business Infrastructure Board and R&D proAudit Committee. We received six reports of pilot unit of the ERP system was launched at jects by the Product Board. These Managesuspected misconduct via the Whistleblower the end of September 2011, roll-outs took ment Boards convene typically on a quarchannel in 2013; these cases did not have place in several new units in 2013, and furterly basis. a material impact on the Group’s financial ther roll-outs will continue in other units over results. the next few years. Konecranes continued Monitoring the implementation and development of the The Group conducts an annual self-assessCommunication Financial Shared Service Center (FSSC) conment through its controllers to monitor the The Controller’s Manual, together with reportcept to offer mainly transaction handling sereffectiveness of selected financial internal ing instructions and policies, are stored in vices, financial master data maintenance, controls. The Group also has an Internal Authe Konecranes intranet for access by perand some financial accounting services from dit function, which is responsible for monitorsonnel. The Group, Business Areas, and Reregional centers to individual Konecranes ing and evaluating the effectiveness of gions also arrange meetings to share inforcompanies. Konecranes’ risk management and internal mation on financial processes and practices. The internal control environment will be control system. Internal Audit plans its work Information for the Group’s stakeholders is improved using common, unified processes in cooperation with the Audit Committee, regularly communicated via the Konecranes and a common system platform. Monitoring which approves an annual internal audit Group’s website. To ensure that the informathe effectiveness of internal controls will beplan. The Audit Committee receives direct tion provided is comprehensive and accurate, come more transparent following the implereports from external auditors and discusses the Group has established a set of external mentation of the ERP system. Financial and follows up their viewpoints. External aucommunications guidelines. These define Shared Service Centers create a unified ditors are also represented at Audit Commithow, by whom, and when information should framework for transactional processing and tee meetings. The Group’s financial perforbe issued; and are designed to ensure that provide an enhanced segregation of duties. mance is reviewed at every Board meeting, Konecranes meets all its information obligaand the Board of Directors and the Audit tions and to further strengthen internal controls related to financial reporting. Risk management Konecranes 2013 49 Board of Directors 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 50 Konecranes 2013 Board of directors Stig Gustavson 2 Federation: Board Member Independent of the company and its significant Svante Adde 4 b. 1945 shareholders. b. 1956 Chairman of the Board since 2005. Board Shares: 2,375 Board Member since 2004, Member of the Audit Member since 1994 and Member of the Committee since 2004 and Chairman of the Nomination and Compensation Committee since 2006. Bertel Langenskiöld 3 Audit Committee since 2008. B.Sc. (Econ. and Business Administration) M.Sc. (Eng.), Dr.Tech. (hon.) b. 1950 Principal occupation: Senior Adviser, Lincoln Principal occupation: Board Professional Board Member since 2012 and Chairman of the International, Board Professional Primary working experience: Nomination and Compensation Committee since Primary working experience: KCI Konecranes Plc 1994–2005: President and 2012. Pöyry Capital Limited, London 2007–2013: CEO; KONE Cranes division 1988–1994: M.Sc. (Eng.) Managing Director; Compass Advisers, London President; KONE Corporation 1982–1988, and Principal occupation: 2005 – 2007: Managing Director; Ahlstrom prior to 1982: Holder of various executive Managing Director, Hartwall Capital Oy Ab Corporation 2003 – 2005: Chief Financial Officer; positions in major Finnish corporations. Primary working experience: Lazard London and Stockholm 2000 – 2003: Current key positions of trust: Metso Paper and Fiber Technology 2009 – 2011: Managing Director; Lazard London 1989 – 2000: Ahlström Capital Oy: Chairman of the Board; President; Metso Paper 2007 – 2008: President; Director; Citibank 1979 – 1989: Director Cramo Plc: Chairman of the Board; Dynea Oy: Metso Paper’s Fiber Business Line 2006 – 2007: Current key positions of trust: Vice Chairman of the Board; Handelsbanken President; Metso Minerals 2003 – 2006: Meetoo AB: Chairman of the Board; Rörvik Regional Bank Finland: Chairman of the Board; President; Fiskars Corporation 2001 – 2003: Timber AB: Board Member; Cambium Global Oy Mercantile Ab: Vice Chairman of the Board; President and CEO; Tampella Power/Kvaerner Timberlands Ltd: Board Member ÅR Packaging AB: Chairman of the Board; IK Pulping, Power Division 1994 – 2000: President Independent of the company and its significant Investment Partners: Senior Regional Advisor; Current key positions of trust: shareholders. Technology Academy Foundation: Chairman of Karelia-Upofloor Oy: Board Member; Luvata Oy: Shares: 6,770 the Board; Mutual Pension Insurance Company Board Member; Inkerman International AB: Board Varma: Member of the Supervisory Board. Member Stig Gustavson is deemed to be dependent of the Mr. Bertel Langenskiöld is independent of the Malin Persson 5 company based on the Board’s overall evaluation Company. Mr. Langenskiöld is deemed to be b. 1968 relating to his former and current positions in dependent of significant shareholders of the Board Member since 2005 and Member of the Konecranes combined with his substantial voting Company based on his current position as the Audit Committee since 2012. Member of the rights in the company. *) He is independent of any Managing Director of Hartwall Capital Oy Ab. HTT Nomination and Compensation Committee significant shareholder. KCR Holding Oy Ab holds more than 10 percent of 2005 – 2011. Shares: 4,149 Konecranes Plc’s shares and votes. HTT KCR M.Sc. (Eng.) Holding Oy Ab is a subsidiary of Hartwall Capital Principal occupation: President & CEO, The Oy Ab. In addition, HTT KCR Holding Oy Ab, K. Chalmers University Foundation Matti Kavetvuo 1 Hartwall Invest Oy Ab, Fyrklöver-Invest Oy Ab and Ronnas Invest AG will in practice co-operate in Primary working experience: Volvo Group: Holder of various executive positions including: b. 1944 matters concerning their ownership in Konecranes Volvo Technology Corporation: President and Board Member since 2001. Chairman of the Plc. CEO; AB Volvo: VP, Corporate Strategy and Nomination and Compensation Committee Shares: 1,659 Business Development; Volvo Transport 2009–2011 and Member 2012. Corporation: VP, Business & Logistics Member of the Audit Committee 2004 – 2008. M.Sc. (Eng.), B.Sc. (Econ.) Tapani Järvinen 6 Development Current key positions of trust: Hexpol AB: Board Principal occupation: Board Professional b. 1946 Member; Becker Industrial Coatings: Board Primary working experience: Board Member since 2009 and Member of the Member Pohjola Group Plc 2000 – 2001: CEO; Valio Ltd Audit Committee since 2009. Independent of the company and its significant 1992 – 1999: CEO; Orion Corporation M.Sc. (Eng), Lic. Sc. (Tech.) shareholders. 1985 – 1991: CEO; Instrumentarium Corp. Principal occupation: Board Professional Shares: 5,918 1979 – 1984: President Primary working experience: Current key positions of trust: No current key Outotec Oyj 2006 – 2009: President and CEO; positions of trust. Outokumpu Technology, Finland 2003 – 2006: Mikael Silvennoinen 8 Independent of the company and its significant President and CEO; Outokumpu Oyj, Finland b. 1956 shareholders. 2000 – 2005: Executive VP and Member of the Board Member since 2008 and Member of the Shares: 10,749 Group Executive Committee; Compañía Minera Audit Committee since 2008. Zaldívar, Chile 1994 – 2000: General Manager M.Sc. (Econ.) and CEO Nina Kopola 7 Current key positions of trust: Principal occupation: Executive Chairman of the Board, IMS Talent Oy Okmetic Oyj: Vice Chairman of the Board; b. 1960 Primary working experience: Pohjola Group Outotec Oyj: Board Member; Normet Oy: Board Board Member since 2011 and Member of the 1997 – 2013: President and CEO; 1989 – 1997: Member; Talvivaara Mining Company Plc: Nomination and Compensation Committee since Holder of various executive positions; Wärtsilä Chairman of the Board; Dragon Mining Ltd, 2011. Group 1983 – 1989: Group Treasurer Australia: Board Member; Finpro ry: Vice M.Sc. (Chemical Eng.), Lic. Sc. (Tech.) Current key positions of trust: Unico Banking Chairman of the Board Principal occupation: President and CEO, Group: Board Member; The Finnish Foundation Independent of the company and its significant Suominen Corporation for Share Promotion: Board Member shareholders. Primary working experience: Independent of the company and its significant Shares: 4,263 Dynea Oy 2008 – 2011: Executive VP, President shareholders. Europe; Dynea Oy 2006 – 2008: Executive VP, Shares: 4,702 Global Market Applications; Dynea Oy 2005 – 2006: Group VP, Marketing; Dynea Oy 2000 – 2005: Various management positions in * Konecranes Plc received information on December 28, 2011 that the Chairman of the Board of Marketing, Controlling and Business Analysis Directors, Mr. Stig Gustavson, had donated all the shares he owned in Konecranes Plc at that time to Current key position of trust: his near relatives, while retaining the voting rights and right to a dividend attached to these shares for The Chemical Industry Federation of Finland: life. The donation encompasses a total of 2,069,778 shares. Board Member; The Finnish Plastics Industries Board of directors Konecranes 2013 51 Group Executive Board 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 52 Konecranes 2013 Group executive board Pekka Lundmark 4 Fabio Fiorino 7 Antti Koskelin 2 b. 1963 b. 1967 b. 1970 President and CEO Executive Vice President, Head of Business Chief Information Officer, CIO Member of the Group Executive Board since Area Service and Chief Customer Officer; Acting Member of the Group Executive Board since 2004 Head of Region APAC (Asia-Pacific) as of June 2013 Employed 2004 1, 2013 Member of the Extended Management Team M.Sc. (Eng.) Member of the Group Executive Board since 2009–2012 Primary working experience: KCI Konecranes 2012 Employed 2009 2004–2005: Group Executive Vice President; Employed 1995 B.Sc. (Information Technology) Hackman Abp 2002–2004: CEO; Startupfactory B. Eng. P.Eng. MBA Primary working experience: Nokia Corporation 2000–2002: Managing Partner; Nokia Primary working experience: Konecranes 1994–2008: Several global leadership positions Corporation 1990–2000: various executive Americas 2010–2011: Vice President, Head of in the USA and in Finland. positions Service, Region Americas; Morris Material Shares: 560 Current key positions of trust: Marimekko Ltd.: Handling, Inc. 2006–2009: President; R&M Options to acquire: 15,000 shares Chairman of the Board; Federation of Finnish Materials Handling, Inc. 1999–2006 / Drivecon, Technology Industries: Inc. 2002–2006: President; Konecranes Vice Chairman of the Board; Valmet Corporation: Board Member and Member of the Board’s Americas 1998–1999: Vice President, Business Development, Latin America; Konecranes Timo Leskinen 1 Remuneration and HR Committee Canada, Inc. 1995–1998: Marketing Manager; b. 1970 (since Dec. 31, 2013). AECL 1989–1994: Mechanical/Project Engineer Senior Vice President, Human Resources (as of Shares: 225,520 Shares: August 1, 2013) Options to acquire: 80,000 shares Options to acquire: 9,000 shares Member of the Group Executive Board since 2013 Employed 2013 M.Sc. (Psy) Teo Ottola 5 Mikko Uhari 3 Primary working experience: Fiskars 2009– 2013: Vice President, Human Resources; Nokia b. 1968 b. 1957 Services 2008–2009: Director HR; Nokia Chief Financial Officer Executive Vice President, Strategy and Customer and Market Operations 2006–2007: Member of the Group Executive Board since Technology Director, HR; Nokia Ventures Organization 2004– 2007 Member of the Group Executive Board since 2006: Head of Operations; MPS 1999–2000: HR Employed 2007 1997 Consultant M.Sc. (Econ.) Employed 1997 Shares: Primary working experience: Elcoteq SE 2004– Lic. Sc. (Eng.) Options to acquire: 10,000 shares 2007: CFO; Elcoteq Network Oyj 1999–2004: Primary working experience: KCI Konecranes/ Senior Vice President (Business Control and Konecranes 2011–2012: Executive Vice Accounting); Elcoteq Network Oyj 1998–1999: President, Head of Market Operations, 2010– Group Business Controller; Elcoteq Lohja Oy 2011: Executive Vice President, Head of 1996–1998: Business Controller; Rautaruukki Business Area Equipment, 2005–2009: Oy 1992–1996: Financial Planner President, New Equipment Business Areas; KCI Shares: 24,385 Konecranes 2004–2005: President, Special Options to acquire: 32,500 shares Cranes (Heavy Lifting); KCI Konecranes 1997– 2003: President, Harbor and Shipyard Cranes; KONE Corporation 1982–1997: Various Hannu Rusanen 6 managerial positions at Wood Handling Division (Andritz as of 1996–) in Finland, Sweden and in b. 1957 the USA, including: 1996–1997 Group Vice Executive Vice President, Head of Business President, Marketing; 1992–1996: Group Vice Area Equipment President, Project Business; 1990–1992: Member of the Group Executive Board since Director, Wood Handling Unit, Finland 2004 Shares: 100,333 Employed 2003 Options to acquire: 50,000 shares M.Sc. (Eng.) Primary working experience: Konecranes 2007– 2011: Executive Vice President, Head of Business Area Service; KCI Konecranes/ Konecranes 2003–2006: Country Executive, Nordic; ABB Finland 1995–2002: Vice President, Service; Tampella Oy 1982–1995: Various management positions in Finland and in the USA Shares: 45,508 Options to acquire: 25,000 shares Group Executive board Konecranes 2013 53 Senior Management Team Ryan Flynn Equipment; 2002–2004: Managing Director, Hoist factory; 1999–2001: R&D Manager; 1996– Employed 1997 M.Sc. (Eng.) b. 1971 1998: Technical Director, Components, Singapore Primary working experience: KCI Konecranes/ Senior Vice President, Head of Region APAC Current key positions of trust: Konecranes 2006–2007: Director, VLC Cranes; (Asia-Pacific) (until May 31, 2013) Board member of FEM (The European Federation KCI Konecranes 2000–2006: Director, STS Member of the Senior Management Team 2013; of Materials Handling Equipment Manufacturers); Cranes; KCI Konecranes 1997–2000: Project Member of the Extended Management Team Member of Technology Industries of Finland Manager, Harbor and Shipyard Cranes; 2009–2013 Business and Technology Working Group Crown Cork & Seal Company 1996–1997: World Employed 2005–2013 Shares: 10,815 Class Manufacturing Manager; Partek Group MBA, BCom Options to acquire: 30,000 shares 1990–1995: Various managerial positions in Primary working experience: Konecranes Plc., Business Area Precast Concrete in Finland and China 2005–2009: Director, Ports & Lift trucks; NFS Industrial Machinery, South Africa 2003– Aku Lehtinen Belgium Shares: 2,169 2005: General Manager; Afinta Motor b. 1969 Options to acquire: 30,000 shares Corporation, South Africa 1996–2000: Director; Senior Vice President, Head of Region IMEA Standard Bank, South Africa 1990–1996: Business Manager (India, Middle-East & Africa) Member of the Senior Management Team since Tomas Myntti Shares: 1,000 2013; Member of the Extended Management b. 1963 Options to acquire: 30,000 shares Team 2010–2013 Senior Vice President, Head of Region EUR Employed 1994 (Europe) Lars Fredin M.Sc. (Eng.) Primary working experience: Konecranes 2011– Member of the Senior Management Team since 2013; Member of the Extended Management b. 1961 2012: Senior Vice President, Head of Region Team 2011–2013 Vice President, Head of Business Unit Lift WEMEA (Western Europe, Middle East and Employed 2008 Trucks Africa); 2010–2011: Senior Vice President, Head M.Sc. (Eng.) Member of the Senior Management Team since of Region NEI (Nordic, East Europe and India); Primary working experience: Konecranes 2011– 2013 2008–2010: Director, South East Europe; KCI 2012: Senior Vice President, Head of Region NEI Employed 2009 Konecranes/Konecranes 2006–2008: Director, (Nordic, Eastern Europe and India); 2010–2011: BSc, Small Business Management RTG Cranes; KCI Konecranes 2004–2006: Sales Vice President, Head of Industrial Cranes, Region Primary working experience: Bromma Conquip Director, Yard Cranes; 1994–2004: Sales, project NEI; 2009: Director, Market Operations, Head of AB 2003–2009: Vice President Sales & & product management positions in Asia, Middle Global Key Account Management and Sales Marketing; Metget AB 2000–2003: Business East and Europe. Development; 2008: Director, Business Consultant and Sales &Marketing Director (RFID Shares: 302 Development, Business Area New Equipment; technology); Kalmar AC 1998–2000: President; Options to acquire: 30,000 shares TietoEnator Oyj 2007–2008: Chief Marketing Kalmar Industries 1996–1998: Area Manager, Officer, Business Area Telecom and Media; East Asia Shares: 142 Pekka Lettijeff Hantro Products Oy 2000–2007: Senior Vice President, Sales and Marketing; Cadence Design Options to acquire: 22,500 shares b. 1961 Systems 1996–2000: Global Account Director; Chief Supply Chain Officer, Head of Supply Chain Intel Corporation 1994–1996: Global Account Manager; Cap Gemini 1989–1994: Various Miikka Kinnunen Management (until August 31, 2013) Member of the Senior Management Team management positions; Digital Equipment 2013; Member of the Extended Management Corporation 1984–1989: Various positions b. 1977 Shares: 358 Director, Investor Relations Team 2012–2013; Member of the Group Executive Board 2008–2011 Options to acquire: 10,000 shares Member of the Senior Management Team since 2013 Employed 2008–2013 Employed 2009 University Degree in Business Administration, University of Växjö, Sweden Jukka Paasonen M.Sc. (Econ.) Primary working experience: Carnegie Primary working experience: Nokia Siemens b. 1963 Investment Bank AB 2001–2009: Financial Networks 2007–2008: Head of Global Vice President, Head of Crane Products Analyst Purchasing, Nokia Networks 2001–2008: Vice Member of the Senior Management Team since Shares: President, Supply Network Management and Vice 2013 Options to acquire: 5,000 shares President, Sourcing; Astra Zeneca 2000–2001: Employed 1988 Vice President, Global Supply and Purchasing; B.Sc. 1986–1999: Various executive purchasing Primary working experience: KCI Konecranes/ Ari Kiviniitty positions in automotive companies in the USA, Konecranes 2011–2012: Vice President, Sweden and Germany Industrial Cranes, Standard Duty Cranes; 2008– b. 1957 Current key positions of trust: Sanitec 2011: Director, Sales Support, Standard Lifting; Senior Vice President, Product Management Corporation, Board member 2006–2008: Director, Regional Sales Support, and Engineering; Acting Chief Technology Shares: Standard Lifting; 2004–2006: Area Manager, Officer (until Jan 31, 2013) Options to acquire: 15,000 shares West Europe and South America, Standard Member of the Senior Management Team since Lifting; KCI Konecranes 1997–2003: Sales 2013; Member of the Extended Management Team 2012–2013; Member of the Executive Mika Mahlberg Manager, Americas Component Center, Springfield, USA; 1990–1997: Various positions Board 2005–Jan 31, 2013 in Sales and Area Support as well as in Product Employed 1983 b. 1963 Vice President, Head of Business Unit Port Management, KCI Hoists; 1988–1990: Special M.Sc. (Eng.) Applications Engineer, Hoist Factory, Finland Primary working experience: KCI Konecranes Cranes Member of the Senior Management Team since Shares: 90 2004–2005: Vice President, Standard Lifting Options to acquire: 5,000 shares 2013 54 Konecranes 2013 Senior management team Juha Pankakoski Konecranes 1989–2001: President, Maintenance Services, North America; KONE Corporation School of Applied Science in Engineering Primary working experience: Konecranes 2010– b. 1967 1984–1988: Vice President, Maintenance 2011: Vice President, Head of Components; Vice President, Head of Business Unit Parts Services, North America; Robbins and Myers 2008–2010: Director, Branded Products, Member of the Senior Management Team since 1980–1984: District Manager Standard lifting; KCI Konecranes/Konecranes 2013 Shares: 16,184 2002–2008: Director, Industrial Cranes & Employed 2004 Options to acquire: 30,000 shares Components, Standard Lifting; KCI Konecranes M.Sc. (Eng.), eMBA 1981–2002: Various positions as Material Primary working experience: Konecranes 2008– 2010: Director, Corporate Business Process Topi Tiitola controller, Purchaser, Purchasing Manager, Project Manager, Factory Manager, Operation Manager, Development; 2004–2008: Director, Supply b. 1969 Sales Manager and General Manager Operations; Tellabs 2003–2004: Vice President, Director, Business Analysis and Support (as of Shares: 3,382 Supply Chain Operations; 2002–2003: Regional November 1, 2013) Options to acquire: 12,000 shares Director, EMEA Operations; 2000–2002: Director, Member of the Senior Management Team since Operations; 1998–2000: Plant Manager; Philips Medical Systems 1997–1998: Operations 2013 Employed 1995 Mikael Wegmüller Manager; FujitsuICL Computers 1993–1997: M.Sc. (Econ) b. 1966 Various management positions in operations and Primary working experience: Konecranes Plc Vice President, Marketing and Communications business development 2005–2013: Group Business Controller; Member of the Senior Management team since Shares: Konecranes 2000–2005: Financial Director, 2013 Options to acquire: 19,000 shares Standard Lifting Equipment; 1995–2000: Several Member of the Extended Management Team controller positions 2009–2013 Sirpa Poitsalo Shares: 506 Options to acquire: 3,500 Member of the Executive Board 2006–2009 Employed 2006 b. 1963 M.Sc. Vice President, General Counsel Member of the Senior Management Team since Tapani Tilus Primary working experience: Publicis Helsinki Oy 2003–2006: Chief Operating Officer; SEK & 2013; Member of the Extended Management b. 1974 GREY Oy 2000–2003: Planning Group Director; Team 2009–2013; Member of the Executive Vice President, Head of Light Lifting Publicis Törmä Oy 1997–2000: Planning Group Board 1999–2009 Member of the Senior Management Team since Director; Finelor Oy (now L’Oreal Finland Oy) Employed 1988 2013 1993–1997: Sales and Marketing Manager; LL.M. Employed 1998 Chips Abp 1991–1993: Product Group Manager Primary working experience: KCI Konecranes M.Sc. (Eng.) Shares: 5,886 1997–1998: Assistant General Counsel; KONE Primary working experience: Konecranes 2010– Options to acquire: 10,000 shares Corporation/KCI Konecranes, 1988–1997: Legal 2011: Vice President, Marketing and new service Counsel Shares: 28,781 products Business Area Service; KCI Konecranes/Konecranes 2006–2009: Director Ilkka Ylänen Options to acquire: 18,000 shares Parts, Business Area Service; KCI Konecranes b. 1960 2003–2006: General manager, Crane Parts Chief Supply Chain Officer, Head of Supply Chain Jaana Rinne Center; 1998–2002: Various positions as Financial controller, system and process Management (as of September 1, 2013) Member of the Senior Management Team since v. 1962 development & component sales 2013 Vice President, Human Resources (until April Shares: 2,974 Employed 1985 30, 2013) Options to acquire: 12,000 M.Sc (Eng.) Member of the Senior Management Team Primary working experience: KCI Konecranes/ 2013; Member of the Extended Management Team 2009–2013; Member of the Group Marko Tulokas Konecranes 2003–2013: Various positions in engineering, production management and Executive Board 2007–2009 b. 1972 business related IT systems; KCI Konecranes Employed 1986–2013 Vice President, Head of Industrial Crane 1985–2003: Different positions in manufacturing M.Sc. (Econ.) Solutions and supply chain management. Primary working experience: KCI Konecranes/ Member of the Senior Management Team since Shares: 2,295 Konecranes 2004–2006: Director, Human 2013 Options to acquire: 2,500 Resources for Service; KCI Konecranes 1997– Employed 2004 2004: Different positions within human resources in Standard Lifting: KONE Corporation/ M.Sc. (Eng), MBA Primary working experience: Konecranes 2010– Marko Äkräs KCI Konecranes 1986–1997: Different positions 2011: Director, Head of Business process b. 1967 in finance management; Konecranes 2008–2010: Director, Vice President, Head of Customer and Service Shares: 3,072 Delivery Process; Konecranes 2007–2008: Technology. Deputy Head of BA Service. Options to acquire: shares Director, Strategy and Business Development, Member of the Senior Management team since Process cranes; KCI Konecranes 2004–2007: 2013; Member of the Extended Management Tom Sothard Leadership positions in sourcing and supply chain management in China and Finland; Asko Team 2012–2013 Employed 1992 b. 1957 Appliances, Uponor Plc: 1998–2002: Several M.Sc. (Eng.) Senior Vice President, Head of Region Americas positions in supply chain management Primary working experience: Konecranes 2009– Member of the Senior Management Team since Shares: 274 2011: Vice President, Head of Service West2013; Member of the Extended Management Options to acquire: 2,501 shares Europe, Middle East and Africa; 2007–2009: Team 2009–2013; Member of the Executive Director, Head of Crane Service business unit; Board 1995–2009 Employed 1983 Kari Utriainen KCI Konecranes 2004–2007: Director, Crane Service Nordic; 2001–2004: General Manager, B.Sc. (Marketing) b. 1958 Global Parts Center; Kone Corporation/KCI Primary working experience: KCI Konecranes Vice President, Head of Business Unit Alfa Konecranes 1993–2001: Various positions in 2001–2006: President, Global Maintenance Member of the Senior Management Team since service and product management Services; 1995–2002: Group Vice President, 2013 Shares: 469 North America; KONE Corporation/KCI Employed 1981 Options to acquire: 13,000 shares Senior management team Konecranes 2013 55 56 Konecranes 2013 Financial Statements contents 58 Report of the Board of Directors 108 Calculation of key figures 121 Auditor’s report 67 Consolidated statement 109 Company list 122 Shares & shareholders of income – IFRS 68 112 Parent company 126 Investor information Consolidated balance sheet – IFRS statement of income – FAS 70 113 128 Contact details Consolidated statement Parent company of changes in equity – IFRS cash flow statement – FAS 71 Consolidated cash flow 114 Parent company balance sheet – FAS statement – IFRS 72 116 Notes to the parent company Notes to the consolidated financial statement financial statements 107 120 Board of Director’s Konecranes Group 2009–2013 proposal to the AGM Financial Statements Konecranes 2013 57 Report of the Board of Directors Market review In terms of the macroeconomic development, 2013 was very much The trend in steel and copper prices remained downward in a repetition of 2012 as the U.S. outperformed most of the other 2013. After relatively stable development during the first half of regions. American economic activity in the manufacturing sector, the year, the EUR appreciated somewhat against the USD in the measured by the purchasing managers’ index (PMI), expanded second half. almost throughout the year. The momentum even improved in the Note: Unless otherwise stated, the figures in brackets in the second half of the year. The U.S. manufacturing capacity utilization sections below refer to the same period in the previous year. rate was relatively stable compared with the previous year. According to the PMI surveys, the Eurozone manufacturing activity was downbeat January–June, but expanded slightly in the secOrders received ond half of the year. While the second-half increase was modest, it In 2013, the orders received fell by 2.5 percent to EUR 1,920.8 milwas generally interpreted as a potential turning point as it followed lion (1,970.1). Orders received declined by 2.6 percent in Service a contraction of activity that lasted for two years. The manufacturand by 1.5 percent in Equipment. The decline in new orders was ing capacity utilization in the European Union was below the previalmost entirely attributable to negative currency changes. Orders ous year on average. However, some signs of a small uptick could received decreased in the Americas and EMEA regions, while they be observed towards the end of 2013. increased in Asia-Pacific mainly due to a large port crane order Following a slowdown in 2012, the economic growth in emergreceived from Indonesia in the first quarter. Acquisitions had an ing markets was expected to accelerate and to provide an impetus immaterial impact on the orders received in January–December. to the global economy in 2013. Purchasing managers’ indexes in Brazil, Russia, India and China (BRIC countries) signaled expansion of the industrial output at the beginning of 2013. However, PMIs in Order book the BRIC countries lost momentum by the end of first half of the The value of the order book at year-end 2013 totaled EUR 893.5 year leading to downgrades in growth forecasts. The Chinese PMI million (942.7), which is 5.2 percent lower than at the end of 2012. data pointed again to a slow rise in manufacturing output towards The order book decreased by 12.3 percent from the third quarter the end of the year, but the signs of this in the real economy were when it stood at EUR 1,018.9 million. Service accounted for EUR still scarce. 128.1 million (14 percent) and Equipment for EUR 765.3 million Overall, the world’s manufacturing sector activity, according to (86 percent) of the total end-December order book. the aggregated JPMorgan Global Manufacturing PMI, increased modestly in 2013, but gained steam towards the end of the year. Compared to the previous year, the demand for lifting equipSales ment decreased on a global basis among industrial customers in Group sales in the full-year 2013 decreased by 3.3 percent and 2013. Demand for process cranes was particularly weak due to totaled EUR 2,099.6 million (2,171.5). Sales in Service increased the reduced investments within the mining & metals and pulp & by 0.6 percent but decreased in Equipment by 5.9 percent. Acquipaper industries. Geographically, demand remained on a weak level sitions had an immaterial impact on sales in January–December. in Western Europe, China, and India. In North America, demand for In 2013, the regional breakdown was as follows: EMEA 47 (48), industrial cranes slumped after the solid progress in 2012, while Americas 36 (33) and APAC 17 (19) percent. the demand for crane components remained stable. The demand development was positive in the Middle East, while it softened in Australia and South East Asia. Currency rate effect The global container traffic grew by about 3 percent in 2013, and In a year-on-year comparison, the currency rates had a negative the project activity with container ports was satisfactory. The orders effect on the orders and sales in January–December. The reported for new automated port solutions decreased from the previous year order intake declined by 2.5 percent and by 0.1 percent at compaas several new automated container terminals were already under rable currency rates. Reported sales decreased by 3.3 percent and construction. Geographically, the most active markets were North by 1.0 percent at comparable currency rates. America, South East Asia, Australia, and Africa. Demand was slugIn Service, the reported January–December order intake gish in Europe. The demand for shipyard cranes continued to be decreased by 2.6 percent but increased by 0.4 percent at compaconcentrated in Brazil. rable currencies. In Equipment, the orders decreased by 1.5 perThe demand for lifting equipment services was overall stable cent in reported terms, but increased by 0.5 percent at comparable with the regional development reflecting the differences in induscurrencies. Service sales grew by 0.6 percent in reported terms trial production growth rates. As for the largest markets, demand and by 3.6 percent at comparable currencies. In Equipment, the increased in North America whereas the European demand was corresponding figures were -5.9 percent and -4.1 percent. stable. 58 Konecranes 2013 Report of the Board of Directors Net sales by region, MEUR Change % at comparable 1–12/2013 1–12/2012 Change percent currency rates EMEA 979.8 1,043.7 -6.1 -5.1 AME 752.9 721.0 4.4 7.9 APAC 366.9 406.9 -9.8 -6.0 Total 2,099.6 2,171.5 -3.3 -1.0 Financial result The consolidated operating profit in full-year 2013 totaled EUR The January–December net profit was EUR 49.4 million (84.8). 84.5 million (132.5), decreasing in total by EUR 48.0 million. The In 2013, the basic earnings per share were EUR 0.85 (1.47), operating profit includes restructuring costs of EUR 30.9 million and diluted earnings per share were EUR 0.85 (1.46). (5.8) booked in the first, third and fourth quarter of 2013, of which In 2013, the return on capital employed was 11.6 percent (18.4) EUR 12.8 million (0.0) related to the Business Area Service and and return on equity 10.9 percent (18.8). EUR 16.6 million (5.8) to the Business Area Equipment. The consolidated operating margin fell to 4.0 percent (6.1). The operating margin in Service decreased to 7.6 percent (8.4), and in Equipment Balance sheet to 2.8 percent (5.5). The year-end 2013 consolidated balance sheet amounted to EUR In Service, the operating profit excluding restructuring improved 1,482.0 million (1,576.3). Total equity at the end of the reporting due to the higher volume and the restructuring actions executed in period was EUR 444.5 million (462.6). Total equity attributable to 2013. In Equipment, the operating margin was burdened by lower equity holders of the parent company at year-end 2013 was EUR sales, adverse sales mix effects, and an intense competitive situ438.1 million (456.5) or EUR 7.56 per share (7.97). ation in addition to the restructuring costs. Furthermore, the BusiNet working capital at year-end 2013 totaled EUR 289.4 million, ness Area Equipment’s operating profit includes costs and proviwhich was EUR 45.6 million less than at the end of the third quarsion due to project execution issues, mostly in the second quarter, ter and EUR 6.1 million less than at the year-end 2012. Compared which was burdened by extra costs of approximately EUR 8 million to the previous year-end, net working capital fell due to lower invenrelated to heavy-duty industrial crane projects. tories and accounts receivable. In 2013, the depreciation and impairments totaled EUR 56.0 million (44.4). Goodwill of EUR 4.5 million (2.9) as well as intangible and Cash flow and financing tangible assets of EUR 12.4 million (0.0) were written off due to Net cash from the operating activities in full-year 2013 was EUR impairment related to the restructuring of operations. In 2013, the 120.2 million (158.6), representing EUR 2.08 per diluted share amortization arising from purchase price allocations for acquisi(2.76). tions represented EUR 8.5 million (14.8) of the depreciation and Cash flow from capital expenditures amounted to EUR -57.7 milimpairments. lion (-59.3). In 2013, the share of the result of associated companies and Cash flow before financing activities was EUR 52.5 million joint ventures was EUR 3.9 million (3.8). (94.7). Net financial expenses in January–December totaled EUR 13.0 Interest-bearing net debt was EUR 187.3 million (181.8) at the million (12.1). Net interest expenses accounted for EUR 9.1 million end of 2013. Solidity was 34.0 percent (34.0) and gearing 42.1 (10.8) of the above, and the remainder was mainly attributable to percent (39.3). the unrealized exchange rate differences related to the hedging of The Group’s liquidity remained healthy. At the end of the year future cash flows that are not included in the hedge accounting. 2013, cash and cash equivalents amounted to EUR 132.2 million The January–December profit before taxes was EUR 75.5 million (145.3). None of the Group’s EUR 200 million committed back-up (124.2). financing facility was used at the end of the period. The income taxes in January–December were EUR 26.1 million Konecranes paid dividends to its shareholders that amounted to (39.4). The Group’s effective tax rate was 34.5 percent (31.7). The EUR 60.6 million or EUR 1.05 per share in April 2013. Group’s tax rate increased due to goodwill impairments and not booking deferred tax assets from certain loss-making subsidiaries. Report of the Board of Directors Konecranes 2013 59 Capital expenditure Personnel In 2013, the capital expenditure, excluding acquisitions and joint In January–December, the Group employed an average of 11,987 arrangements, amounted to EUR 65.7 million (41.7). This amount people (11,917). On December 31, the headcount was 11,832 consisted of investments in machinery, equipment, properties, and (12,147). At year-end 2013, the number of personnel by Business information technology. Capital expenditure including acquisitions Area was as follows: Service 6,151 employees (6,119), Equipment and joint arrangements was EUR 80.1 million (43.3). 5,626 employees (5,973) and Group staff 55 (55). The Group had Most of the increase in capital expenditure is related to the new 6,246 employees (6,269) working in EMEA, 2,711 (2,724) in the ERPs for both business areas for further development and impleAmericas and 2,875 (3,154) in the APAC region. mentation of harmonized processes, for increasing operational In 2013, the Group headcount decreased by 315 due to the transparency, and improving decision-making, as well as for reducrestructuring programs. In January, Business Area Equipment ing the overall IT system fragmentation. The first installations have announced restructuring actions, with targeted annual cost savbeen made, and most parts are expected to be completed within ings of approximately EUR 10 million affecting approximately the next 2 years. 140 employees globally. In July, Konecranes expanded actions to A new crane manufacturing plant in Jejuri near Pune, India, was improve efficiency and reduce costs by approximately EUR 30 miltaken into use during the first quarter of 2013. Total investment lion annually. The considered actions are estimated to impact a amounted to approximately EUR 15 million. All manufacturing opermaximum 600 people through redundancies, temporary lay-offs, ations in India were consolidated into the new facility during 2013. and early retirement by the end of 2014. As a company, Konecranes focuses on value-based leadership Acquisitions with entrepreneurial spirit. In practice, this means that well-implemented and understood values are the foundations of our operaIn 2013, the capital expenditure on acquisitions and joint arrangetions. Trust and entrepreneurship are not only encouraged, but ments was EUR 14.5 million (1.6) of which the net assets of the demanded from our leaders. acquisitions were recorded at EUR 10.5 million. Goodwill booked Konecranes’ total service commitment is delivered by thoufrom the acquisitions was insignificant. sands of Konecranes employees around the world. To ensure the In the first quarter, Konecranes acquired a crane service combest in class service, Konecranes continued to invest, in 2013, sigpany in France. nificant financial and time resources to ensure that our employees In the second quarter, Konecranes closed the transaction on have the best skills around the world. collaboration with the KION Group in the container handling lift As a company, we want to provide a great place to work. As truck business. Based on the collaboration agreement, Konecranes proof of this, our employee satisfaction has remained on an indusbecame a long-term supplier of the container handling lift trucks try high level, and participation in the employee satisfaction survey to the worldwide distribution network of Linde Material Handling, continued to be above the 85 percent level. Even in the uncertain which is wholly owned by KION Group. In addition, Konecranes economic environment, our employees appreciate the company culacquired certain assets from Linde Material Handling, including the ture, values, and the entrepreneurial efficiency of our organization. product rights to container handling lift trucks. In our company, everyone can be an owner trough the Employee In the third quarter, Konecranes acquired approximately 30.5 Share Saving Plan. percent of the shares in Estonian Konesko A/S, whose main activIn 2013, the Group’s personnel expenses totaled EUR 598.2 ity is manufacturing of electric motors and whose key customer million (598.7). is Konecranes. Prior to the acquisition, Konecranes held 19 percent of the shares in the company. Furthermore, Konecranes sold a small machine tool service business unit in Heilbronn, Germany, to the management of the unit. 60 Konecranes 2013 Report of the Board of Directors Business areas Service The orders in full-year 2013 totaled EUR 715.9 million (735.0), EUR 67.8 million (74.6) and 7.6 percent of sales (8.4). The operatshowing a decrease of 2.6 percent. However, at constant currening profit excluding restructuring costs improved due to the higher cies, orders received grew by 0.4 percent. New orders declined in volume and the restructuring actions executed in 2013. all regions. Orders in Crane Service and Parts business units grew The annual value of the contract base increased to EUR 178.2 from the previous year’s level. The order book fell to EUR 128.1 milmillion (177.9) at year-end 2013. At year-end 2013, the total numlion (147.2) at year-end representing a decrease of 12.9 percent. ber of items of equipment included in the maintenance contract Sales rose by 0.6 percent to EUR 889.1 million (884.0). The base was 433,501 (418,560). operating profit, excluding restructuring costs of EUR 12.8 million The number of service technicians at year-end 2013 was 3,993 (0.0), was EUR 80.6 million (74.6) and the operating margin 9.1 (3,935), which is 58 or 1.5 percent more than at the year-end percent (8.4). Operating profit including restructuring costs was 2012. Change Service 10–12/2013 10–12/2012 1–12/2013 1–12/2012 percent Orders received, MEUR 165.5 181.3 715.9 735.0 -2.6 Order book, MEUR 128.1 147.2 128.1 147.2 -12.9 Contract base value, MEUR 178.2 177.9 178.2 177.9 0.2 Net sales, MEUR 247.6 239.0 889.1 884.0 0.6 EBITDA, MEUR 30.5 27.3 89.6 87.3 2.6 EBITDA, % 12.3% 11.4% 10.1% 9.9% Depreciation and amortization, MEUR -3.3 -3.5 -14.6 -12.7 14.8 Impairments, MEUR -0.7 0.0 -7.2 0.0 Operating profit (EBIT), MEUR 26.6 23.8 67.8 74.6 -9.1 Operating profit (EBIT), % 10.7% 10.0% 7.6% 8.4% Restructuring costs, MEUR -2.0 0.0 -12.8 0.0 Operating profit (EBIT) excluding restructuring costs, MEUR 28.6 23.8 80.6 74.6 8.0 Operating profit (EBIT) excluding restructuring costs, % 11.5% 10.0% 9.1% 8.4% Capital employed, MEUR 187.5 166.6 187.5 166.6 12.6 ROCE% 38.3% 41.8% Capital expenditure, MEUR 1.3 5.5 20.1 12.5 60.1 Personnel at the end of period 6,151 6,119 6,151 6,119 0.5 Report of the Board of Directors Konecranes 2013 61 Equipment The orders in full-year 2013 totaled EUR 1,319.6 million (1,340.4), Sales decreased by 5.9 percent to EUR 1,329.2 million showing a decrease of 1.5 percent. Orders grew in Asia-Pacific (1,412.7). Operating profit before restructuring costs of EUR 16.6 due to a large port crane order received from Indonesia in the first million (5.8) was EUR 54.3 million (84.2), and the operating marquarter, but they fell in the Americas and EMEA. Orders for indusgin was 4.1 percent (6.0). Operating profit after restructuring costs trial cranes accounted for approximately 35 percent of the orders was EUR 37.8 million (78.4) and 2.8 percent of sales (5.5). The received and were lower than a year ago. Components and light liftEquipment operating margin excluding restructuring costs fell due ing systems generated approximately 30 percent of the new orders to the lower sales, adverse sales mix effects, and intense competiand were lower than a year ago. The combined orders for port tive situation. In addition, the Business Area Equipment’s operating cranes and lift trucks amounted to approximately 35 percent of the profit includes costs and provision due to project execution issues, orders received and were higher than a year ago. The order book mostly in the second quarter, which was burdened by extra costs of decreased by 3.8 percent from the previous year to EUR 765.3 approximately EUR 8 million related to heavy-duty industrial crane million (795.6). projects. Change Equipment 10–12/2013 10–12/2012 1–12/2013 1–12/2012 percent Orders received, MEUR 280.3 269.7 1,319.6 1,340.4 -1.5 Order book, MEUR 765.3 795.6 765.3 795.6 -3.8 Net sales, MEUR 364.9 401.6 1,329.2 1,412.7 -5.9 EBITDA, MEUR 22.3 27.8 71.6 109.7 -34.8 EBITDA, % 6.1% 6.9% 5.4% 7.8% Depreciation and amortization, MEUR -6.1 -7.2 -24.1 -28.4 -15.2 Impairments, MEUR 0.0 -2.9 -9.7 -2.9 Operating profit (EBIT), MEUR 16.2 17.8 37.8 78.4 -51.8 Operating profit (EBIT), % 4.4% 4.4% 2.8% 5.5% Restructuring costs, MEUR -1.1 -5.8 -16.6 -5.8 Operating profit (EBIT) excluding restructuring costs, MEUR 17.3 23.5 54.3 84.2 -35.5 Operating profit (EBIT) excluding restructuring costs, % 4.7% 5.9% 4.1% 6.0% Capital employed, MEUR 378.1 406.2 378.1 406.2 -6.9 ROCE% 9.6% 18.8% Capital expenditure, MEUR 14.8 12.6 45.6 29.1 56.6 Personnel at the end of period 5,626 5,973 5,626 5,973 -5.8 62 Konecranes 2013 Report of the Board of Directors Group overheads ever, no longer than until September 21, 2014. However, the authoUnallocated Group overhead costs in 2013 were EUR 19.4 million rization for incentive arrangements is valid until March 21, 2018. (20.5), representing 0.9 percent of sales (0.9). This authorization revokes the authorization for incentive arrangements given by the Annual General Meeting 2012. The Board of Administration Directors did not use this authorization in 2013. The AGM authorized the Board of Directors to decide on the transfer of the Company’s own shares. The authorization is limited Decisions of the Annual General Meeting to a maximum of 6,000,000 shares, which corresponds to approxiThe Annual General Meeting of Konecranes Plc was held on March mately 9.5 percent of all the shares in the Company. The authori21, 2013. The meeting approved the Company’s annual accounts zation can also be used for incentive arrangements, however, not for the fiscal year 2012 and discharged the members of the Board more than 700,000 shares in total together with the authorization of Directors and Managing Director from liability. The AGM approved in the previous paragraph. This authorization is effective until the the Board’s proposal that a dividend of EUR 1.05 per share is paid next Annual General Meeting of Shareholders, however, no longer from the distributable assets of the parent Company. than until September 21, 2014. However, the authorization for The AGM approved the proposal of the Nomination and Comincentive arrangements is valid until March 21, 2018. This authopensation Committee that the number of members of the Board rization revokes the authorization for incentive arrangements given of Directors shall be eight (8). The Board members elected at the by the Annual General Meeting 2012. The Board of Directors did AGM in 2013 were Mr. Svante Adde, Mr. Stig Gustavson, Mr. Tapani not use this authorization in 2013. Järvinen, Mr. Matti Kavetvuo, Ms. Nina Kopola, Mr. Bertel LangenThe AGM authorized the Board of Directors to decide on a skiöld, Ms. Malin Persson, and Mr. Mikael Silvennoinen. directed share issue without payment needed for the implementaThe AGM confirmed the annual compensation to the Board tion of the Share Savings Plan, which the Annual General Meeting members as per following: 2012 decided to launch. • Chairman of the Board: EUR 105,000 The Board of Directors is authorized to decide on the issue of • Vice Chairman of the Board: EUR 67,000 new shares or on the transfer of own shares held by the Company • Other Board members EUR 42,000 to such participants in the Plan who, according to the terms and conditions of the Plan, are entitled to receive free shares, as well In addition, a compensation of EUR 1,500 per meeting will be paid as to decide on the share issue without payment also to the Comfor attending Board Committee meetings. The Chairman of the pany itself. The number of new shares to be issued or own shares Audit Committee is, however, entitled to a compensation of EUR held by the Company to be transferred may be a maximum total 3,000 per attended Audit Committee meeting. Furthermore, the number of 500,000 shares, which corresponds to 0.8 percent of all AGM approved that 50 percent of the annual remuneration will be of the Company’s shares. The authorization concerning the share paid in Konecranes shares. issue is valid until March 21, 2018. This authorization is in addiThe AGM confirmed that Ernst & Young Oy will continue as the tion to the authorizations in the previous items. This authorization Company’s external auditor. replaces the authorization for the Share Savings Plan given by the The AGM authorized the Board of Directors to decide on the Annual General Meeting 2012. The Board of Directors did not use repurchase of the Company’s own shares and/or on the accepthis authorization in 2013. tance as pledge of the Company’s own shares. The amount of The decisions are explained in more detail in the release coverown shares to be repurchased and/or accepted as pledge based ing the resolutions of the AGM, which is available on the company’s on this authorization shall not exceed 6,000,000 shares in total, website at www.konecranes.com. which corresponds to approximately 9.5 percent of all the shares in In its first meeting held after the Annual General Meeting, the the Company. The authorization is effective until the end of the next Board of Directors elected Mr. Stig Gustavson to continue as ChairAnnual General Meeting, however, no longer than until September man. Mr. Svante Adde was elected Chairman of the Audit Commit21, 2014. The Board of Directors did not use this authorization in tee, and Mr. Tapani Järvinen, Ms. Malin Persson and Mr. Mikael 2013. Silvennoinen as Committee members. Mr. Bertel Langenskiöld The AGM authorized the Board of Directors to decide on the was elected Chairman of the Nomination and Compensation Comissuance of shares as well as the issuance of special rights entimittee, and Mr. Stig Gustavson, Mr. Matti Kavetvuo and Ms. Nina tling to shares referred to in Chapter 10 Section 1 of the FinnKopola were elected as Committee members. ish Companies Act. The amount of shares to be issued based With the exception of Mr. Stig Gustavson, the Board members on this authorization shall not exceed 6,000,000 shares, which are deemed to be independent of the company under the Finnish corresponds to approximately 9.5 percent of all the shares in the Corporate Governance Code. Mr. Gustavson is deemed dependent Company. The authorization can also be used for incentive arrangeof the company based on the Board’s overall evaluation relating to ments, however, not more than 700,000 shares in total together his former and current positions in Konecranes combined with his with the authorization in the following paragraph. The authorization substantial voting rights in the Company. is effective until the end of the next Annual General Meeting, howReport of the Board of Directors Konecranes 2013 63 With the exception of Mr. Bertel Langenskiöld, the Board members are independent of significant shareholders of the company. Shares subscribed for under Mr. Langenskiöld is not independent of significant shareholders of stock option rights the company based on his current position as the Managing Director of Hartwall Capital Oy Ab. HTT KCR Holding Oy Ab holds more In January–December, 536,770 treasury shares were transferred than 10 percent of Konecranes Plc’s shares and votes. HTT KCR to the subscribers, pursuant to the Konecranes Plc’s stock options Holding Oy Ab is a subsidiary of Hartwall Capital Oy Ab. In addition, 2009A and 2009B. HTT KCR Holding Oy Ab, K. Hartwall Invest Oy Ab, Fyrklöver-Invest At end-December 2013, Konecranes Plc’s stock options 2009 Oy Ab and Ronnas Invest AG will in practice co-operate in matters entitled the holders to subscribe to a total of 1,486,891 shares. concerning their ownership in Konecranes Plc. The option programs include approximately 200 key persons. The terms and conditions of the stock option programs are availChanges in the Group Management able on the Konecranes’ website at www.konecranes.com. Mr. Timo Leskinen was appointed Senior Vice President, Human Resources, and a member of the Konecranes Group Executive Board as of August 1, 2013. He is responsible for all Human Performance share plan Resources (competence development and administration) and CorThe Board of Directors resolved to amend the performance share porate Responsibility (Health, Safety and Environment) matters for plan launched in 2012 so that the two three-year discretionary periKonecranes. ods, 2013–2015 and 2014–2016, will follow the discretionary periIn December, Konecranes announced that Mr. Hannu Rusanen, ods started in 2012. The performance criterion for the discretionExecutive Vice President and Head of Business Area Equipment, is ary period 2013–2015 is the cumulative Earnings per Share (EPS) leaving the Company. The recruitment process for the new Head of of the fiscal years 2013–2015. Business Area Equipment is ongoing. The target group of the plan consists of approximately 150 people during the discretionary period 2013–2015. The rewards Other issues to be paid on the basis of the discretionary period correspond to At the end of the year 2013, Konecranes had a loan receivable of the value of an approximate maximum total number of 700,000 EUR 225,336 from the President & CEO Pekka Lundmark with the Konecranes Plc shares. If the targets determined by the Board of interest rate of 1.533 percent. The loan relates to a tax payment Directors are achieved, the reward payout may be a half of the maxiresulting from the incentive scheme directed to the President & mum reward. The maximum reward payout requires that the targets CEO in 2006. There is a tax appeal pending against the imposed are clearly exceeded. payment, and the loan is valid until the appeal is resolved. Konecranes complies with the Finnish Corporate Governance Code 2010 approved by the Board of the Securities Market AssoEmployee share savings plan ciation. Konecranes has issued a Corporate Governance Statement Based on the interest shown by the Group employees, the Board based on recommendation 54 of the Code, which can be reviewed decided to launch a new plan period. The new plan period began on on the corporate website of Konecranes at www.konecranes.com. July 1, 2013 and will end on June 30, 2014. The maximum savings amount per participant during one month is 5 percent of the gross Share capital and shares salary and the minimum is EUR 10. Each participant will receive one free matching share for every The company’s registered share capital totaled EUR 30.1 million on two acquired savings shares. Matching shares will be delivered to December 31, 2013 and the number of shares including treasury a participant if the participant holds the acquired shares from the shares was 63,272,342. plan period until the end of the designated holding period, February On December 31, 2013, Konecranes Plc was in the possession 15, 2017, and if his or her employment has not ended before this of 5,444,262 own shares, which corresponds to 8.6 percent of the date for reasons related to the employee. The total amount of all total number of shares having a market value of EUR 140.8 million savings of the commencing plan period may not exceed EUR 8.5 on that date. million. All shares carry one vote per share and equal rights to dividends. Approximately 1,650 Konecranes employees signed up for the Plan commencing July 1, 2013, which represents an increase of approximately 150 employees from a year ago. The number of new shares to be issued or own shares held by the Company to be transferred under the terms and conditions of the Plan may be a maximum total number of 500,000 shares, which corresponds to 0.8 percent of all of the Company’s shares. 64 Konecranes 2013 Report of the Board of Directors Market capitalization be brought from the current markets, Germany and Switzerland, into new geographical areas. and trading volume Konecranes introduced its Automated RTG system (ARTG) to the container handling industry. The system is built around The closing price for Konecranes Plc’s shares on the NASDAQ Konecranes’ market-leading 16-wheel RTG, including a complete OMX Helsinki was EUR 25.86 on December 31, 2013. The volpackage of truck guidance infrastructure, a Remote Operating Staume-weighted average share price in January–December was EUR tion with a specially developed Graphical User Interface (GUI), and 25.30, the highest price being EUR 28.89 in February and the lowan IT system that interfaces with the customer’s Terminal Operatest EUR 20.45 in June. In January–December, the trading volume ing System (TOS). The system provides RTG terminal operators an on the NASDAQ OMX Helsinki totaled 51.6 million of Konecranes incremental opportunity towards automation by upgrading existing Plc’s shares, corresponding to a turnover of approximately EUR yard infrastructure. 1,305.6 million. The average daily trading volume was 206,413 shares, representing an average daily turnover of EUR 5.2 million. In addition, approximately 53.5 million Konecranes’ shares were Corporate responsibility traded on other trading venues (e.g. multilateral trading facilities During 2013, Konecranes continued the improvement and harmoand bilateral OTC trades) in 2013 according to Fidessa. nization of global occupational safety requirements and instrucOn December 31, 2013, the total market capitalization of tions. Proactive safety management continued to show as a rise Konecranes Plc’s shares on the NASDAQ OMX Helsinki was EUR in the number of safety observations and near hit reports made by 1,636 million including treasury shares. The market capitalization Konecranes’ personnel during 2013. was EUR 1,495 million excluding the treasury shares. The response rate to Employee Satisfaction Survey 2013 stayed approximately at the previous year’s level at 85 percent. When comFlagging notifications and other pared to benchmark data, the results continued to be positive. The roll-out of environmental e-learning that outlines the fundaannouncements by shareholders mentals of Konecranes’ environmental aspects and how to manage the environmental impacts continued. Several Konecranes units No flagging notifications or other disclosures concerning changes in continued or established energy efficiency programs which targeted holdings were received in 2013. lowering the use of different forms of energy. The roll-out of the internal Code of Conduct online training conResearch and development tinued, and the completion rate at the end of 2013 was approximately 90 percent. In 2013, Konecranes’ research and product development expenditure totaled EUR 25.6 (25.8) million, representing 1.2 (1.2) percent of sales. R&D expenditure includes product development projects Events after the end of the aimed at improving the quality and cost efficiency of both products reporting period and services. In 2013, the main focus for the company’s R&D activities was On January 30, 29,441 treasury shares were transferred to the developing its service and equipment offering to enable real-time subscribers pursuant to the Konecranes Plc’s stock options 2009A. visibility to equipment and advanced predictive maintenance. In After the subscription and delivery of the shares, Konecranes Plc addition, work on Konecranes’ offering for emerging markets conholds 5,414,821 treasury shares. Stock options issued under tinued. Konecranes Plc’s ongoing stock option plans entitle their holders to In 2013, the scope of TRUCONNECT Remote Services was subscribe for a total of 1,457,450 shares. broadened, and the equipment base under remote monitoring and service grew rapidly. Analysis of the data collected and making efficient use of it were important topics for further development. Risks and uncertainties Konecranes launched Agilon, an innovative solution for materiA significant share of Konecranes’ business is derived from the als management in manufacturing. Agilon is a patented materials emerging markets. This has had a negative impact on the aging inventory and management system that quickly and automatically structure of accounts receivable, and may increase credit losses or stores, picks, and replenishes items weighing up to 25 kg, with the need for higher provisions for doubtful accounts. a robot handling both the components transfer and refill orders. Konecranes has made several acquisitions and expanded Agilon is currently available in Finland. organically into new countries. A failure to integrate the acquired The CXT NEO crane, a high-technology crane package developed business or grow newly established operations may result in an especially for the developed markets, was introduced. The CXT NEO impairment of goodwill and other assets. crane package includes various advanced features and TRUCONOne of the key strategic initiatives of Konecranes is oneKONENECT remote monitoring equipment as standard. The development CRANES. This involves major capital expenditure for informaof the CXT NEO crane’s intelligent features will continue, and it will tion systems. A failure to extract business benefits from the new Report of the Board of Directors Konecranes 2013 65 processes and systems may lead to an impairment of assets or decrease in profitability. Market outlook Konecranes delivers projects in its Industrial Crane Solutions The growth in industrial production and container traffic is moderand Port Cranes business units, which involve risks related to ate and below the historical averages. The near-term investment engineering and project execution, for example. A failure to plan or outlook within manufacturing and process industries, as well as manage these projects may lead to higher-than-estimated costs or container handling, remains uncertain. However, there are certain disputes with customers. positive macroeconomic signs in the developed world also outside Challenges in financing may force customers to postpone projthe US. ects or even to cancel existing orders. Konecranes intends to avoid incurring costs of major projects under construction in excess of advance payments. However, it is possible that, in some projects, Financial guidance cost-related commitments may temporarily exceed the amount of The order book at year-end 2013 was below the previous year, advance payments. which will affect the company’s sales and operating profit in the The Group’s other risks are presented in the Annual Report. beginning of the year. Due to the market uncertainty, it is too early to estimate the full-year 2014 sales development. The ongoing Litigation restructuring actions and improving project execution are expected to have a positive impact on profitability. Various legal actions, claims, and other proceedings are pending against the Group in different countries. These actions, claims, and other proceedings are typical for this industry and are consistent Board of directors’ proposal for with the global business offering that encompasses a wide range of disposal of distributable funds products and services. These matters involve contractual disputes, warranty claims, product liability (including design defects, manufacThe parent company’s non-restricted equity is EUR 203,354,966.48, turing defects, failure to warn and asbestos legacy), employment, the net income of which for the year is EUR 61,701,102.44. The auto liability, and other matters involving general liability claims. Group’s non-restricted equity is EUR 366,150,000. While the final outcome of these proceedings cannot be preAccording to the Finnish Companies Act, the distributable funds dicted with certainty, Konecranes’ opinion is, based on the inforof the company are calculated based on the parent company’s nonmation available to date and considering the grounds presented restricted equity. For the purpose of determining the amount of the for such claims, the available insurance coverage and the reserves dividend, the Board of Directors has assessed the liquidity of the made, that the outcome of such actions, claims, and other proceedparent company and the economic circumstances subsequent to ings, if unfavorable, would not have a material adverse effect on the the end of fiscal year. financial condition of the Group. Based on such assessments the Board of Directors proposes to the Annual General Meeting that a dividend of EUR 1.05 be paid on each share and that the remaining non-restricted equity is retained in shareholders’ equity. Helsinki, February 5, 2014 Konecranes Plc Board of Directors 66 Konecranes 2013 Report of the Board of Directors Consolidated statement of income – IFRS (1,000 EUR) 1 Jan–31 Dec 2013 1 Jan–31 Dec 2012 Note: 4, 6, 7 Sales 2,099,583 2,171,492 8 Other operating income 1,566 2,269 10 Depreciation and impairments -56,013 -44,363 11–13 Other operating expenses -1,960,623 -1,996,913 Operating profit 84,513 132,485 20 Share of associates' and joint ventures' result 3,946 3,845 14 Financial income and expenses -12,959 -12,090 Profit before taxes 75,500 124,240 15 Taxes -26,083 -39,423 PROFIT FOR THE PERIOD 49,417 84,817 Profit for the period attributable to Shareholders of the parent company 49,091 84,154 Non-controlling interest 326 663 16 Earnings per share, basic (EUR) 0.85 1.47 16 Earnings per share, diluted (EUR) 0.85 1.46 Consolidated statement of other comprehensive income (1,000 EUR) 1 Jan–31 Dec 2013 1 Jan–31 Dec 2012 Profit for the period 49,417 84,817 Items that can be reclassified into profit or loss Cash flow hedges 5,013 2,036 Exchange differences on translating foreign operations -18,849 -1,056 Income tax relating to items that can be reclassified into profit or loss -1,003 -499 Items that cannot be reclassified into profit or loss Re-measurement gains (losses) on defined benefit plans -2,985 -11,710 Income tax relating to items that cannot be reclassified into profit or loss 934 3,101 Other comprehensive income for the period, net of tax -16,890 -8,128 Total comprehensive income for the period 32,527 76,689 Total comprehensive income attributable to: Shareholders of the parent company 32,312 76,081 Non-controlling interest 215 608 Consolidated statement of income – IFRS Konecranes 2013 67 Consolidated balance sheet – IFRS (1,000 EUR) ASSETS 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2012 Note: Non-current assets 17 Goodwill 101,609 112,806 18 Other intangible assets 87,019 76,597 19 Property, plant and equipment 144,544 138,715 Advance payments and construction in progress 48,172 57,584 20 Investments accounted for using the equity method 40,376 37,519 21 Available-for-sale investments 964 914 Long-term loans receivable 225 228 32 Deferred tax assets 59,787 53,798 Total non-current assets 482,696 478,161 Current assets 22 Inventories 325,520 369,847 24 Accounts receivable 368,768 442,127 Loans receivable 11 79 25 Other receivables 25,602 29,168 Current tax assets 10,675 11,339 26 Deferred assets 136,563 100,211 27 Cash and cash equivalents 132,214 145,318 Total current assets 999,353 1,098,089 TOTAL ASSETS 1,482,049 1,576,250 68 Konecranes 2013 Consolidated balance sheet – IFRS (1,000 EUR) EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2012 Note: Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent company Share capital 30,073 30,073 Share premium account 39,307 39,307 38 Fair value reserves 2,611 -1,399 Translation difference -16,258 2,480 Paid in capital 50,998 44,787 Retained earnings 282,319 257,072 Net profit for the period 49,091 84,154 28 Total equity attributable to equity holders of the parent company 438,141 456,474 20 Non-controlling interest 6,365 6,150 Total equity 444,506 462,624 Liabilities Non-current liabilities 30, 35 Interest-bearing liabilities 133,042 205,678 31 Other long-term liabilities 80,315 75,151 32 Deferred tax liabilities 18,080 22,326 Total non-current liabilities 231,437 303,155 33 Provisions 47,459 44,451 Current liabilities 30, 35 Interest-bearing liabilities 186,658 121,779 7 Advance payments received 175,245 217,162 Progress billings 5,823 2,498 Accounts payable 147,477 157,422 34 Other short-term liabilities (non-interest bearing) 28,698 30,233 Current tax liabilities 14,696 21,076 34 Accruals 200,050 215,850 Total current liabilities 758,647 766,020 Total liabilities 1,037,543 1,113,626 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 1,482,049 1,576,250 Consolidated balance sheet – IFRS Konecranes 2013 69 Consolidated statement of changes in equity – IFRS Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent company Share Cash Trans­ Non-conShare premium flow lation Paid in Retained trolling Total (1,000 EUR) capital account hedges difference capital earnings Total interest equity Balance at 1 January, 2013 30,073 39,307 -1,399 2,480 44,787 341,226 456,474 6,150 462,624 Options exercised 6,211 6,211 6,211 Dividends paid to equity holders -60,614 -60,614 -60,614 Share based payments recognized against equity 3,301 3,301 3,301 Acquisitions 457 457 457 Total comprehensive income 4,010 -18,738 47,040 32,312 215 32,527 Balance at 31 December, 2013 30,073 39,307 2,611 -16,258 50,998 331,410 438,141 6,365 444,506 Balance at 1 January, 2012 30,073 39,307 -2,936 3,481 43,711 316,244 429,880 5,542 435,422 Changes in accounting principles (IFRS 11) 2,424 2,424 2,424 Balance at 1 January, 2012 restated 30,073 39,307 -2,936 3,481 43,711 318,668 432,304 5,542 437,846 Options exercised 1,076 1,076 1,076 Dividends paid to equity holders -57,199 -57,199 -57,199 Share based payments recognized against equity 4,296 4,296 4,296 Acquisitions -84 -84 -84 Total comprehensive income 1,537 -1,001 75,545 76,081 608 76,689 Balance at 31 December, 2012 30,073 39,307 -1,399 2,480 44,787 341,226 456,474 6,150 462,624 70 Konecranes 2013 Consolidated statement of changes in equity – IFRS Consolidated cash flow statement – IFRS 1 Jan–31 Dec 1 Jan–31 Dec (1,000 EUR) 2013 2012 Note: Cash flow from operating activities Net income 49,417 84,817 Adjustments to net profit for the period Taxes 26,083 39,423 Financial income and expenses 13,016 12,145 Share of associates’ and joint ventures’ result -3,946 -3,845 Dividends income -57 -58 Depreciation and impairments 56,013 44,363 Profits and losses on sale of fixed assets 1,920 -134 Other adjustments 2,386 3,468 Operating income before change in net working capital 144,832 180,179 Change in interest-free short-term receivables 16,546 -4,940 Change in inventories 32,569 -19,255 Change in interest-free short-term liabilities -21,110 52,431 Change in net working capital 28,005 28,236 Cash flow from operations before financing items and taxes 172,837 208,415 14 Interest received 3,699 5,882 14 Interest paid -13,180 -15,065 14 Other financial income and expenses 950 -5,433 15 Income taxes paid -44,073 -35,231 Financing items and taxes -52,604 -49,847 NET CASH FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES 120,233 158,568 Cash flow from investing activities 5 Acquisition of Group companies, net of cash -11,590 -7,097 Capital expenditures -57,733 -59,347 Proceeds from sale of fixed assets 1,508 2,400 15 Dividends received 57 210 NET CASH USED IN INVESTING ACTIVITIES -67,758 -63,834 Cash flow before financing activities 52,475 94,734 Cash flow from financing activities 28.1 Proceeds from options exercised and share issues 6,211 1,076 Proceeds from long-term borrowings 5,030 79,829 Proceeds from (+), payments of (-) short-term borrowings -9,757 -46,879 Change in short-term receivables 65 272 Dividends paid to equity holders of the parent -60,614 -57,199 NET CASH USED IN FINANCING ACTIVITIES -59,065 -22,901 Translation differences in cash -6,514 -9 CHANGE OF CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS -13,104 71,824 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 145,318 73,494 27 Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 132,214 145,318 CHANGE OF CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS -13,104 71,824 The effect of changes in exchange rates has been eliminated by converting the beginning balance at the rates current on the last day of the year. Consolidated cash flow statement – IFRS Konecranes 2013 71 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1. Corporate information ation transferred (as measured according to IFRS3) for the business combination over the acquirer’s interest in the net fair value Konecranes Plc (“Konecranes Group” or “the Group”) is a Finnish of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities is public limited company organized under the laws of Finland and recorded as goodwill. domiciled in Hyvinkää. The company is listed on the NASDAQ OMX Investments in associated companies have been accounted for Helsinki. in the consolidated financial statements using the equity method. These interests are consolidated in accordance with the equity 2. Accounting policies method, under which they are carried at cost plus post-acquisition changes in the Group’s share of the company’s net assets. Good2.1 Basis of preparation will arising on acquisition is included in the carrying amounts of the The consolidated financial statements of Konecranes Plc have investments and tested for impairment as part of the investments. been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Goodwill is not amortized. The Group’s share of the results of operStandards (IFRS) as adopted by the EU. ations of the associated companies is shown in the consolidated The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on statement of income as a separate item. a historical cost basis, except for derivative financial instruments Joint Operations are accounted for showing each party’s interand available-for-sale investments that have been measured at fair est in the assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and / or its value. The carrying values of recognized assets and liabilities that relative share of jointly controlled assets, liabilities, revenue and are hedged items in fair value hedges, and are otherwise carried at expense, if any. Joint Ventures are accounted for using the equity cost, are adjusted to record changes in the fair values attributable method as described above. to the risks that are being hedged. Non-controlling interest is presented separately under equity in The consolidated financial statements are presented in thouthe balance sheet. sands of euros; notes to the financial statements in millions of Intracorporate transactions and internal margins in inventories euros and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand (€000) have been eliminated in the consolidated financial statements. except when otherwise indicated. 2.2 Use of estimates and judgments Principles of consolidation The preparation of the financial statements in accordance with IFRS The consolidated accounts include the parent company Konecranes requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect Plc and those companies in which the parent company holds the valuation of reported assets and liabilities and other informadirectly or indirectly more than 50 percent of the voting power at the tion, such as contingent liabilities and recognition of income and end of the year. When Konecranes has less than a majority of the expenses in the statement of income. Although these estimates voting rights, it has power over the investee when the voting rights and judgments are based on the management’s best understandare sufficient to give the control to direct the relevant activities of ing of current events and circumstances, actual results may differ the investee through rights arising from other contractual arrangefrom the estimates. ments. See company list for further information. An associated company is a company in which the Group holds 2.3 Summary of significant accounting policies 20–50 percent of the voting power and has significant influence over the company but not control over its financial and operating Foreign currency items and exchange rate differences policies. Investments in Joint Arrangements are classified into Assets and liabilities in foreign currencies have been valued at the Joint Operations and Joint Ventures. In Joint Operations the parrates of exchange at the balance sheet date. Realized exchange ties with joint control have rights to the assets and obligations rate differences, as well as exchange rate gains or losses resulting for the liabilities of the arrangement. In Joint Ventures the parties from the valuation of receivables and liabilities, have been included with joint control have rights to the net assets of the arrangement. in the Statement of income. Unrealized exchange rate differences Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control of an relating to hedging of future cash flows, for which hedge accounting arrangement, which exists only when decisions about the relevant is applied and the hedge is determined to be effective, are recogactivities require unanimous consent of the parties sharing control. nized in other comprehensive income. In consolidation, the stateKonecranes has analyzed the existing partner agreements and conments of income of foreign entities are translated into euros at tent of the business in the companies to classify the Joint Arrangethe average exchange rate for the accounting period. The balance ments accordingly. sheets of foreign entities are translated at the year-end exchange Acquisitions of subsidiaries are accounted for using the purrate. Translation differences resulting from converting the sharechase method according to which the acquired company’s identifiholders’ equity of foreign subsidiaries have been included in equity. able assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities are measured at fair value on the date of acquisition. The excess of the consider72 Konecranes 2013 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting Government grants Global operations expose the Group to currency risk and to a less Government grants are recognized when there is reasonable assursignificant interest rate risk. ance that the grant will be received and all attaching conditions will The Group uses derivative financial instruments (primarily forbe complied with. When the grant relates to an expense item, it is ward contracts) to hedge its risks associated with foreign currency recognized as income over the period necessary to match the grant fluctuations relating to certain commitments and forecasted transon a systematic basis to the costs that it is intended to compenactions. sate. When the grant relates to an asset, it is deducted from the Derivative financial instruments are used for hedging purposes acquisition cost of the asset. in accordance with the Group’s hedging policy and not for speculative purposes. These instruments are initially measured at fair Employee benefits (pensions) value at the contract date, and are re-measured to fair value based The Konecranes companies have various pension plans in accoron the market value quoted at subsequent reporting dates. dance with local conditions and practices. Pensions are generally For certain large crane projects the Group applies hedge accountmanaged for the Group companies by outside pension insurance ing compatible with IAS 39. Changes in the fair value of derivative companies or by similar arrangements. financial instruments that are designated as effective hedges of Under defined contribution plans, expenses are recognized future cash flows are recognized directly as other comprehensive for the period the contribution relates to. The Konecranes Group income in cash flow hedges, while ineffective portion is recognized accounts for the Finnish system under the Employees’ Pensions immediately in the income statement. The Group’s policy with Act (TyEL) within insurance system as a defined contribution plan. respect to hedging the foreign currency risk of a firm commitment Under defined benefit plans, a liability recognized in the balance and highly probable forecasted transaction is to designate it as sheet equals the net of the present value of the defined benefit a cash flow hedge. If the cash flow hedge of a firm commitment obligation less the fair value of the plan assets at the balance or highly probable forecasted transaction results in the recognition sheet date. Actuarial gains and losses are recognized in the conof an asset or a liability, then, at the time the asset or liability is solidated statement of other comprehensive income as remeasurerecognized, the associated gains or losses on the derivative that ment items when they occur. Remeasurement recorded in other had previously been recognized in the equity will be recorded to the comprehensive income is not recycled. Past service cost is recogstatement of income. nized in the statement of profit or loss in the period of plan amendHedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument ment. Net-interest is calculated by applying the discount rate to the expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or no longer qualifies net defined liability or asset. The Group presents service cost, pastfor hedge accounting. At that time, for forecasted transactions, any service cost, gains and losses on curtailments and settlements cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognized in and net interest expense or income as employee benefit expense. the equity is retained in the equity until the forecasted transaction Independent actuaries calculate the defined benefit obligation occurs. If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the by applying the Projected Unit Credit Method. net cumulative gain or loss recognized in the equity will be transA liability for termination benefit is recognized at the earlier of ferred to profit or loss for the period. when the entity can no longer withdraw the offer of the termination Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that benefit and when the entity recognizes any related restructuring do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognized in the statement costs. of income as they arise. Leases Revenue recognition Lease contracts, in which the Group assumes an essential part of Revenue from the sale of goods is recognized after the risks and risk and rewards of ownership, are classified as finance leases. In rewards connected with ownership of the goods sold have been finance leases, the assets and accumulated depreciation are rectransferred to the customer. Normally, revenue recognition takes ognized in fixed assets and the corresponding lease obligations are place when the goods have been handed over to the customer included in interest-bearing liabilities. according to the contractual terms. Revenues from services are Other lease contracts are classified as operating leases and the recognized when the services have been rendered. lease payments of these leases are recognized as rental expenses Large crane projects revenue is recognized according to the perin statement of income. centage of the completion (POC) method. Most significant projects relate to harbor and shipyard cranes. The stage of completion of Valuation of inventories a contract is determined by the proportion that the contract costs Raw materials and supplies are valued at the acquisition cost or, incurred for the work performed to date bear to the estimated total if lower, at the net realizable value. Semi-manufactured goods have contract costs. been valued at variable production costs with addition of allocated variable and fixed overheads. Work in progress of uncompleted Research and development costs orders includes direct labor and material costs, as well as a proporResearch and development costs are charged as expenses during tion of overhead costs related to production and installation. the year in which they are incurred, since future potential economic benefits of new products can only be proven after their introduction Goodwill and other intangible assets to the market. Goodwill arising from an acquisition represents the excess of the consideration transferred for the acquisition over the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired. Goodwill is not amortized but is tested for impairment annually. Notes to the consolidated financial statements Konecranes 2013 73 Other intangible assets include service contracts, patents and option programs. The fair value of the stock options is measured trademarks and software licenses. They are stated at cost and at the grant date and the options are recorded as expense in amortized on the straight-line basis over expected useful lives, the statement of income during the vesting period in accordance which may vary from 4 to 20 years. with IFRS 2. The valuation of the options is based on the Black Intangible assets with indefinite useful life are not amortized, & Scholes formula. When the options are exercised, the equity is but they are tested annually for impairment. increased by the amount of the proceeds received. The Group has issued also a performance share plan for its Impairment testing of goodwill key personnel. The plan is treated partly as an equity-settled, and Goodwill acquired in a business combination is tested for impairpartly as a cash-settled share-based payment transaction. The ment annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances equity-settled share rewards are valued based on the market price indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. For the of the Konecranes share at the grant date, and recognized as perpurpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to groups of sonnel expense over the vesting period with corresponding entry cash-generating units (CGU) by using the Group’s management in retained earnings of the equity. The liability resulting from the reporting structure. If the carrying amount for a CGU exceeds its cash-settled transactions is measured based on the market price recoverable amount, an impairment loss equal to the difference will of the Konecranes share at the balance sheet date and is recorded be recognized. as an employee benefit with corresponding entry in non-current and current liabilities until the settlement date. Property, plant and equipment Market conditions, such as the total shareholder return upon Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated which vesting is conditioned, is taken into account when estimatdepreciation and any impairment losses. Depreciation is recorded ing the fair value of the equity instruments granted. The expense on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful economic life of relating to the market condition of the equity settled share-based the assets as follows: payment is recognized irrespective of whether that market condi• Buildings 5–40 years tioning is satisfied. Non-market vesting conditions such as EBIT • Machinery and equipment 4–10 years margin and EPS are included in assumptions about the amount of No depreciation is recorded for land. share based payments that are expected to vest. At each balance sheet date Konecranes revises its estimates on the amount of Borrowing costs share-based payments that are expected to vest. The impact of the Borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or revision to previous estimate is recognized through statement of construction of the asset are capitalized as a part of that asset. income with corresponding adjustments to equity and non-current The capitalized interest expense is amortized over the estimated and current liabilities, as appropriate. useful life of the underlying asset. Group has launched an employee share savings plan in which each participant will receive one free matching share for every two Impairment of assets subject to amortization and acquired savings shares. Matching shares will be delivered to a depreciation participant if the participant holds the acquired shares from the The carrying values of intangible assets subject to amortization and plan period until the end of the designated holding period. The property, plant and equipment is reviewed for impairment whenever matching shares will be paid in Konecranes shares and partly in events and changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying cash. The expenses of the plan are recognized over the vesting amount of an asset may not be recoverable. period based on the quarterly acquired savings share amounts and If such an indication exists, the recoverable amount of the fair value of Konecranes share as of the closing date. assets will be estimated. An impairment loss is recognized in the statement of income when the recoverable amount of an asset is Provisions less than its carrying amount. Provisions are recognized in the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event Account and other receivables and it is considered certain or likely to occur. Provisions arise from Account and other receivables are initially recorded at cost. Provirestructuring plans, onerous contracts, guarantee and claim works. sions are made for doubtful receivables on individual assessment Obligations arising from restructuring plans are recognized when of potential risks, and are recognized in the statement of income. the detailed and formal restructuring plans have been established, the personnel concerned have been informed and when there is a Cash and cash equivalents valid expectation that the plan will be implemented. Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits with banks and other liquid investments with maturities of Income tax less than three months. Bank overdrafts are included in short-term Taxes shown in the consolidated statement of income include interest-bearing borrowings under current liabilities. income taxes to be paid on the basis of local tax legislations, tax adjustments from previous years as well as the effect of the annual Share-based payments change in the deferred tax liability and deferred tax assets. The Konecranes Group has issued equity-settled stock options to Deferred tax liabilities and deferred tax assets are calculated its key personnel. The stock option holder is entitled to subscribe on all temporary differences arising between the tax basis and the shares in Konecranes Plc in accordance with the terms of the stock book value of assets and liabilities. Deferred tax is not recognized 74 Konecranes 2013 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for non-deductible goodwill on initial recognition and temporary difThe other new and amended standards in 2013 had immaterial ferences in investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they probimpact on future financial statements. ably will not reverse in the foreseeable future. The main temporary The following new and amended standards and interpretations differences arise from unused tax losses, depreciation differences, are effective in the year 2014: provisions, defined benefit pension plans, inter-company inventory • Amendment to IAS 32 Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial margin and fair valuation of derivative financial instruments. In Liabilities connection with an acquisition, the Group records provisions for • Amendment to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27 – Investment entideferred taxes on the difference between the fair values of the net ties assets acquired and their tax bases. A deferred tax asset is recognized to the extent that it is probable that it can be utilized. The amended standards in 2014 will have immaterial impact on future financial statements. 2.4 Application of new and amended IFRS standards and IFRIC interpretations The following new and amended standards and interpretations are effective in the year 2013: 3. Management of financial risks The Group uses an approach in which most of the management of • IAS19, Employee Benefits (Revised) financial risks is centralized to Konecranes Group Treasury. Group • IFRS 10, Consolidated Financial Statements Treasury functions within the legal entity Konecranes Finance Cor• IFRS 11, Joint Arrangements poration, operating as a financial vehicle for the Group in Corporate • IFRS 12, Disclosure of Interest in Other Entities Headquarters. With centralization and netting of internal foreign • IFRS 13, Fair Value Measurement currency cash flows, the external hedging needs can be minimized. • Improvements to International Financial Reporting Standards – Konecranes Finance Corporation is not a profit center in the 2009–2011 sense that it would pursue to maximize its profits. The company aims to serve the operative companies of the Group in reducing The amendments to IAS 19 change the accounting for defined bentheir financial risks. efit plans and termination benefits. The most significant change The Group’s global business operations involve financial risks in relates to the accounting in defined benefit obligations and plan the form of currency, interest rate, commodity, credit and liquidity assets. The amendments require the recognition of changes in risks. The Group’s objective is to increase the short-term stability of defined benefit obligations and in fair value of plan assets when the financial environment for the business operations by reducing they occur, and hence eliminate the “corridor approach” permitted the negative effects caused by price fluctuations and other uncerunder the previous version of IAS 19. All actuarial gains and losses tainties in the financial markets. are recognized immediately through other comprehensive income. The responsibility of identifying, evaluating and controlling the Furthermore, the interest cost and expected return on plan assets financial risks arising from the Group’s global business operations used in the previous version of IAS 19 are replaced with a net-interis divided between the business units and Konecranes Finance Corest amount under revised IAS 19, which is calculated by applying poration. the discount rate to the net defined benefit liability or asset. The Units hedge their risks internally with Group Treasury. As a result revised IAS 19 introduces also certain changes in the presentation of this, most of the financial risks of the Group are concentrated of the defined benefit cost and obligation including more extensive into one company, Konecranes Finance Corporation and can be disclosures. The effect of the amended standard had immaterial evaluated and controlled in an efficient way. impact on financial statements since Konecranes adopted the posAlmost all funding, cash management and foreign exchange sibility to recognize actuarial gains and losses in other comprehenwith banks and other external counterparties are centralized to sive income already in 2012 (prior periods restated). Konecranes Finance Corporation in accordance with the Group’s IFRS 11 uses the principle of control as described in IFRS 10 Treasury Policy. Only in a few special cases, when the local central to define joint control. Joint Arrangements are classified into Joint bank regulation prohibits using group services in hedging and fundOperations and Joint Ventures. In Joint Operations the parties with ing, this must be done directly between an operative company and joint control have rights to the assets and obligations for the liabilia bank under the supervision of the Group Treasury. ties of the arrangement. Joint Operations are accounted for showKonecranes Finance Corporation uses a treasury system, which ing each party’s interest in the assets, liabilities, revenues and enables practically a real-time processing of transactions and inexpenses and / or its relative share of jointly controlled assets, depth records of activities and performance. The standard reportliabilities, revenue and expense, if any. In Joint Ventures the parties ing is done on a weekly basis and it covers group-level commercial with joint control have rights to the net assets of the arrangement. and financial cash flows, foreign currency transaction exposure, Joint Ventures are accounted for using the equity method. The prodebt positions, portfolio of derivatives and counterparty credit expoportionate consolidation method is prohibited under IFRS 11. IFRS sure for financial transactions. In addition, all group companies par12 requires extensive qualitative and quantitative disclosures of ticipate in the monthly managerial and statutory reporting. interests held in other entities and how control was determined. The introduction of IFRS 11 reclassified one company as joint operation and did not have material impact on financial statements. Notes to the consolidated financial statements Konecranes 2013 75 Currency rate risk The following table shows the translation exposure of the Group as The Group’s global business operations generate exchange rate of 31.12.2013 and 31.12.2012 (in EUR millions): risk. However, most of the business units only have transactions in their own currency, i.e. these units have their sales & costs as well 2013 2012 as internal funding from Konecranes Finance Corporation in their AED 6 6 local home currency. Only 21 out of some 100 Group companies AUD 6 5 BRL -5 -2 operate regularly in a foreign currency. These companies hedge CAD 28 28 their currency rate risk with Group Treasury. Depending on the busiCHF 4 0 ness area and the probability of the cash flows, the hedging covers CLP 7 7 operative cash flows for the next 1–24 months and is done by using CNY 84 102 internal foreign exchange forward contracts. This way, Konecranes DKK 1 1 Finance Corporation can manage the currency rate risk of the whole GBP 3 -1 Group. The foreign currency funding of the other Group companies HUF 3 4 and possibly some external foreign currency funding can net some INR -1 8 of these foreign currency items. The residual net exposure can be IDR -2 -1 covered with commercial banks using foreign exchange forward JPY -5 -3 contracts or currency options. Only the items belonging to hedge MAD -5 0 accounting cannot be netted out against other internal items. MXN 2 2 These instruments are used when the hedging effect cannot be MYR 2 2 obtained through internal netting and matching of cash flows within NOK -4 -4 the Group. PEN 1 1 The business units’ commercial bids in a foreign currency can PLN 1 1 be hedged by using currency options, but, in general, using currency RON 1 1 clauses covers the risk. RUB 7 6 For certain large crane projects, the Group applies hedge SAR 10 9 accounting compatible with IAS 39. Hedges are done by using forSGD 55 20 eign exchange forward contracts. Currently, only USD denominated SEK -13 -17 projects are included in the hedge accounting. The hedge accountTHB -1 -1 ing portfolio comprises both USD sales and purchases. At the end TRY 2 4 of 2013, the hedge accounting net cash flows totaled USD 178 UAH -14 -14 million (USD 100 million in 2012). USD 42 61 ZAR -1 0 The following table shows the transaction exposure of Konecranes Finance Corporation as of December 31, 2013 and December 31, Currently, none of the non-euro denominated shareholders’ equity 2012 (in EUR millions): of the Group’s foreign subsidiaries (i.e., the translation exposure) is hedged. 2013 2012 Please see Note 37 of the Consolidated Financial Statements AUD 3 2 for the notional and fair values of derivative financial instruments. CAD -1 -10 Changes in currency rates can affect the profitability and equity CHF 2 5 of the Group. The U.S. dollar has clearly the biggest impact, as GBP 3 -2 many of large crane projects are denominated in USD and the JPY 0 -1 Group has a lot of local business operations in the United States. A NOK 2 2 depreciation of the USD has a negative impact. SEK -47 -36 The following table shows the magnitude of the effects that SGD -11 0 changes in the EUR/USD exchange rate would have on the Group’s THB 1 0 annual EBIT and equity. An appreciation of the average rate of US USD 165 126 dollar against Euro for ten percent increases the operating profit ZAR 1 0 by EUR 15.8 million (22.9 million in 2012) and equity by EUR 4.9 million (6.7 million in 2012). Table figures in EUR million, the USD effect simulated: Change in EUR/USD 2013 2013 2012 2012 rate EBIT Equity EBIT Equity +10% 12.9 4.0 20.8 6.1 10% +15.8 +4.9 +22.9 +6.7 The transaction position is estimated for the calendar year and the estimate of the effects is based on the assumption that the USD 76 Konecranes 2013 Notes to the consolidated financial statements denominated transactions are not hedged. In practice, however, all general, can be higher than the market level of short-term interest large projects with long maturities generating substantial portion rates when low rates prevail and, on the other hand, lower than of the annual changes in the transaction position, are hedged. The the market level when high rates prevail. Please see Note 30.3 of profitability is affected by the portion of the Group’s EBIT generthe Consolidated Financial Statement for sensitivity analysis of the ated in USD (translational effect) and by the USD operations of the Group’s interest rate risk. Group companies with euro as home currency and generating EBIT in euros (transactional effect). The equity is affected by the change Commodity risk in EBIT and by the portion of the Group’s equity in USD. By using electricity derivatives, the Group strives to reduce the Appreciating dollar has also a positive impact on Group’s operatnegative effect caused by electricity price fluctuation. The overall ing profit margin, when it affects the revenues and costs reported importance of the energy price risk is small compared to other in euros asymmetrically. The EBIT change affecting the operating financial risks and cannot be described as significant. profit margin (relative profitability) is only approximately EUR 4 milPlease see Note 37 of the Consolidated Financial Statements lion (7 million in 2012), when dollar appreciates 10 percent. This is for the notional and fair values of derivative financial instruments due to the fact that the exchange rate change impacts mostly both (including electricity forwards). group’s revenues and costs and only partly either of these. Relative Steel prices are fixed as a normal part of the procurement proprofitability calculation excludes the hedged cash flows from long cess. Price changes naturally affect the future procurement, but lasting projects. these changes can be taken into consideration in the price quotes to the end customers. Interest rate risk In large crane projects, the steel structures are sub-contracted Changes in market interest rates have an impact on Group’s net and as a normal part of the sub-contracting process, the steel is interest expenses and the market value of interest rate derivatives. included in the price of the sub-contracting (i.e. the price is fixed The objective for interest rate risk management is to reduce the with the sub-contractor). volatility impact the market interest rate changes cause by optiThe Group procures steel and steel components and thus has mizing the allocation between flow risk and price risk according to an inventory of those. Market price fluctuation of steel can impact principles set in Capital structure management. the profitability of customer projects or cause inventory obsolesApproximately 88% of the Group’s interest-bearing liabilities are cence. denominated in euro (90% in 2012). Please see Note 30.3 of the Consolidated Financial Statements for the currency split of outCredit and counterparty risks standing debt. Credit risk arises from the potential failure of a commercial counterThe portion of the Group’s long term debt of total debt is related party to meet its commercial payment obligations. To limit this risk, to the Group’s gearing ratio. The higher the ratio is, the more the Group applies conservative credit policy towards customers. It weighted the long term debt portfolio is according to principles set is Konecranes practice to review customers carefully before enterin Capital structure management. The interest rate risk related to ing formal business relationship and require Credit Reports from long term loans are hedged with interest rate derivatives belonging new customers. Customer Credit risks are mitigated with Advance to hedge accounting. For hedging purposes interest rate swaps, Payments, Letters of Credits, Payment Guarantees and Credit Insurforward rate agreements, interest rate futures and interest rate ance where applicable. With these actions and careful monitoring options can be used. of the customer payments credit risks can be mitigated. The Group’s interest bearing liabilities at the end of 2013 were The business units manage credit risks related to their commerEUR 320 million (EUR 327 million in 2012). The average interest cial flows. There is currently no significant concentration of credit rate for short term loans was 2.78% (3.08%) and for long term risk regarding the commercial activities, as the number of customloans 2.04% (1.91%). A change of one percentage point in interest ers is high and their geographic distribution is wide. It is the Group’s rates in Group’s long term debt portfolio would have following effect policy not to fund its customers beyond regular payment terms. on Group’s income statement and equity: Please see Note 24 of the Consolidated Financial Statements for a table of an aging analysis of accounts receivable. The theoretiChange 2013 2012 cal maximum credit risk equals the carrying amount of receivables. in Interest Income 2013 Income 2012 There are also some additional receivables, which relate to the perrates statement Equity statement Equity centage of the completion revenue method used in long-term proj+1% 1.2 +2.8 1.8 +2.5 ects, and these are partly covered by advance payments. Please 1% +0.3 2.9 +1.8 2.5 see Note 7 of the Consolidated Financial Statements for details. Counterparty risk arises from the potential failure of a finanThe effect on income statement is comprised of Group’s floatcial institution to meet its payment obligations regarding financial ing long term debt which is recognized through the statement of instruments. All credit risks related to other financial instruments income. The effect on equity is comprised of the changes in fair than the regular accounts receivable are managed by Konecranes value of interest rate swaps hedging the long term debt portfolio. Group Treasury. There is no substantial concentration of credit risk The effect of a one percentage point decline in interest rates is regarding the financial instruments, since investments are rare and theoretical, since it would mean negative market interest rates. hedging instruments are done with a number of banks. However, The proportion of fixed interest loans in the loan portfolio can be counterparties for financial instruments are limited to the core increased by means of interest rate derivatives. As a consequence banks of the Group. These are all major banks with good credit of this treasury policy, the Group’s average interest rate level, in ratings. The majority of all financial instruments are of short-term Notes to the consolidated financial statements Konecranes 2013 77 nature, with maturity of less than one year. There are no significant Capital structure management deposits or loans granted with external counterparties. The primary objective of the Group’s capital structure manageThe Group has bank risk exposure in form of cash at bank ment is to ensure that it maintains a good credit risk status and accounts around the world. Despite the active cash management a healthy capital ratio to support its business operations. At the structures the Group has in place, some cash holdings globally with same time, the Group also aims to maximize shareholder value by several banks are needed to ensure the liquidity of Group comeffective use of capital. panies. Group Treasury follows closely the bank risk exposure in The Group manages its capital structure and fine-tunes it to Group according to principles set in Treasury Policy and takes necadjust to probable changes in economic conditions. These actions essary actions for reducing the risk. may include adjusting the dividend payment to shareholders, buying back own shares or issuing new shares. Liquidity risks The Group monitors its capital structure using gearing ratio. Liquidity risks concern the availability of liquid assets or funding. This is calculated as a ratio of interest-bearing liabilities less liquid Lack of funding might jeopardize normal business operations and assets less loans receivable to total equity. At the end of 2013, the eventually might endanger the ability to fulfill daily payment obligagearing ratio was 42.1% (39.5% in 2012). tions. The Group has no quantitative targets for the capital structure For managing the liquidity risks, the Group has established a but the optimal long-term gearing ratio is in the range of 50–80%. EUR 200 million committed revolving credit facility with an interHowever, in the short term, the gearing can also be significantly national loan syndication (2010–2015). To cover the short-term higher or lower than this range. funding needs, Konecranes Finance Corporation can borrow from The Group decides on the split between long-term and shortinstitutional investors through five domestic commercial paper term debt in relation to the gearing ratio level. The following table programs (totaling EUR 480 million). In addition, business units shows the rough guidelines for the portion of long–term debt of around the world have overdraft facilities totaling some EUR 140 total debt under different gearing ratio levels: million to cover the day-to-day funding needs. It is the Group’s policy to keep minimum amount of cash in the Gearing ratio Portion of long–term level of total debt balance sheet as deposits or any other liquid assets to maximize the return of capital employed. Cash and cash equivalents totaled Under 50% Under 1/3 EUR 132.5 million at the end of 2013 (EUR 145.4 in 2012). Between 50–80% Between 1/3 and 2/3 See Note 30.3 of the Consolidated Financial Statements for the Over 80% Over 2/3 maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities. The Group monitors the gearing ratio level on a weekly basis. During 2013, no changes have been made in the objectives, policies or processes. The objectives of the Group’s capital management have been met in recent years. 78 Konecranes 2013 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 4. Segment information From 2010 onwards Konecranes has reported two Business Areas: As its secondary segments, Konecranes Group reports three Service and Equipment as its primary business segments. The geographical areas, which are the main market areas: EMEA business areas are based on the Group’s management reporting (Europe, Middle East and Africa), AME (Americas) and APAC (Asiaand organizational structure. Konecranes Group’s highest operative Pacific). Sales are reported by the customer location and assets decision maker is the President and CEO with the support of the and capital expenditure by the location of the assets. Group Executive Board (GXB). Intercorporate transfer prices are based primarily on the market The assets and liabilities of the business areas include only prices. items directly connected with the business as well as the goodwill related to them. Unallocated items, including Group Headquarters, include tax and financial income and expenses, which are managed on group level, as well as items which can not be allocated to the business areas. All figures are in millions of euros unless otherwise indicated. 4.1. Business segments Unallocated 2013 Service Equipment items Eliminations Total Orders received 715.9 1,319.6 -114.7 1,920.8 Order book 128.1 765.3 893.5 Sales to external customers 844.2 1,255.4 2,099.6 Inter-segment sales 44.9 73.8 -118.7 0.0 Total net sales 889.1 1,329.2 -118.7 2,099.6 EBITDA 89.6 71.6 -21.1 0.5 140.5 EBITDA, % 10.1% 5.4% 6.7% Depreciation and amortization 14.6 24.1 0.4 39.1 Impairment of assets 7.2 9.7 16.9 Operating profit excluding restructuring costs 80.6 54.3 -20.0 0.5 115.5 % of net sales 9.1% 4.1% 5.5% Operating profit including restructuring costs 67.8 37.8 -21.6 0.5 84.5 % of net sales 7.6% 2.8% 4.0% Assets 359.3 860.2 262.6 1,482.0 Liabilities 171.8 482.1 383.7 1,037.5 ROCE% 38.3% 9.6% 11.6% Capital expenditure 20.1 45.6 65.7 Share of result of associates and joint ventures 0.0 3.9 3.9 Investment in associates and joint ventures 0.0 40.4 40.4 Personnel 6,151 5,626 55 11,832 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Konecranes 2013 79 Unallocated 2012 Service Equipment items Eliminations Total Orders received 735.0 1,340.4 -105.2 1,970.1 Order book 147.2 795.6 942.7 Sales to external customers 843.3 1,328.2 2,171.5 Inter-segment sales 40.7 84.5 -125.3 0.0 Total net sales 884.0 1,412.7 -125.3 2,171.5 EBITDA 87.3 109.7 -20.6 0.5 176.8 EBITDA, % 9.9% 7.8% 8.1% Depreciation and amortization 12.7 28.4 0.4 41.5 Impairment of assets 0.0 2.9 2.9 Operating profit excluding restructuring costs 74.6 84.2 -21.0 0.5 138.3 % of net sales 8.4% 6.0% 6.4% Operating profit including restructuring costs 74.6 78.4 -21.0 0.5 132.5 % of net sales 8.4% 5.5% 6.1% Assets 353.6 910.1 312.6 1,576.3 Liabilities 187.0 501.3 425.3 1,113.6 ROCE% 41.8% 18.8% 18.4% Capital expenditure 12.5 29.1 41.7 Share of result of associates and joint ventures 0.0 3.8 3.8 Investment in associates and joint ventures 0.0 37.5 37.5 Personnel 6,119 5,973 55 12,147 4.2. Geographical segments 2013 EMEA* AME APAC Total External sales* 979.8 752.9 366.9 2,099.6 Assets 843.4 295.2 343.4 1,482.0 Capital expenditure 44.9 4.2 16.5 65.7 Personnel 6,246 2,711 2,875 11,832 * External sales to Finland EUR 74.5 million. Intangible and tangible assets in Finland EUR 129.9 million and in other countries EUR 292.8 million. 2012 EMEA* AME APAC Total External sales* 1,043.7 721.0 406.9 2,171.5 Assets 887.6 353.2 335.4 1,576.3 Capital expenditure 30.8 2.9 7.9 41.7 Personnel 6,269 2,724 3,154 12,147 * External sales to Finland EUR 90.0 million. Intangible and tangible assets in Finland EUR 133.3 million and in other countries EUR 290.8 million. 80 Konecranes 2013 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 5. Acquisitions Acquisitions in 2013 container handling lift trucks to the worldwide distribution network Konecranes completed one small acquisition in the crane service of Linde Material Handling, which is wholly owned by KION Group. business during January–March 2013 when it acquired service Both companies will continue to offer a full range of container hanbusiness assets and operations of S.E.T.E.M in Bordeaux, France. dling lift trucks, including reach stackers, empty container handlers In May, 2013, Konecranes and the KION Group, one of the leadand laden container handlers. In addition, Konecranes acquired ing global manufacturers of industrial trucks, closed the transaction certain assets including the product rights and inventories for conannounced on 18 February 2013 to collaborate in the container tainer handling lift trucks from Linde Material Handling, handling lift truck business. Based on the collaboration agreement, The fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities of the Konecranes, with immediate effect, became long-term supplier of acquired business at the date of acquisition are summarized below. 2013 2013 2013 Recognized Fair value Acquired on acquisition adjustments carrying value Intangible assets Clientele 7.9 7.9 0.0 Technology 0.8 0.8 0.0 Other intangible assets 0.0 0.0 0.0 Property, plant and equipment 0.0 0.0 0.0 Inventories 2.8 0.3 2.5 Account receivables and other assets 0.0 0.0 0.0 Cash and cash equivalents 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total assets 11.5 8.9 2.5 Deferred tax liabilities 0.5 0.5 0.0 Longand short-term interest bearing debts 0.0 0.0 0.0 Account payables and other current liabilities 0.5 0.5 0.0 Total liabilities 1.0 1.0 0.0 Net assets 10.5 7.9 2.5 Purchase consideration transferred 10.5 Goodwill 0.0 Cash outflow on acquisition Purchase consideration, paid in cash 8.3 Transactions costs* 0.8 Cash and cash equivalents in acquired companies 0.0 Net cash flow arising on acquisition 9.1 Purchase consideration: Purchase consideration, paid in cash 8.3 Purchase consideration, liabilities assumed 0.0 Contingent consideration liability 2.2 Total purchase consideration 10.5 * Transaction costs of EUR 0.8 million have been expensed and are included in other operating expenses. From the date of acquisitions the acquired companies have con­ tributed EUR 7.2 million of sales and EUR -0.4 million EBIT. If the combinations had taken place at the beginning of the year, Konecranes Group’s 2013 sales would have been EUR 2,102.6 million and EBIT EUR 84.3 million. Notes to the consolidated financial statements Konecranes 2013 81 Divestments 2013 During the third quarter of 2013, Konecranes sold small Machine ations of Deussen Andernach GmbH in Andernach, Germany and Tool Service business unit in Heilbronn Germany to the manageAmeritronic Industries, Inc in Indiana, USA. ment of the unit. The disposal resulted a loss of 0.9 M€ to the During July–September Konecranes acquired the assets and statement of income. operations of two small crane service companies: Re-Cranes, located in Prague, Czech Republic and Nea Lyfton, located in ÖreAcquisitions in 2012 bro, Sweden. Konecranes completed two small acquisitions in crane service The fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities of the business during April–June 2012 when it acquired assets and operacquired business at the date of acquisition are summarized below. 2012 2012 2012 Recognized Fair value Acquired on acquisition adjustments carrying value Intangible assets Clientele 1.6 1.6 0.0 Technology 0.0 0.0 0.0 Other intangible assets 0.0 0.0 0.0 Property, plant and equipment 0.3 0.0 0.3 Inventories 0.1 0.0 0.1 Account receivables and other assets 0.0 0.0 0.0 Cash and cash equivalents 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total assets 2.0 1.6 0.4 Deferred tax liabilities 0.3 0.3 0.0 Longand short-term interest bearing debts 0.0 0.0 0.0 Account payables and other current liabilities 0.1 0.0 0.1 Total liabilities 0.4 0.3 0.1 Net assets 1.6 1.3 0.3 Purchase consideration transferred 1.6 Goodwill 0.0 Cash outflow on acquisition Purchase consideration, paid in cash 1.5 Transactions costs* 0.2 Cash and cash equivalents in acquired companies 0.0 Net cash flow arising on acquisition 1.7 Purchase consideration: Purchase consideration, paid in cash 1.5 Purchase consideration, liabilities assumed 0.1 Contingent consideration liability 0.0 Total purchase consideration 1.6 * Transaction costs of EUR 0.2 million have been expensed and are included in other operating expenses. From the date of acquisitions the acquired companies have con­ tributed EUR 2.4 million of sales and EUR -0.1 million EBIT. If the combinations had taken place at the beginning of the year, Konecranes Group’s 2012 sales would have been EUR 2,172.7 million and EBIT EUR 132.4 million. 82 Konecranes 2013 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 6. Distribution of sales 10. Depreciation, amortization 2013 2012 and impairments Sale of goods 1,444.1 1,528.3 10.1. Depreciation Rendering of services 654.5 642.7 and amortization 2013 2012 Leasing of own products 0.4 0.3 Intangible assets 16.2 19.9 Royalties 0.6 0.2 Buildings 2.9 3.0 Total 2,099.6 2,171.5 Machinery and equipment 19.9 18.6 Total 39.1 41.5 7. Percentage of completion 10.2. Impairments 2013 2012 method and advances received Buildings, Machinery and equipment 1.7 0.0 Intangible rights 10.8 0.0 7.1. Percentage of completion method 2013 2012 Goodwill 4.5 2.9 The cumulative revenues of Total 16.9 2.9 non-delivered projects 297.5 309.6 Advance received from percentage of completion method 277.5 324.5 11. Other operating expenses Receivables from the revenue 2013 2012 recognition netted with the advances received 215.5 261.4 Change in work in progress 11.6 -5.5 Production for own use -0.3 -1.2 Net sales recognized under the percentage of completion method Material and supplies 816.2 877.6 amounted EUR 389.9 million in 2013 (EUR 404.1 in 2012). Subcontracting 196.5 193.6 Wages and salaries 476.6 478.9 Pension costs 38.0 38.1 7.2. Advance payments received 2013 2012 Other personnel expenses 83.6 81.7 Advance received from percentage of completion method (netted) 62.0 63.1 Other operating expenses 338.5 333.7 Other advance received from customers 113.3 154.0 Total 1,960.6 1,996.9 Total 175.2 217.2 Research and developments costs recognized as an expense in other operating expenses amount to EUR 25.6 million in the year 8. Other operating income 2013 (EUR 25.8 million in 2012). 2013 2012 Profit of disposal of fixed assets 0.3 0.2 12. Personnel expenses Rental income 0.4 0.6 and number of personnel Indemnities 0.3 0.4 12.1. Personnel expenses 2013 2012 Other 0.6 1.0 Wages and salaries 476.6 478.9 Total 1.6 2.3 Pension costs: Defined benefit plans 4.3 5.4 Pension costs: Defined contribution plans 33.7 32.8 9. Government grants Other personnel expenses 83.6 81.7 Total 598.2 598.7 2013 2012 Investment grants in building, machinery and employment grants 0.4 0.9 12.2. Average personnel 2013 2012 Grants for research and development 0.5 0.7 The average number of personnel 11,987 11,917 Total 0.9 1.6 Personnel 31 December, 11,832 12,147 of which in Finland 1,989 2,035 12.3. Personnel by Business Area at end of period 2013 2012 Service 6,151 6,119 Equipment 5,626 5,973 Group Staff 55 55 Total 11,832 12,147 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Konecranes 2013 83 13. Management compensation Board of Directors The remuneration packages for Board members are resolved by the According to the proposal, 50% of the annual remuneration is Annual General Meeting on proposal by the Nomination and Comto be used for acquiring shares in the company. The remuneration pensation Committee. The AGM 2013 confirmed an annual fee of may also be paid by transferring treasury shares based on the EUR 105,000 for the Chairman of the Board (2012: EUR 105,000), authorization given to the board of directors by the general meetEUR 67,000 for the Vice Chairman of the Board (2012: EUR ing. In case such purchase of shares cannot be carried out due to 67,000), and EUR 42,000 for other Board members (2012: EUR reasons related either to the company or to a board member, the 42,000). In addition, compensation of EUR 1,500 was approved for annual remuneration shall be paid entirely in cash. attendance at Board committee meetings (2012: EUR 1,500). HowTravel expenses will be compensated against receipt. ever, the chairman of audit committee is entitled to a compensation of EUR 3,000 (2012: EUR 3,000) per meeting for attendance at audit committee meetings. 2013 2013 2012 2012 Total Number Total Number compen­sation, of shares as part compen­sation, of shares as part Total compensation to the Board of Directors EUR of com­pensation EUR of com­pensation Chairman of the Board 108,000 1,873 111,840 2,276 Board members 331,500 5,243 342,845 6,370 Total 439,500 7,116 454,685 8,646 President and CEO The Nomination and Compensation Committee reviews the PresiThe additional pension agreement of President and CEO Pekka dent and CEO’s performance. Based on this review and relevant Lundmark was reviewed and amended during 2012 to reinforce facts, the Board sets the total compensation package for the Presiits defined contribution plan feature with an annual contribution of dent and CEO. 18,6% from the salary. At the same time the retirement age was raised to 63 years. 2013 2012 At the end of year 2013, Konecranes had a loan receivable of Salary and benefits, EUR 656,041 553,603 EUR 225,336.14 from President & CEO Pekka Lundmark with the Annual variable pay, EUR 120,000 262,800 interest rate of 1.533%. (EUR 221,725.43 with the interest rate of Total 776,041 816,403 1.615% in 2012). The loan relates to a tax payment resulting from the incentive scheme directed to the President & CEO in 2006. There is a tax appeal pending against the imposed payment and Expense of statutory pension plans 112,360 88,570 the loan is effective until the appeal is concluded. Expense of voluntary pension plans 94,123 87,084 Total 206,483 175,654 Group Executive Board & Senior Management Team In 2013 Konecranes had a two-tier operative management strucShareholding in Konecranes Plc ture consisting of the Group Executive Board (GXB) and the Senior (number of shares) 225,520 263,749 Management Team (SMT).The GXB convenes as frequently as necessary, normally on a monthly basis. The SMT shall convene twice Option rights owned (number of options) 80,000 80,000 a year, in April–May and in December. Business Areas and Regions Performance share rights allocated 67,200 48,000 have their own management teams that convene on a regular Share-based payments costs, EUR 281,727 248,693 basis. Only Group Executive Board is classified to key management personnel due to the decision making power. The Group Executive Board comprises President and CEO, and Retirement age 63 years 63 years Chairman of the Group Executive Board; Executive Vice President, Period of notice 6 months Head of Business Area Service and Chief Customer Officer; Execu18 months salary tive Vice President and Head of Business Area Equipment; ExecuSeverance payment and fringe benefits tive Vice President, Strategy and Technology; Chief Financial Officer; Senior Vice President, Human Resources; and Chief Information Officer. 84 Konecranes 2013 Notes to the consolidated financial statements The Nomination and Compensation Committee of the Board reviews Group compensation policies and issues guidelines for the 14. Financial income and expenses same. In accordance with these guidelines, the Nomination and 14.1. Financial income 2013 2012 Compensation Committee confirms compensation packages for Dividend income on available-for-sale those Group Executive Board members who report directly to the investments 0.1 0.1 President and CEO. For other Group Executive Board members, the Interest income on bank compensation packages are confirmed by the President and CEO. deposits and loans 4.8 3.3 The retirement age of the Finnish members of the Group ExecuFair value gain on derivative tive Board (excluding the President and CEO) is set according to the financial instruments 9.9 3.5 Employees Pensions Act (TyEL). The Finnish members of the Group Other financial income 2.7 0.1 Executive Board also participate in the contribution-based group Total 17.5 6.9 pension insurance scheme offered to key personnel in Finland. The defined contribution payment by the company is 1% of annual salary excluding performance based compensation (annual or long 14.2. Financial expenses 2013 2012 term incentives). The Finnish Group Executive Board members also Interest expenses on liabilities 13.3 14.7 have life insurance and disability insurances. Non-Finnish members Exchange rate loss on interest have local insurances. bearing assets and liabilities 15.4 2.3 Other financial expenses 1.8 2.1 Group Executive Board excluding Total 30.5 19.0 the President and CEO 2013 2012 Salary and benefits, EUR 1,283,773 1,112,489 Financial income and expenses net -13.0 -12.1 Annual variable pay, EUR 246,131 206,755 Total 1,529,904 1,319,244 The company applies hedge accounting on derivatives used to hedge cash flows in certain large crane projects. The cash flow Expense of statutory pension plans 218,645 194,646 hedges of the expected future cash flows are assessed to be highly effective and a net unrealized effect of EUR 2.6 million (2012: EUR Expense of voluntary pension plans 9,896 8,356 -1.4 million) with deferred taxes of EUR -0.7 million (2012: EUR Total 228,541 203,002 0.5 million) relating to the hedging instruments is included in the equity. The hedged operative cash flows are expected to occur durShareholding in Konecranes Plc ing the next 3–18 months. (number of shares)* 170,786 191,706 Option rights owned (number of options) 141,500 219,135 Performance share rewards allocated 163,200 108,000 Share-based payments costs, EUR 690,453 522,919 * The number of shares 2012 does not include 12,500 exercised option rights for which the transfer of treasury shares occurred in 2013. There were no loans to the Group Executive Board (excluding the President and CEO) at end of the period 2013 and 2012. There are no guarantees on behalf of the Group Executive Board in year 2013 and 2012. The employee benefits to the key management personnel of the Group were in total EUR 4.2 million in year 2013 (3.7 million in year 2012). Notes to the consolidated financial statements Konecranes 2013 85 15. Income taxes 16. Earnings per share 15.1. Taxes in statement Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing the net income of Income 2013 2012 attributable to the shareholders of the parent company by the Local income taxes of group companies 36.0 45.3 weighted average number of shares outstanding during the year. Taxes from previous years 2.4 1.1 Diluted earnings per share are calculated by adjusting the weighted Change in deferred taxes -12.3 -6.9 average number of shares with the stock options outstanding per Total 26.1 39.4 December 31. 2013 2012 15.2. Reconciliation of income before taxes with total Net profit attributable to shareholders income taxes 2013 2012 of the parent company 49.1 84.2 Profit before taxes 75.5 124.2 Weighted average number of shares outstanding (1,000 pcs) 57,684 57,228 Tax calculated at the domestic corporation tax rate of 24.5% (2012: 24.5%) 18.5 30.4 Effect of issued share options (1,000 pcs) 193 289 Effect of different tax rates of foreign subsidiaries 1.2 3.8 Diluted weighted average number of shares outstanding (1,000 pcs) 57,877 57,517 Taxes from previous years 2.4 1.1 Tax effect of non-deductible expenses and tax-exempt income 2.1 1.4 Earnings per share, basic (EUR) 0.85 1.47 Tax effect of unrecognized tax losses Earnings per share, diluted (EUR) 0.85 1.46 of the current year 3.5 4.5 Tax effect of utilization of previously unrecognized tax losses -0.3 -0.7 Tax effect of recognition of previously 17. Goodwill and goodwill unrecognized tax losses -0.5 -0.7 impairment testing Tax effect of recognizing the controlled temporary difference from investment in subsidiaries 0.1 0.0 General principles Tax effect of tax rate change * -0.2 0.0 The goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units (CGUs) being the Other items -0.7 -0.3 lowest level of assets for which there are separately identifiable Total 26.1 39.4 cash flows. These CGUs are then aggregated to the Business Unit (BU) level which is the lowest operative management reporting level at which goodwill is monitored and for which the impairment testing Effective tax rate % 34.5% 31.7% is primarily done. The recoverable amounts of the BUs and CGU are determined * The tax rate changes in Finland from January 1, 2014 are recognized in deferred taxes in 2013. based on value in use calculations (discounted cash flow method). In those cases where a CGU forms a stand alone business where 15.3. Tax effects of components synergies with the rest of the respective BU activities are difficult in other comprehensive income 2013 2012 to assess, the goodwill is tested on the CGU level. The forecasting Cash flow hedges 1.0 0.5 period of cash flows is five years and it is based on financial foreRe-measurement gains (losses) casts of each BU’s management, adjusted by Group management on defined benefit plan -0.9 -3.1 if needed. The forecasts have been made based on BU specific Total 0.1 -2.6 historical data, order book, the current market situation and industry specific information of the future growth possibilities. The calculated cash flows after the five-year forecasting period are based on a zero percent growth estimate on sales and operating margin. Calculations are prepared during the fourth quarter of the year. The discount rate applied to cash flow projections is the weighted average (pre-tax) cost of capital and is based on risk free long term government bond rates and market and industry specific risk premiums. These risk premiums are derived based on the business portfolio of companies which operate in a similar industry as the BUs. The average discount rate used in 2013 is 12,4 percent (a weighted average of a range from 10 to 20 percent). In 2012, the 86 Konecranes 2013 Notes to the consolidated financial statements average pre-tax discount rate used was 11,7 percent (a weighted Total Goodwill in Business average of a range from 9 to 19 percent). The business risk distriSegments after impairments 2013 2012 bution of the tested BUs were considered when determining the BU Industrial Cranes 37.2 43.3 discount rates in use and the discount rates account for the averBU Lifttrucks 13.2 13.6 age cost of capital for all BUs. CGU STAHL Konecranes GmbH, Germany 20.4 20.4 BU Light Lifting* 5.8 6.8 Goodwill allocation to main cash-generating Units Goodwill in Equipment total 76.5 84.0 (CGUs), Business Units (BU) and business segments: The Group’s total goodwill is allocated to the Business Units (BU) as indicated in the table below. The table also shows separately BU Port Service 10.8 14.3 the goodwill of those individual CGUs that represent stand alone BU Crane Service 9.7 9.4 businesses and thus are extracted from BU-level for goodwill BU Machine Tool Service 4.5 5.1 impairment testing purposes (tested separately). Goodwill in Service total 25.1 28.8 In Group’s assets, there is also included EUR 10.4 million intangible assets with indefinite useful life arising from the acquisition Total Goodwill in Business of R. Stahl AG’s material handling division, which consists of the Segments as of December 31 101.6 112.8 trademark of the brand name ‘Stahl’. The carrying amount of this asset is tested on a yearly basis by using a similar kind of impair* Includes Konecranes Lifting Systems and Suomen Teollisuusosa which were ment testing method as the goodwill. reported as separate CGU in 2012. Sensitivity analyses As a result of the impairment test in 2012 an EUR 2.9 million In addition to impairment testing using the base case assumpimpairment need was identified for Konecranes Lifting Systems as tions, three different sensitivity analyses were performed: the future discounted cash flows did not support the asset value • A discount rate analyses where the discount rate was tested due to the low volumes in tailor-made manipulator business. increased by 5 percentage points. • A Group management adjustment to the future profitability. Goodwill 2013 2012 Each BU and stand alone CGU cash flow was analyzed by the Acquisition costs as of January 1 123.1 122.7 Group management. Based on the BU specific historical data Increase 0.0 0.0 and future growth prospects the cash flows were decreased Translation difference -6.7 0.4 by -10%. Acquisition costs as of December 31 116.3 123.1 • A higher discount rate (+5% points) analyses combined with Accumulated impairments lower (-10%) cash flows as mentioned above. as of January 1 -10.2 -7.4 Impairments for the financial year -4.5 -2.9 Goodwill testing results: Total as of December 31 101.6 112.8 Restructuring actions and closure of certain parts of business units have lead to additional impairment testing in two business units: Port Service and Light Lifting, which includes 2012 tested CGU Suomen Teollisuusosa and CGU Konecranes Light Lifting. As a 18. Other intangible assets result of the testing a total of EUR 4.5 million of Goodwill was written off (Business Unit Port Service EUR 3.5 million and Business 18.1. Patents and trademarks 2013 2012 Unit Light Lifting EUR 1.0 million). As a result of the regular impairAcquisition costs as of January 1 28.9 29.1 ment test in 2013 there were no need for additional write offs. Translation difference -0.3 -0.2 In the regular impairment test 2013 the recoverable amount Acquisition costs as of December 31 28.6 28.9 of Business Unit Port Service exceeded the balance value by EUR Accumulated amortization 0.9 million and in the Business Unit Light Lifting by EUR 0.9 milas of January 1 -12.9 -11.6 lion respectively. Sensitivity tests using both higher discount rate Amortization for financial year -0.3 -1.2 (+5% points) and lower cash flow estimates (-10%) indicated that Total as of December 31 15.4 16.1 BU Port Service Goodwill would have been impaired by additional EUR 6.6 million and BU Light Lifting Goodwill by EUR 5.8 million. The recoverable amount would be the same as balance value if the discount rate would be 0.5% points higher in BU Port Service and 0.3% points higher in BU Light Lifting or if the cash flows would be 4.9% lower in BU Port Service and 3.3% lower in BU Light Lifting. There was no indication of impairment for any other GCU Goodwill due to the sensitivity tests. Notes to the consolidated financial statements Konecranes 2013 87 18.2. Other (including service contracts, software) 2013 2012 19. Property, plant and equipment Acquisition costs as of January 1 155.5 141.4 19.1. Land 2013 2012 Increase 31.1 13.8 Acquisition costs as of January 1 6.6 5.7 Decrease -1.7 -0.3 Increase 0.5 0.9 Company acquisitions 8.7 1.6 Decrease -0.1 0.0 Transfer within assets 0.0 0.0 Company acquisitions 0.0 0.0 Impairment -10.8 0.0 Translation difference -0.2 0.0 Translation difference -1.6 -1.0 Total as of December 31 6.8 6.6 Acquisition costs as of December 31 181.2 155.5 Accumulated amortization as of January 1 -95.0 -76.9 19.2. Buildings 2013 2012 Accumulated amortization relating Acquisition costs as of January 1 52.3 49.4 to disposals 1.2 0.0 Increase 10.1 3.4 Amortization for financial year -15.9 -18.1 Decrease -0.1 -0.9 Total as of December 31 71.6 60.5 Company acquisitions 0.0 0.0 Transfer within assets 0.3 0.5 18.3. Other intangible Impairment -0.3 0.0 assets total 2013 2012 Translation difference -1.5 0.0 Acquisition costs as of January 1 184.4 170.5 Acquisition costs as of December 31 60.8 52.3 Increase 31.1 13.8 Accumulated depreciation Decrease -1.7 -0.3 as of January 1 -10.0 -7.3 Company acquisitions 8.7 1.6 Accumulated depreciation relating to disposals 0.1 0.3 Transfer within assets 0.0 0.0 Depreciation for financial year -2.9 -3.0 Impairment -10.8 0.0 Total as of December 31 47.9 42.2 Translation difference -1.9 -1.2 Acquisition costs as of December 31 209.9 184.4 There were no buildings which belong to finance lease at the end of Accumulated amortization year 2013 and 2012. as of January 1 -107.8 -88.5 Accumulated amortization relating to disposals 1.2 0.0 19.3. Machinery and equipment 2013 2012 Amortization for financial year -16.2 -19.3 Acquisition costs as of January 1 235.6 216.5 Total as of December 31 87.0 76.6 Increase 25.6 28.0 Decrease -15.0 -8.1 Company acquisitions 0.0 0.0 Other intangible assets include service contracts, patents and Transfer within assets -0.3 -0.5 trademarks and software licenses. They are stated at cost and Impairment -1.4 0.0 amortized on the straight-line basis over their expected useful lives. The normal amortization period varies from 4 to 20 years. Translation difference -1.6 -0.3 Intangible assets having an indefinite useful life are tested for Acquisition costs as of December 31 243.0 235.6 impairment annually. On December 31, 2013, the intangible assets Accumulated depreciation having indefinite useful life consisted of the Stahl trademark, totally as of January 1 -145.8 -133.7 EUR 10.4 million. As there is no foreseeable limit on the period Accumulated depreciation relating over which the asset is expected to generate net cash inflows for to disposals 12.5 5.7 the entity, it is classified as intangible assets having indefinite useDepreciation for financial year -19.9 -17.8 ful life. Total as of December 31 89.8 89.8 Due to the restructuring actions and closure of certain parts of business units during 2013 Intangible Assets (mainly customer The balance value of machinery and equipments which belong to relations and technology in India, Austria, UK and Morocco) were finance lease is EUR 8.7 million in the year 2013 (EUR 9.6 million written off due to impairment by EUR 10.8 million. in 2012). 88 Konecranes 2013 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 19.4. Property, plant and equipment total 2013 2012 20. Interest in other entities and non Acquisition costs as of January 1 294.5 271.6 controlling interests Increase 36.3 32.2 20.1. Investments accounted for using the equity method Decrease -15.2 -9.1 Company acquisitions 0.0 0.0 Associated Companies 2013 2012 Impairment -1.7 0.0 Acquisition costs as of January 1 32.2 30.3 Translation difference -3.3 -0.2 Share of associated companies Acquisition costs as of December 31 310.6 294.5 result after taxes* 2.8 2.5 Accumulated depreciation Dividends received -0.5 -0.6 as of January 1 -155.8 -141.0 Total as of December 31 34.5 32.2 Accumulated depreciation relating to disposals 12.6 6.0 * Including adjustments from purchase price allocation. Depreciation for financial year -22.8 -20.7 Total as of December 31 144.5 138.7 Joint Ventures 2013 2012 Acquisition costs as of January 1 5.3 4.2 The amount of borrowing cost capitalized during 2013 was EUR Share of Joint Ventures result after taxes 1.1 1.3 0.6 million (EUR 0.0 million in 2012). The interest is related to a Dividends received -0.5 -0.3 loan which was specifically taken to the construction of the factory Total as of December 31 5.9 5.3 in India. 20.2. Investments in associated companies and joint ventures Profit/ loss after Carrying Nontax from Total amount of Noncurrent Current continuing comprethe investcurrent Current liabilities liabilities Revenue operahensive Dividends 2013 ment assets 1) assets 1) 1) 1) 1) tions 1) income 1) received Guangzhou Technocranes Company Ltd. 2) 0.7 0.6 5.3 0.0 3.3 7.6 0.1 0.1 0.0 Jiangyin Dingli Shengsai High Tech Industrial Crane Company Ltd. 2) 0.6 0.5 6.1 0.0 4.7 6.5 0.5 0.5 0.0 Shanghai High Tech Industrial Company, Ltd. 2) 2.1 0.7 15.8 0.0 9.2 19.1 0.4 0.4 0.0 Boutonnier Adt Levage S.A. 0.4 0.2 1.9 0.0 0.6 3.4 0.1 0.1 0.0 Levelec S.A. 0.2 0.1 1.6 0.0 0.5 2.4 0.1 0.1 0.0 Manelec S.a.r.l. 0.1 0.0 0.4 0.0 0.1 0.7 0.0 0.0 0.0 Manulec S.A. 0.2 0.4 1.1 0.0 0.5 2.7 -0.1 -0.1 0.0 Sere Maintenance S.A. 0.1 0.1 1.0 0.0 0.9 2.6 -0.1 -0.1 0.0 Eastern Morris Cranes Limited 2) 1.4 0.3 8.8 0.0 6.6 13.4 0.7 0.7 0.2 Kito Corporation 33.6 84.8 166.8 42.0 74.4 286.7 11.5 11.5 0.5 Crane Industrial Services LLC 2) 1.2 0.2 4.1 0.2 1.9 7.9 0.5 0.5 0.3 Translation difference 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total 40.4 87.8 213.0 42.3 102.7 353.2 13.8 13.8 1.1 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Konecranes 2013 89 Profit/ loss after Carrying Nontax from Total amount of Noncurrent Current continuing comprethe investcurrent Current liabilities liabilities Revenue operahensive Dividends 2012 ment assets 1) assets 1) 1) 1) 1) tions 1) income 1) received Guangzhou Technocranes Company Ltd. 2) 0.6 0.7 6.4 0.0 4.5 5.4 0.0 0.0 0.0 Jiangyin Dingli Shengsai High Tech Industrial Crane Company Ltd. 2) 0.5 0.9 4.2 0.0 3.6 9.4 0.3 0.3 0.0 Shanghai High Tech Industrial Company, Ltd. 2) 2.0 1.1 19.8 0.0 13.7 20.0 1.0 1.0 0.0 Boutonnier Adt Levage S.A. 0.3 0.2 1.8 0.1 0.6 3.1 0.1 0.1 0.0 Levelec S.A. 0.2 0.1 1.7 0.0 0.6 2.8 0.2 0.2 0.0 Manelec S.a.r.l. 0.1 0.0 0.5 0.0 0.2 1.3 0.1 0.1 0.0 Manulec S.A. 0.3 0.4 1.3 0.0 0.7 3.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Sere Maintenance S.A. 0.1 0.1 1.0 0.1 0.7 3.1 0.1 0.1 0.0 Eastern Morris Cranes Limited 2) 1.2 0.3 8.2 0.0 6.1 11.4 0.8 0.8 0.3 Kito Corporation 31.3 81.3 189.3 36.1 95.2 334.6 9.0 9.0 0.5 Crane Industrial Services LLC 2) 1.0 0.2 6.2 0.1 3.6 11.7 1.4 1.4 0.0 Translation difference 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total 37.5 85.4 240.3 36.4 129.5 405.7 13.0 13.0 0.9 1) Asset and liability values, revenue and profit/loss represent values according to the latest published financial information. 2) Classified as Joint ventures due to the terms in the contractual arrangement for decisions about relevant activities which require unanimous content of the parties that collectively control the unit. The investment value of the shares in the associated companies In 2012 the change increased sales by EUR 1.3 million, depreand joint ventures consists of the Group’s proportion of the comciation by EUR 0.8 million, other operating expenses by EUR 0,1 panies at the acquisition date, adjusted by any variation in the million, operating profit by EUR 0.4 million and net profit by EUR shareholders’ equity after the acquisition. See also the Company 0.1 million. In the balance sheet the change mainly increased the list for listing the ownership of the associated companies and joint retained earnings of 2012 by EUR 2.6 million (EUR 2.4 million in ventures. 2011), and increased the short term liabilities by EUR 9.8 million, The market value of Kito Corporation shares owned by fixed assets by EUR 5.5 million and inventories by 7.0 million. Prior Konecranes as at December 31, 2013 amounted to EUR 42.9 milyear is restated in the Group and in the Equipment business seglion (EUR 19.5 million in 2012). The investment to Kito Corporament. tion is a strategic alliance to utilize the global market potential and mutually complement each other by selling Kito manual products while Kito will sell wire rope hoists made by Konecranes. Effects to the opening balance 1.1.2012 Additions 20.3. Joint operations Intangible assets 0.3 The introduction of IFRS 11 did not have material impact on finanTangible assets 5.5 cial statements. The standard was adopted retrospective. IFRS 11 Inventories 4.5 uses the principle of control as described in IFRS 10 to define joint Receivables 0.2 control. Joint Arrangements are classified into Joint Operations and Cash and Bank 0.8 Joint Ventures. In Joint Operations, the parties with joint control have rights to the assets and obligations for the liabilities of the Long-term liabilities -0.1 arrangement. Joint Operations are accounted for showing each parShort-term liabilities -8.2 ty’s interest in the assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and / Net assets 2.9 or its relative share of jointly controlled assets, liabilities, revenue Deductions and expense, if any. In Joint Ventures, the parties with joint control Investment in other entities -0.5 have rights to the net assets of the arrangement. Joint Ventures Increase in Equity 2.4 are accounted for using the equity method. Konecranes classified one company (Konesko A/S) as a joint operation based on the parties’ contractual unanimous consent of In September, 2013, Konecranes acquired 30.5% of Konesko A/S the decisions about the relevant activities as well as due to the in Estonia for which the previous ownership was 19%. The new magnitude of business the company conducts with Konecranes. ownership is now 49.5%. Konesko A/S is a strategic supplier of components used in Konecranes products. 90 Konecranes 2013 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 20.4. Subsidiaries with material non-controlling interest Profit/ Accumuloss after Total lated Non Non Non tax from compreControlling current Current current Current continuing hensive 2013 Interest Goodwill assets assets liabilities liabilities Revenue operations income Sanma Hoists & Cranes Co.Ltd. (NCI 35%) 6.3 4.9 16.2 19.6 0.0 18.1 38.0 1.4 1.4 Profit/ Accumuloss after Total lated Non Non Non tax from compreControlling current Current current Current continuing hensive 2012 Interest Goodwill assets assets liabilities liabilities Revenue operations income Sanma Hoists & Cranes Co.Ltd. (NCI 35%) 6.1 5.0 17.0 17.1 0.5 17.0 44.5 1.6 1.6 NCI = Non Controlling Interest. Asset and liability as well as revenue and profit/loss values represent the total company values including purchase price allocations. See also the Company list for listing the ownership and principal place of business of the subsidiaries. 21. Available-for-sale investments 22. Inventories 2013 2012 2013 2012 Acquisition costs as of January 1 0.9 0.9 Raw materials and semi-manufactured Increase 0.0 0.0 goods 130.9 145.4 Total as of December 31 1.0 0.9 Work in progress 161.4 180.7 Finished goods 17.7 21.6 Advance payments 15.5 22.0 Investments for available-for-sale investments consist of shares in unlisted companies and are measured at cost, because the range Total 325.5 369.8 of reasonable fair value estimates is significant and the probabilities of the various estimates cannot be reasonably assessed. See also Company list for detailed list of available-for-sale investments. 23. Valuation and qualifying accounts Balance at the beginUtilized Provision Balance ning Trans­lation during the not at the end 2013 of the year difference period needed Additions of the year Provision for doubtful accounts 16.4 -1.0 4.7 3.9 11.1 17.9 Provision for obsolete inventory 21.7 -0.7 3.1 3.3 7.5 22.1 Balance at the beginUtilized Provision Balance ning Trans­lation during the not at the end 2012 of the year difference period needed Additions of the year Provision for doubtful accounts 14.0 0.0 2.3 3.0 7.8 16.4 Provision for obsolete inventory 20.0 0.1 3.7 0.3 5.6 21.7 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Konecranes 2013 91 24. Ageing analysis of 26. Deferred assets accounts receivable 2013 2012 2013 2012 Interest 0.3 0.1 Undue accounts receivable 203.8 249.5 Receivable arising from percentage of the completion method 79.1 42.6 Accounts receivable 1–30 days overdue 65.5 89.3 Prepaid expenses 10.2 12.3 Accounts receivable Other 47.0 45.2 31–60 days overdue 29.2 35.2 Total 136.6 100.2 Accounts receivable 61–90 days overdue 20.8 23.3 Accounts receivable more than 91 days overdue 67.4 44.8 27. Cash and cash equivalents Total 386.7 442.1 2013 2012 Cash in hand and at bank 116.8 130.1 Accounts receivable are initially measured at cost (book values Short-term deposits 15.4 15.2 represent their fair values). Accounts receivable are subject to Total 132.2 145.3 only minor credit risk concentrations due to the Group’s extensive customer portfolio. Credit losses recognized for the financial year totaled EUR 4.9 million (EUR 2.4 million in 2012). Short-term deposits are with a maturity of less than three months. Cash and cash equivalents are carried at nominal value, which corresponds to their fair value. 25. Other receivables 2013 2012 Bills receivable 7.5 7.2 Value added tax 18.1 22.0 Total 25.6 29.2 28. Equity Number of Share Share 28.1. Shareholders’ equity shares capital premium Paid in capital As of January 1, 2012 57,198,971 30.1 39.3 43.7 Share subscriptions with options 92,339 0.0 0.0 1.1 As of December 31, 2012 57,291,310 30.1 39.3 44.8 Share subscriptions with options 536,770 0.0 0.0 6.2 As of December 31, 2013 57,828,080 30.1 39.3 51.0 The total shareholders’ equity consists of share capital, share capital includes the portion of shares’ subscription price, which premium account, share issue, fair value reserves, translation difis not recorded to share capital or according to IFRS to liabilities. ference, paid in capital and retained earnings. Konecranes’ share The paid-in capital includes also other capital contributions to the has no nominal value. The company has one series of shares. All Group, which are not recorded to some other reserve within the issued shares are fully paid. The share premium account includes equity. The paid-in capital includes also the possible amount of the value of shares, which exceeds the accounting par value of the share capital decrease, which is not netted against accumulated shares, for shares issued before September 1, 2006. Fair value losses or is not distributed to shareholders. reserves include changes in the fair values of derivative financial instruments used to hedge operational cash flows. Translation 28.2. Distributable earnings differences comprise the differences arising from the elimination See page 120 / Board of Director’s Proposal to the Annual General of net investments in non-euro foreign subsidiaries. The paid-in Meeting. 92 Konecranes 2013 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 2013 2012 together with the authorization of transfer of the company’s own Number of Number of shares. 28.3. Treasury shares shares shares The authorization is effective until the end of the next Annual As of January 1 5,981,032 6,042,456 General Meeting, however no longer than until 21 September 2014. Decrease -536,770 -61,424 However, the authorization for incentive arrangements is valid until Total as of December 31 5,444,262 5,981,032 21 March 2018. Proposal by the Board of Directors to authorize the Proposal by the Board of Directors to authorize Board of Directors to decide on the transfer of the the Board of Directors to decide on the repurchase company’s own shares: and/or on the acceptance as pledge of the Company’s The AGM authorized the Board of Directors to decide on the transown shares: fer of the Company’s own shares as follows: The AGM on March 21, 2013 authorized the Board of Directors to The authorization is limited to a maximum of 6,000,000 shares, decide on the repurchase and/or on the acceptance as pledge of which corresponds to approximately 9.5 per cent of all of the the Company’s own shares as follows: shares in the Company. The amount of own shares to be repurchased and/or accepted The Board of Directors decides on all the conditions of the transas pledge based on this authorization shall not exceed 6,000,000 fer of own shares. The transfer of shares may be carried out in devishares in total, which corresponds to approximately 9.5 per cent of ation from the shareholders’ pre-emptive rights (directed issue). all of the shares in the Company. However, the Company together The Board of Directors can also use this authorization to grant with its subsidiaries cannot at any moment own and/or hold as special rights concerning the Company’s own shares, referred to pledge more than 10 per cent of all the shares in the Company. in Chapter 10 of the Companies Act. The authorization can also be Only the unrestricted equity of the Company can be used to repurused for incentive arrangements, however, not more than 700,000 chase own shares on the basis of the authorization. shares in total together with the authorization in the issuance of Own shares can be repurchased at a price formed in public tradshares and the issuance of special rights entitling to shares. ing on the date of the repurchase or otherwise at a price formed This authorization is effective until the next Annual General on the market. Meeting of Shareholders, however no longer than until 21 SeptemThe Board of Directors decides how own shares will be repurber 2014. However, the authorization for incentive arrangements is chased and/or accepted as pledge. Own shares can be repurvalid until 21 March 2018. chased using, inter alia, derivatives. Own shares can be repurchased otherwise than in proportion to the shareholdings of the Proposal by the Board of Directors to authorize the shareholders (directed repurchase). Board of Directors to launch an employee share Own shares can be repurchased and/or accepted as pledge savings plan and to decide on directed share issue to limit the dilutive effects of share issues carried out in connecwithout payment: tion with possible acquisitions, to develop the Company’s capital Konecranes Plc’s Annual General Meeting of Shareholders 2012 structure, to be transferred for financing or realization of possible decided to implement an Employee Share Savings Plan in the acquisitions, investments or other arrangements belonging to the Konecranes Group (the Plan). According to the Board decision, the Company’s ordinary business, to pay remuneration to Board memPlan was offered in 39 countries to approximately 9,000 employees bers, to be used in incentive arrangements or to be cancelled, proin 2012. During the first Plan Period 2012–2013, the employees’ vided that the repurchase is in the interest of the Company and its participation rate was 16 percent globally. Through the Plan, approxshareholders. imately 1,500 employees became shareholders in Konecranes. In The authorization is effective until the end of the next Annual Finland, the participation rate was 36 percent. General Meeting, however no longer than until 21 September 2014. On the basis of interest shown by the Group employees, the Board has on March 21, 2013 decided to launch a new Plan Period. Authorizing the Board of Directors to decide on the The new plan period began on July 1, 2013 and end on June 30, issuance of shares as well as on the issuance of 2014. During the commencing Plan Period, the intention is to offer special rights entitling to shares: the Plan, in addition to the current target countries, also in China. The AGM authorized the Board of Directors to decide on the issuThe maximum savings amount per participant during one month is ance of shares as well as the issuance of special rights entitling to 5 percent of gross salary and the minimum is EUR 10. Each parshares referred to in chapter 10 section 1 of the Finnish Compaticipant will receive one free matching share for every two acquired nies Act as follows. savings shares. Matching shares will be delivered to a participant if The amount of shares to be issued based on this authorization the participant holds the acquired shares from the plan period until shall not exceed 6,000,000 shares, which corresponds to approxithe end of the designated holding period, February 15, 2017, and if mately 9.5 per cent of all of the shares in the Company. his or her employment has not ended before this date for reasons The Board of Directors decides on all the conditions of the issurelated to the employee. The total amount of all savings of the comance of shares and of special rights entitling to shares. The issumencing plan period may not exceed EUR 8.5 million. ance of shares and of special rights entitling to shares may be An employee will participate in the Plan for one year at a time. carried out in deviation from the shareholders’ pre-emptive rights Shares will be acquired with the accrued savings at the market (directed issue). The authorization can also be used for incentive price quarterly, after the publication dates of the Konecranes arrangements, however, not more than 700,000 shares in total interim results, commencing in November 2013. Any dividends Notes to the consolidated financial statements Konecranes 2013 93 paid on purchased shares during the commencing Plan period will for series 2009A EUR 14.55 (after year 2009, 2010, 2011 and automatically be reinvested into additional shares on the following 2012 dividend distribution EUR 10.60), for series 2009B EUR purchase date. These shares will have an equal right to matching 23.79 (after year 2010, 2011 and 2012 dividend distribution EUR shares. 20.74) and for series 2009C EUR 31.37 (after year 2011 and The Board of Directors decides on the issue of new shares or 2012 dividend distribution EUR 29.32). on the transfer of own shares held by the Company to such particiThe Board of Directors of Konecranes Plc has on 22nd March, pants of the Plan who, according to the terms and conditions of the 2012 resolved to implement a performance share plan according Plan, are entitled to receive free shares, as well as to decide on to which earning reward is based on attainment of targets deterthe share issue without payment also to the Company itself. The mined by the Board of Directors. The aim of the new plan is to comauthorization includes a right in this Plan to transfer own shares bine the objectives of the shareholders and key employees in order held by the Company, the use of which has earlier been limited to to increase the value of the Company, to commit key employees to other purposes than incentive plans. The number of new shares the Company, and to offer them a competitive reward plan based on to be issued or own shares held by the Company to be transferred long-term shareholding in the Company. may be a maximum total of 500,000 shares, which corresponds to The plan consists of three one-year discretionary periods as well 0.8 per cent of all of the Company´s shares. as three approximately three-year discretionary periods. The discreThe Board of Directors is entitled to decide on other matters tionary periods will begin in the beginning of years 2012, 2013 and concerning the share issue. The authorization concerning the share 2014. The Board of Directors of the Company will decide on the issue is valid until 21 March 2018. This authorization replaces the Plan’s performance criteria and on their targets at the beginning of authorization for the Share Savings Plan given by the Annual Geneach discretionary period. Earning during the one-year discretionary eral Meeting 2012. period beginning on 1 January 2012 was based on the Konecranes Group´s EBIT margin, and during the three-year discretionary period beginning on 1 January 2012 on the Total Shareholder Return of 29. Option rights and other sharethe Company’s share (TSR). The potentially earned reward will be paid in spring 2015. If a key employee’s employment or service based payments ends before the end of a discretionary period, no reward will be The Annual General Meeting of Shareholders of Konecranes Plc has paid on the basis of such discretionary period. on March 12, 2009 accepted the issue of stock options to the key The Board of Directors requires that each member of the personnel of Konecranes Plc (Company) and its subsidiaries. The Extended Management Team holds a half of shares paid on the maximum total number of stock options issued was 2,250,000, basis of the Plan until the value of his or her shareholding in the and they entitled their owners to subscribe for a maximum total Company in total corresponds to the value of his or her annual of 2,250,000 new shares in the Company or existing shares held gross salary. Such number of shares will be held as long as his by the Company. The Board of Directors shall resolve whether new or her employment or service in a Group company continues. The shares in the Company or existing shares held by the Company target group of the Plan consists of approximately 150 people. The are given to the subscriber. Of the stock options, 750,000 were rewards to be paid on the basis of the discretionary periods beginmarked with the symbol 2009A, 750,000 were marked with the ning on 1 January 2012 correspond to the value of maximum of symbol 2009B and 750,000 were marked the with the symbol total of 271,308 Konecranes Plc shares. 2009C. The period for the option rights of the first series begun on The Board of Directors has resolved in 2013 to amend the perApril 1, 2012 and ends for the option rights of the last series on formance share plan launched in 2012 so that two three-year disApril 30, 2016. The share subscription price for stock options was cretionary periods 2013–2015 and 2014–2016 will follow the disbased on the prevailing market price of the Konecranes Plc share cretionary periods commenced in 2012. The performance criterion on the NASDAQ OMX Helsinki Ltd. in April 2009, April 2010 and for the discretionary period 2013–2015 is the cumulative Earnings April 2011. At the end of 2013, altogether 622,859 shares had per Share (EPS) of the financial years 2013–2015. been subscribed for the stock options pursuant to 2009A stock The target group of the plan consists of approximately 150 peooption plan and 6,250 shares for the stock options pursuant to ple during the discretionary period 2013–2015. The rewards to be 2009B stock option plan. paid on the basis of the discretionary period correspond to the Should the Company distribute dividends, from the share subvalue of an approximate maximum total of 700,000 Konecranes scription price of the stock options, shall be deducted the amount Plc shares. If the targets determined by the Board of Directors are of the dividend decided after the beginning of the period for deterattained, the reward payout may be a half of the maximum reward. mination of the share subscription price but before share subscripThe maximum reward payout requires that the targets are clearly tion, as per the dividend record date. The subscription prices were exceeded. 94 Konecranes 2013 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 29.1. Summary of the Konecranes Plc’ Option Plans Maximum number Maximum number of shares the stock of shares Share option plan entitles Subscription that still can be subscription Stock Option to subscribe for price/ share (EUR) subscribed period 2009A 750,000 10.60* 112,141 1.4.2012–30.4.2014 2009B 750,000 20.74** 709,750 1.4.2013–30.4.2015 2009C 750,000 29.32*** 665,000 1.4.2014–30.4.2016 Total 2,250,000 1,486,891 * The original subscription price was EUR 14.55 ** The original subscription price was EUR 23.79 *** The original subscription price was EUR 31.37 29.2. Changes in the number of shares from option rights outstanding 2013 2012 Number of shares of option rights outstanding as of January 1 2,090,661 3,144,200 Granted during the year 10,000 2,000 Forfeited during the year -89,500 -15,000 Exercised during the year -524,270 -104,839 Expired during the year 0 -935,700 Total number of shares from option rights outstanding as of 31 December 1,486,891 2,090,661 Exercised option rights in 2012 included 12,500 shares for which the transfer of treasury shares occurred in 2013. The total cost of the option programs for the financial year 2013 was EUR 2.4 million (2012: EUR 4.0 million). Option program costs are included in personnel expenses and credited to the shareholders’ equity. 29.3. Assumptions made in determining the fair value of stock options The fair values for the options have been determined using the Black & Scholes method. The fair values for stock options have been calculated on the basis of the following assumptions: 2009A 2009B 2009C Subscription price of the share, EUR 10.60* 20.74** 29.32*** Fair market value of the share, EUR 17.65 24.22 32.30 Expected volatility, % 25% 23% 20% Risk-free interest rate, % 3.27% 2.15% 2.82% Expected contractual life in years 0.3 1.3 2.3 Grant date fair value of the stock options, EUR 6.52 6.19 8.17 The above calculations are based on the 4–6 year implied volatility of the Konecranes Plc share price estimated by a market participant who actively trades stock options. * The original subscription price was EUR 14.55 ** The original subscription price was EUR 23.79 *** The original subscription price was EUR 31.37 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Konecranes 2013 95 29.4. Changes in number of share rewards For the 2013–2015 earning period granted in 2013, the fair in performance share plan value for the equity settled portion based on non market vesting condition (EPS) has been determined at grant using the fair value of 2013 2012 Number of Number of Konecranes share as of the grant date and expected dividend yield. shares shares As of January 1 602,000 0 The fair values have been calculated on the basis of the following assumptions: Share rewards granted 646,000 605,000 Share rewards awarded 0 0 2013 2012 Share rewards expired -358,800 0 Share price at grant, EUR 25.68 21.17 Share rewards forfeited -15,666 -3,000 Share price at reporting Total as of December 31 873,534 602,000 period end 31.12 25.86 25.86 Expected volatility, % * 37.5% The reward will be paid in Konecranes shares (approximately 50%) Risk-free interest rate, % 3.5% and partly in cash (approximately 50%). The cash-settled portion Expected dividend, pa, EUR 1.0 1.0 is dedicated to cover taxes and tax-related payments. The equity Expected contractual life in years 3.0 2.0 -settled portion of the plan is recognized over the vesting period based on calculated fair value of Konecranes share as of the grant Weighted average fair value of the date EUR 21.17 for performance share plan 2012 and EUR 25.68 share rewards at the grant date 22.66 14.87 for performance share plan 2013. The historical development of Konecranes share and the expected dividends have been taken * Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the into account when calculating the fair value. Konecranes share using monthly observations over corresponding maturity. The total cost of the performance share plan for the financial year 2013 was EUR 2.0 million (2012: EUR 0.8 million). The costs of the performance share plan are included in person29.5. Employee share savings plan nel expenses. Equity-settled portion is credited to the shareholdThe matching shares of employee share savings plan will be paid in ers’ equity and cash-settled portion to long-term liabilities. The carKonecranes shares (approximately 50%) and partly in cash (approxrying amount of the liability arising from cash settled portion was imately 50%). The cash-settled portion is dedicated to cover taxes EUR 1.7 million (2012: EUR 0.5 million) and tax-related payments. The expenses of the plan are recognized over the vesting period based on the quarterly acquired savings Assumptions made in determining the fair value of share amounts and fair value of Konecranes share as of the closshare rewards in performance share plan ing date. The fair value for the cash settled portion is remeasured at each The total cost of the employee share savings plan for the finanreporting date until the possible share delivery. The fair value of cial year 2013 was EUR 0.3 million (2012: EUR 0.0 million). the liability will thus change in accordance with the Konecranes Plc The costs of the employee share savings plan are included in share price. personnel expenses. Equity-settled portion is credited to the shareFor the 2012–2014 earning period granted in 2012, the fair holders’ equity and cash-settled portion to long-term liabilities. The value for the equity settled portion based on market vesting condicarrying amount of the liability arising from cash settled portion tion (total share holder value) has been determined at grant using was EUR 0.2 million (2012: EUR 0.0 million). the Monte Carlo model. The fair value for the equity settled portion based on non market vesting condition (EBIT margin) has been determined at grant using the fair value of Konecranes share as of the grant date and expected dividend yield. 96 Konecranes 2013 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 30. Interest-bearing liabilities 2013 2013 2012 2012 30.1. Non-current Carrying amount Fair value Carrying amount Fair value Loans from financial institutions 110.7 110.7 105.8 105.8 Bonds 0.0 0.0 74.9 74.9 Pension loans 7.6 7.6 11.4 11.4 Finance lease liabilities 5.8 5.8 6.1 6.1 Other long-term loans 8.9 8.9 7.6 7.6 Total 133.0 133.0 205.7 205.7 2013 2013 2012 2012 30.2. Current Carrying amount Fair value Carrying amount Fair value Loans from financial institutions 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Bonds 75.0 75.0 0.0 0.0 Pension loans 3.8 3.8 3.8 3.8 Finance lease liabilities 2.6 2.6 3.3 3.3 Commercial papers 74.9 74.9 88.7 88.7 Other short-term loans 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.5 Overdraft 30.0 30.0 25.5 25.5 Total 186.7 186.7 121.8 121.8 The average interest rate of the non-current liabilities portfolio on December 31, 2013 was 2.04% (2012: 1.9%) and that of current liabilities was 2.78% (2012: 3.08%). The effective interest rate for EUR loans varied between 0.56%–5.06% (2012: 0.73%–5.05%). 30.3. Currency split and repricing schedule of outstanding debt 2013 Debt repricing in period Amount Avg Avg Rate Currency MEUR duration rate % sensi­tivity1) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018EUR 282.8 1.5 years 1.38 2.8 158.4 16.9 105.2 2.3 0.0 INR 36.2 1.3 years 10.89 0.4 27.8 1.6 1.6 2.9 2.3 MAD 0.3 1.0 years 5.50 0.0 0.3 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 PLN 0.3 1.7 years 3.40 0.0 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.0 0.0 USD 0.0 2.0 years 3.34 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 SGD 0.1 1.9 years 4.96 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total 319.7 2.46 3.2 186.7 18.6 106.9 5.3 2.3 2012 Debt repricing in period Amount Avg Avg Rate Currency MEUR duration rate % sensi­tivity1) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017EUR 296.1 1.9 years 1.43 3.0 98.2 85.4 6.5 105.4 0.6 CAD 0.3 1.0 years 2.42 0.0 0.3 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 INR 30.2 1.5 years 11.19 0.3 23.2 1.8 1.2 2.2 1.7 USD 0.8 2.0 years 2.80 0.0 0.0 0.8 0.0 0.0 0.0 SGD 0.1 1.9 years 4.97 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.1 Total 327.5 2.33 3.3 121.8 88.0 7.7 107.6 2.4 1) Effect of one percent rise in market interest rates on the Group’s net interest expenses over the following 12 months. All other variables have been assumed constant. Notes to the consolidated financial statements Konecranes 2013 97 30.4. Maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities 2013 Maturity of financial liabilities Amount Debt type drawn 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Later Committed revolving facilities 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Loans from financial institutions 119.1 0.0 10.7 102.4 3.7 2.3 0.0 Bonds 75.0 75.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Finance lease liabilities 9.6 2.6 3.7 1.7 1.6 0.0 0.0 Commercial paper program 74.9 74.9 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Pension loans 10.2 3.8 3.8 2.6 0.0 0.0 0.0 Other long-term debt 2.9 0.4 2.3 0.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 Overdraft 30.0 30.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Derivative financial instruments 7.7 5.9 1.8 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Account and other payables 176.2 176.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total 505.5 368.7 22.3 106.9 5.3 2.3 0.0 2012 Maturity of financial liabilities Amount Debt type drawn 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Later Committed revolving facilities 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Loans from financial institutions 112.8 0.1 4.4 3.0 103.0 2.3 0.0 Bonds 74.9 0.0 74.9 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Finance lease liabilities 9.4 3.3 4.6 0.7 0.7 0.0 0.0 Commercial paper program 88.7 88.7 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Pension loans 15.1 3.8 3.8 3.8 3.8 0.0 0.0 Other long-term debt 1.0 0.4 0.3 0.2 0.2 0.0 0.0 Overdraft 25.5 25.5 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Derivative financial instruments 6.9 3.7 3.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Account and other payables 187.7 187.7 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total 522.0 313.2 91.2 7.7 107.6 2.4 0.0 98 Konecranes 2013 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 30.5. Carrying amounts of financial assets and liabilities classified based on IAS 39 2013 Financial assets/ Financial assets/ Availableliabilities Carrying liabilities at fair Loans for-sale measured amounts value through and financial at amortized by balance Fair Financial assets income statement receivables assets cost sheet item value Note Non-current financial assets Long-term interest-bearing receivables 0.0 0.2 0.0 0.0 0.2 0.2 Other financial assets 0.0 0.0 1.0 0.0 1.0 1.0 21 Current financial assets Short-term interest-bearing receivables 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Account and other receivables 0.0 394.4 0.0 0.0 394.4 394.4 24, 25 Derivative financial instruments 12.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 12.1 12.1 37.2 Cash and cash equivalents 0.0 132.2 0.0 0.0 132.2 132.2 27 Total 12.1 526.8 1.0 0.0 539.9 539.9 Financial liabilities Non-current financial liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities 0.0 0.0 0.0 133.0 133.0 133.0 30.1 Derivative financial instruments 1.8 0.0 0.0 0.0 1.8 1.8 37.2 Other payables 0.0 0.0 0.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 Current financial liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities 0.0 0.0 0.0 186.7 186.7 186.7 30.2 Derivative financial instruments 5.9 0.0 0.0 0.0 5.9 5.9 37.2 Account and other payables 0.0 0.0 0.0 176.2 176.2 176.2 34.2 Total 7.7 0.0 0.0 497.8 505.5 505.5 2012 Financial assets/ Financial assets/ Availableliabilities Carrying liabilities at fair Loans for-sale measured amounts value through and financial at amortized by balance Fair Financial assets income statement receivables assets cost sheet item value Note Non-current financial assets Long-term interest-bearing receivables 0.0 0.2 0.0 0.0 0.2 0.2 Derivative financial instruments 0.6 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.6 0.6 37.2 Other financial assets 0.0 0.0 1.4 0.0 1.4 1.4 21 Current financial assets Short-term interest-bearing receivables 0.0 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.1 0.1 Account and other receivables 0.0 471.3 0.0 0.0 471.3 471.3 24, 25 Derivative financial instruments 6.6 0.0 0.0 0.0 6.6 6.6 37.2 Cash and cash equivalents 0.0 145.3 0.0 0.0 145.3 145.3 27 Total 7.1 616.9 1.4 0.0 625.5 625.5 Financial liabilities Non-current financial liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities 0.0 0.0 0.0 205.7 205.7 205.7 30.1 Derivative financial instruments 3.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 3.2 3.2 37.2 Current financial liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities 0.0 0.0 0.0 121.8 121.8 121.8 30.2 Derivative financial instruments 3.7 0.0 0.0 0.0 3.7 3.7 37.2 Account and other payables 0.0 0.0 0.0 187.7 187.7 187.7 34.2 Total 6.9 0.0 0.0 515.1 522.0 522.0 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Konecranes 2013 99 31. Employee Benefits 31.2. Components of defined benefit plan recorded in comprehensive income 2013 2012 The Konecranes Group companies have various pension plans in Service cost: accordance with local conditions and practices. The pension plans are classified as either defined contribution plans or defined benCurrent service cost 1.6 2.4 efit plans. The Group has a significant defined benefit pension Net interest cost 2.7 3.0 plan in the United Kingdom and Germany. In addition the defined Past service cost 0.0 0.0 benefit plans German companies have other long term employee Components of defined costs benefits such as part time pension benefits and jubilee benefits. recorded in profit or loss 4.3 5.4 The Konecranes Group accounts for the Finnish system under the Employees’ Pensions Act (TyEL) as a defined contribution plan. Remeasurement on the net In United Kingdom the defined benefit plan is administered by defined benefit liability: a separate trustee company that is legally separated from the The return on plan assets (excluding company. The investments are managed by professional and indeamounts included in the net interest pendent fund managers who are appointed by the trustees. The expense) -1.0 -2.6 trustees are responsible for the investment policy with regard to Actuarial gains (-) / losses (+) arising from the assets of the fund. Both defined pension plans in the United changes in demographic assumptions 1.5 0.2 Kingdom and in Germany are regulated by the laws, instructions Actuarial gains (-) / losses (+) arising from changes in financial assumptions 2.5 14.1 of local pension regulators as well as articles of the associations. Under the UK plan the employees are entitled to post-retirement Components of defined benefit plan costs recorded in other comprehensive income 3.0 11.7 installments calculated as an average annual basic salary from the best three years within the last ten years. In Germany the benefits paid are 0.35% of the last month’s salary times the years of Total 7.3 17.1 employment (maximum of 42 years). The defined benefit plans typically expose the company to actuThe actuarial losses in 2012 were mainly caused by the decrease arial risks such as: investment risk, interest rate risk, longevity risk of discount rates in the defined benefit plans of Germany and and salary risk. The investment risk is being mitigated by investing United Kingdom. the funds equally to equity and debt instruments. 31.3. Movements of the 31.1. Amounts recognized present value of defined in the balance sheet 2013 2012 benefit obligation 2013 2012 Present value of obligation Obligation as of January 1 123.9 108.1 wholly unfunded 73.4 70.2 Translation difference -1.5 0.7 Present value of obligation Settlements and curtailments 0.0 -0.3 wholly or partly funded 54.8 53.8 Current service cost 1.6 2.4 Defined benefit plan obligations 128.2 123.9 Interest cost 4.7 5.1 Fair value of plan assets -51.6 -50.0 Actuarial gains (-) / losses (+) arising Total net liability recognized 76.6 73.9 from changes in demographic assumptions 1.5 0.2 Actuarial gains (-) / losses (+) arising from changes in financial assumptions 2.5 14.1 Benefits paid (-) -4.5 -6.3 Obligation as of December 31 128.2 123.9 31.4. Movements of the fair value of plan assets 2013 2012 Fair value of plan assets as of January 1 50.0 44.9 Translation difference -1.1 1.0 Interest income 2.0 2.1 Employer contributions 1.5 2.6 Settlements and curtailments 0.0 -0.5 The return on plan assets (excluding amounts included in the net interest expense) 1.0 2.6 Benefits paid (-) -1.7 -2.7 Fair value of plan assets as of December 31 51.6 50.0 100 Konecranes 2013 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 31.5. Major categories of plan 31.6. Defined benefit plan: assets at the end of the the main actuarial assumptions 2013 2012 reporting period 2013 2012 Discount rate % 2.20–12.00 2.20–20.00 Equity instruments 16.2 15.4 Future salary increase % 2.00–10.00 2.00–17.20 Debt instruments 24.9 23.8 Future pension payment increase % 1.00–6.00 1.00–3.00 Insurances 1.5 2.1 Others 9.1 8.8 The discount rate, which is the most significant actuarial assumpTotal plan assets 51.6 50.0 tion was 3.5% (3.65% in 2012) in Germany and 4.6% (4.30% in 2012) in the United Kingdom. These two countries represents the major part of the defined benefit obligation (approximately 90%). Virtually all equity and debt instruments have quoted prices in The discount rates reflect the market yields based on high quality active markets. Major part of the plan assets exist in the United corporate bonds. The discount rate, future salary increase as well Kingdom. It is the policy of the UK fund to invest approximately 50% as future pension payment increase were identified as significant to growth assets such as equity instruments and growth funds and actuarial assumptions. The following impacts on the defined ben50% to risk reducing assets such as corporate bonds and fixed or efit obligation are to be expected: index-linked gilts. • A 0.5% point’s increase/decrease in the discount rate would The actual return on plan assets was EUR 3.0 million (2012: lead to a decrease / increase of -7.3% / +8.3% in the defined EUR 4.7 million). The Group expects to contribute EUR 1.6 million benefit obligation to its defined benefit plans in 2014. The average duration of the • A 0.5% point’s increase/decrease in the future salary increase benefit obligation at the end of the reporting period is 17 years. would lead to a increase / decrease of 1.0% / -0.9% in the defined benefit obligation • A 0.5% point’s increase/decrease in the future pension payment increase would lead to a increase / decrease of 6.2% / -5.6% in the defined benefit obligation. 31.7. Amounts for the current and previous periods: 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Defined benefit obligation 128.2 123.9 108.1 101.7 88.3 Fair value of plan assets -51.6 -50.0 -44.9 -39.1 -33.9 Surplus (-) /deficit (+) 76.6 73.9 63.2 62.6 54.4 Actuarial losses (-) / gains (+) on plan liabilities -4.0 -14.3 0.3 -9.6 -7.2 Actuarial losses (-) / gains (+) on plan assets 1.0 2.6 0.8 2.0 2.8 32. Deferred tax assets and for which no deferred tax liability has been recognized relates to the distributable profits in Canadian subsidiaries. The estimated withliabilities holding tax 5 per cent amounts EUR 1.3 million. 32.1. Deferred tax assets 2013 2012 32.3. Tax losses carried forward Employee benefits 16.0 12.8 At the end of year 2013, Konecranes recorded a deferred tax asset Provisions 12.1 14.4 of EUR 15.4 million (EUR 13.5 million in 2012) on the carry-forward Unused tax losses 15.4 13.5 losses totally amounting to EUR 137.5 million (EUR 127.5 milOther temporary difference 16.4 13.1 lion in 2012). The carry-forward losses, for which no deferred tax Total 59.8 53.8 assets are recognized due to the uncertainty of the utilization of the losses, amounted to EUR 87.8 million in the year 2013 (EUR 84.6 32.2. Deferred tax liabilities 2013 2012 million in 2012). The main portion of carry-forward losses relates to Morris MateIntangible and tangible assets 14.6 17.8 rial Handling, Inc., USA, which was acquired in 2006. The overall Other temporary difference 3.5 4.6 losses of Morris Material Handling, Inc. amounted to EUR 35.7 milTotal 18.1 22.3 lion (EUR 42.3 million in 2012). The Group has recorded a deferred tax asset amounting to EUR 6.9 million (EUR 8.3 million in 2012) Konecranes has not recognized the temporary differences in investbased on the tax losses estimated to be utilized during the years ments in subsidiaries to the extent that they probably will not 2014–2023 amounting to EUR 19.8 million. Since the result perreverse in the foreseeable future. The biggest temporary difference formance of US operations have been able to fully utilize the carry Notes to the consolidated financial statements Konecranes 2013 101 forward losses during the last five years Group decided to increase deferred tax asset has been recognized due to uncertainties and the valuation of deferred tax asset by calculating it from the next limitations on deductible annual amounts. ten years’ carry forward losses. For the amount of EUR 15.9 million Tax losses carried forward and related deferred tax assets on tax loss carry-forwards deductible over the period 2024–2031 no December 31 by the most significant countries as following: Potential Deferred Tax losses deferred tax assets Deferred 2013 carried forward tax assets not recorded tax assets USA 35.7 12.8 5.9 6.9 Austria 21.9 5.5 4.0 1.4 India 12.0 3.9 0.0 3.9 The Netherlands 11.0 2.7 1.5 1.2 Spain 9.1 2.7 2.7 0.0 Germany 7.7 2.3 2.3 0.0 Brazil 7.1 2.4 2.4 0.0 Japan 7.1 2.8 2.8 0.0 Finland 3.8 0.7 0.0 0.7 Italy 3.3 1.0 1.0 0.0 Other 18.9 4.8 3.7 1.1 Total 137.5 41.8 26.4 15.4 Potential Deferred Tax losses deferred tax assets Deferred 2012 carried forward tax assets not recorded tax assets USA 42.3 15.4 7.0 8.3 Austria 19.8 5.0 3.8 1.2 India 1.6 0.5 0.0 0.5 The Netherlands 9.8 2.5 1.1 1.3 Spain 9.4 2.8 2.8 0.0 Germany 7.7 2.3 2.3 0.0 Brazil 5.7 1.9 1.9 0.0 Japan 7.5 3.0 3.0 0.0 Finland 3.7 0.9 0.0 0.9 Italy 3.9 1.2 1.2 0.0 Other 16.0 4.1 2.9 1.2 Total 127.5 39.6 26.1 13.5 33. Provisions Pension 2013 Warranty Restructuring commitments Other Total Total provisions as of January 1 22.8 3.5 4.8 13.3 44.5 Translation difference -0.5 0.0 -0.2 -0.7 -1.4 Increase through business combination 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Additional provision in the period 12.5 5.2 2.8 7.5 28.1 Utilization of provision 9.3 3.6 1.3 6.1 20.3 Unused amounts reversed 1.2 0.1 0.0 2.1 3.4 Total provisions as of December 31 24.4 5.0 6.1 12.0 47.5 Pension 2012 Warranty Restructuring commitments Other Total Total provisions as of January 1 25.5 11.3 3.9 13.4 54.1 Translation difference 0.0 0.1 -0.2 -0.2 -0.2 Increase through business combination 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Additional provision in the period 7.4 2.9 3.1 6.6 20.0 Utilization of provision 7.2 9.8 2.0 5.0 23.9 Unused amounts reversed 3.0 1.0 0.0 1.6 5.5 Total provisions as of December 31 22.8 3.5 4.8 13.3 44.5 102 Konecranes 2013 Notes to the consolidated financial statements The provision for warranties covers the expenses due to the repair 35.2. Operating leases 2013 2012 or replacement of products during their warranty period. The warMinimum lease payments ranty liability is based on historical realized warranty costs for within 1 year 30.5 33.0 deliveries of standard products and services. The usual warranty 1–5 years 62.1 63.1 period is 12 months. For more complex contracts, mainly including over 5 years 8.0 5.7 long-term projects, the warranty reserve is calculated contract by contract and the warranty period can be significantly longer. The Total 100.6 101.7 restructuring provision is recognized when the Group has prepared a detailed reorganization plan and begun implementation of the Operative rental expenses plan or announced the matter. Pension commitments include providuring the year 31.7 33.1 sions for local pension schemes. Other provisions include provisions for claims, litigations and loss contracts. The Konecranes Group has major operating lease agreements of Restructuring costs factory and office buildings in Hyvinkää and Hämeenlinna, Finland. Konecranes has recorded EUR 30.9 million restructuring costs durThey are valid for 10–12 years, unless the lessee extends the ing 2013 (EUR 5.8 million in 2012) of which EUR 16.9 million was lease period by five years. The lessee is entitled to exercise the impairment of assets (EUR 2.9 million in 2012). 5-year extending option three consecutive times. The Group has various other operating leases for office equipments, vehicles and premises with varying terms and renewal rights. 34. Current liabilities 34.1. Accruals 2013 2012 36. Contingent liabilities Wages, salaries and personnel expenses 66.1 72.7 and pledged assets Pension costs 4.5 7.1 2013 2012 Interest 0.9 0.8 For own commercial obligations Late cost reservations 83.9 94.1 Guarantees 377.6 349.5 Other items 44.6 41.3 Leasing liabilities 100.6 101.7 Total 200.1 215.9 Other 1.7 1.4 Total 479.8 452.6 34.2. Other current liabilities (non-interest bearing) 2013 2012 Bills payable 0.3 0.7 Leasing contracts comply with normal practices in the countries Value added tax 14.8 12.5 concerned. Other short-term liabilities 13.7 17.0 Total 28.7 30.2 Contingent liabilities relating to litigation Various legal actions, claims and other proceedings pend against the Group in various countries. These actions, claims and other proceedings are typical of this industry and consistent with a global 35. Lease liabilities business offering that encompasses a wide range of products and services. These matters involve contractual disputes, warranty 35.1. Finance lease 2013 2012 claims, product liability (including design defects, manufacturing Minimum lease payments defects, failure to warn and asbestos legacy), employment, vehicles within 1 year 2.7 3.4 and other matters involving claims of general liability. 1–5 years 6.1 6.6 While the final outcome of these matters cannot be predicted over 5 years 0.0 0.1 with certainty, Konecranes has the opinion, based on the informaTotal 8.8 10.1 tion available to date and considering the grounds presented for such claims, the available insurance coverage and the reserves Present value of finance lease made, that the outcome of such actions, claims and other proceedwithin 1 year 2.6 3.3 ings, if unfavorable, would not have a material, adverse impact on the financial condition of the Group. 1–5 years 5.8 6.0 over 5 years 0.0 0.0 Total 8.4 9.4 Konecranes Group has finance leases mainly for vehicles with an average of four years leasing time. Notes to the consolidated financial statements Konecranes 2013 103 37. Nominal and fair values of derivative financial instruments 2013 2013 2012 2012 Nominal value Fair value Nominal value Fair value Foreign exchange forward contracts 625.9 6.7 504.8 3.4 Currency options 0.0 0.0 19.7 0.0 Interest rate swaps 100.0 -1.8 100.0 -3.0 Electricity forward contracts 2.9 -0.5 1.9 -0.2 Total 728.8 4.4 626.5 0.3 Derivatives are used for hedging currency and interest rate risks Classification of financial instruments within the IFRS 7 fair value as well as risk of price fluctuation of electricity. Company applies hierarchy: level 2 for all values as of 31 Dec 2013. hedge accounting on derivatives used to hedge cash flows in cerDerivatives are initially recorded in the balance sheet at fair tain large crane projects and to interest rates of certain long-term value and subsequently measured at fair value at each balance loans. sheet date. All derivatives are carried as assets when fair value is IFRS 7 requires that the classification of financial instruments positive and liabilities when fair value is negative. Derivative instruat fair value be determined by reference to the source of inputs ments that are not designated as hedges (hedge accounting) are used to derive the fair value. This classification uses the following measured at fair value, and the change in fair value is recognized three-level hierarchy: in the consolidated statement of income. When the derivative is designated as a hedge (hedge accounting) the effective part of the • Level 1 quoted prices in active markets for identical financial change in fair value is recognized in other comprehensive income. instruments Any ineffective part is recognized in the consolidated statement • Level 2 inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 of income. The foreign exchange forward contracts are measured that are observable for the financial instrument, either directly based on the closing date’s observable spot exchange rates and (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices) the quoted yield curves of the respective currencies. Interest rate • Level 3 inputs for the financial instrument that are not based swaps are measured based on present value of the cash flows, on observable market data (unobservable inputs) which are discounted based on the quoted yield curves. 37.1. Breakdown of nominal values of derivative financial instruments Hedging derivative Remaining maturities 2013 Remaining maturities 2012 financial instruments < 1 year 1–6 years Total < 1 year 1–6 years Total Foreign exchange forward contracts 384.1 1.3 385.4 205.1 24.8 229.9 Currency options 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Interest rate swaps 0.0 100.0 100.0 0.0 100.0 100.0 Electricity forward contracts 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total 384.1 101.3 485.4 205.1 124.8 329.9 Non-hedging derivative Remaining maturities 2013 Remaining maturities 2012 financial instruments < 1 year 1–6 years Total < 1 year 1–6 years Total Foreign exchange forward contracts 239.7 0.9 240.5 274.9 0.0 274.9 Currency options 0.0 0.0 0.0 19.7 0.0 19.7 Interest rate swaps 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Electricity forward contracts 0.8 2.1 2.9 0.7 1.3 1.9 Total 240.4 3.0 243.4 295.3 1.3 296.6 Derivative financial Remaining maturities 2013 Remaining maturities 2012 instruments total < 1 year 1–6 years Total < 1 year 1–6 years Total Foreign exchange forward contracts 623.8 2.2 625.9 480.0 24.8 504.8 Currency options 0.0 0.0 0.0 19.7 0.0 19.7 Interest rate swaps 0.0 100.0 100.0 0.0 100.0 100.0 Electricity forward contracts 0.8 2.1 2.9 0.7 1.3 1.9 Total 624.5 104.3 728.8 500.4 126.1 626.5 104 Konecranes 2013 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 37.2. Breakdown of fair values of derivative financial instruments 2013 Positive fair values Negative fair values Net fair Hedging derivative financial instruments < 1 year 1–6 years < 1 year 1–6 years values Foreign exchange forward contracts 8.6 0.0 -3.8 -0.1 4.7 Currency options 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Interest rate swaps 0.0 0.0 0.0 -1.8 -1.8 Electricity forward contracts 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total 8.6 0.0 -3.8 -1.8 2.9 Positive fair values Negative fair values Net fair Non-hedging derivative financial instruments < 1 year 1–6 years < 1 year 1–6 years values Foreign exchange forward contracts 3.5 0.0 -1.5 -0.1 2.0 Currency options 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Interest rate swaps 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Electricity forward contracts 0.1 0.0 -0.3 -0.3 -0.5 Total 3.6 0.0 -1.7 -0.4 1.5 Positive fair values Negative fair values Net fair Derivative financial instruments total < 1 year 1–6 years < 1 year 1–6 years values Foreign exchange forward contracts 12.1 0.0 -5.3 -0.1 6.7 Currency options 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Interest rate swaps 0.0 0.0 0.0 -1.8 -1.8 Electricity forward contracts 0.1 0.0 -0.3 -0.3 -0.5 Total 12.2 0.0 -5.6 -2.2 4.4 2012 Positive fair values Negative fair values Net fair Hedging derivative financial instruments < 1 year 1–6 years < 1 year 1–6 years values Foreign exchange forward contracts 2.9 0.6 -2.4 -0.1 0.9 Currency options 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Interest rate swaps 0.0 0.0 0.0 -3.0 -3.0 Electricity forward contracts 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total 2.9 0.6 -2.4 -3.1 -2.1 Positive fair values Negative fair values Net fair Non-hedging derivative financial instruments < 1 year 1–6 years < 1 year 1–6 years values Foreign exchange forward contracts 3.7 0.0 -1.2 0.0 2.5 Currency options 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Interest rate swaps 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Electricity forward contracts 0.0 0.0 -0.1 -0.1 -0.2 Total 3.7 0.0 -1.3 -0.1 2.3 Positive fair values Negative fair values Net fair Derivative financial instruments total < 1 year 1–6 years < 1 year 1–6 years values Foreign exchange forward contracts 6.5 0.6 -3.6 -0.1 3.4 Currency options 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Interest rate swaps 0.0 0.0 0.0 -3.0 -3.0 Electricity forward contracts 0.0 0.0 -0.1 -0.1 -0.2 Total 6.6 0.6 -3.7 -3.2 0.3 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Konecranes 2013 105 38. Hedge reserve of cash flow 39. Related party transactions hedges The related parties of Konecranes are subsidiaries (see Company list), associated companies, joint ventures and joint operations, 2013 2012 pension fund in the United Kingdom and the key management perBalance as of January 1 -1.4 -2.9 sonnel of the Group: the Board of Directors, the CEO and the Group Executive Board. Gains and losses deferred to equity (fair value reserve) 5.0 2.0 Transactions with associated Change in deferred taxes -1.0 -0.5 companies and joint arrangements 2013 2012 Balance as of December 31 2.6 -1.4 Sales of goods and services with associated companies and joint arrangements 15.4 10.4 The Group applies hedge accounting to certain large cranes projReceivables from associated companies ects in which expected cash flows are highly probable and to interand joint arrangements 4.1 2.2 est rates of certain long-term loans. Purchases of goods and services from associated companies and joint arrangements 39.1 40.8 Liabilities to associated companies and joint arrangements 3.5 2.4 Sales to and purchases from related parties are made at the normal market price. Transactions with Pension Fund in the United Kingdom 2013 2012 Employer contributions 1.6 2.3 Key management compensation The Board of Directors, the CEO and Group Executive Team. See Note 13. of the Consolidated Financial Statements. 106 Konecranes 2013 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Konecranes Group 2009–2013 Business development 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Orders received MEUR 1,920.8 1,970.1 1,896.1 1,536.0 1,348.9 Order book MEUR 893.5 942.7 991.8 756.2 607.0 Net sales MEUR 2,099.6 2,171.5 1,896.4 1,546.3 1,671.3 of which outside Finland MEUR 2,025.1 2,081.5 1,796.6 1,457.4 1,575.1 Export from Finland MEUR 653.7 638.9 570.7 427.2 488.4 Personnel on average 11,987 11,917 10,998 9,739 9,811 Personnel on 31 December 11,832 12,147 11,651 10,042 9,782 Capital expenditure MEUR 65.7 41.7 32.4 22.3 25.7 as a percentage of net sales % 3.1% 1.9% 1.7% 1.4% 1.5% Research and development costs MEUR 25.6 25.8 29.6 21.5 22.0 as % of Group net sales % 1.2% 1.2% 1.6% 1.4% 1.3% Profitability Net sales MEUR 2,099.6 2,171.5 1,896.4 1,546.3 1,671.3 Operating profit (including restructuring costs) MEUR 84.5 132.5 106.9 112.4 97.9 as percentage of net sales % 4.0% 6.1% 5.6% 7.3% 5.9% Income before taxes MEUR 75.5 124.2 95.8 111.3 88.6 as percentage of net sales % 3.6% 5.7% 5.1% 7.2% 5.3% Net income (incl. non-controlling interest) MEUR 49.4 84.8 64.9 78.2 62.5 as percentage of net sales % 2.4% 3.9% 3.4% 5.1% 3.7% Key figures and balance sheet Equity (incl. non-controlling interest) MEUR 444.5 462.6 435.4 456.2 407.1 Balance Sheet MEUR 1,482.0 1,576.3 1,447.5 1,175.5 1,060.4 Return on equity % 10.9 18.8 14.6 18.1 15.5 Return on capital employed % 11.6 18.4 17.1 24.2 19.3 Current ratio 1.2 1.4 1.3 1.4 1.4 Solidity % 34.0 34.0 34.2 44.7 45.1 Gearing % 42.1 39.3 50.5 -3.8 -19.1 Shares in figures Earnings per share, basic EUR 0.85 1.47 1.11 1.35 1.08 Earnings per share, diluted EUR 0.85 1.46 1.10 1.34 1.08 Equity per share EUR 7.56 7.97 7.52 7.64 6.84 Cash flow per share EUR 2.08 2.77 -0.35 0.97 3.79 Dividend per share EUR 1.05* 1.05 1.00 1.00 0.90 Dividend / earnings % 123.4 71.4 90.1 74.1 83.3 Effective dividend yield % 4.1 4.1 6.9 3.2 4.7 Price / earnings 30.4 17.4 13.1 22.9 17.7 Trading low / high** EUR 20.45/28.89 14.34/26.67 13.18/34.17 19.08/32.04 10.61/22.04 Average share price** EUR 25.30 21.39 22.83 23.84 16.66 Share price on 31 December** EUR 25.86 25.55 14.54 30.89 19.08 Year-end market capitalization MEUR 1,495.4 1,463.8 831.7 1,821.3 1,122.1 Number traded*** (1,000) 105,051 206,014 220,567 145,005 151,422 Stock turnover % 181.7 359.6 385.6 245.9 257.5 Average number of shares outstanding, basic (1,000) 57,684 57,228 58,982 58,922 58,922 Average number of shares outstanding, diluted (1,000) 57,877 57,517 59,362 59,274 59,086 Number of shares outstanding, at end of the period (1,000) 57,828 57,291 57,199 58,960 58,813 * The Board’s proposal to the AGM ** Source: NASDAQ OMX Helsinki *** Source: Fidessa Konecranes Group 2009–2013 Konecranes 2013 107 Calculation of key figures Net profit for the period Return on equity (%): X 100 Total equity (average during the period) Income before taxes + interest paid + other financing cost Return on capital employed (%): X 100 Total amount of equity and liabilities non-interest bearing debts (average during the period) Current assets Current ratio: Current liabilities Shareholders’ equity Solidity (%): X 100 Total amount of equity and liabilities advance payment received Interest-bearing liabilities liquid assets loans receivable Gearing (%): X 100 Total equity Net profit for the shareholders of the parent company Earnings per share: Average number of shares outstanding Net profit for the shareholders of the parent company Earnings per share, diluted: Average fully diluted number of shares outstanding Equity attributable to the shareholders of the parent company Equity per share: Number of shares outstanding Net cash flow from operating activities Cash flow per share: Average number of shares outstanding Dividend per share Effective dividend yield (%): X 100 Share price at the end of financial year Share price at the end of financial year Price per earnings: Earnings per share Year-end market capitalization: Number of shares outstanding multiplied by the share price at the end of year Average number of personnel: Calculated as average of number of personnel in quarters Number of shares outstanding: Total number of shares treasury shares 108 Konecranes 2013 Calculation of key figures Company list Subsidiaries owned by the parent company Parent Book value company’s Group’s (1,000 EUR) of shares share % share % Finland: Konecranes Finance Oy 46,448 100 100 Konecranes Finland Oy 17,291 28 100 Subsidiaries owned by the group Book value Group’s of shares share % Australia: Konecranes Pty. Ltd. 162 100 Austria: Konecranes Ges.m.b.H. 22,557 100 Bangladesh: Konecranes (Bangladesh) Ltd. 91 100 Belgium: S.A. Konecranes N.V. 418 100 Brazil: Konecranes Talhas, Pontes Rolantes e Serviços Ltda. 3,010 100 Canada: 3016117 Nova Scotia ULC 0 100 Hydramach ULC 0 100 Kaverit Cranes and Service ULC 0 100 Konecranes Canada Inc. 893 100 MHE Canada ULC 0 100 Overhead Crane Ltd. 0 100 Cayman Islands: Morris Middle East Ltd. 0 100 Chile: Konecranes Chile SpA 1 100 China: Dalian Konecranes Company Ltd. 1,904 100 Konecranes (Shanghai) Co. Ltd. 0 100 Konecranes (Shanghai) Company Ltd. 3,694 100 Konecranes Port Machinery (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. 6,586 100 Morris Crane Systems (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. 0 100 Sanma Hoists & Cranes Co., Ltd. 16,541 65 Stahl CraneSystems Trading (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. 176 100 SWF Krantechnik Co., Ltd. 582 100 Czech Republic: Konecranes CZ s.r.o. 805 100 Denmark: Konecranes A/S 994 100 Estonia: Konecranes Oü 0 100 Finland: Nosturiexpertit Oy 10 100 Permeco Oy 113 100 Suomen Teollisuusosa Oy 5,811 100 France: KCI Holding France S.A. 461 100 Konecranes (France) S.A. 1,617 100 Konecranes Supply France SAS 16,232 100 Stahl CraneSystems SAS 0 100 Verlinde SAS 10,720 100 Germany: Eurofactory GmbH 1,239 100 Konecranes Holding GmbH 15,262 100 Konecranes Lifting Systems GmbH 804 100 Stahl CraneSystems GmbH 30,776 100 Konecranes GmbH 4,300 100 SWF Krantechnik GmbH 15,500 100 Greece: Konecranes Hellas Lifting Equipment and Services S.A. 60 100 Hungary: Konecranes Kft. 792 100 Konecranes Supply Hungary Kft. 3,899 100 India: Konecranes Shared Services India Pvt. Ltd. 162 100 Stahl CraneSystems (India) Pvt. Ltd. 52 100 WMI Konecranes India Limited 31,540 100 Indonesia: Pt. Konecranes 0 100 Italy: Konecranes S.r.l. 4,890 100 Stahl CraneSystems S.r.l. 110 100 Japan: Konecranes Company, Ltd. 5,141 100 Latvia: SIA Konecranes Latvija 2 100 Company list Konecranes 2013 109 Book value Group’s of shares share % Lithuania: UAB Konecranes 139 100 Luxembourg: Materials Handling International S.A. 300 100 Malaysia: Konecranes Sdn. Bhd. 690 100 Mexico: Konecranes Mexico S.A. de C.V. 2,184 100 Morocco: Techniplus S.A. 5,809 99,9 The Netherlands: Konecranes B.V. 4,518 100 Konecranes Holding B.V. 13,851 100 Norway: Konecranes AS 9,490 100 Konecranes Norway Holding AS 3,588 100 Peru: Konecranes Peru S.R.L. 0 100 Philippines: Konecranes Philippines Inc. 144 100 Poland: Konecranes Sp. z.o.o. 810 100 Portugal: Ferrometal Limitada 1,556 100 Konecranes Portugal, Unipessoal Lda 0 100 Romania: Konecranes S.A. 98 100 Russia: LLC Kranekspertiza 0 100 ZAO Konecranes 161 100 Saudi Arabia: Saudi Cranes & Steel Works Factory Co. Ltd. 13,740 100 Singapore: KCI Cranes Holding (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. 49,117 100 Konecranes Pte. Ltd. 1,782 100 Morris Material Handling Pte. Ltd. 260 100 Stahl CraneSystems Pte. Ltd. 0 100 SWF Krantechnik Pte. Ltd. 144 100 Slovakia: Konecranes Slovakia s.r.o. 200 100 Slovenia: Konecranes, d.o.o. 200 100 South Africa: Konecranes Pty. Ltd. 3,356 100 Spain: Konecranes Ausió S.L.U. 16,299 100 Stahl CraneSystems S.L. 0 100 Sweden: Konecranes AB 1,543 100 Konecranes Lifttrucks AB 26,228 100 Konecranes Sweden Holding AB 1,682 100 Switzerland: Konecranes AG 3,980 100 Thailand: Konecranes (Thailand) Ltd.* 97 49 Turkey: Konecranes Ticaret Ve Servis Limited Sirketi 53 100 Ukraine: Konecranes Ukraine JSC 2,048 100 PJSC Zaporozhje Kran Holding* 910 49 PJSC Zaporozhcran * 498 49.23 United Arab Emirates: Stahl CraneSystems FZE 221 100 Konecranes Middle East FZE 1,774 100 United Kingdom: Axis Machine Tool Engineering Limited 0 100 J.H. Carruthers Ltd. 0 100 Konecranes Machine Tool Service Ltd. 0 100 KCI Holding UK Ltd. 13,656 100 Konecranes UK Limited 6,795 100 Lloyds Konecranes Pension Trustees Ltd. 0 100 Morris Material Handling Ltd. 6,433 100 Stahl CraneSystems Ltd. 17 100 U.S.A.: KCI Holding USA Inc. 53,901 100 Konecranes, Inc. 38,641 100 Konecranes Nuclear Equipment & Services, LLC 0 100 Merwin, LLC 0 100 MMH Americas, Inc. 0 100 MMH Holdings, Inc. 0 100 Morris Material Handling, Inc. 51,800 100 PHMH Holding Company 0 100 R&M Materials Handling, Inc. 5,946 100 Stahl CraneSystems, Inc. 0 100 Vietnam: Konecranes Vietnam Co., Ltd 187 100 * Konecranes Group has the majority representation on the entity’s board of directors and approves all major operational decisions and thereby Konecranes consolidates them in the Group’s financial statements. 110 Konecranes 2013 Company list Other shares and joint operations Book value Group’s of shares share % Estonia: AS Konesko 4,448 49.46 Finland: Kiinteistöosakeyhtiö Kuikantorppa 261 50 Investments accounted for using the equity method Group’s Assets value share % China: Guangzhou Technocranes Company, Ltd. 654 25 Jiangyin Dingli High Tech Industrial Crane Company, Ltd. 591 30 Shanghai High Tech Industrial Crane Company, Ltd. 2,083 28 France: Boutonnier Adt Levage S.A. 357 25 Levelec S.A. 206 20 Manulec S.A. 232 25 Manelec S.A.R.L. 77 25 S.E.R.E. Maintenance S.A. 60 25 Japan: KITO Corporation 33,573 22.96 Saudi Arabia: Eastern Morris Cranes Limited 1,358 49 United Arab Emirates: Crane Industrial Services LLC 1,185 49 Available-for-sale investments Book value Group’s of shares share % Austria: Austrian CraneSystems GmbH 86 19 Finland: East Office of Finnish Industries Oy 50 5.26 Fimecc Oy 120 5.69 Levator Oy 34 19 Vierumäen Kuntorinne Oy 345 3.3 France: Heripret Holding SAS 53 19 Societe d'entretrien et de transformation d'engins mecaniques 0 19 Indonesia: Pt. Technocranes International 3 15 Malaysia: Kone Products & Engineering Sdn. Bhd. 13 10 Venezuela: Gruas Konecranes CA 4 10 Others: 256 Total: 964 Company list Konecranes 2013 111 Parent company statement of income – FAS (1,000 EUR) 1 Jan–31 Dec 2013 1 Jan–31 Dec 2012 Note: 4 Sales 84,957 91,971 Other operating income 0 0 5 Depreciation and impairments -6,701 -2,922 6 Other operating expenses -79,251 -82,919 Operating profit -995 6,129 7 Financial income and expenses 51,545 80,072 Income before extraordinary items 50,550 86,202 8 Extraordinary items 14,740 35,555 Income before appropriations and taxes 65,290 121,757 9 Income taxes -3,589 -10,459 Net income 61,701 111,298 112 Konecranes 2013 Parent company statement of income – FAS Parent company cash flow – FAS (1,000 EUR) 1 Jan–31 Dec 2013 1 Jan–31 Dec 2012 Cash flow from operating activities Operating income -995 6,129 Adjustments to operating profit Depreciation and impairments 6,701 2,922 Extraordinary income 35,555 27,495 Other adjustments 0 0 Operating income before changes in net working capital 41,261 36,546 Change in interest-free short-term receivables 8,826 6,300 Change in interest-free short-term liabilities -1,205 -13,911 Change in net working capital 7,621 -7,611 Cash flow from operations before financing items and taxes 48,882 28,935 Interest received 676 1,074 Interest paid -4 0 Other financial income and expenses -91 42 Income taxes paid -6,065 -7,493 Financing items and taxes -5,484 -6,377 NET CASH FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES 43,398 22,558 Cash flow from investing activities Capital expenditure to tangible assets -735 -732 Capital expenditure and advance payments to intangible assets -32,684 -21,706 Proceeds from sale of fixed assets 22 0 Dividends received 50,762 78,970 NET CASH USED IN INVESTING ACTIVITIES 17,366 56,532 Cash flow before financing activities 60,764 79,090 Cash flow from financing activities Proceeds from options excercised and share issues 9,073 3,912 Repayments of long-term receivables -9,310 -25,925 Dividends paid -60,614 -57,199 NET CASH USED IN FINANCING ACTIVITIES -60,851 -79,212 CHANGE OF CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS -87 -122 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 90 212 Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 3 90 CHANGE OF CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS -87 -122 Parent company cash flow – FAS Konecranes 2013 113 Parent company balance sheet – FAS (1,000 EUR) ASSETS 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2012 Note: NON-CURRENT ASSETS Intangible assets 10 Intangible rights 42,389 15,500 Advance payments 40,576 40,935 82,964 56,435 Tangible assets 11 Machinery and equipment 2,173 2,007 2,173 2,007 12 Investments Investments in Group companies 50,649 50,649 Other shares and similar rights of ownership 515 515 51,164 51,164 Total non-current assets 136,301 109,606 CURRENT ASSETS Long-term receivables Loans receivable from Group companies 117,931 108,621 117,931 108,621 Short-term receivables Accounts receivable 105 106 Amounts owed by Group companies Accounts receivable 15,664 21,784 14 Deferred assets 14,896 35,614 Other receivables 429 176 14 Deferred assets 6,752 7,333 37,846 65,013 Cash in hand and at banks 3 90 Total current assets 155,779 173,724 TOTAL ASSETS 292,080 283,330 114 Konecranes 2013 Parent company balance sheet – FAS (1,000 EUR) SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2012 Note: 15 EQUITY Share capital 30,073 30,073 Share premium account 39,307 39,307 Paid in capital 48,105 39,033 Retained earnings 93,549 42,864 Net income for the period 61,701 111,298 272,734 262,574 LIABILITIES Non-current liabilities Other long-term liabilities 0 0 0 0 Provisions 15 457 Current liabilities Accounts payable 6,804 6,344 Liabilities owed to Group companies Accounts payable 3,971 3,789 16 Accruals 0 1,458 Other short-term liabilities 609 575 16 Accruals 7,947 8,133 19,331 20,299 Total liabilities 19,346 20,756 TOTAL SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 292,080 283,330 Parent company balance sheet – FAS Konecranes 2013 115 Notes to the parent company’s financial statement 1. Accounting principles Wages and salaries in accordance with the The financial statements of the company have been prepared Statement of Income 2013 2012 in euro and in accordance with accounting principles generally Remuneration to Board 0.4 0.5 accepted in Finland. Other wages and salaries 17.3 15.9 Total 17.7 16.4 2. Extraordinary items The extraordinary items in the financial statements include received The average number of personnel 305 269 group contributions. Auditors fees 3. Research and development costs Audit 0.2 0.2 Research and development costs are expensed as incurred. Other services 0.4 0.3 Total 0.6 0.4 Statement of income 7. Financial income and expenses 4. Sales 2013 2012 In the parent company the sales to subsidiaries totaled EUR 85.0 Financial income from long-term investments: million (EUR 92.0 million in 2012) corresponding to a share of 100% (100% in 2012) of net sales. Dividend income from group companies 50.8 79.0 Dividend income total 50.8 79.0 5. Depreciation and impairments Interest income from long-term receivables: 2013 2012 From group companies 0.7 1.0 Intangible rights 6.1 2.5 Other interest income 0.0 0.0 Machinery and equipment 0.6 0.4 Interest income from long-term Total 6.7 2.9 receivables total 0.7 1.0 6. Other operating expenses Financial income from long-term investments total 51.5 79.9 and personnel Interest and other financial income 0.3 0.2 Costs and expenses in the Statement of Income were Interest and other financial as follows: 2013 2012 income total 0.3 0.2 Wages and salaries 17.7 16.4 Interest expenses and other financial expenses: Pension costs 3.5 3.2 Other financial expenses 0.3 0.1 Other personnel expenses 0.7 0.7 Interest expenses and other Other operating expenses 57.3 62.6 financial expenses total 0.3 0.1 Total 79.3 82.9 Financial income and expenses total 51.5 80.1 116 Konecranes 2013 Notes to the parent company’s financial statement 8. Extraordinary items 2013 2012 Investments in Book Book 2013 2012 Group companies Domicile value value Group contributions received Konecranes Finance Corp. Hyvinkää 46.4 46.4 from subsidiaries 14.7 35.6 Konecranes Finland Corp. Hyvinkää 4.2 4.2 Total 14.7 35.6 Total 50.6 50.6 9. Income taxes Other shares and similar rights of ownership 2013 2012 2013 2012 Vierumäen Kuntorinne Oy 0.3 0.3 Taxes on extraordinary items 3.6 8.7 Pärjä Oy 0.0 0.0 Taxes on ordinary operations 0.0 1.7 East Office of Finnish Industries Oy 0.1 0.1 Taxes from previous years 0.0 0.1 Fimecc Oy 0.1 0.1 Total 3.6 10.5 Total 0.5 0.5 13. Treasury shares Balance sheet Number of shares as of January 1 2013 5,981,032 2012 6,042,456 Increase 0 0 10. Intangible rights Decrease -536,770 -61,424 Number of shares 2013 2012 as of December 31 5,444,262 5,981,032 Acquisition costs as of January 1 28.6 16.0 Increase 33.0 12.5 Decrease 0.0 0.0 Proposal by the Board of Directors to authorize Acquisition costs as of December 31 61.6 28.6 the Board of Directors to decide on the repurchase Accumulated depreciation 1 January -13.1 -10.6 and/or on the acceptance as pledge of the Company’s Accumulated depreciation own shares: relating to disposals 0.0 0.0 The AGM on March 21, 2013 authorized the Board of Directors to Accumulated depreciation -6.1 -2.5 decide on the repurchase and/or on the acceptance as pledge of Total as of December 31 42.4 15.5 the Company’s own shares as follows: The amount of own shares to be repurchased and/or accepted as pledge based on this authorization shall not exceed 6,000,000 11. Machinery and equipment shares in total, which corresponds to approximately 9.5 per cent of all of the shares in the Company. However, the Company together 2013 2012 with its subsidiaries cannot at any moment own and/or hold as Acquisition costs as of January 1 7.0 6.2 pledge more than 10 per cent of all the shares in the Company. Increase 0.7 0.7 Only the unrestricted equity of the Company can be used to repurDecrease -0.1 0.0 chase own shares on the basis of the authorization. Acquisition costs as of December 31 7.7 7.0 Own shares can be repurchased at a price formed in public tradAccumulated depreciation 1 January -4.9 -4.5 ing on the date of the repurchase or otherwise at a price formed on the market. Accumulated depreciation relating to disposals 0.0 0.0 The Board of Directors decides how own shares will be repurchased and/or accepted as pledge. Own shares can be repurAccumulated depreciation -0.6 -0.4 chased using, inter alia, derivatives. Own shares can be repurTotal as of December 31 2.2 2.0 chased otherwise than in proportion to the shareholdings of the shareholders (directed repurchase). 12. Investments Own shares can be repurchased and/or accepted as pledge to limit the dilutive effects of share issues carried out in connec2013 2012 tion with possible acquisitions, to develop the Company’s capital Acquisition costs as of January 1 51.2 51.2 structure, to be transferred for financing or realization of possible Total as of December 31 51.2 51.2 acquisitions, investments or other arrangements belonging to the Company’s ordinary business, to pay remuneration to Board memNotes to the parent company’s financial statement Konecranes 2013 117 bers, to be used in incentive arrangements or to be cancelled, proProposal by the Board of Directors to authorize the vided that the repurchase is in the interest of the Company and its Board of Directors to launch an employee share shareholders. savings plan and to decide on directed share issue The authorization is effective until the end of the next Annual without payment: General Meeting, however no longer than until 21 September 2014. Konecranes Plc’s Annual General Meeting of Shareholders 2012 decided to implement an Employee Share Savings Plan in the Authorizing the Board of Directors to decide on the Konecranes Group (the Plan). According to the Board decision, the issuance of shares as well as on the issuance of Plan was offered in 39 countries to approximately 9,000 employees special rights entitling to shares: in 2012. During the first Plan Period 2012–2013, the employees’ The AGM authorized the Board of Directors to decide on the issuparticipation rate was 16 percent globally. Through the Plan, approxance of shares as well as the issuance of special rights entitling to imately 1,500 employees became shareholders in Konecranes. In shares referred to in chapter 10 section 1 of the Finnish CompaFinland, the participation rate was 36 percent. nies Act as follows. On the basis of interest shown by the Group employees, the The amount of shares to be issued based on this authorization Board has on March 21, 2013 decided to launch a new Plan Period. shall not exceed 6,000,000 shares, which corresponds to approxiThe new plan period began on July 1, 2013 and end on June 30, mately 9.5 per cent of all of the shares in the Company. 2014. During the commencing Plan Period, the intention is to offer The Board of Directors decides on all the conditions of the issuthe Plan, in addition to the current target countries, also in China. ance of shares and of special rights entitling to shares. The issuThe maximum savings amount per participant during one month is ance of shares and of special rights entitling to shares may be 5 percent of gross salary and the minimum is EUR 10. Each parcarried out in deviation from the shareholders’ pre-emptive rights ticipant will receive one free matching share for every two acquired (directed issue). The authorization can also be used for incentive savings shares. Matching shares will be delivered to a participant if arrangements, however, not more than 700,000 shares in total the participant holds the acquired shares from the plan period until together with the authorization of transfer of the company’s own the end of the designated holding period, February 15, 2017, and if shares. his or her employment has not ended before this date for reasons The authorization is effective until the end of the next Annual related to the employee. The total amount of all savings of the comGeneral Meeting, however no longer than until 21 September 2014. mencing plan period may not exceed EUR 8.5 million. However, the authorization for incentive arrangements is valid until An employee will participate in the Plan for one year at a time. 21 March 2018. Shares will be acquired with the accrued savings at the market price quarterly, after the publication dates of the Konecranes Proposal by the Board of Directors to authorize the interim results, commencing in November 2013. Any dividends Board of Directors to decide on the transfer of the paid on purchased shares during the commencing Plan period will company’s own shares: automatically be reinvested into additional shares on the following The AGM authorized the Board of Directors to decide on the transpurchase date. These shares will have an equal right to matching fer of the Company’s own shares as follows: shares. The authorization is limited to a maximum of 6,000,000 shares, The Board of Directors decides on the issue of new shares or which corresponds to approximately 9.5 per cent of all of the on the transfer of own shares held by the Company to such particishares in the Company. pants of the Plan who, according to the terms and conditions of the The Board of Directors decides on all the conditions of the transPlan, are entitled to receive free shares, as well as to decide on fer of own shares. The transfer of shares may be carried out in devithe share issue without payment also to the Company itself. The ation from the shareholders’ pre-emptive rights (directed issue). authorization includes a right in this Plan to transfer own shares The Board of Directors can also use this authorization to grant held by the Company, the use of which has earlier been limited to special rights concerning the Company’s own shares, referred to other purposes than incentive plans. The number of new shares in Chapter 10 of the Companies Act. The authorization can also be to be issued or own shares held by the Company to be transferred used for incentive arrangements, however, not more than 700,000 may be a maximum total of 500,000 shares, which corresponds to shares in total together with the authorization in the issuance of 0.8 per cent of all of the Company´s shares. shares and the issuance of special rights entitling to shares. The Board of Directors is entitled to decide on other matters This authorization is effective until the next Annual General concerning the share issue. The authorization concerning the share Meeting of Shareholders, however no longer than until 21 Septemissue is valid until 21 March 2018. This authorization replaces the ber 2014. However, the authorization for incentive arrangements is authorization for the Share Savings Plan given by the Annual Genvalid until 21 March 2018. eral Meeting 2012. 118 Konecranes 2013 Notes to the parent company’s financial statement Distributable equity 14. Deferred assets Paid in capital as of December 31 48.1 39.0 Retained earnings as of December 31 93.5 42.9 2013 2012 Net income for the period 61.7 111.3 Group contributions 14.7 35.6 Total 203.4 193.2 Income taxes 2.4 0.0 Payments which will be realized during the next financial year 4.4 7.3 16. Accruals Pension costs 0.0 0.0 Interest 0.1 0.1 2013 2012 Total 21.6 42.9 Income taxes 0.0 0.1 Wages, salaries and personnel expenses 5.1 5.7 15. Equity Interest Other items 0.0 2.8 0.0 3.8 2013 2012 Total 7.9 9.6 Share capital as of January 1 30.1 30.1 New issue 0.0 0.0 17. Contingent liabilities and Share capital as of December 31 30.1 30.1 pledged assets Share premium account 1 January 39.3 39.3 2013 2012 New issue 0.0 0.0 Contingent liabilities Share premium account For obligations of subsidiaries as of December 31 39.3 39.3 Group guarantees 386.4 357.4 Other contingent and Share issue 1 January 0.0 0.0 financial liabilities Increase 9.1 3.9 Leasing liabilities Decrease -9.1 -3.9 Next year 0.9 1.1 Share issue 31 December 0.0 0.0 Later on 1.4 1.4 Paid in capital 1 January 39.0 35.1 Leasing contracts are valid in principle three years and they have no terms of redemption. Increase 9.1 3.9 Decrease 0.0 0.0 Other liabilities 0.0 0.0 Paid in capital as of December 31 48.1 39.0 Total by category Retained earnings as of January 1 154.2 100.1 Guarantees 386.4 357.4 Dividend paid -60.6 -57.2 Other liabilities 2.3 2.5 Decrease 0.0 0.0 Total 388.7 359.9 Retained earnings as of December 31 93.6 42.9 Net income for the period 61.7 111.3 Shareholders’ equity as of December 31 272.8 262.6 18. Nominal and fair values of derivative financial instruments 2013 2013 2012 2012 Fair value Nominal value Fair value Nominal value Foreign exchange forward contracts 0.0 33.1 0.0 26.8 Derivatives are used for currency rate hedging only. Notes to the parent company’s financial statement Konecranes 2013 119 Board of Directors’ proposal to the annual general meeting The parent company’s non-restricted equity is EUR 203,354,966.48 parent company and the economic circumstances subsequent to of which the net income for the year is EUR 61,701,102.44. the financial year-end. The Group’s non-restricted equity is EUR 366,150,000. Based on such assessments the Board of Directors proposes According to the Finnish Companies Act, the distributable funds to the Annual General Meeting that a dividend of EUR 1.05 will be of the company are calculated based on the parent company’s nonpaid on each share and that the remaining non-restricted equity is restricted equity. For the purpose of determining the amount of the retained in shareholders’ equity. dividend the Board of Directors has assessed the liquidity of the Helsinki, February 5, 2014 Stig Gustavson Svante Adde Tapani Järvinen Chairman of the Board Board member Board member Matti Kavetvuo Nina Kopola Bertel Langenskiöld Board member Board member Board member Malin Persson Mikael Silvennoinen Pekka Lundmark Board member Board member President and CEO 120 Konecranes 2013 Board of Directors’ proposal to the annual general meeting Auditor’s report To the Annual General Meeting of internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation of financial statements and report of the Board of Directors that give a true and fair Konecranes Plc view in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion We have audited the accounting records, the financial stateon the effectiveness of the company’s internal control. An audit ments, the report of the Board of Directors, and the administraalso includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies tion of Konecranes Plc for the financial period 1.1.–31.12.2013. used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by The financial statements comprise the consolidated statement of management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial position, income statement, statement of comprehensive financial statements and the report of the Board of Directors. income, statement of changes in equity and statement of cash We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient flows, and notes to the consolidated financial statements, as well and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion. as the parent company’s balance sheet, income statement, cash flow statement and notes to the financial statements. Opinion on the consolidated financial Responsibility of the Board of statements Directors and the Managing Director In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position, financial performance, and The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible cash flows of the group in accordance with International Financial for the preparation of consolidated financial statements that give a Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the EU. true and fair view in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the EU, as well as for the preparation of financial statements and the report of the Board of DirecOpinion on the company’s financial tors that give a true and fair view in accordance with the laws and statements and the report of the regulations governing the preparation of the financial statements and the report of the Board of Directors in Finland. The Board of Board of Directors Directors is responsible for the appropriate arrangement of the conIn our opinion, the financial statements and the report of the Board trol of the company’s accounts and finances, and the Managing of Directors give a true and fair view of both the consolidated and Director shall see to it that the accounts of the company are in the parent company’s financial performance and financial position compliance with the law and that its financial affairs have been in accordance with the laws and regulations governing the prepaarranged in a reliable manner. ration of the financial statements and the report of the Board of Directors in Finland. The information in the report of the Board of Auditor’s Responsibility Directors is consistent with the information in the financial statements. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the financial statements, on the consolidated financial statements and on the report of the Board of Directors based on our audit. The Auditing Act Opinions based on assignment of the requires that we comply with the requirements of professional ethAudit Committee ics. We conducted our audit in accordance with good auditing practice in Finland. Good auditing practice requires that we plan and We support that the financial statements should be adopted. The perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether proposal by the Board of Directors regarding the use of the distribthe financial statements and the report of the Board of Directors utable equity shown in the balance sheet for the parent company are free from material misstatement, and whether the members is in compliance with the Limited Liability Companies Act. We supof the Board of Directors of the parent company or the Managing port that the Members of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director are guilty of an act or negligence which may result in liabilDirector of the parent company should be discharged from liability ity in damages towards the company or have violated the Limited for the financial period audited by us. Liability Companies Act or the articles of association of the company. Helsinki, February 5, 2014 An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial stateErnst & Young Oy ments and the report of the Board of Directors. The procedures Authorized Public Accountant Firm selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement, whether due to fraud Heikki Ilkka or error. In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers Authorized Public Accountant Auditor’s report Konecranes 2013 121 Shares & shareholders Shares and share capital Board authorizations As of December 31, 2013, Konecranes Plc’s fully paid-up share The Annual General Meeting held on March 21, 2013, authorized capital entered in the Trade Register was EUR 30,072,660, divided the Board of Directors to decide on the repurchase of the Cominto 63,272,342 shares (63,272,342 in 2012). Konecranes has pany’s own shares and/or on the acceptance as pledge of the Comone class of shares and each share entitles its holder to one vote pany’s own shares. The amount of own shares to be repurchased at the Annual General Meeting and an equal dividend. Konecranes’ and/or accepted as pledge based on this authorization shall not shares are registered in the Finnish book entry system. exceed 6,000,000 shares in total, which corresponds to approxiOn December 31, 2013, Konecranes Plc was in the possession mately 9.5 per cent of all the shares in the Company. The authorizaof 5,444,262 own shares (5,981,032), which corresponds to 8.6 tion is effective until the end of the next Annual General Meeting, percent of the total number of shares having a market value of EUR however, no longer than until September 21, 2014. The Board of 140.8 million on that date. In 2013, 536,770 treasury shares were Directors did not use this authorization in 2013. transferred to the subscribers, pursuant to the Konecranes Plc’s The AGM authorized the Board of Directors to decide on the stock options 2009A and 2009B. issuance of shares as well as the issuance of special rights entitling to shares referred to in Chapter 10 Section 1 of the FinnMarket capitalization and share trading ish Companies Act. The amount of shares to be issued based on As of the end of 2013, the total market capitalization of Konecranes this authorization shall not exceed 6,000,000 shares, which corPlc on NASDAQ OMX Helsinki was EUR 1,495 million (1,464), responds to approximately 9.5 per cent of all the shares in the excluding treasury shares. Company. The authorization can also be used for incentive arrangeKonecranes’ shares closed the year at EUR 25.86 (25.55) ments, however, not more than 700,000 shares in total together on NASDAQ OMX Helsinki. The volume-weighted average trading with the authorization in the following paragraph. The authorization price for the year was EUR 25.30. The highest quotation for the is effective until the end of the next Annual General Meeting, howKonecranes share was EUR 28.89 in February and the lowest was ever, no longer than until September 21, 2014. However, the authoEUR 20.45 in June. rization for incentive arrangements is valid until March 21, 2018. The traded volume of Konecranes’ shares totaled some 51.6 This authorization revokes the authorization for incentive arrangemillion on NASDAQ OMX Helsinki. In monetary terms, this was valments given by the Annual General Meeting 2012. The Board of ued at EUR 1,305.6 million. The daily average trading volume was Directors did not use this authorization in 2013. 206,413 shares, representing a daily average turnover of EUR 5.2 The AGM authorized the Board of Directors to decide on the million. In addition, approximately 53.5 million Konecranes’ shares transfer of the Company’s own shares. The authorization is limited were traded on other trading venues (e.g. multilateral trading facilito a maximum of 6,000,000 shares, which corresponds to approxities and bilateral OTC trades) in 2013 according to Fidessa. mately 9.5 per cent of all the shares in the Company. The authoriMonthly PRICE AND volume on the NASDAQ OMX Helsinki 2009–2013 EUR Number of shares, million 40 25 35 20 30 25 15 20 15 10 10 5 5 0 0 09 10 11 12 13 Konecranes OMX Helsinki Industrial Goods & Services Index OMX Helsinki Cap Index Monthly trading volume 122 Konecranes 2013 Shares & shareholders Changes in the share capital Change in number Total number Change in Share capital and the number of shares of shares of shares share capital EUR 1999 March 11, Conversion of share capital into EUR 15,000,000 30,000,000 2002 December 20, invalidation of shares held by the company and reduction of share capital -691,370 14,308,630 -1,382,740 28,617,260 2004 New shares subscribed for with the 1997 stock options 1,400 14,310,030 2,800 28,620,060 2005 New shares subscribed for with the 1997, 1999A, 1999B, 2001A and 2003A stock options 176,000 14,486,030 352,000 28,972,060 2006 New shares subscribed for with 1997, 1999B, 2001A and 2003A pre-split stock options 286,700 14,772,730 573,400 29,545,460 2006 March 17, 2006 Share split 1:4 44,318,190 59,090,920 0 29,545,460 2006 New shares subscribed for with 1997, 1999B, 2001A, 2003A post-split and 2003B series stock options 986,800 60,077,720 493,400 30,038,860 2007 February, new shares subscribed for with 2003B stock options 67,600 60,145,320 33,800 30,072,660 2007 March–December, new shares subscribed for with 1997, 1999B, 2001A, 2001B, 2003B and 2003C stock options 833,460 60,978,780 0 30,072,660 2008 February–December, new shares subscribed for with 1997, 1999B, 2001B, 2003B and 2003C stock options 633,540 61,612,320 0 30,072,660 2009 February–December, new shares subscribed for with 2001B and 2003C stock options 260,600 61,872,920 0 30,072,660 2010 February–May, new shares subscribed for with 2001B stock options 129,200 62,002,120 0 30,072,660 2011 January, share issue directed to the shareholders of KCR Management Oy 281,007 62,283,127 0 30,072,660 2011 February–May, new shares subscribed for with 2007A and 2007B stock options 958,300 63,241,427 0 30,072,660 2012 May–June, new shares subscribed for with 2009A stock options 30,915 63,272,342 0 30,072,660 zation can also be used for incentive arrangements, however, not tion replaces the authorization for the Share Savings Plan given by more than 700,000 shares in total together with the authorization the Annual General Meeting 2012. The Board of Directors did not in the previous paragraph. This authorization is effective until the use this authorization in 2013. next Annual General Meeting of Shareholders, however, no longer These authorizations are explained in more detail in the release than until September 21, 2014. However, the authorization for covering the resolutions of the 2013 AGM, which can be consulted incentive arrangements is valid until March 21, 2018. This authoat the Company’s Web site at www.konecranes.com > Investors > rization revokes the authorization for incentive arrangements given Corporate governance > General meeting > 2013. by the Annual General Meeting 2012. The Board of Directors did not use this authorization in 2013. Stock option plans The AGM authorized the Board of Directors to decide on a Konecranes has stock option plan 2009 for its key employees, directed share issue without payment needed for the implementaincluding top and middle management, and employees in certain tion of the Share Savings Plan, which the Annual General Meeting expert positions. In 2013, 536,770 treasury shares were trans2012 decided to launch. ferred to the subscribers, pursuant to the Konecranes Plc’s stock The Board of Directors is authorized to decide on the issue of options 2009A and 2009B. new shares or on the transfer of own shares held by the Company As of the end of 2013, the stock options issued under to such participants in the Plan who, according to the terms and Konecranes Plc’s ongoing stock option plans entitle option holders conditions of the Plan, are entitled to receive free shares, as well to subscribe for a total of 1,486,891 shares, which corresponds to as to decide on the share issue without payment also to the Com2.3 percent of all of the Company’s shares. The option programs pany itself. The number of new shares to be issued or own shares include approximately 200 key personnel. held by the Company to be transferred may be a maximum total For a more detailed description of the option plans, see Note number of 500,000 shares, which corresponds to 0.8 per cent 29 on Page 94 of the Financial Statements. The terms and of all of the Company’s shares. The authorization concerning the conditions of the stock option plans can also be consulted at share issue is valid until March 21, 2018. This authorization is in www.konecranes.com > Investors > Share information > Stock addition to the authorizations in the previous items. This authorizaoption plans. Shares & shareholders Konecranes 2013 123 Performance share plan 2012 Each participant will receive one free matching share for every In 2012, the Board of Directors resolved to implement a perfortwo acquired savings shares. Matching shares will be delivered to mance share plan according to which earning reward is based on a participant if the participant holds the acquired shares from the attainment of targets determined by the Board of Directors. Earnplan period until the end of the designated holding period, February ing during the one-year discretionary period that began in 2012 15, 2017, and if his or her employment has not ended before this will be based on the Konecranes Group´s EBIT margin, and during date for the reasons related to the employee. The total amount of the three-year discretionary period that began in 2012 on the Total all savings of the commencing plan period may not exceed EUR 8.5 Shareholder Return of the Company’s share (TSR). The potentially million. Approximately 1,650 Konecranes employees signed up for earned reward will be paid in spring 2015. If a key employee’s the plan commencing July 1, 2013. employment or service ends before the end of a discretionary For a more detailed description of the employee share savings period, no reward will be paid on the basis of such discretionary plan, see Note 29 on Page 94 of the Financial Statements. period. The target group of the plan consists of approximately 160 Flagging notifications people. The rewards to be paid on the basis of the discretionary No flagging notifications or other shareholder announcements were periods that began in 2012 correspond to the value of an approxireceived in 2013. mate maximum total of 271,308 Konecranes Plc shares, which corresponds to 0.4 percent of all of the Company’s shares. Shareholders In 2013, the Board of Directors has resolved to amend the Konecranes had 18,655 (19,598) shareholders on December 31, performance share plan launched in 2012 so that two three-year 2013. At year-end 2013 43.3 (37.6) percent of the Company’s discretionary periods 2013–2015 and 2014–2016 will follow the shares were nominee-registered. More information on the breakdiscretionary periods commenced in 2012. The performance critedown of share ownership and Board and Management interests rion for the discretionary periods 2013–2015 and 2014–2016 is can be found in the Shares and Shareholders section on Page 125 the cumulative Earnings per Share (EPS) for the respective years. of the Financial Statements. The target group of the plan consists of approximately 185 people during the discretionary periods 2013–2015 and 2014–2016. Konecranes Plc share trading information The rewards to be paid on the basis of each discretionary period Date of listing on NASDAQ OMX Helsinki: March 27, 1996 correspond to the value of an approximate maximum of 700,000 Segment: Large Cap Konecranes Plc shares, which corresponds to 1.1 percent of all of ICB classification: Industrials, Industrial Goods & Services, the Company’s shares. If the targets determined by the Board of Industrial Engineering, Commercial Vehicles & Trucks 2753 Directors are attained, the reward payout may be a half of the maxiISIN code: FI0009005870 mum reward. The maximum reward payout requires that the targets Trading code: KCR1V are clearly exceeded. Reuters ticker: KCR1V.HE For a more detailed description of the performance share plan, Bloomberg ticker: KCR1V FH see Note 29 on Page 94 of the Financial Statements. Konecranes Plc’s stock option 2009A trading Employee share savings plan information Konecranes Plc’s AGM 2012 approved the Konecranes Employee Date of listing on NASDAQ OMX Helsinki: April 2, 2012 Share Savings Plan. In April 2002, the Board of Directors approved ISIN code: FI4000041488 the detailed terms and conditions of the plan and the first plan Trading code: KCR1VEW109 period. The first plan period began on July 1, 2012 and ended on June 30, 2013. Konecranes Plc’s stock option 2009B trading Each participant will receive one free matching share for every information two acquired savings shares. Matching shares will be delivered to Date of listing on NASDAQ OMX Helsinki: April 2, 2013 a participant if the participant holds the acquired shares from the ISIN code: FI4000041496 plan period until the end of the designated holding period, February Trading code: KCR1VEW209 15, 2016, and if his or her employment with the company has not been terminated on the last day of the holding period on bad leaver terms. Approximately 1,500 Konecranes employees signed up for the Plan that commenced July 1, 2012. The number of new shares to be issued or own shares held by the Company to be transferred under the terms and conditions of the plan may be a maximum total of 42,602 shares, which corresponds to 0.1 percent of all of the Company’s shares. In 2013, the Board decided to launch a new plan period. The new plan period began on July 1, 2013 and will end on June 30, 2014. The maximum savings amount per participant during one month is 5 percent of the gross salary and the minimum is EUR 10. 124 Konecranes 2013 Shares & shareholders Shares and shareholders According to the register of Konecranes Plc’s shareholders kept by Euroclear Finland Oy, there were 18,655 (2012: 19,598) shareholders at the end of the 2013. Largest shareholders according to the share register on December 31, 2013 Number of shares % of shares and votes 1 HTT KCR Holding Oy Ab 6,870,568 10.9% 2 Nordea Investment Management 2,627,107 4.2% 3 Gustavson Stig, Chairman of the Board of Konecranes, and family* 2,073,927 3.3% 4 Varma Mutual Pension Insurance Company 1,190,275 1.9% 5 Nordea Nordenfonden 869,192 1.4% 6 The State Pension Fund 840,000 1.3% 7 Sigrid Jusélius Foundation 638,500 1.0% 8 Fondita Funds 609,700 1.0% 9 Samfundet Folkhälsan 535,600 0.8% 10 Keva 446,042 0.7% Ten largest registered shareholders’ total ownership 16,700,911 26.4% Nominee registered shares 27,372,961 43.3% Other shareholders 13,754,208 21.7% Shares held by Konecranes Plc 5,444,262 8.6% Total 63,272,342 100.0% Change in Option Shares and options owned by the members Change in Number option ownership of the Board and of Directors and Group shareholding of shares % of shares holdings in December % of shares Executive Board on December 31, 2013 in 2013 owned and votes 2013** 31, 2013** and votes Board of Directors* 7,116 40,585 0.1% 0 0 0.0% Group Executive Board -59,149 396,306 0.6% -77,635 221,500 0.4% Total -52,033 436,891 0.7% -77,635 221,500 0.4% * Konecranes Plc has on December 28, 2011 received information according to which the Chairman of the company’s Board of Directors, Mr Stig Gustavson has donated all of the shares he at that time owned in Konecranes Plc to his near relatives retaining himself for life the voting rights and right to dividend attached to the donated shares. The donation encompassed in total 2,069,778 shares. ** Option holdings are reported as the number of shares that they entitle to subscribe for. Breakdown of share ownership by shareholder Breakdown of share ownership by the number of shares category on December 31, 2013 owned on December 31, 2013 Number of % of Total number of % of shares % of shares and votes Shares shareholders shareholders shares and votes and votes Private companies 22.0% 1–100 8,429 45.2% 451,113 0.7% Financial and insurance institutions 6.7% 101–1,000 8,648 46.4% 3,087,691 4.9% Public sector organizations 4.8% 1,001–10,000 1,368 7.3% 3,774,270 6.0% Non-profit organizations 6.4% 10,001–100,000 164 0.9% 4,459,191 7.0% Households 14.7% 100,001–1,000,000 26 0.1% 6,827,997 10.8% Foreigners 2.2% Over 1,000,001 6 0.0% 17,299,119 27.3% Nominee registered shares 43.3% Total 18,641 100.0% 35,899,381 56.7% Total 100.0% Nominee registered 14 27,372,961 43.3% Number of shares issued 63,272,342 100.0% Source: Euroclear Finland Oy, December 31, 2013. Shares & shareholders Konecranes 2013 125 Investor information Investor Relations IR principles Equity research The main objective of Konecranes’ Investor Relations is to assist The following banks, investment banks and equity research providin the correct valuation of the Company’s share by providing capiers cover Konecranes: tal markets with information regarding Konecranes’ operations and financial position. Konecranes pursues an open, reliable, and upABG Sundal Collier to-date disclosure policy, aimed at giving all market participants Carnegie Investment Bank access to correct and consistent information regularly and equiDanske Markets tably. DNB Markets Konecranes’ Investor Relations is responsible for investor comEvli Bank munications and daily contacts. The President and CEO, together Goldman Sachs with the Chief Financial Officer, participate in IR activities and are Handelsbanken Capital Markets regularly available for meetings with capital market representatives. HSBC Trinkhaus and Burkhardt Konecranes Investor Relations regularly gathers and analyzes marInderes ket information and investor feedback for use of top management Kepler Cheuvreux and the Board of Directors. Nordea Bank Pareto Securities Silent period Pohjola Bank Konecranes observes a silent period prior to the publication of its SEB Enskilda financial statements and interim reports starting at the end of the UBS quarter in question. During this time, Company representatives do not comment on Konecranes’ financial position. Konecranes takes no responsibility for the opinions expressed by analysts. More information on Konecranes as an investment can Investor relations in 2013 be found at www.konecranes.com > Investors. Konecranes participated in six investor seminars and held 23 roadshow days. All in all, we took part in approximately 210 investor meetings in 2013 in Amsterdam, Chicago, Copenhagen, Edinburgh, Frankfurt, Geneva, Helsinki, London, Munich, New York, Oslo, Paris, San Francisco, Stockholm, Toronto, and Zurich. Investor contacts Miikka Kinnunen, Director, Investor Relations Tel: +358 20 427 2050 E-mail: miikka.kinnunen@konecranes.com Anna-Mari Kautto, Assistant, Investor Relations Tel: +358 20 427 2960 E-mail: anna-mari.kautto@konecranes.com 126 Konecranes 2013 Investor information Information for shareholders Annual General Meeting Financial reports in 2014 Konecranes’ next Annual General Meeting will be held on Thursday, Financial Statements for 2013:  February 5, 2014 March 27, 2014 at 10 a.m. at Hyvinkääsali, Jussinkuja 1, 05800 Interim report, January–March:  April 24, 2014 Hyvinkää, Finland. Interim report, January–June:  July 23, 2014 Shareholders registered no later than March 17, 2014 in the Interim report, January–September:  October 22, 2014 Company’s list of shareholders maintained by Euroclear Finland Ltd. are entitled to attend the AGM. Konecranes’ annual and interim reports are published in English, Holders of nominee-registered shares intending to participate in Finnish, and Swedish. The Annual Report is available in pdf format the AGM shall notify their custodian well in advance of their intenon the Company Web site and in print form. Copies are mailed to tion and comply with the instructions provided by the custodian. shareholders on request; orders can be placed through the ComA shareholder wishing to participate in the AGM must notify the pany Web site. Company (Ms. Laura Kiiski) of his/her participation no later than All press and stock exchange releases can be consulted at the March 24, 2014: Company’s Web site (www.konecranes.com) and can be received by e-mail by subscribing at www.konecranes.com > Investors > Internet: www.konecranes.com/agm2014 Releases > Order releases. The Annual Report can also be ordered E-mail: agm.2014@konecranes.com from: Fax: +358 20 427 2105 (from abroad) or 020 427 2105 (Finland) Konecranes Plc Phone: +358 20 427 2017 (from abroad) or Investor Relations 020 427 2017 (Finland) P.O. Box 661 Mail: Konecranes Plc, Laura Kiiski, P.O. Box 661, FI-05801 Hyvinkää FI-05801 Hyvinkää, Finland Finland Phone: +358 20 427 2960 Shareholders are requested to inform the Company of any proxies Fax: +358 20 427 2089 for the AGM in connection with their registration. A sample proxy Web: www.konecranes.com > Investors > Reports and result precan be found at the Company’s Web site. sentations > Order annual report Payment of dividend Shareholder register The Board of Directors will propose to the Annual General Meeting Konecranes shares are covered by the Finnish Book Entry Securiof Shareholders that a dividend of EUR 1.05 per share should be ties System. Shareholders should notify the relevant holder of their paid for 2013. The dividend will be paid to shareholders who are book entry account about changes in address or account numbers registered on the record date as shareholders in the Company’s for the payment of dividends and other matters related to their shareholders’ register maintained by Euroclear Finland Ltd. holdings. Record date of dividend payment:  April 1, 2014 Date of dividend payment: April 9, 2014 Important dates Record date of the AGM: March 17, 2014 Registration for the AGM closes: March 24, 2014 The AGM: March 27, 2014 Dividend ex-date: March 28, 2014 Dividend record date: April 1, 2014 Dividend payment date: April 9, 2014 Investor information Konecranes 2013 127 Contact Konecranes is a world-leading group of Lifting Businesses™, serving a broad range of customers, including manufacturing and process industries, shipyards, ports and terminals. Konecranes provides details productivity-enhancing lifting solutions as well as services for lifting equipment and machine tools of all makes. In 2013, Group sales totaled EUR 2,100 million. The Group has 11,800 employees at 600 locations in 48 countries. Konecranes is listed on the NASDAQ OMX Helsinki (symbol: KCR1V). Corporate HQ Main production sites Sales and service locations 128 KONECRANES 2013 ContaCt details Corporate Headquarters Konecranes Plc P.O. Box 661 (Koneenkatu 8) FI-05801 Hyvinkää, Finland Tel +358 20 427 11 Fax +358 20 427 2099 Global Business Area Headquarters Service Equipment Konecranes Finland Corporation Konecranes Finland Corporation P.O. Box 662 (Koneenkatu 8) P.O. Box 662 (Koneenkatu 8) FI-05801 Hyvinkää, Finland FI-05801 Hyvinkää, Finland Tel +358 20 427 11 Tel +358 20 427 11 Fax +358 20 427 4099 Fax +358 20 427 3009 Regional Headquarters Americas Nordic, Eastern Europe and India Konecranes, Inc. Konecranes Region NEI 4401 Gateway Blvd. P.O. Box 662 (Koneenkatu 8) Springfield, OH 45502, USA FI-05801 Hyvinkää, Finland Tel +1 937 525 5533 Tel +358 20 427 11 Fax +1 937 322 2832 Fax +358 20 427 3009 Western Europe, Middle East and Africa Asia-Pacific Konecranes Region WEMEA Konecranes (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. P.O. Box 662 (Koneenkatu 8) Building 4, No. 100, Lane 2891, South Qilianshan Road FI-05801 Hyvinkää, Finland Shanghai, 200331, China Tel +358 20 427 11 Tel +86 21 2606 1000 Fax +358 20 427 3009 Fax +86 21 2606 1066 Corporate responsibility For corporate responsibility matters please contact corporate-responsibility@konecranes.com This publication is for general informational purposes only. Konecranes reserves the right at any time, without notice, to alter or discontinue the products and/or specifications referenced herein. This publication creates no warranty on the part of Konecranes, express or implied, including but not limited to any implied warranty or merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose. © 2014 Konecranes. All rights reserved. 'Konecranes', 'Lifting Businesses', 'TRUCONNECT', 'Agilon', 'SMARTON' and are either registered trademarks or trademarks of Konecranes Plc. www.konecranes.com
