Building Your Tomorrow Today Doosan Corporation Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 About this report Purpose of the Report | The 2013 Doosan Corporation Social Responsibility Report (CSR) is the first CSR report published by Doosan Corp. In this report, Doosan Corp shares the corporation’s CSR vision and activities, which reflects the interests and demands of its various stakeholders. Doosan Corp will share its CSR performance by publishing a CSR report each year and it will also be used as a communication channel to reflect the opinions of internal and external stakeholders. Reporting Period | This report covers the period from January 1, 2013 to December 31, 2013, and it provides partial quantitative performance data of the past 3 years to comprehend the latest trends. As Doosan Corp newly incorporated Industrial Vehicle in 2013, the report only contains its 2013 data; however, it includes the activities of 2014 when necessary and these are marked separately. Report Range | The reporting range of this report encompasses the domestic sites of each business operation including Electro-Materials, Industrial Vehicle, Mottrol, and Information & Communication, Glonet and Facilities Management in the Doosan Corporation. Reporting Principles | This report was completed in accordance with the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) G4 guidelines. The status of the reporting standards is included on page 77-78. Third Party Verification | To improve the suitability and faithfulness of our report process, and the accuracy and reliability of the report content, this report has been audited through a third party verification assessment by DNV, an independent verification institute, and the verification statement can be found on page 75-76. Building Your Cover Story The cover story expresses Doosan Corporation’s philosophy that ‘respects and Tomorrow fosters people, and contributes to the local community’ through the layering of the CI Motif. The three squares coming together Today embody Doosan Corp’s will to ‘grow and develop together’, and the icons at the bottom represent each stakeholder. This is our today and tomorrow, the sustainable world that Doosan Corp strives to build. Doosan Corporation Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 Inquiries | Doosan Corporation CC CSR Team Doosan Tower Building 17F, 275 Jangchungdan-ro, Jung-gu, Seoul, 100-730, Korea Email | doosancsr@doosan.com Phone | 02-3398-0884 Table of Contents Overview 02 Greetings from the Management · 06 Doosan Group · 08 The Doosan Way 12 Doosan Corporation · 14 Long Range Strategy and Introduction of Business Operations 18 Governance · 21 CSR Strategy · 22 Risk Management 24 Stakeholder Engagement and Division of Profits · 25 Materiality Assessment Developing People 30 Strengthening the Cultivation of Talents within the Corporation’s Influential Area 34 Establishment of Human Respect Oriented GWP Reliable Operating 42 Minimizing Environmental Impact Through Green Management · 52 Strengthening Fair Trade Operation 58 Strengthen Product · Service Responsibility Responsible Engagement 66 Strategic Community Participation Development Appendix 73 Economic, Social, Environmental Data · 78 Third Party Verification · 80 GRI Indicators DOOSAN CORPORATION CSR Report 2013 CEO’s MESSAGE Doosan, Korea’s first modernized company, has gone through a great transformation over its long history of 118 years. Especially since the 1990s, we pursued unprecedented and drastic innovation, and as a result, we solidified our position as a global company based on Infrastructure Support Business (ISB). As an ISB leader with global competitiveness, Doosan pursues its motto of ‘Proud Global Doosan’, and builds its foundation for the next 100 years. Doosan not only pursues its own growth, but it also promotes the shared growth of both the corporation and the society. Doosan pays close attention to the voice of diverse stakeholders including shareholders, customers, partner companies, and environmental institutions, to reflect their valuable opinions on its managerial activities. Living up to our centennial corporate history, fulfilling social responsibility as a respectable corporation, which actively creates shared value, is Doosan’s foremost duty. A company grows within the society and with the society. Therefore, both internal and external demands on a company’s social responsibility constantly increase. Doosan’s management philosophy emphasizes corporate social responsibility (CSR), which is further strengthened and materialized through the announcement of ‘Doosan Way’ in 2012. ‘Doosan Way’ highlights the social responsibility of the overall corporate management in becoming a strong global leader. Doosan is committed to establishing a foundation for the mutual growth of both the corporation and the society by pursuing social responsibility management. Doosan’s social responsibility management is a pledge to everyone for the next 100 years. Doosan will live up to its commitment by growing together with all our stakeholders. We appreciate your continued attention and support. Sincerely, Chairman of Doosan and CEO of Doosan Corp Yongmaan Park Doosan has greatly contributed to the growth of Korean society over the past century, and will continue to grow with society in the coming century. 02 03 DOOSAN CORPORATION CSR Report 2013 My dearest stakeholders, Letter to Stakeholder In building a more transparent and advanced governance structure, satisfaction management commitments, in pursuit of benefits for Doosan Corporation was converted to a holding company in 2009 and the whole society. Doosan recognizes green management as a it has been 7 years since the Business Operations was established. responsibility for all, for our family and our society, and is sharing As our businesses transformed and grew over many years, Doosan economic and environmental values with the society through has become a socially and environmentally responsible sustainable various green management activities including the development of company and we are delighted to share our management activities environmentally friendly products. With continuing technological with our stakeholders through this CSR report. changes and innovation, we strive to provide our customers with the safest and highest quality products. And we share Doosan’s Doosan went through many meaningful changes in our business management philosophy valuing quality and ethical management with portfolio to become a true global leader and all businesses have our business partners and support the growth of our business partners. tried endlessly despite the ongoing economic turndown to secure the best competitiveness and to achieve sustainable growth. These Creating Values that the Community Needs efforts were stretched further beyond the Business Operations, also Communication with society and activities creating ties are important extending our efforts to various social areas where Doosan can have factors of becoming a sustainable company. Doosan’s corporate positive and constructive influence. Based on this foundation, Doosan community involvement activities are addressing the needs and has established a systematic social responsible management system. demands of the local community, and are opening opportunities for While emphasizing social responsibility in our corporate values under the local community to become independent. Especially, believing the name of ‘Doosan Way’, Doosan is establishing CSR governance that education is the leading foundation for the development of our and strategy as well as a CSR performance management system in society, we are supporting an education program, which promotes alignment with a more systematic CSR management system. the growth of our future-generation with the theme of ‘growth and Based on this foundation, Doosan is exerting its best efforts in the independence of people’. We will be assessing the effectiveness areas mentioned below to maximize our stakeholders’ values and to of our programs and continue developing more efficient corporate become a strong global business leader. community involvement activities. Creating a Sustainable Future Through People Doosan will continue to extend our CSR management philosophy In this management environment where the investment in talented with more internal and external stakeholders. We will extend our individuals is placed at the heart of the competitive power of the strong beliefs in CSR management with not only our internal leaders company, Doosan fundamental belief is 'People are our future'. This and members but also with all those within Doosan’s reach through comment in people and people develpoment is the essence that drove various consensus-building programs. Furthermore, we will be the sustainable growth of Doosan for the past 100 years and will publishing a CSR report every year to actively communicate our CSR continue to ensure sustainable success in the coming 100 and more achievements with our stakeholders, to participate in global initiatives years. Doosan is making exceptional investments to cultivate the talent including the UNGC and to internally and externally declare our strong of people who will realize the ‘future’, and is providing an environment commitments to CSR. Doosan Corp, with business innovation, for their healthy growth. In addition, Doosan aspires to build a peoplecentric company, a company where its members can find the meaning Dear stakeholders, builds foundations for social responsible of life, and a safe and healthy environment where these talented We ask for your help and support for Doosan in our march towards the individuals can fully achieve their potential. next 100 years and beyond. management that heightens stakeholder values Thank you. Practicing Responsible Management in Business Activities to become a global business leader. In addition to environmental responsibility, various management activities, including customer satisfaction and win-win partnerships, go beyond voluntary responsibilities and are evolving into policies. Doosan is developing trusted management activities based on its Doosan Corp CSR Committee Chairman, Vice Chairman green management, win-win partnership management and customer James B. Bemowski 04 05 DOOSAN CORPORATION CSR Report 2013 Overview · Developing People · Reliable Operating · Responsible Engagement · Appendix DOOSAN A History of Transformation Doosan means “The little grains of sand that, all 2013 Financial Highlight Unit: 100 million KRW 斗山 (Doosan) together, add up to make a mighty mountain.” It means great achievements can be made only when Total Assets Total Capital Sales Sales Profit 311,660 90,580 219,365 11,549 everyone involved joins forces. Also, just as we don’t get full after one spoon of rice, the name incorporates Doosan’s will to never stop going forward until its goals are achieved, making history every step of the way. *Doosan Il-Doo Affiliates Korea’s Oldest Korea’s first modern store, Doosan, went through many ISB(Infrastructure Support Business) changes through its long history of 118 years. Enterprise Doosan Doosan Heavy Industries Doosan began in 1896 with the opening of ‘Park Seung& Construction Jik Store,’ in Baeogae (Jongno 4 (sa)-ga), Seoul, and has power plant, water, grown and developed over more than a century. casting, construction / transport facilities, green energy, etc. Transition to an In 1995, one year before our 100th anniversary, we realized that a total makeover was needed based on Doosan Corporation Doosan Infracore selection and concentration to take a leap toward becoming a global corporation and began to rigorously Doosan Corporation ISB-driven Electro-Materials restructure with an aim to reinvent ourselves for the 21st century. We sold flagship affiliates, including OB Beer, Business Portfolio improved profitability by integrating 23 affiliates into 4 companies (Doosan Corporation, Doosan Engineering Doosan Corporation construction machinery, Industrial Vehicles machine tools, & Construction, Doosan Packaging, and Oricom) and introduced advanced management systems. Doosan engines and parts. Doosan Corporation has accomplished remarkable change and growth since 2000 through its acquisition of new growth engines, Mottrol including the conversion into an Infrastructure Support Business (ISB) that includes industrial infrastructure, Doosan Corporation Information construction equipment, energy, national defense, and production equipment. & Communications (I&C) Doosan Engineering & Construction Doosan Corporation An ISB Leader Doosan has emerged as a global leader in various ISB sectors including power, seawater desalination, Glonet civil works, building works, plant, construction equipment and marine diesel engines. Recognized Doosan Corporation *FM *CPE, *OSS, *HRSG. We are internationally recognized as the world’s foremost builder of seawater desalination plants now Worldwide entering the multi-effect distillation (MED) sector, thereby furthering our market dominance. We are ranked first in the world for skid steer loaders and attachments, second in the world for low speed marine engines, Consumer goods and Doosan Engine Doosan Capital and the Korean government has selected our steam generators for industrial and nuclear plant use as well Service Business Oricom as our forged backup rolls for plate rolling mills as “World’s Best Products” to lead the global market. Diesel engines for Neoplux vessels/power plants, Doosan Feed & Livestock Diesel plants, A New History as Doosan operates 22 domestic and 119 overseas subsidiaries. Although we have already achieved significant Doosan Tower engine parts. changes, we will continue to pursue further transformation to provide exceptional products and services that a Top-tier Global Doosan Bears inspire trust and pride among our customers. Doosan Cuvex Doosan DST Enterprise Doosan Dong-A SRS Korea mobile weaponry, Doosan Magazine homing/guided weapon Auxiliary Organizations systems, launch systems, *DLI, Yonkang Foundation, Doosan Art Center navigation, etc. Group Vision *FM(Facility Management) *CPE(Chemical Process Equipment) *DLI(Doosan Leadership Institute) *OSS(Offshore Structures & Subsea) *HRSG(Heat Recovery Steam Generator) Management Strategy A Company with Global Competitiveness Joining the World’s Top 200 by 2020 Doosan's strategy is based on our “2G” philosophy Growth of Business through Growth of People. 2G is a virtuous circle in which people drive Growth of Growth of People 2G Strategy Business business growth, which in turn provides our people the opportunity for advancement. A Company whose Talented People are the Setting a Global Standard of Genuine Care and World-class products Advanced and Scientific Source of its Global Competitiveness Business Process People-Centric Inhwa Sustainable Growth Cultivating People and technology Systems and Processes 06 07 DOOSAN CORPORATION CSR Report 2013 Overview · Developing People · Reliable Operating · Responsible Engagement · Appendix The Doosan Way Birth of Doosan Way Doosan Group, from a domestic consumer goods business that began in 1896 and has The Doosan Credo The Doosan Credo is a set of principles that represent Doosan’s philosophies and our unique transformed into the current corporation centered on Global ISB, went through massive way of doing business. These principles have been the foundation of Doosan’s success for change and accelerated growth. We organized our identity and values based on the group’s the past century. The Doosan Credo is integral to every aspect of our business and people, 100 years of competency and success and its accelerated growth over the past 10 years. With clearly guiding our decisions and the way we do business. Through the realization of these this launching of the ‘Doosan Way’, we strive to make ‘Proud Global Doosan’ by sharing the values, Doosan accomplishes its ultimate goal. The Credo consists of Doosan’s “Aspirations” Doosan Way with all the Doosan-people around the world. and “Core Values”. Doosan Credo System Aspiration Doosan Way? The Doosan Way is our unique belief and philosophy to make ‘Proud Global Doosan’. Doosan, through ‘Doosan Way’, is a warm group of strong people, and we aim to be a company with Doosan Credo 우리의 목표 Doosan’s ultimate goal is the creation of a 'Proud Global Doosan'. unique ways and a passion for cultivating people. We make an organization where members The Unique Values that ‘Proud Doosan’ means each of our employees and all of our stakeholders are proud of their Drive Our Behavior Proud can find meaning in life and where people are at the center of the company management, association with Doosan. and Our Business Global Doosan and believe that Doosan’s management can be sustainable and become a foundation for Every employee takes great pride in being a member of Doosan. Each customer recognizes cultivating even more talented people. and appreciates Doosan’s high-quality goods and services. Every shareholder values our Core Values high but fair levels of profit. Integrity and Social People Customers Distinctive Traits of Transparency Responsibility As six condensed success dispositions felt from the experience of Doosan’s 100 years of Doosan People management history and knowhow, and the overall structure overhaul gained from change World–class Core Values Cultivating Technology Safety and and innovation, all members of Doosan keep the Doosan Credo in their hearts and exhibit People Inhwa and Profit Environment Innovation Doosan People live the nine core values of the Doosan Credo every day. Doosan’s distinctive traits wherever they operate. Doosan People live the nine core values of the Doosan Credo everywhere we operate to build a ‘Proud Global Doosan’. These values guide the way we do business, the way we treat each other and the way we work with all of our partners. Change Model As foundation and framework to cultivate Doosan People and to practice Doosan Way, we promote three Change models including cultivating Doosan People, strengthening the competitive edge and developing advanced and scientific ways of work. Doosan People Doosan Credo Limitless Aspiration Cultivating People Inhwa Open Communication Tenacity & Drive Prioritization & Focus Fundamental Advanced Processes Competitiveness and Systems 08 09 Doosan Credo Our Vision Inhwa means each individual contributes to the success of their colleagues and team, We aspire to be a Proud Global Doosan -a leading innovator of products and services that resulting in both excellent team and individual performances. improve the quality of life for people and communities around the world. Inhwa also means we are open; Doosan welcomes proactive ideas We will achieve this by living the Doosan Credo. Guided by our Credo, we will drive our second and constructive criticism from everyone, regardless of seniority or position. 100 years of growth. Our unique practice of Inhwa extends beyond the internal organization and embraces the entire Doosan community from our families to our shareholders, affiliates and partners. Our customers are the reason Doosan exists. Core Values The true measure of Doosan’s success is our customers’ satisfaction and respect. Doosan’s people are our greatest asset and the key to our future. Our goal is to always deliver superior value than our competitors. They are at the heart of all our achievements. We achieve this by understanding our customers’ needs Our continued and distinguished success will only be possible and meeting or exceeding their expectations. through developing and cultivating our talent. Embracing world-class technology and innovation is vital to our survival. Our people possess great capacity, willingness and drive Tomorrow drives today at Doosan; we always look to the future instead of the past. to contribute to the Company. We strive to understand, and stay ahead of, change. They are relentless in enhancing their skills and capabilities. We continuously seek to improve our business model, products, services and methods. They embrace our Core Values and demonstrate these beliefs and principles We celebrate and properly reward successful risk-taking, in their daily behaviors. while also respecting valuable attempts that fail. Cultivating people is our highest priority and a shared responsibility. Doosan applauds the spirit of challenge over complacency. Attracting and recruiting the right talent, who understand and embrace our values, Our future success will be driven by seeking breakthrough ideas, knowledge, technologies and will be the foundation for developing our people. resources regardless of their origin, either internal or external. We believe people develop and grow through performance at work Profit measures our success and drives our growth. and we give them the authority and responsibility that best match their capabilities. Our profit must exceed our capital cost Through experience, people develop to their maximum potential. and be sufficient to fuel our continuous growth and investment. Fair and immediate feedback and recognition are offered Our people understand how the work they do contributes to Doosan’s profit. as we believe this is central to self-development. We recognize that long-term success is built by respecting the rights of our suppliers, Our people are given the opportunity to develop their strengths distributors and partners to earn fair profits. and address areas for improvement. As a result, Doosan people are proud of who they are Creating a socially responsible enterprise is our duty to society. and respected as business professionals. We see business and society as a close partnership and an opportunity for mutual growth. Integrity and transparency are fundamental Doosan strengths. Doosan will be proactive in this partnership, We make profit by creating value through fair and transparent activities. contributing the time and resources required for success. We acknowledge our mistakes and keep our promises. Our goal is to develop and grow alongside society, as a trusted and trustworthy partner. We never compromise our principles. Wherever we operate, we do so transparently and lawfully. Inhwa best expresses who we are and provides us with a unique competitive edge. We aim to contribute to the development of talent in society. We define Inhwa as teamwork in the truest sense of the word, Our community service activities promote both corporate and social development. grounded upon fairness and camaraderie. We provide clean and safe working environments. By carefully following these virtues we have created One Doosan; Doosan maintains all our facilities to the highest possible standards. a collective strength built on the contribution of a wide diversity of individuals. This is the basis for superior productivity as well as being our responsibility to our people, their Inhwa means we maximize our organizational strength and potential families, our customers and shareholders. through true teamwork built on defined, transparent rules of fair play. Environmental protection is our duty and obligation Selfish rivalries between individuals or departments have no place at Doosan to every community where Doosan does business. and discrimination of any kind is not tolerated. We know this ultimately results in greater value creation. 10 11 DOOSAN CORPORATION CSR Report 2013 Overview · Developing People · Reliable Operating · Responsible Engagement · Appendix Doosan Corporation Doosan Corp Global Network Information & Communication DSIC We perform competency in various businesses based on advanced Headquarters China, Beijing corporate governance system. Headquarters & Production Subsidiaries Mottrol DMJC In 2009, Doosan Corporation transitioned to a holding company system to Production Subsidiaries China, Jiangyin establish a more transparent and advanced corporate governance system. R&D Center Industrial Vehicle DIVUK After 3 years of careful preparation of restructuring and resolving crossCorporation UK, Northampton Industrial Vehicle DIVC Branch shareholding, we established a sustainable management structure that China, Yantai meets global standards. Information & Communication DSIE Electro-Materials Shenzhen UK, Crawley China, Shenzhen We create values as a leading business holding company. Industrial Vehicle DLE Doosan Corp Headquarters Doosan Corporation is a business holding company that secures Germany, Bersteland S.Korea, Seoul independent profit by operating its own business in addition to earnings Electro-Materials US Industrial Vehicle DIVAC from brand loyalty and dividends. We have promoted M&A and Industrial Vehicle DIVEU USA, San, Jose USA, Atlanta investment not only through the acquisition of Industrial Vehicle in 2013 Electro-Materials Japan Branch and Doosan Mottrol (former DongMyung Mottrol) as new profit sources, Belgium, Sint-Niklaas Glonet JV Japan, Tokyo Information & Communication DSIA but also through our transition to a holding company to intensify the China, Chengdu USA, Atlanta competitiveness of our existing business. Doosan Corp now operates Electro-Materials Vietnam Branch 4 business operations, Electro-Materials, Mottrol, Glonet, Information Vietnam, Hanoi & Communications (I&C), and Facility Management (FM), along with 2 Electro-Materials Chengshu units of self-business operations. China, Changshu Electro-Materials Singapore Doosan Corp Global Management Singapore Electro-Materials Shanghai Doosan Corp operates 13 factories, 7 subsidiaries and 4 branch offices in China, Shanghai 10 countries. We plan to develop to the highest level of global corporation by improving our operations of securing and cultivating global talents Electro-Materials Taipei Branch and expanding our global business network, and also by continuously Taiwan, Taipei promoting the foundation of global standards of accounting criteria. Electro-Materials Hong Kong Doosan Corp Headquarters China, Hongkong S.Korea, Seoul Glonet R&D Center Overview Organizational Chart S.Korea, Suwon Company Name Doosan Doosan is composed of four business groups and two business units. Date of Establishment December 18, 1933 CEO and COO Yongmaan Park and Jae Kyung Lee Doosan Corp Electro-Materials Electro-Materials/Mottrol R&D Center S.Korea, Suji Major Business Areas Electro-Materials, Hydraulic Parts, Electronic Forklifts, etc Doosan Corp Industrial Vehicles Total Assets 3.2916 trillion KRW Industrial Vehicles Headquarters & Plant Total Sales** 1.6520 trillion KRW Doosan Corp Mottrol S.Korea, Incheon Doosan Corporation Operating Income 195.4 billion KRW Doosan Corp Glonet Electro-Materials Plant No. of Employees 4,029 S.Korea, Gimcheon Doosan Corp Information & Communication Location of Headquarter 275, Jangchungdan-ro, Jung-gu, Seoul, Korea Doosan Corp FM* Countries of Business Korea, China, US, etc * Facility Management *Based on December 2013 financial statements Electro-Materials & Glonet Plant **Sales include dividend profit S.Korea, Iksan Mottrol Plant S.Korea, Changwon Shareholder Constitution Electro-Materials Plant S.Korea, JeungPyeong Major and Affiliated Person Treasury Stock Other investor 43 % 20 % 37 % 12 13 DOOSAN CORPORATION CSR Report 2013 Overview · Developing People · Reliable Operating · Responsible Engagement · Appendix *Sales of each business division is the total of its domestic and overseas sales Long Term Strategy and Business Groups Long Term Strategy Electro-Materials Doosan Corp, in order to achieve the corporation’s vision of becoming a “2020 Global Top 200 Company”, Electro-Materials produces and provides a worldwide supply of printed circuit constantly promotes change and innovation to keep pace with the changing business environment. CCL (copper clad laminate) board, an essential part of digital devices and Doosan Corp, through maximization of creating value, will fulfill its role as a holding company that home appliances which is made of copper foil, glass fabric, epoxy, and resins contributes to achieving Doosan’s aspirations. Doosan Corp has been facing the challenges of lower of polyimide. The operation engages not only in a process industry requiring large scales of plant and equipment investment, but also an advanced growth conditions and intensifying competition in its recent business environment. In order to improve industry creating products with a combination of polymer chemistry and its ability to maintain its position after overcoming these difficulties, we pursue the following long term electronic materials. As the growth of high-end products from advanced strategies. countries and of low to middlepriced diffusion products from China expands First, we promote an intensification of our fundamental competitiveness in the business operational as the principal feature of the electronics industry, production cost and quality areas of product, technology and quality as the essential corporate task. So we aim to build up our are the key success factors in global business growth. Therefore, Electro capability to achieve consistent competitive superiority. In addition, Doosan Corp constantly pursues Materials plans to establish its portfolio centered on such high-end products rationalization of its overall business portfolio by enhancing business operation efficiency and as semiconductor PKG CCL and flexible CCL for mobile devices, and, in expanding reinvestment possibility, which also includes rationalization of low profit and low growth response to the Chinese market, further to leap forward as a high-end player business. Moreover, the corporation also pursues the discovery of a momentum for new growth and the based on expansion of value-added products through cost innovation and a establishment of a basis for new value creation. This includes the tasks of securing new growth power Chinese production base in Changshu. Furthermore, we plan to enhance our through M&A, advancement of business infrastructure based on ICT (Information & Communication business value by securing new growth engine power through identifying new market opportunities. Technology), and the creation of opportunities to enhance customer value. Total Sales Unit: 100 million KRW Total Assets Sales 7,849 Sales Profit Unit: 100 million KRW 32,128 32,916 Industrial Vehicle 31,491 Industrial Vehicle, which has been leading the manufacture of engine and electric forklifts in Korea, has exported its products to more than 100 countries worldwide since the production of the first Korean forklift in 1968. Along with its acquisition by Doosan Corp in 2013, Industrial Vehicle has pursued a growth strategy through constant operational innovation, eco-friendly technology development, and after-market business expansion. However, we anticipate that the technical barrier to satisfying the greenhouse gas regulations of the advanced markets in North America and Europe that comprise 48% of the world’s Industrial vehicle market will be a potential risk factor. Accordingly, 16,606 15,498 Industrial Vehicle introduced a compact Tier-4 forklift truck equipped with its self-developed engine ahead of other competitors in September 2013; and it 14,400 received an innovation award from FLTA (Fork Lift Truck Association) of the United Kingdom. Industrial Vehicle plans to intensify our product’s fundamental competitiveness in quality and TCO to enhance customer value, and also expand our business in the advanced markets. *TCO : Total cost of ownership including price, fuel efficiency and maintenance cost 1,954 Total Sales Unit: 100 million KRW 8,397 1,858 1,263 2011 2012 2013 14 15 DOOSAN CORPORATION CSR Report 2013 Overview · Developing People · Reliable Operating · Responsible Engagement · Appendix Mottrol Glonet Mottrol is globally competitive in its production of parts such as travel Glonet produces and sells functional biotechnology materials; and also devices, swing devices for excavators and of hydraulic parts such as hydraulic develops and provides new materials such as general materials for generic pumps and main control valves (MCVs). It maintains the status of its products pharmaceuticals, functional foods and cosmetics, as well as physiologically as a domestic leader not only for its market share but also for the excellent active substances. Glonet recently established a stable business foundation performance and quality of its products. Mottrol also plays a vital role in the by concentrating on the Chinese market based on our specialty in lipids modernization of military equipment by developing and providing hydraulic such as emulsifiers for medical use (PL95), and it plans to accelerate the parts, and electronic-hydraulic pressure systems used in various weapon expansion of its business within China as it completed its construction of systems. Sichuan Kelun-Doosan Biotechnology Co., Ltd with Kelun in June 2013. However, we expect that the market competition will increase as Japnanese Bioindustry is a technology-intensive branch of industry with higher technical companies who are the existing leaders of the excavator market reduce their barriers and bright prospects. Glonet will maintain its high growth rate sales price due to the decreased value of the Japanese yen and as Chinese by enhancing the competitiveness of core businesses and by constantly companies develop their own equipment, along with theglobal construction developing diverse new products to become the world’s best biotechnology economy recession. Therefore, Mottrol intensifies its product competitiveness company providing differentiated value to customers. through cost reduction and quality enhancement in response to the potential crisis. As a long term strategy, we further plan to focus on improving product efficiency and profitability, intensifying business competitiveness, and also intensifying product competitiveness by securing quality technology. Total Sales Unit: 100 million KRW 415 Total Sales 3,787 Unit: 100 million KRW *Exclusion of sales from related business due to discontinued distribution business Information & Communications (I&C) FM(Facility Management) Information & Communications (I&C) provides total IT services. I&C provides Facilities Management (FM) runs as its main business a total building a comprehensive services in IT consulting, system integration, application management system combining maintenance of mechanical, electrical, systems and IT infrastructure to all of the Doosan subsidiaries worldwide construction and disaster prevention facilities, and building control and utilizing a wide range of IT service partners’ networks established both in commissioned management of cleaning and security. It also operates and outside Korea. In 2014, I&C plans to concentrate on successful support construction of fire protection equipment and machinery, along with sales of Doosan’s core business and on its role as a comprehensive manager of of fire extinguishing agent. Due to the recent increasing number of modern Doosan’s IT supply. It also will secure business operational competency and high-rise buildings and industrial facilities and the consequent development maximize a synergy effect through total IT operation in both domestic and of construction technology, market expansion and competition within the overseas operations. area will be intense. Therefore, FM plans to extend its managerial efficiency by securing a differentiated management system through the adaptation of professional knowledge on building management, and by maintaining its price competitiveness through cost reduction. Starting from 2014, FM also plans to expand its business scope and profit by creating sales of fire protection and disaster prevention equipment related to improvement of risk response competency, along with enlargement of its railroad business. Total Sales Total Sales 382 Unit: 100 million KRW Unit: 100 million KRW 2,499 16 17 DOOSAN CORPORATION CSR Report 2013 Overview · Developing People · Reliable Operating · Responsible Engagement · Appendix Governance Corporate Governance Establishment and Operations Board of Directors Doosan has a governance system Operation of the Board of Directors Doosan Corp’s board of directors is the supreme decision-making body for the corporation’s that strives for corporate Doosan Corp votes on major decisions through the board of directors, reflects the collected shareholders’ management which monitors and votes on issues related to laws and company by-laws, issues delegated opinions and employee complaints in the decision-making at shareholder meetings and IR sessions, and management and stakeholder to the board by the shareholder meeting, as well as on major issues related to the basic management shares data beforehand to fully follow the decisions. The law allows all the board of directors to attend the and operation of the company. The board of directors of Doosan Corp consists of three inside directors profit based on Doosan way. decision-making through a means of real-time voice communication and in this case, acknowledges their and six outside directors for a total of nine directors on the board; also an audit committee, an internal attendance. Temporary meetings are held as needed, and the authority of the board of directors is delegated transaction committee, and an outside director candidate nominating committee are under the board of to any committee within the board of directors to process the issue after thorough review, for prompt and directors for efficient decision-making. efficient decision-making. Decisions made by the board of directors are based on the presence of the majority of the board and approval by vote of the majority of the board, or the quorum, when indicated by law Independence of the board or regulation. Directors cannot delegate their votes and those who have special interest in the issue at hand are Doosan Corp appoints six outside directors to promote mutual restraint ability amongst internal restricted from exercising their votes. 10 meetings of the board were held in 2013 to address a total of 30 agenda management and outside directors, and to enable the board to make balanced and objective decisions. items related to major management activities. The average attendance rate of outside directors was 85%. Doosan Corp restricts directors who have special interest in a particular issue from exercising their votes. The board operates three committees including the audit committee, composed of all outside Evaluation and Compensation directors, to maintain the independence of the board, securing the independence and transparency of the Doosan Corp compensates the directors based on the parameters approved during the shareholder decision-making. The audit committee can demand reports on the business, inspect the financial status meeting, and inside directors are granted on top of their annual salary a performance salary reflecting the of the corporation, request attendance of related employees and outside auditors in meetings, and request 2013 Compensation Unit : 1 million KRW organization’s managerial performance. Outside directors compensations consists of an annual salary, and Status expert counsel using corporate expenses when determined as needed to facilitate the audit process. inside directors compensations are composed of their annual salary, performance salary and severance pay; the corporation compensates the board of directors fairly and transparently, in accordance with the executive Inside Director (3) management policy. Total Compensation Average Compensation Per Person 6,183 2,061 Yongmaan Park Jeong won Park Jae Kyung Lee Communication with the Stakeholders Audit Committee (4) Inside Chairman and CEO Chairman of Doosan Corporation Vice Chairman of The board of directors communicates with stakeholders through internal and external communication Total Compensation Average Compensation directors of Doosan Group Doosan Corporation Per Person channels including IR sessions and public announcements. It conducts top-level design making at the Chairman of the Board 178 44 shareholder meeting and provides prompt management information to shareholders and stakeholders Outside Directors (4) by publicly announcing all important management decisions immediately. Total Compensation Average Compensation Per Person Daewon Seo Hi-Taek Shin Ickhyun Nam 180 45 Outside Chairman, Internal Transaction Chairman, Audit Committee Member, Internal Transaction Committee directors Committee Chairman, Outside Director Candidate Member, Outside Director Candidate Total (11) Chairman, International Cooperation Nominating Committee Nominating Committee Total Compensation Average Compensation Sub-committee Dean of the Office of Planning and Per Person Presidential Council on National Coordination, Seoul National University 6,541 595 Branding Junki Kim Gwang-su Song Chang-hwan Kim Outside Member, Audit Committee Member, Outside Director Candidate Member, Audit Committee Committees Within the Board of Directors directors Professor & Dean, Graduate School of Nominating Committee Member, Internal Transaction Committee Public Administration, Seoul National Advisory, Kim & Chang Director, Busan Regional Tax Office University (Previous) Category Members Role Activities Audit Committee Hwi-taek Shin, Audit accounting & Review of outside auditor’s accounting audit, consultation on nonChang-hwan Kim, finances, Evaluation of audited services, inspection of operation condition of the internal Junki Kim operation condition of accounting management system Transparency and Expertise in Board of Directors Selection the internal accounting management system Doosan Corp selects directors during shareholder meeting in accordance with relevant laws, articles of incorporation and regulations of the board of directors. We appoint inside directors with the Internal Transaction Daewon Seo, Deliberation and Doosan Tower transaction approval recommendation of the board, and outside directors with recommendations from the Outside Director Committee Chang-hwan Kim, approval of any internal Ickhyun Nam transactions based on Candidate Nominating Advisory Panel, composed of five outside personnel, and the Outside Director Fair Trade Laws Candidate Nominating Committee, composed of three outside directors. Doosan Corp enhances the board’s overall level of expertise by recommending candidates with expertise in different fields. Presently, Outside Director Hwi-taek Shin, Recommendation Recommendation of outside director candidates Candidate Nominating Gwang-su Son, of outside director the board holds expertise in different fields with three professors, one expert in administration and Committee Ickhyun Nam candidates diplomacy, one law professional and one tax professional. 18 19 DOOSAN CORPORATION CSR Report 2013 Overview · Developing People · Reliable Operating · Responsible Engagement · Appendix CSR Strategy CSR Committee Composition of the CSR Committee Under the CSR Goal, ‘Proud Global Doosan Corp established ‘Doosan Way’ in 2012 to make ‘Proud Global Doosan’ and it stands firmly on its Doosan Corp established a CSR Committee in December 2013 to reinforce the transparency and will to practice social responsible management. Furthermore, we established the corporate CSR strategy Doosan’, and our mission to responsibility of sustainability management. The CSR Committee meets twice a year for discussions to respond preemptively to the demands and evaluations about diverse, domestic and foreign social become a ‘2020 Global CSR Leading responsible management; the CSR strategy includes CSR goal, mission, 3 strategy directions, 7 CSR about sustainability management issues, and decides on the direction of operation. The CSR committee operates around the chairman, and consists of representatives from each organization and executives Company: Fortune World’s Most prioritized agendas and enablers. Doosan Corp practices CSR management based on its CSR strategy. in charge of six areas: human rights and labor, environment, customer and product management, risk For a more effective CSR management, Doosan Corp established a task force and built an operation Admired Company’, we carry out management, fair trade, and corporate community involvement. To strengthen the practicability of CSR system to conduct its strategic agendas in 2013. our CSR strategy and operate a CSR activities, the CSR committee operates cross-structurally; executives from each area build the CSR program, establish standards for the area they are in charge of, and share them with representatives Committee to realize our goal. from each organization who manage the organizational sustainability management issues and conduct Proud Global Doosan improvement agendas. Operation of the CSR Committee The Doosan Way Doosan Corp established a sustainability management system in March 2013 and builds an internal sustainability management operation system. CSR Committee delegated the authorities to CSR team as CSR Goal 2020, Global CSR Leading Company : Become one of the Fortune World's Most Admired Companies CSR executive office, which plans and manages all activities on sustainability management and reports on the operations. CSR Mission Supporting Responsible and Sustainable Growth During the CSR Committee held in December 2013, the committee discussed Doosan Corp’s sustainability management system and strategy direction, the external global evaluation response plan and expansion Growth of People Growth of Business of employee awareness of sustainability management. It conducted assessments on each organization based on the group protocol for sustainability management level assessment, and voluntarily established CSR Pillars I. Developing People II. Reliable Operation III. Responsible Engagement improvement plans based on the results. Every year, Doosan Corp proceeds to enhance the level of 3. Minimize environmental footprints sustainability management through this process. 1. Strengthen people development within through green management 6. Strengthen stakeholder participation the Group influence sphere CSR Priorities 4. Reinforce fair operation 7. Develop strategic community 2. Build Great Workplace with focus on Future Plans human respect 5. Improve product & service involvement & development accountability During the CSR committee planned for July 2014, the committee will conduct final approval on the publishing of the CSR Report through the materiality test and review of each issue. It will publicly Develop strong CSR governance Enabler announce Doosan Corp’s will for sustainability management through membership of UNGC and (Execution system and Employee's Commitment) active support for international initiatives. In late 2014, the committee plans to consider to expand our sustainability management system to our overseas business sites, and review CSR performance in this Demand of Society Global CSR Initiative : ISO 26000 / UN Global Compact / GRI year and direction of CSR operation in after year. Stakeholder's Interview Doosan has the most desirable system to deliver CSR based on good management. KAIST, College of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) should not only be implemented socially or environmentally but needs to Administration comprehensively consider requisites for the sustainability of a corporation. The role as a ‘Good Company’ that contributes to solving social problems by social contribution or society restoration is important; but beginning from Professor the interests and identification of the related responsible fields and the resulting risk factors is more important. This Ahn, Byunghoon is ‘Good Management’ that does what needs to be done first, which relates to a corporation’s risk management and value. ‘Good Management’ needs to come before ‘Good Company’. A corporation with a long-term goal should not avoid ‘responsibility’, but should sublimate it into opportunities and assets. Corporations cannot claim they are fulfilling their social responsibilities just by implementing social contribution activities. In this context, Doosan Corp has the sufficient conditions and foundations for CSR because they have been managing each business division with a long-range goal. Doosan Corp reflects its philosophy of ‘Contributing in People and in the Future’ sufficiently in its management, therefore is in good condition to realize CSR. Doosan Corp’s CSR performance will be more effective with the establishment of a long-range CSR roadmap pointing to the right direction. Doosan Corp’s efforts in selecting CSR related agendas and accumulating them in the management system and the related departments are very highly thought of. Doosan Corp needs to engage in efforts to increase stakeholder participation by institutionalizing the process of collecting stakeholder opinions and confirming positive and negative influences through a continuous mechanism. By going beyond social responsibility, Doosan Corp will achieve fundamental social value management that elevates corporate risk factors as corporate success factors. CSR Committee 20 21 DOOSAN CORPORATION CSR Report 2013 Overview · Developing People · Reliable Operating · Responsible Engagement · Appendix Risk Management Risk Management Approach EHS Risk Management To effectively respond to financial and non-financial risks that can happen during all management Environmental Risk Management processes, Doosan Corp manages core potential risks. Doosan Corp focuses risk management on Doosan Corp built and operates an EHS management system on the grounds that respect for human life financial risks such as market and credit risks, environmental and safety risks that can happen during and protection of the environment are responsibilities and core values for all of us, for our families, and the manufacturing processes, and fair trade and internal restriction risks from internal and external for our society. Doosan Corp, based the Doosan Credo and corporation EHS guideline, establishes and transactions. abides by its EHS policy. We abide by global standards on environmental and sustainable management, and put our best efforts to promote safety of our employees, regions and communities around all of Financial Risk Management our businesses. In order to minimize environmental impact and management risks and to continuously In order to create stable and continuous management performances under various financial risks, improve EHS, Doosan Corp conducts, analyzes, and manages EHS technology development and such as market, credit and liquidity risks, Doosan Corp focuses on improving financial structure and environmental impact evaluations; and monitors and reflects related regulations and policies on its enhancing efficiency of financial management. The treasury department performs most of the financial business to respond to political and economic risks such as domestic and foreign environmental risk management activities, such as identification, evaluation and hedging with the close cooperation regulations and pollution prevention. We acquired an ISO 14001, an environmental management system of the relevant departments. It also focuses on minimizing the effect of financial risk through regular certification at each plant, and maintain sustainable environmental improvements and environmentmonitoring. friendly management through PDCA (Plan-Do-Check-Action). Health and Safety Risk Management Doosan Corp, with increased numbers of business fields handling heavy objects, and internal and Financial Risk Management Process external interests in EHS, implements health and safety risk management to prevent accidents and Market Risk to minimize damage caused by accidents. To manage risks, Doosan Corp builds health and safety Credit Risk Liquidity Risk Foreign-exchange Risk Interest Rate Risk Price Risk management system and regularly inspects on-sites of operation to prediscover risk factors. We conduct Health and Safety education targeting all employees to instill safety awareness and to establish an autonomous Health and Safety system; and especially to prevent major accidents, we established and conducted a specialized education program in cooperation with an external agency. Doosan Corp Regular Measurement of Equity, | Customer Credit Management, establishes EHS management processes for our suppliers to prevent all EHS risks that can occur Foreign-Exchange Risk Management Loan Size/Structure Management, Separate Management of Major Cash Flow Planning, Policy, Use of Derivative Monitoring Interest Rate Trends Investments, Strengthening Approval Credit Enhancement of Financial Ensuring Sufficient Liquidity between the supplier selecting stages and the completion stages. Doosan Corp establishes an EWS Assets of Investments abiding culture through specification of the responsibilities and roles of suppliers that are subjects of managing, inspection of supplier’s EHS activities, and review of the propriety of the use of occupational health and safety expenses. Building an Early Warning System for Efficient Risk Management Fair Trade Risk Management Doosan Corp, in order to practice its business principles of fair and transparent management activities more Doosan Corp, to prevent risk elements and to respond promptly during unexpected situations in the working effectively, manages fair trade related violation risks. We conduct regular monitoring instances of violation, process, rolled out an Early Warning System (EWS) at Electro-Materials, Information and Communication (I&C) and conduct violation prevention education. In terms of education, we assist in employee understanding by and Administrative headquarters in February 2014. EWS is a risk prevention system that sends warnings of abnormality to the employee in charge when an abnormality occurs on items predefined, and therefore allows for conducting various programs including cyber (online), visits, and collective and special programs. early response. Doosan Corp will continue to improve the EWS to eliminate inefficiencies such as excess time and money that arise post-occurrence, and to prevent and manage risks. Internal Control Assessment System Doosan Corp, as the internal and external demands for reinforcement of internal account and internal EWS Frame work control increases, established and operates an internal control system to reinforce the transparency of information and to enhance public confidence. Doosan Corp, in its definition of control activities, include ElectroEWS Category Management Mailing Management internal control for internal accounting management policy, demanded by law, and management efficacy Materials · Add/Remove EWS Category · Mailing Category Management · Recipient Management EWS and compliance for managing risk factors; also it conducts evaluations on all departments, including · Data Extraction Function Information · Detailed Inquiry Per Category · Sent/Received Status Inquiry financial, sales, purchasing, production through the DICAS (Doosan Internal Control Assessment Mail System). After evaluation of each team, Doosan Corp inspects the internal control team’s execution, Information & EWS Server User Communication Records Management Dash Board and reports the evaluation to the audit committee and the board of directors after CFO/CEO review, in · Risk Status and Statistics Monitoring · Notified Records Management · Provide Reporting Confirmation / Response accordance with the law on internal accounting management policy and external audit. · Corrective Measures and · Confirmation / Response Performance Management · Management Headquarters Internal Control Assessment Process and Executive Authorization Structure Management Headquarters Test Request Test Test Review Request Retest DOOPIS ERP(SAP/Oracle) Doobuy AD Test Plan CFO/CEO Report/Approval (self-diagnosis) Rejection & Review Personnel Information, Accounting, Funding, Purchasing, Contract Integrated (Re-test Requested) Work Behavior Sales, Purchasing, Authorization Information Production, Assets Internal Control Assessment System Public External Auditor Audit Committee and Board Announcement Review of Directors Review 22 23 DOOSAN CORPORATION CSR Report 2013 Overview · Developing People · Reliable Operating · Responsible Engagement · Appendix Stakeholder Engagement and Division of Profits Identifying Material Issues Stakeholder Engagement Identifying Material Issues Doosan Corp defines stakeholders as groups who are directly and indirectly affected by Doosan Corp’s Doosan Corp conducted a materiality test to present major issues, in which stakeholders show high Evidence of ‘Relevance’ management activities. Shareholders, customers, partner companies, employees, local community and level of concern, in the CSR report, selecting the reported subjects in accordance to the protocol the government are the Doosan Corp’s stakeholder groups. We operate communication channels to recommended by the GRI. The materiality test considers the ‘Relevance’ in terms of Doosan Corp’s To identify ‘Relevance’ in terms of the CSR and our corporate business, Doosan Corp identified and evaluated its corporate growth strategy, reflect opinions from our diverse stakeholders on our management activities. The diagram below explains business and CSR, and the ‘Impact’ it has on major stakeholders. We identified 36 subject pools CSR strategy, media analysis, and issues in each industry. The results are as follows. Doosan Corp’s stakeholder communication channels in detail. Doosan Corp is in the process of preparing considering global guidelines, including the GRI G4, benchmarking, and issues of each industry; and a total management system to manage all stakeholder participation in each business division. We will considered the corporation’s business context and the characteristics of the countries included in substantially strengthen our CSR management through active communication with stakeholders and the report scope per subject. We benchmarked leading companies of each industry, their corporate Relevance of Vision and CSR Strategy Identify Issues of Allied Industries release these stakeholder participations through the CSR report every year. vision and CSR strategy, and analyzed and evaluated CSR global standards and media to measure the Doosan Corp analyzed various documents including Doosan’s growth vision and CSR We identified CSR trends and issues of each industry by analyzing CSR content (report relevance; and also collected stakeholder survey and opinions to measure the impact on stakeholders. strategy, and as a result, we confirmed cultivation of talent, corporate community and strategy) of leading companies, and as a result, we identified the following Involvement that considers the needs of the local community, health and safety industry specific issues as major issues in the industry: responsible SCM, health and The process of the materiality test is as follows, and we plan to utilize the selected core issues to identify Stakeholder Participation activities, and quality innovation as major issues in the CSR context. It selected safety, environmentally friendly technology and solution, and product responsibility. our corporation’s sustainability management status and draw out improvements needed in the future. long-range growth strategies including strengthening of the competitiveness of all Stakeholders Communication Channels Major Expectations and Demands Subject of Analysis: 14 Corporations including 3M, SIEMENS, Samsung Electric, business divisions including R&D, and the establishment of One Doosan Corp. IBM, HP, Caterpillar Shareholder Meeting, IR sessions, Participation in decision-making through shareholder meetings, healthy Investigated contents: medium and long range strategy, corporate CSR strategy, Shareholders Public Announcements, Webpage corporate governance sustainability management report of all affiliates, etc. VOC, Call Center, Customer Strengthening of customer complaint response and satisfaction activities Customers Satisfaction evaluation, Strengthening of product quality and responsibility Partnership Company Corporate Partnership Committee, Support to strengthen supplier(cooperative firms) competitiveness and competency Evidence of ‘Relevance’ Global standard and guideline analysis Media Analysis (cooperative firms) Technical Exchange Meeting, Hot Line Expansion of supplier(cooperative firms) communication and information sharing Evaluation of We identified recent CSR trends and issues by analyzing sustainability We identified Doosan Corp’s major CSR Issues shown through the media; as a Form Issue Pool Important Issues Selection of Core Issues Enhancement of Work satisfaction & welfare, Vitalization of Internal management and global standards, and determined that the following contents result, we identified issues about economic performance creation through business Employee Survey, Intranet, Corporate Employee Communication are emphasized: identification of the expanded impacts extended across supply restructuring and corporate community involvement activities in local communities. magazine, Labor-Management Council Evidence of ‘Relevance’ Establishment of mutual labor-management relationship chains and value chains, civil and labor rights, and compensation of executives · Global Standard and Guideline Analysis Period of Analysis: January 1 2013 ~ December 31 2013 (Total of 12 months) Corporate Community Involvement Results from Competitor, Standard, and boards of directors. Socially Responsible activities considering the needs of the local community, Medium: 20 high ranked daily newspapers in 2013 Local Community · Internal Document Analysis Media and Document analysis · Identify general and core issues and Activities stimulation of local community economy Subject of Analysis: GRI G4, DJSI, ISO26000, UNGC · Global Benchmarking create report Participate in National Strategic Obey regulations and restrictions, private and public cooperative partnership Government · Media Research Programa Evidence of ‘Impact’ Identify 9 Core Issues Identify 36 Subject Pools Direct Research of Stakeholders (Survey/Employee Interview) Division of Economic Performance Doosan fairly shares the values created through business operations with internal and external stakeholders. Materiality Assessment Results Materiality Assessment Results The value returned to our stakeholders including suppliers, academies, employees, the government and We selected a total of 9 issues, in consideration of stakeholders’ influence and business and CSR relevance, and prioritized reporting on local communities was KRW 3.2542 trillion in 2013, 23% higher than 2012. these issues. We reported selected core issues on separate pages, and other important issues that a corporation needs to handle were also Evidence of ‘Impact’ taken into account. Doosan Corp conducted an online survey to identify stakeholder impact. Doosan corp composed the survey of questions evaluating Unit: 100 million KRW stakeholder’s interests and materiality on the 6 areas of CSR, employee, partner company(cooperative firm), product assurance, Fairness and transparency Prevention of unfair competition Core Issues 2013 Division of economic performance High in the selection of partners/ Employee communication Management of environmental pollutants Governance Integrity local community, and environment; and questions asking for other opinions. Various stakeholders including employees, partner suppliers/cooperative firms Corporate Community Involvement considering the needs of the community companies(cooperative firms), customers, local community, and CSR expert groups participated in the survey. Doosan Corp uses the results Reduction of environmental Quality innovation Product safety Interest Dividend impact at business sites Corporate Community Involvement Strategy and Policy Investor Shareholder of the materiality test in the CSR report, and also plans to use them to identify business status and improvements to focus on. Establishment and Shared Growth Policy Strategic Implementation of Development of Environmentally Friendly Products (R&D) 375 743 Corporate Environmental Community Management System Promotion of health and safety Per Business Site Involvement Communications Partner Company Results of Stakeholder Survey Local resident health Customers Sales(dividend profit excluded, based on separate financial statement) Partner companies (cooperative firms) Purchasing cost Establishment of CSR Environmentally friendly CS Customer Service through Ethical Management General issues Impact Internal and external stakeholders responded that Doosan Corp needs to consider Average response on the issues Doosan Corp needs to consider to become a Resource Cycling Customer Communication Structure and Strategy Product Development Employee Empowerment and Recycling 15,498 12,794 its customers, namely product assurance, foremost to become a sustainable sustainable corporation, in the order of importance Partner Company Support Climate Change Response corporation. They also evaluated that CSR in general, and activities around partner Stakeholder Participation Customer 4.39 Local Community Exploitation of New Markets, companies(cooperative firms) are also important areas to become a lasting Environmental Fair Distribution of Economic Performance Including Overseas Market corporation. CSR in general 4.33 improvement Manufacturing Efficiency and Production Cost Competitiveness Employees Employee wages, retirement payment, welfare expenses Government Public imposts and corporate tax based on Financial Statement In detail, Doosan Corp identified ‘fairness and transparency in the selection of (based on business report) partner companies(cooperative firms)’, ‘maximizing customer value through quality Partner Companies (cooperative firms) 4.24 Green Purchasing Enhancement of Employee Satisfaction Potential issues 2,828 224 Expansion of CSR within Employee 4.19 Supply Chain innovation’, ‘securing product safety’ as the most important issues; and plans to Release Product Information consider them above all in implementing future CSR activities. Environment 4.13 Local Community 3.91 Establishment and Operation of Green Distribution System Local Community Donation and corporate community involvement expenses Total Total Survey Period: January 21 2014~January 27 2014 / Survey Method: Online Survey 32,542 0 1 2 3 4 5 Global Corporate Community Involvement 80 Low Relevance High 24 25 26 DOOSAN CORPORATION CSR Report 2013 Internal and External Boundaries and Effects of Issues Doosan Corp focuses its CSR report on the core issues and general issues identified from the materiality test. We define each issue based on internal and external boundaries and manage its impacts, and manage issues in affiliation with our corporate CSR strategy. Developing People Developing ● Direct Effect Reliable Operating Core Issues ● Indirect Eddict Responsible Engagement Doosan Corp’s internal, External influences 전략 Page Aspect 우선순위 과제 Partner Local Shareholders 방향성 Customers Employees Community and People Companies Investors 윤리 Establishment of a Humanity Promotion Health and 경영 Safety in Each Facility 38, 39 ● ● ● Occupational Safety and Health Respect Oriented GWP ● 윤리 Development of Environmentally Friendly Products (R&D) 경영 44, 45 ● ● ● Products and Services Minimizing environmental impact 윤리 through green management ■ Management of environmental 경영 pollutants 49 ● ● ● Water, Wastewater and Waste 윤리 Prevention of unfair competition 경영 56 ● ● Regulation of Competition 윤리 Reinforcement of Fair Operations ■ Shared Growth Policy 경영 53 ● 윤리 Customer health and safety , Strengthening product and service Securing Product Safety 경영 62 ● ● labeling of Product and service responsibility ■ Corporate Community 윤리 Involvement Strategy 67 ● and Policy 경영 Local Community Participation and Development of ▲ “Faith in People” is the origin of Corporate Community 윤리 Involvement Considering Strategic community 67, 69 ● 경영 contribution to society the needs of the community competitiveness that has led Doosan 윤리 Healthy Governance 경영 18, 19 ● ● Strengthening stakeholder Participation ▲ Corporation for the past 100 years and that will continue Doosan Corp’s sustainable General issues 윤리 Talent acquisition and employee 31 ● ● Training and Education Strengthening of human resources ● success for another 100 years or more. empowerment 경영 development within the corporation’s influence 윤리 Establishment of a Human Respect Strengthening of employee 경영 communication 36 ● Labor practice grievance system Oriented GWP ● 윤리 Climate Change Response 경영 46, 47 ● ● ● Energy, emissions Minimizing environmental impact 윤리 through green management ■ Resource cycling and경영 recycling 48 ● ● Water, Wastewater and Waste 윤리 Fairness and transparency in the selection of partner companies 경영 55 ● ● Anti-corruption 윤리 Partner companies Support 경영 53, 54 ● Reinforcement of Fair Operations ■ 윤리 Expansion of ethical 경영 management activities 57 ● ● Anti-corruption Maximizing customer 윤리value through quality and innovation 경영 61 ● ● 윤리 customer Customer Service through Marketing Communications and Strengthening product and service communication 경영 63 ● Customer Privacy responsibility ■ 윤리 Manufacturing efficiency 경영 59 ● ● 윤리 Participation and Development of Local resident health경영 50, 51 ● Local Community Strategic community ▲ 윤리 Stakeholder Participation 경영 24 ● ● ● ● ● Strengthening of employee 윤리 communication ▲ Distribution of economic 경영performance 24 ● ● ● ● ● Economic performance 27 DOOSAN CORPORATION CSR Report 2013 Overview · Developing People · Reliable Operating · Responsible Engagement · Appendix Strengthening the Cultivation of Talents within the Corporation’s Area of Influence Our Business & Social Context Our Efforts Reinforcement in the Cultivation of Talent Due to the continuing global economic crisis and the rapidly changing Doosan Corporation provides specialized educational programs for Principles for the Cultivation of Talented People business environment, corporations engage in efforts to find new each occupational group and job. Doosan Corporation prioritize all investments in cultivating talent because of the belief that a sustainable technologies and business strategies. The success or failure of these performance is only achievable through ‘people’. This applies both to the corporation and the individual. ● Leadership Program efforts is determined by the ‘talented people’ a corporation retains. Individuals continuously worry and strive for their self-development and the corporation provides various ● Professional Program Therefore, cultivating talent is an issue as important as discovering opportunities to support individual growth in the business on-site. ● Advanced Special Programs talent. Global corporations employ specialized strategies by proposing a Functional Competency System and Learning Road Map talent cultivation vision promoting the mutual growth of the organization and the individual. In order to strengthen fundamental competitiveness and to achieve advancement and scientification of task, an operation establishing FC(Functional Competency) Modeling is in progress across overall Doosan Corp. Doosan Corp completed the modeling of R&D and production quality category; and the corporation established the Learning Program Map(LRM), and it further develops and operates an internal program. The LRM includes all educational and learning solutions, including on the job training Our Approach Future Action (OJT), internal and external group training and, online programs, which are by level of competency. In 2014, we finished the FC modeling for all functional groups, are in process of developing LRM in order, Doosan Corporation supports the talents so they can grow through Doosan Corporation plans to not only reinforce the employee education and further plan to continuously operate internal group training with internal lecturers. performance from the selection process and realize self development system, but also expand the educational boundaries to Doosan Corp’s through their tasks. The corporation includes this process in the cultivation area of influence, including its suppliers. of talents, and it prioritizes all investment in cultivating a talent. Doosan Corporation Education Organization Corporation Conducted Doosan Corporation Conducted Executive Team Leader Team Manager Team Member ● Establishment of performance information for employee competency ● Cultivation of all members to become ‘Doosan People’ through sharing of Doosan Way Online Programs development values and culture Orientation Program New Executive Course New Team Leader Course New Manager Course New Assistant Manager Course ● Education plan, development, operation, and monitoring for partner External Recruit Course Experienced Recruit Course New Recruit Course ● Cultivation of professionals to strengthen the conduct of business company‘s task competence reinforcement Exec. Insight Program Team Leader Insight Program Manager Insight Program Junior Insight Program ● Cultivation of future generation leaders who will lead change and innovation ● Sharing Best Practice of people cultivation and assessment of competency Executive Coaching Coaching Sharing Workshop I ● Cultivation of talents who will pay a leading role in global business improvement Anchor Program Coaching Sharing Workshop II Management Leadership Program I Management Leadership Program II STEPS Exec. STEPS STEPS Junior Building BD1 Things Seen When Paid Attention Doosan Leadership College D.Talent BD2 Master Coach School IH1 How to Cheer Up Inhwa IH2 A-Team Building OP1 Active Communication Openness Buildup OP2 Reporting A to Z Program IV1 SMART Goal Setting Innovation IV2 Breakthrough Stakeholder's Interview EX1 Work Smarter Execution EX2 Project Management Doosan Corporation actively supports ‘growth through work’ through job competency PF1 Strategic Decision Making Priority Focus and systemized evaluation based on the ‘Doosan Way’. PF2 Business Simulation Winning Team Workshop Doosan Corporation, to enhance the competence of its employees, realizes ‘growth through work’ by operating a range Doosan Winning Doogather-Team of educational programs and development plans (DP). Reviewing how education helps actual work performance and HRD Personnel Winning Team Program Winning Doogather-Jr. how it changes the employees is important; therefore, we constantly conduct evaluation and feedback on leaders. This Diverse Management Special Lecture Gender Partnership Workshop process is now Doosan Corp’s unique culture to realize its educational philosophy of ‘Growth through Work‘ through Director Lee Seungwon Women’s Network Committee job competence education and a systematic evaluation system based on the ‘Doosan Way‘. Therefore, Doosan Corp promoted a foundation of job competence system and running road map, and it expects that employees‘ satisfaction Executive Team Leader Team Manager Team Member with education will increase. We received feedback that ‘job training directly helps work performance‘ and opinions CFO School Doosan Professional College regarding its intensive courses. We also provide Junior MBA programs for engineering major personnel for them HR School Expert Program to become managers. Doosan Corp conducts this program utilizing a showcase method in which employees share Purchasing School their individual visions; and as the program continues, more employees participate in it. In 2014, Doosan Corp plans to Functional Specialty Education cultivate talent systematically and achieve leader-oriented on-site operations by expanding the program to its employees Faculty Academy Faculty Program in China. We also plan to establish and operate various study clubs to invigorate our internal educational program. Change Champion In addition, we plan to adopt a ‘Running Credit’ system throughout Doosan Corp to increase employees’ voluntary Expat. Leadership Expat. Candidate Program Global Program participation rate in education and to create an atmosphere of concentrating on self-development. Doosan Corp, based Expatiate Program on a solid educational system, plans to actively support its employees to become ‘Doosan People’ who achieve ‘growth Core Talent Program Junior MBA through work’. Ethical Management Education Ethical Management Education Production Leadership Training I New Recruit OT Program Technical Technical Production Leadership Training II Grievance Counseling 30 31 DOOSAN CORPORATION CSR Report 2013 Overview · Developing People · Reliable Operating · Responsible Engagement · Appendix Leadership Program Professional Program Education Performance(2013) Coaching Sharing Workshop Jr. MBA To practice the ‘Doosan Way’, Doosan Corporation conducts Coaching Sharing Workshops for team Total Education Cost Doosan Corp cultivates next generation professional leaders by establishing an MBA program for junior leader-level employees. During our weekly meetings, we improve coaching skills by sharing coaching Unit: 1 million KRW level employees. The purpose of our education is to help such employees acquire comprehensive and cases and knowhow gained from experience in the on-site. In addition to considering the cultivation of integrative views and business insight cultivation based on the understanding of basic managerial their team members during the process, team leaders can use this opportunity for self-examination and 11,791 knowledge. We also attempt to lead the trainees toward a more self-driven learning atmosphere as the as a place for healing and refreshment. trainees are elected through voluntary participation and selection by HR and the directors’ committee. Total Education Time Unit: Hours The program runs with an online pre-study once a month (2 days) and with an offline study of Blended Management Leadership Learning for 7 months, which helps Doosan People to understand in depth about their corporation’s The main purpose of the ‘Influence’ process of the management leadership program is to establish 214,637 structure and essential strategy. a collaborative relationship in the team by passing on individual influence and persuasive skills to the others. The ‘Coaching’ process is a process to demonstrate coaching skills according to trainees’ Education Cost Per Person characteristics and circumstances through the understanding of characteristics and roles of coaching, Unit: 1 million KRW Target Oriented Special Programs which improves the team leader’s leadership competency. Reinforcement of Technical Field Leadership STEPSTM 2.9 Doosan Corp established a TF (Task Force) for 7 business operations as technical employees’ HR Doosan Corp cultivates different problem-solving and strategic intellectual competencies for each Education Time Per Person system improvement was selected as the 11th task of the Doosan Way along with the 2012 Doosan position through STEPS (Strategic Thinking Enhancement through Problem Solving) training, the Unit: Hours Way announcement. Therefore, we set improvement plans for overall HR and operated 5 sessions (97 corporation’s unique problem-solving procedure. participants) of on-site manager leadership enhancement and new recruit training. As a result, our Executive Coaching 67.1 leadership training for technical employees was successful, and we could attain self-esteem as pround Doosan People through a module that helps understand the concept of the right people for Doosan Executive Coaching is a training program aimed at strengthening leadership competency targeting *Performance applicable to only full-time and office Corp. In particular, we could create an awareness and a consensus among leaders‘ roles from field new executives. Doosan Corp practices the program so that a new executive learns his or her new employees directors who serve as the spreaders of the Doosan Way. In 2014, we plan to focus on strengthening task role, paradigm, and recognition change through one-on-one coaching sessions, and also to increase adaptation skill by additionally establishing and providing stress counseling. collaboration and organizational synergy among executives by providing a customized individual change process along with group coaching. Executive Coaching is also a process for internalizing the coaching Reinforcement of Global Recruitment Competency of leaders by setting corporate common goals and individual goals. It is held 10 times (biweekly) over 4 Doosan Corp’s Chinese branch requires task competency development of its employees for its months. operational normalization and global competetiveness establishment. So, from the end of 2012 to the beginning of 2013, we prepared a training system for Changshu and Jiangyin branches in China, and carried out training for HR personnel. In 2013, Doosan Corp focused on intensifying training performance and established a cooperative system between each business operation of Korea HQ and Chinese branches. We efficiently identified the situation and issues in China and agreed to supporting requirements, and we provided training focusing on task, duty, and legal contents. In 2014, we plan to Learning Coaching Skills through ‘Consensus’ and ‘Healing’ focus on training local instructors to maximize the effects of our education, and also on improving local Doosan Corporation conducts Coaching Sharing Workshop (CSW) to enhance guidelines and contents. Participants unanimously commented that, “It was directors‘ competence in association with a return plan for dispatched employees. team leaders’ coaching skills and to adopt a coaching culture. Six team a great opportunity to talk about coaching skills that I felt I lacked or were leaders from each business present their goals and share cases from the oninsufficient”, and “It was an opportunity to learn different skills from other site as a group; they then attempt to learn each other’s knowhow to improve team leaders and I would recommend to others as well.” They also added, “It their coaching skills. The most important characteristic of the CSW is that seems like every team leader shares the same concerns”, and that “Other each member takes turn as a leader despite its form of group coaching. team leaders’ efforts in practicing the Doosan Way was a huge motivation for The trainees of the CSW learn their necessary competence for expanded me.” Doosan Corp will continue supporting the competency cultivation of Dialogue Based Communication after practicing the Doosan Way as the CSW leader-level employees in order to drive them to become leaders and to adopt was developed so that anyone can perform it based on carefully composed the Doosan Way. Coaching Sharing Workshop Jr. MBA 32 33 DOOSAN CORPORATION CSR Report 2013 Overview · Developing People · Reliable Operating · Responsible Engagement · Appendix Establishment of Human Respect Oriented GWP Our Business & Social Context Our Efforts ‘Doosan Way’ Realization Activities to Work Wisely Creating an environment in which employees can perform to the best of Doosan Corporation, in addition to activities based on its management Determination of the Improvement Direction through Organization Diagnosis their ability is as important as setting a strategy for talents focused on philosophy, the ‘Doosan Way’, strives to create an organization in which To consider the needs and to identify the ways the organization can support the realization of the Doosan securing and cultivating those talents. We acknowledge that vitalizing people are made happier by focusing on improving organizational Way, Doosan Corp annually conducts the Doosan Way Survey targeting all employees. By deriving communications for talents to develop their ability and expanding the culture, fostering a happy workplace, and ensuring a healthy and safe improvement plans in which the members, who are the subject of change, participate to change the systematic basis are the important factors; therefore, we not only provide environment. improvement areas identified by the survey, everyone engages in efforts to build a more progressive enhancement on corporate competitiveness, but also perform risk organization. management to prevent exposure of our talents. Furthermore, balance ● The ‘Doosan Way’ realization activities between work and life, family friendly management, and a female ● Improvement of organizational culture Advanced Processes and Systems to Strengthen Fundamental Competitiveness friendly working environment are emerging social issues in Korea, and ● Pleasant workplace Through the Doosan Way Survey, Doosan Corp identified that achieving smooth communication through external pressures related to these issues are also increasing. ● Creation of a healthy and safe workplace advancement and scientification of the work process is the most important factor in strengthening fundamental competitiveness. By conducting the most effective communication, Doosan Corp concentrates on enhancing work efficiency and competitiveness, and proceeds to aim for the same goal Our Approach Future Action with all members. ‘Inhwa’, a meaningful teamwork based on confidence and warmth, is Doosan Corporation, to improve employees’ quality of life, plans to develop Doosan Corporation’s strongest unique competitiveness and Doosan Corp’s and operate a two-way feedback system. face, which also allows Doosan Corp to create pleasant and safe workplaces. During the monthly-held Doosan Way Through a problem solving guide that We introduce any improvment required Doosan Time, all members of the corporation WHY addresses WHY, HOW, and WHAT, we Doosan matters from Doosan Way Time to the ● Advanced and scientific ways of work, and intensification of fundamental ● Establishment of a feedback collecting channel to improve employees’ quality of life. Way Time participate, spending their time to Campaign assist members to understand effective Way Council Doosan Way Council, and contribute to competitiveness for the realization of the ‘Doosan Way’ understand and systemize the Doosan problem solving methods. development of task efficiency as an ● Development, utilization, and monitoring of a mapping system measuring ● Open communication and realization of ‘Inhwa’. Way within their own department. issue solving principal through open quality of life communication. ● In addition to a health and safety management system, fulfillment of social ● In addition to the operation of a health and safety leadership program for responsibilities through improvement activities, disaster prevention activities, management level, reinforcement of overseas company’s health and safety law observance and public health and safety management advanced infrastructure (procedure establishment and IT system advancement) Discuss the essential meaning and Discuss how a work in progress (As-is) Discuss detailed action plans that an Stakeholder's Interview present the importance of the subject and the benefits it provides to us based on How can be transformed (Switch based on Credo) into a structure of the Doosan Way individual, team, or organization can realize to transform them into a proactive WHY WHAT (A->S->P) Doosan Corporation’s Information & Communications (I&C) proceeds to strengthen organizational critical thinking, (Proactive process). process. competency through establishment of a self-motivated employees’ learning culture. Under the purpose of balanced settlement of ‘growth through work’ and ‘growth through learning’ rooted in the ‘Doosan Way’, Doosan I&C forms a self-driven learning culture by operating a Community of Practice (CoP). CoP is an active learning ground where employees create every learning process, from subject selection to operation; I&C operates Leadership Taking Initiative to Form Doosan Way Realization Consensus a total of 27 CoPs (as of 2013) covering subjects from licensing and certification, foreign languages and reading, to I&C HR Team Each year, Doosan Corp’s chairman and CEOs in and out of the country gather in a group in order to hold professional technical areas; and one-third of the employees, participate in the study group with great interest. I&C Kim Jihee conducts various activities such as sharing educational information and discovering cases of success on the company Doosan Way Day. The corporate chairman and CEOs elect a business operation, a team, and a member board in order to maintain and develop the study culture, along with fulfilling the desires of employees. who are exemplary for the Doosan Way, and reward them with compensation and encouragement. In Furthermore, the CoP provides a ground for sharing knowledge related to technology, trend, and work experiences order for the leaders to have time for discussion on their duty to perform the Doosan Way, we plan to among members with their own goals and sense of responsibility; employees’ development of individual competency continue to hold Doosan Way Day. through CoP extends to organizational competency, thereby enabling effective resolution of task issues. For instance, the SAP intensification and improvement CoP solved an SAP joint module connection issue and was selected as an excellent case of the Doosan Way. In addition, in the fast changing IT field, Doosan Corp’s I&C is in progress of Changing the Ways of Working through Smart Office expanding its learning culture to various stakeholders including clients and partner companies. As a result, I&C’s efforts to enhance mutual professionalism and fellowship through a process of project precedents research by way of Since 2013, Doosan Corporation has been conducting the ‘Smart Office’ Smart Office Prosecution Roadmap a learning group is an exemplary model. Doosan Corp‘s I&C, to establish a self-driven learning culture, will continue program to pioneer in changing the way of working. Smart Office eliminates or to achieve strategic performance with continuous effort and support, and it anticipates that this will further become a ‘2013~‘2014 ‘2015 ‘2016~ improves on any unnecessary and inefficient processes, and provides a working ground for sharing knowledge with small-medium companies and local society. In 2014, Doosan Corp’s I&C plans to Establishing Prosecution Visualize Voluntary Change environment helping concentration on more valuable work, strengthening System / Internalize Performance Management Activities conduct the following three main activities: creating strategic CoP, vitalizing workplace learning, and creating liaison individual competitiveness and inspiring advanced/scientific systems. We are in with company seminars. I&C plans to categorize the goals of the CoP into ‘basic sharing knowledge’, ‘intensive Spread and expand activity Expand positive Settlement of voluntary the process of building up a Smart Office execution system and spreading a Smart solving issues’, and ‘professional solving problems’ based on the organization’s strategic relevance, it will assign methodology awareness through participation Office program to each subsidiary company, in stages. To establish Smart Office successful experiences internal experts or the leader of the department as sponsors, and enhance the problem solving competency of its ·Understand the purpose of the ·Routinize smart office activities as a sustainable office employee change management program we focus on smart office ·Finding and sharing successful employees by assigning them as facilitators. Furthermore, Doosan Corp‘s I&C, in order to provide its employees with ·Implementation of activity and case studies internalizing this process into the organization. maintenance of management an environment to become field-centric talents, will expand support for the establishment of field learning activities. system 34 35 DOOSAN CORPORATION CSR Report 2013 Overview · Developing People · Reliable Operating · Responsible Engagement · Appendix Improving Organization Culture Happy Workplace Activities for Communication, Winning Doogather Diverse Welfare System To improve communication culture, Doosan Corp conducts ‘Winning Doogather Team’ workshops for Doosan Corporation operates various welfare policies to improve the work efficiency of its employees teams with the most frequent communications and Winning Doogather Junior workshops to encourage by maintaining a work and life balance. Based on each business operation’s characteristics, Doosan the active voice of ‘juniors’ who are the main target of cultivation and to improve the organization’s Corp operates a range of programs including summer resorts for families, flexible commuting, cultural satisfaction. The Winning Doogather Team workshop provides a ground for honest communication and performances, and luncheon for the parents of new recruits. basic training on communication through regular workshops. The Winning Doogather Junior workshop Details Category provides an opportunity to communicate freely through a junior-only meeting, and it helps them to find Summer vacations (vacation cost support), year-end vacations, ‘refresh’ vacations, provision of membership condominium, club activities, backpacking overseas, the meaning of their duty and to enhance competency through sharing knowhow. Besides the Winning Leisure Life Support anniversary gifts, birthday parties Doogather Workshops, Doosan Corp also operates new recruit meetings led by the CEO and various Maternity·Childcare Support Operation of child daycare center/ women’s lounge, provision of scholarship and childbirth gifts communication programs led by leaders of business operations. Financial aid on housing allowance and lease fee for non-homeowners and singles, housing expenses for moves to a different region, provision of dormitory, and Housing·Life Stability Support support on family events (mutual aid for funerals, congratulations and condolences, event leaves) Forming Consensus with the Women Leadership, W Project Medical Healthcare Support Medical expenses, health examination, group accident insurance, flu shots, fitness center operation and support Doosan Corporation created a strong foundation for growth of corporate communication by analyzing Provision of reward for long service, holiday gifts (New Year, Thanksgiving, Establishment Day, Labor Day), uniforms, children reference books, transportation Etc. the factors that hold back female employment and growth and by identifying solutions through the W expenses and commuter bus Project since 2013. In 2014, Doosan Corp plans to systematically operate workshops in order to create an organization growing together by sharing differences in gender through communication, and also Activities for the Happiness for All: the Corporation and the Family to develop a learning community that cultivates leadership competency to support growth of its female Family Friendly Program workforce and builds solidarity for mutual exchanges. To enhance employees’ pride in their job, and to expand cultural experiences, Doosan Corp invites their families to concerts at the beginning of every year; further, it also plans for families to visit the corporation and participate Sharing Labor Management Culture in diverse events on Children’s Day. Electro-Materials, Industrial Vehicle, and Glonet set a specific day as ‘Family Doosan Corp engages in efforts to establish a more stable labor-management culture through open Day’ to encourage employees to enjoy their individual activities after leaving the office early, and they also communication between the two. Based on trust and respect between the labor and management, promote employees’ health by holding a ‘Healthy Drinking 119 Campaign’ and operating a fitness club. Doosan Corp proceeds to share and negotiate on major issues by collecting employees’ opinions through various communication channels such as the Labor-Management Council and the Labor-Management On-site Council. The corporation, labor-management on-site management council, and labor unions plan and operate jointly labor-management cohesive events, community services, and new recruit events to vitalize communication between the corporation and employees. Labor-Management Communication Channel Category Item Details Labor-Management Labor-Management Council · Comprises equal numbers (minimum of 3 and maximum of 10 from each) of labor and management, and held quarterly Communication Channel · Discusses management performance and business plans, productivity improvement and distribution of performance, manpower management plans, improvement in employees‘ welfare and working environment, and changes in wages and work conditions complying with law amendments. 2013 Children’s Day Festival Hanmaeum Family Sports Program Labor-Management On-site · Directors of production and all executives of labor union participate and operate frequently Council Maternal Instinct Protection System · Discuss improving the working environment and plans to solve issues, and inspect issues during the regular meetings of the Labor-Management Council Doosan Corporation deploys various maternal instinct protection programs to help solve the low birthrate Returning to work rate after issue and to promote harmonious coexistence of home and work. Doosan Corp operates maternity maternal leave (2013) Management Information Management Briefing Sessions · Conducts every quarter targeting all employees Sharing Channel and childcare support systems for its female employees, and operates a childcare center and women’s · Shares management environment, business performance and long-range strategies lounge at each work site so that female employees can anticipate a long-term corporate life. Retirement Support 90% Doosan Corporation operates a retirement pension plan for a stable post-retirement for employees. It also operates a long-term savings system as a fail-safe mechanism to guarantee a secure postretirement by providing savings bonuses monthly. Doosan Corp also runs a rehiring system of retirees Let’s Learn Together! An Educational Organization Growing Together based on their duties, to prevent the experience of severance and to promote the passing down of To establish a self-driven learning culture, Doosan Corporation Information & Corp promotes events that officially encourage and recognize excellent CoPs. knowhow. Communications (I&C) operates a CoP (Community of Practice), an employee A total of 27 CoPs were conducted in 2013 and had a high attendance rate, with study group. Through the CoP, employees, regardless of senior-junior relationship, almost everyone participating in at least one CoP. I&C, to make CoP grounds for share knowledge, experience and opinions, and are thus motivated to grow and the ‘Doosan Way’ talents that practice ‘cultivating people, open communication, Improvements in Employee Satisfaction through Employment Stability develop greater trust and confidence in each other. Employees freely suggest and tenacity and drive’, plans to continue the CoP more systematically. Doosan Corporation, for the sake of employment stability, engages in efforts plans to increase the retirement age to 60, even before the implementation of law CoP subjects and recruit participants, and plan and conduct activities around to decrease its temporary workforce, and has gradually been switching the amendment to prohibit discrimination based on age and to expand senior citizen its members. Furthermore, I&C establishes a learning atmosphere across the temporary workforce to a regular one since 2013. Also from 2014, Doosan Corp employment. organization by sharing good CoP activity knowhow and contents, and Doosan 36 37 DOOSAN CORPORATION CSR Report 2013 Overview · Developing People · Reliable Operating · Responsible Engagement · Appendix Making a Safe and Healthy Workplace Health and Safety Principles Health Promotion Activities for Employee Doosan Corporation reinforces activities aimed at improving health and safety risk elements at worksites Doosan Corporation encourages employee participation in the health promotion programs. We not only and preventing major accidents. Doosan Corp, with its Health and Safety management system, tries to encourage our employees to improve their lifestyles with such programs as ‘quit smoking funds’, and improve employees’ and stakeholders’ health and quality of life by preventing accidents, supporting both ‘obesity escape’, but also encourage them to develop their health through “healthy exercise”, “the health internal and external partners, and creating a safe and accident-free work environment. experience center”, and “the labor and management supervised health improvement program”. We also support strengthening post management of high-risk groups, health check-ups and physical therapy Health and Safety System programs to prevent cardiovascular diseases and muscular-skeletal disorders for the on-site workers. Doosan Corporation builds and operates a Health and Safety system centered on the three agendas of ‘Cultivation of people’, ‘Fundamental competitiveness’ and ‘Advanced processes and systems’. We Three Prosecuted Agendas educate and train all of our staff and executives periodically so all abide by the laws and by its health 01 and safety management system. In the case of Electro-Materials, we reinforce the competency of onManagement EHS Leadership · Semiannually site managers through cross-checking between business fields. We are also increase health and Reinforcement · Special EHS lectures and speeches for executives and team leaders in EHS related operations Cultivation of People safety awareness of employees and partner companies by training them for emergency response with Inspire EHSAwareness of · Semiannually ● Management EHS Leadership Reinforcement Staffs & Executive, Partner · EHS Realization activities with employees, their families and partner companies professional facilities and equipment. In addition, we reinforce fundamental competitiveness by sharing companies · Host golden bell quiz event and competitions for EHS posters, slogans and UCC successful case studies and amending health and safety work processes. Doosan Corp’s entire business ● Inspiring EHS Awareness of Staff & Executive, Strengthening of EHS working· Monthly fields throughout the nation such as the Electro-Materials plants in Jeungpyeong, Gimcheon, and Iksan Partner Companies level staff and on-site director · Strengthening of competency through cross-checking between plants for on-site managers competence by cross-checking · touring of manufacturing businesses, cross-checking health and safety and hygine, announcement of have set up an advanced system with certification of a Health and Safety management system (KOSHA/ ● Strengthening of EHS working-level staff and on-site plants improvement performance OHSAS18001) manager’s competency by cross-checking plants Reinforcement of office-worker · Semiannually ● Strengthening of emergency response competence competency through Fire · Under the motto, ‘Prevention is the best countermeasure to fire’, reinforce firefighting competency by Health and Safety Committee through fire fighting and first aid training Fighting Training conducting firefighting training at Seoul Firefighting School Doosan Corporation holds health and safety committee meetings 4 times a year, the membership · Use of firefighting facilities, CPR, and training escape using safety line, etc. consisting of a 50:50 ratio of labor and management representatives. Through this committee, members ● Management of total personal competence Management of total personal · Yearly share health and safety issues arising on and off the business fields and collect opinions and suggestions through EHS department competence through EHS · Cultivation of talented individuals through EHS HR management and systematical management department from business fields. Also, this committee contributes on workplace Health and Safety development by establishing business plans, and mutually reviewing work environment, health examination, safety 02 Share EHS Best Practice Introduction of EHS Best Practice equipment, and personal protection equipment. · Quarterly Fundamental Competitiveness · Method: Introduce EHS Best Practice on People Doo, Doosan Corporate Magazine Accident Management Process Doosan Corporation engages in efforts to revise and supplement the accident management process to ● Share EHS Best Practice Improve / Amend the EHS Improvement/Amendment of the Process Contents Job Process · Establish a management system for · Calculate the costs of environmental activities minimize damage and prevent reoccurrence in the case of an unanticipated accident. We are preventing ● Improve / Amend the EHS Job Process environmental costs · Establish standards for the management and the Industrial Worker Health and Safety Committee reoccurrence of accidents and creating a safe working environment by planning early response in · Establish a management system for operation of forklifts forklift operating · Establish standards for the use of electrical machines advance and minimizing damage before the accidents, and by preparing countermeasures through · Amend electrical safety guide and appliances to prevent electrical accidents analyzing the root causes. Glonet’s Iksan plant, for instance, received a certificate of excellence for risk Occupational Accident Rate(2013) evaluation from the Korea Occupational Safety and Health Agency on November 28th, 2013 and also received a 20% tax cut for its occupational accident insurance. We are also periodically training with 03 Sending Relay EHS SMS Inspire EHS awareness and fast announcement and response in case of emergencies real-life scenarios to prepare for emergencies such as fire and explosions, chemical spills, and cardio· Sender : Relay by Biz Leader, Executive, and Team Leaders Advanced Processes and Systems respiratory arrest patients. This is to minimize damage and emergency response time. Doosan Corp’s Industrial Accident Rate in 2013 was 0.24%, (mostly from falls, cuts, and stabs), slightly increased since 0.24% · Receiver : Office-workers and on-site managers · Weekly ● Sending Relay EHS SMS 2012. All of its employees will continue to identify the risk elements on-site and systematically improve ● EHS Collaboration EHS Collaboration Arrange a EHS information for work efficiency and open communication on their response to them. · Process collaboration · sharing of education/work documents and big-sized video/animation files Establish a Health and Safety Management Process with Partner Companies · sharing weekly trends and monthly accident rate · share internal and external accident case studies Doosan Corporation engages in efforts to prevent any health and safety risks that may occur, from the beginning process of company selection to the end, by establishing a Health and Safety management process for partnership construction companies. We deliver its Health and Safety demands and 2014 intentions beforehand and review its partners’ Health and Safety management competency. We define the roles and responsibilities of the internal operations which increases the executive power of the Main Agenda partner company by stipulating the limitations related to health and Safety, and establish a culture of abiding by Health and Safety, checking the validation of Health and Safety requirements following the completion of the project. 1. Cultivating People 2. Fundamental Competitiveness 3. Advanced Processes and Systems · Continue EHS Leadership in management-level · Registration and evaluation of chemical substances, · Establish a common rule & procedure in Business · Develop and operate office-worker EHS education reinforce competency to conduct Chemical Control Act Operations programs · Following laws and standards by identifying and · Continue management of change in the IT System · Cultivate professional EHS faculties improving the problem · Reinforcement of EHS Issue prevention 38 39 Reliable Operating Doosan Corporation's social responsible management pursues interests of the society as a whole. DOOSAN CORPORATION CSR Report 2013 Overview · Developing People · Reliable Operating · Responsible Engagement · Appendix Minimizing Environmental Impact Through Green Management Our Business & Social Context Our Efforts Green Management System Green Management is not just ‘responsibility’ but it is now an essential Doosan Corporation performs a proper green management for each Green Management Strategy factor in business management activities. Along with increasing business. In particular, in 2013, it not only increased both economical and Doosan Corporation established ‘3G Practice and 15 To Dos’ based on the three strategies in green global environment regulations, the Korean government now limits environmental value by developing environmentally friendly products with management (Green Culture, Green Value, Green Communication) to improve the quality of life of greenhouse gas emissions under the ‘Low Carbon Green Growth high energy efficiency, but it also established the basis of climate change communities and human beings all over the world. Therefore, we planned a road map (Introduction – Act’. In the case of corporate evaluation, the government reflects the correspondence for the ‘Emission Trading Scheme’. Growth – Top Tier Entry) with the target being ‘Global Top Green Company’ of 2020. In addition, Doosan Corp environmental performances of companies such as greenhouse gas constructed a task force and plans for each department concerning the 3G green management strategy, emissions and water usage, and furthers its value and reputation. ● Environmentally friendly product development: reduced energy use, and systemized the responsibility and role of related departments (production, purchase, product quality, environmentally friendly materials Moreover, nations over the world are strengthening environmental management, R&D). ● Climate change response regulations. However, this crisis factor is rather an opportunity because companies seize on it as a new growth motivation by developing their ● Reduction of environmental impact and pollutant control Green Management Structure green technology to create energy efficient products. Along with the creation of environmentally friendly facilities, Doosan Corp has put EHS (Environment, Health, and Safety) exclusive force in place to practice more systematic and advanced green management since 2007. Furthermore, Doosan Corp constituted a stable EHS organization by assigning an executive for each department, and it also structured a professional work force system by constructing an EHS team with members who achieved professional qualifications. In addition, Doosan Corp minimizes Our Approach Future Action environmental impact using the sequence of PDCA (Plan, Do, Check, Action) from establishment/revision of EHS policy to management review annually, and it has now the basis for a green management leader As green management is a responsibility for all of us, our family, and Doosan Corp constantly improves its activities from infrastructure by pursuing consistent environment development and green management activities. our society, Doosan Corp aims for prevention of pollution, minimization development for green management to environmentally friendly of pollutant emission, compliance with regulation, public green technology for minimum environmental impact. Green Management System management, and climate change response. Doosan Corporation, to practice green management, has established a green management system ● Technology development for minimizing environmental impact along with various bases for green management. Doosan Corp also practices this management system ● Green Culture: enhancement of green management strategies and systems, ● Reinforcement in green management department and management system in order to minimize environmental impacts from activities in work place, products, and services, and has and encouragement of employee participation upgrade (securing necessary competency and improving the EHS IT system) established a management system based on both domestic and foreign environmental guidelines from ● Green Value: response to climate change, development of green products, ● Development, operation and monitoring of green management program acquiring not only ISO 14001 environmental certification for Jeungpyeong, Gimcheon, Iksan, Changwon, minimization of environmental pollution, infrastructural foundation such as IT (improving performance and expanding awareness) systems. and Incheon branches, but also OHSAS18001 and KOSHA18001 safety and health verification for each ● Response to objective management on greenhouse gases, and registration business operation. Moreover, Doosan Corp puts its best efforts into prevention activities by assigning ● Green Communication: enhancement of external communication by and evaluation of chemical substances publicizing information and participating in global initiatives. manpower to every business operation and work place. ● Intensification of Chemical Substance Control capacity Green IT System | In 2013, Doosan Corporation invested KRW 1 billion in consolidating the system of EHS real-time information infrastructure securement and integrated information management so that it could supplement its sustainability management supply system through green IT system construction. In addition, Doosan Corp is in the process of promoting data computerization and process simplification by rapidly and systematically sharing environmental information such as greenhouse gas inventory, and environment accounting. Internal data are reported from once a day to once a month depending on the types of the Stakeholder's Interview reports. Doosan Corporation’s environment improvement activity is another Action Officer, driving force for local community development. Environment Entry. Acknowledgement of the Necessity of Internalization. Integration of Corporate and Maintenance, Growth Phase. Creation of Green Management Value Green Management Green Management Doosan Corporation’s Electro-Materials has a firmly organized internal environmental management system, along Gimcheon City Hall with well supervised on-site management. Especially, its active treatment on toxic substances, industrial wastes, Choi Jaehong Level of Green Management and waste water for environmental development in its surround community is highly valued. As for Gimcheon where Doosan Corp’s Electro-Materials facility is located, ‘water management’ is the biggest issue. In order to sustain a clean water supply to Gimcheon, known as the town of ‘Samsan Yisoo' (three mountains and two streams: the collaboration of the beauty of nature)’, companies need to put their efforts into environmental development. If the companies in the community including Doosan Corp participate in maintaining clean water, they can set an excellent precedent of mutual coexistence between the local community and corporations. Preserving river ecosystems, protecting common species 2013 2014 ~ 2017 ~ 2020 and river purification campaigns are some of the good examples. Therefore, Doosan Corp minimizes environmental impacts on the community by maintaining excellent environmental management, and also continues to participate · Establishment of Green Management Strategy System · Development of Green Products and New Business · Company Value Creation through Green Management with the government in the ‘one company one stream (or one stream) campaign’ for local environment preservation. · Organization of Green Management Team · Establishing Management System for Green Supply Chain · Sales Contribution to Green Product and Business Likewise, with its excellent environmental management system and experience, Doosan Corp’s Electro-Materials · Corporation Risk Management through Green Management · Public Release of Information · Integrating Corporate Management Strategy and Green will be a driving force to enhance the community’s environmental development, instead of Gimcheon city’s sole effort. Management · Enhancement in Employee’s Awareness of Green Management · Good Correspondent Activity Doosan Corp’s Electro-Materials expects to contribute not only to the environmental field but also to local community (Education) · Continuous Monitoring and Improvement Activities through growth as a precedential role considering local community characteristics. Performance Management * Circle indicates ‘present’. 42 43 DOOSAN CORPORATION CSR Report 2013 Overview · Developing People · Reliable Operating · Responsible Engagement · Appendix Development of Environmentally Friendly Products Approach on Environmentally Friendly Products Mottrol, by improving the efficiency of its hydraulic part, reduces exhaust fumes and increases fuel The industry overall has a consensus of minimizing the environmental impact from products, and all nations efficiency; therefore, it minimizes environmental impact. By realizing optimization of the rotation part throughout the world are strengthening their environmental regulations. Doosan Corp, therefore, proceeds to in the hydraulic section through interpretations and tests, Mottrol continuously improves the efficiency reduce environmental effect from the phase of development. For each type of business, Doosan Corp aspires of the hydraulic section, which is directly connected to fuel efficiency and exhaust fumes. Through to development of eco-friendly products, from products that reduce energy use to those with environmentally innovation it contributes to conserving the environment, and reduces social costs by reducing fuel use at friendly materials. this time of high oil prices. Mottrol is also developing hydraulic pumps, which act as the hearts of excavators. A hydraulic pump is Reduction of Energy Use By Improvements in Fuel Efficiency one of the most important parts of the excavator, and its efficiency is directly connected to the efficiency In the present-day Industrial vehicle industry, price, sales network, and services, on top of the quality of the excavator. Demand for smaller hydraulic pumps that join with the engine increased due to the of the product, emerge as major competitive factors. In addition to price, performance, service and limited space in the engine room of the excavator. So, Mottol contributes to the innovative reduction of sales network, provision of total service and total cost of ownership (TCO) including vehicle repair and greenhouse gas emission by decreasing the volume and weight of the hydraulic pump in the design maintenance are emerging as competitive factors as well. Many corporations cooperate with dealers in stages, reducing the size of the excavator itself, and increasing fuel efficiency. different countries to improve the TCO, and research to materialize ideas into products that arise during the process. Corporations also establish brand image by developing products that satisfy environmental Development of Environmentally Friendly Products for Customer’s Health and Safety regulations and by reinforcing marketing. Industrial Vehicle reduced their products’ environmental Both domestic and foreign electronics industry customer demand for environmentally friendly products Sales of Environmentally impact through innovation, such as by selecting a high-efficiency engine that still complies with the increased as a consequence of the European RoHS (Restriction of Hazardous Substances) announced Friendly Products enforced regulations on exhaust fumes, but it uses less fuel and engine oil by improving fuel efficiency in 2006; as a response to their demand, Electro-Materials is engaged in efforts to develop such 51% compared to current models. Industrial Vehicle achieved energy efficiency and realized engine environmentally friendly products as halogen free and ECHA-SVHC1) free products. The halogen-free 43% downsizing by switching to the tier-4 engine from the standard tier-3 Diesel engine. market is continuously growing and national certification of and interest in toxic chemicals is increasing, 34% as the intention of customers to be environmentally friendly, and their interest in health and safety 26% 27 % increases. Electro-Materials therefore fulfills customer demands by developing products that conform 16% to REACH, and also increases the environmental values of products. Electro Materials is becoming a 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 leader in regulated substances by acquiring a QC-080000 certification in China, the largest market in the world, and it reflects the certification on all of its Chinese businesses as a leader in the management of regulating substances. 1) ECHA : European Chemicals Agency / SVHC : SVHC Substance of very high concern 2) REACH : Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals (applicable to all chemical substances produced or imported more than 1 ton in the EU) Product Development Using Environmentally Friendly Materials Doosan Corporation, with the growing interest in, and demand for, environmentally friendly products from Sales of Functional Cosmetics Materials its domestic and overseas customers, increases customer satisfaction in various fields by establishing (Limited to Cosmetics Material Sales) response systems reflecting customers’ demands. Doosan Corp’s Glonet engages in efforts such as developing environmentally friendly functional cosmetic materials and bioactive substances. Both the organic cosmetics market itself and the certification for it are continuously increasing with the increase in environmentally friendly oriented customer trends and interests in health and safety. Glonet develops products that comply with ‘Ecocert’, the largest European organic certification agency, and the European 8 % 10 % 11 % certificate of new chemical substance management, ‘REACH’, trhereby fulfilling customer demand, and 2011 2012 2013 enhancing the environmentally friendly values of products. In addition, Glonet, through its own research and development, received a public announcement of environmental friendly organic material from the Category Present (~2013) Future Plans(2014~) Industrial Vehicle Engine Rural Development Administration in Phospholipid which exists in the cell membrane, and the company 2 Acquired Expand Certified Ecocert provides its products to customers who attempt to produce high quality agricultural products. Glonet will Certifications Items continue to provide customers worldwide with safer and more nutritional products by discovering new REACH 3 Advanced Carry Out Registration Registration effects of products and by developing new products. MODEL: D25S-7 44 45 DOOSAN CORPORATION CSR Report 2013 Overview · Developing People · Reliable Operating · Responsible Engagement · Appendix Responding to Climate Change Climate Change Policy Mottrol also switched to high efficiency bulbs and conducted energy saving campaigns in its offices as As climate change emerges as an issue and international attempts to reduce it expand, Korea has also part of its efforts to save energy. passed the Low Carbon/ Green Growth Act. Its effect on industry is now serious since the government Industrial Vehicle, following the government’s energy saving policy, saved more than 1 million kWh of energy designates a company as a controlled business (or workplace) if the company exceeds the standard use in 2003 only by limiting air conditioning, reducing energy use, and running equipment effectively. amount of greenhouse gas emission and energy usage; the company has to reach government sanctioned goals. As part of its 3G green management strategy, Doosan Corp is actively responding to Greenhouse Gas Emission (2013, Unit : tCO2eq) global warming and climate change, and it is also preparing response teams and systems for climate change in case of its being selected as controlled business in 2014. Scope 1 Scope 2 Total Usage Climate Change Response System To build a foundation for climate change response, Doosan Corporation operated teams and work 29,264 49,458 78,722 processes and organized a specialized TF to establish a greenhouse gas inventory and to identify policy direction. Based on this, Doosan Corp investigated and checked the greenhouse gas emissions and Energy Usage (2013, Unit : TJ) energy usage for the past three years and established a facility greenhouse gas measuring and reporting system. In order to manage greenhouse gas emissions effectively, Doosan Corp sets next year’s emission Gas Usage Electric Usage Total Usage and energy usage goals earlier (in August of the preceding year) which increases the effectiveness of its management. In addition, Doosan Corp strengthens its management roles by reviewing various 581 1,012 1,593 methods for energy management and management systems, and to secure extra response capabilities by identifying options and capability for reducing greenhouse gas emission. In 2014, Doosan Corp plans on engaging in a statement assurance, a third party verification of its energy and greenhouse gas * Data collection range : Electro-Materials, Industrial Vehicle, Mottrol, Glonet business. collection methods and measurements, and also plans to secure reduction measures through consistent management and feedback from external public announcements, and by submitting goal management and implementation plans. Green Purchase Activities Support of Global Initiatives Doosan Corporation established a green purchasing system through a purchasing agency in March 2012. For 4 years since 2009, Doosan Corporation has reported to CDP, the global project that requests major This system includes a request function to purchase green products to prevent pollution and resource companies around the world for information about strategies of response to the climate change issue waste through purchasing environmentally friendly products, and these products are easily identified and carbon emission status, and about greenhouse gas reduction policy and response strategy. with green product marks which include certification marks. The purchase agency also supports its green purchase activities by establishing green purchase Efforts to Reduce Energy Use guidelines for Maintenance, Repair, Operation (MRO) and its supply chain management system. Doosan Corporation engages in a range of efforts to reduce energy use for each business operation. Doosan Corp regularly monitors its performance for the expansion and improvement of green product The total energy use in 2013 was 1,593 TJ and the total greenhouse gas emission was 78,722 tCO2eq. purchase, and separately summarizes performance in ‘high efficiency materials’, ‘top class energy Mottrol reduces its energy usage by operating a summer/winter energy saving policy. For high capacity efficiency products’ and ‘energy saving products’ in the energy department, and ‘recycled products’, and and operation necessity equipment, it is developing power saving programs such as power stoppage, ‘environmental labeling products’ in the environmentally friendly product department for expansion and temperature control in air conditioning, and power time settings with priority. improvement. . Greenhouse Gas And Energy Goal Management System Electro-Materials’ Climate Change Response 2011~2012 2013 2014~2015 2016 Securing Reduction Plan Managing Greenhouse Gases Doosan Corporation’s Electro-Materials responds systematically to climate Operating Organization Establishing and and Implementation change. With the implementation of the Low Carbon Green Growth Act in present-condition Verifying Inventory April 2010, the Jeungpyeong and Gimcheon plants were designated as subject Production Head investigation ● Identifying reduction costs and to management by objectives in 2012 and are fulfilling the requirements. ● Implementation of emission reduction viability of reduction ● Gaining Reliability through Assurance Since the designation, Electro-Materials established greenhouse inventories based on set goals ● Securement of greenhouse gas EHS from Headquarters ● Setting goals after searching for ● Securement of emission data through managing system through *CDM or and conducted a third party verification to secure reliable data. It also ● Establishment of greenhouse gas businesses (business sites) that can help feedback emission trading submits statements, consults reduction goals, and submits implementation inventory and identification of source reduce emissions plans. Doosan Corp plans to solidify its climate change response system by expanding its greenhouse gas and energy management system to all business Jeungpyeong Plant Manager Gimcheon Plant Manager · Organization of Task Force · Establishment greenhouse inventory · Submission of implementation plan · Implementation of reduction business · Education of team and those related · Identification of BAU emission quantity/ · Implementation and restriction · Implementation of CDM business operations, beginning with the establishment of a greenhouse gas inventory · Present-condition investigation consumption/efficiency · Statement assurance · Emission trading management at the Iksan facility. Electro-Materials also installed one RTO (Regenerative · Investigation of past reduction · Identification of reduction options and · Written statement of privacy Thermal Oxidizer) to reduce LNG usage at its Jeungpyeong and Gimcheon Inspection Team EHS Team Inspection Team EHS Team estimated potential · Investigation of later business plans · Report of implementation performance · Analysis on reduction costs and allocation of facilities, and continues to explore methods to reduce LNG and energy use. options and statement · Establishment of goal and implementation plan * CDM footnote: Clean Development Mechanism: a system to reduce greenhouse gas to relieve global warming 46 47 DOOSAN CORPORATION CSR Report 2013 Overview · Developing People · Reliable Operating · Responsible Engagement · Appendix Efforts to Save Resources and to Recycle Waste Emission(2013) Efforts of Business Operations to Save Resources and to Recycle Waste Management Unit: Ton Doosan Corporation practices green management by engaging in efforts to save resources and to recycle Doosan Corporation not only protects the environment through efficient management of wastes, but during all of its processes. Electro-Materials expends great efforts to minimize environmental impact by creates economic and social value by saving resources. Mottrol especially is creating both economic and Incineration 2,870 reduction of pollutants and waste, and to increase separate disposal of waste and recycling. The Iksan environmental value by redesigning packaging containers and methods used in outsourcing companies. landfill 157 facility operates a wash tower for the waste NMP Gas from the FCCL process to reduce air pollutants. Timber, paper box, synthetic resin, and packaging vinyl waste were generated from containers and The waste of remaining solvent is recycled (entrusted) which saved the company KRW 480 million in packaging and caused muscular skeletal diseases due to excessive packaging. Mottrol went through an recycled 11,740 2013. Industrial Vehicle continues their recycling efforts and improvement activities by finding recycling approval process for the production of delivery boxes, and made standardized boxes with consideration facilities for wastes of oil, batteries, and timber. for safety, environmental impact and usability. As a result, amounts of synthetic resin and timber waste are continuously decreasing. Industrial Vehicle conducts daily inspections to prevent any leaks, and to manage the storage of total waste emission 14,768 Collection of Used NMP harmful chemical substances and separated collection of waste. Glonet recycles 75% of all wastes Hazardous waste emission(2013) and continues to engage in efforts to reduce waste generation. KRW 480 million/year Unit: Ton Powder Composing First Second Used NMP Used/ Preventing Air Pollution Coating Entrusted 9,183 Reactor Hardening Hardening Waste Gas Doosan Corporation strictly manages air pollutants generated from its manufacturing process to fulfill Solvent Disposal (NMP) (Recycling) Oven Wash tower its own standards, which exceed the legal standards. Industrial Vehicle monitors eighteen of its emission *Data collected range: Electro-Materials, Industrial and prevention facilities to manage air pollutants. In 2013, Doosan Corp concentrated on reinforcing the Vehicles, Mottrol and Glonet business operations Mottrol extended the efficiency of hydraulic fluid by more than five times by installing a hydraulic fluid monitoring of a specific air pollutant to abide by the relevant laws, and made efforts such as investing filtering device on their performance equipment used for performance tests. It also recycles 95% of additional fees for measurement. its cleaning oil by installing a decompression evaporation concentrator, and also reduces the waste Mottrol installed concentrated catalyst oxidation equipment and activated carbon equipment to safely oil generated from the manufacturing process by more than 30% every year by installing a centralized handle air pollutants generated from its facilities. It conducts regular maintenance and monitoring manufacturing chip collection device. Along with this, Mottrol reduced wastes of synthetic resins and through an outsourcing company for more efficient management of the equipment, changing parts timber by more than 20% by improving the materials delivery box and made efforts to maximize its promptly as needed. Mottrol also installed a central ventilation system at all processes at the nonresources and recycling by improving collection bins and installing collection sites for separate disposal discharging manufacturing facility, minimizing the discharge of pollutants through a filtering system of waste. and electric precipitator to remove any oil mist generated. Glonet identified the source of the odor for Glonet operates a disposal management policy for effective collection and recycling of all the wastes each process to reduce odor and solve any odor-related complaints, and as a result, it changed the from its workplace. It operates freezers and condensers for recovery of solvent which is the major refrigerant of the condenser and increased the capacity of the odor prevention system. Glonet plans to raw material; therefore, it recovers and recycles more than 80% of solvents annually. In accordance to react preemptively through identifying regulations and establishment of other matters, as the surrouding the manufacturer responsible recycling policy, Glonet recycled 1,976kg of aluminum can, 3,206kg of areas are designated as order control areas. container and trays, and 2,175kg of film used in product packaging. As a result of these efforts, Glonet Preventing Water Pollution recycles 88% of raw materials and 75% of its waste. For waste reduction and increase of recycling, Doosan Corporation not only conserves the environment but also protects the ecosystem around its Glonet makes necessary plans and improvements by including them as major environmental issues in Usage of Water Resources (2013) facilities by effectively managing water wastes. Industrial Vehicle systematically prevents industrial water its internal environmental impact evaluation. Collection of used water through waste leak related accidents by installing one collective sump for waste water to minimize any leaks of Efforts to reduce the industrial water use condenser management water pollutants and damage. Industrial Vehicle also reinforced the pollutant management standards Underground 227,626 water Mottrol broke away from the traditional method of disposing cooling water after indirect cooling, and through a special water pollutant measurement, and installed five additional oil-water separators to reduces water use by reusing the cooling water used in the hydraulic equipment by installing a cooling prevent damage expansion in case of unexpected pollutant leaks. Industrial 68,498 water tower. It also engages in efforts to reduce industrial water use, such as preventing leaks through regular Glonet strictly keeps the level of COD at less than half of the legal standards and minimizes water pollution Water 284,906 supply maintenance and preventive activities and by fixing leaks immediately. by handling water pollutants properly. The company invested in equipment to control the pollution level of the influent water, and plans to engage in additional improvement activities. Mottrol installed additional waste water treatment facilities to properly dispose of water wastes generated during the production Total process, and it disposes less than 50% of the legal standard. An oil-water separator is installed in the waterway into the waste water collection tank and pollutants are removed from the waste water before it is Usage of Water Resources 581,030 Environmental Impact Management discharged. Two separators are also installed at the end of the waterway, acting as oil storage tanks in case Water waste generated(2013) Environmental investment costs(2013) of emergencies and removing and discharging pollutants in the waterway. Environmental Impact Evaluation Unit: Ton Unit: 1 million KRW Doosan Corporation, before conducting investment or construction with environmental risks, is reducing risk cost by minimizing the environmental impact and by creating safe work environment through EHS 430,148 effect evaluation. In the development planning stages, Doosan Corp is securing trust in basic design by 949 *Data collected range: Electro-Materials, Industrial Vehicles, Mottrol and Glonet business operations setting development goals concerning environmental impact along with target quality (Q) and target cost *Data collected range: Electro-Materials, Industrial (C), so that the basic design embodies environmental concerns. Also in the development completion Vehicles, Mottrol business operations stages, Doosan Corp reviews and evaluates plans objectively in consideration of environmental impact and collects opinions for future steps. 48 49 DOOSAN CORPORATION CSR Report 2013 Overview · Developing People · Reliable Operating · Responsible Engagement · Appendix Environmental Performance INPUT OUTPUT Usage of Water Resources Unit : Ton Total Usage of Reused or Unit : Ton Waste Water Produced Unit : Ton Chemical Oxygen Demand Unit : ppm Water Recycled Industrial Water 581,030 319,376 487,388 537,584 446,231 24 296,464 517,254 277,173 430,148 22 20 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 Usage of Major Raw Unit : Ton Renewable Energy Usage * Unit : Ton Waste Emission Unit : Ton Biochemical Oxygen Demand Unit : ppm Materials Materials 563 14,676 14,704 14,768 17 104,579 447 12 12 357 77,093 79,785 *Applies only to Glonet's PL95 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 process 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 Energy Usage Unit : TJ Greenhouse Gas Emission Unit : tCO2e Hazardous Waste Unit : Ton Energy 1,659 1,590 1,593 9,555 81,969 9,183 78,611 78,722 8,125 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 Environmental Unit :1 million KRW Investment Investment Costs Green Communication with Local Communities 1,049 282 949 Doosan Corporation conducts green activities with stakeholders around its facilities. Electro-Materials takes the lead on activities with partner companies, related agencies and various stakeholders in activities, including service in the local community, cleaning streams, and planting trees, and additionally conducting meetings on 2011 2012 2013 environmental issues such as the First ‘Environmental Technology Committee’. Industrial Vehicle registered with the voluntary Environmental Committee in Dong-gu, Incheon, to create smooth communication with local stakeholders, and *Data collection range: Electro-Materials, Industrial vehicle, Mottrol and Glonet business operations participates in monthly environmental cleaning activities and cooperates to improve air pollution in preparation for the 2014 Incheon Asian Games. Also, Industrial Vehicle Green Communication with Partner Companies forms a consensus with residents around its facilities by exchanging local business environment information, and it also strengthens the social position of the company by Doosan Corporation, to flexibly respond to all of the environmental regulations and to raise employees’ awareness, it is increasing communications online to exchanging on environmental issues and environmental improvement activities. on all supply processes related to products and services, supports suppliers’ activate a partnership management related board (to share in Doosan Corp’s Glonet consistently participates in environmental activities by registering with the implementation of green management systems and clean production green management activities and major environmental issues), and it is also Iksan Environmental Committee to provide solutions for climate change and local systems, and also contributes to achieving mutual partnerships with its distributing data to shift awareness (guidebook or poster). Moreover, Doosan environmental issues, both as a company and as an individual. In 2013, Glonet engaged suppliers through maintenance and guidance. Electro-Materials supports Corp operates a compensation system to reward two of the top cooperative in efforts to improve the local environment by participating in the local tree planting the green management of suppliers by providing small local suppliers with firms once a year in the course of a board session. event, mountain cleaning activity and stream cleaning activity affiliated with the river environmental technical support, including inspection and guidance. In refurbishment network, and henceforth, will continue these activities. addition, in order to increase suppliers’ environmental management capacity 50 51 DOOSAN CORPORATION CSR Report 2013 Overview · Developing People · Reliable Operating · Responsible Engagement · Appendix Strengthening Fair Trade Operation Our Business & Social Context Our Efforts Shared Growth Anti-corruption and fair competition, which have been emphasized Doosan Corporation achieves transparency management through Shared Growth Principles since the Enron scandal, are now at the heart of business operation and ethical management and compliance programs (CP), and also Doosan Corporation, for enhancement of global competitiveness and shared growth, engages in efforts CSR. They have taken place beyond voluntary compliance, but are used continues its supportive activities for shared-growth to grow as a global corporation by establishing a virtuous circle partnership system that allows for shared as a standard for countries and governmental agencies for evaluating growth with its suppliers. The ‘virtuous partnership’ system means that Doosan Corp will operate one a company. With global business expansion, and importance of ● Support Shared Growth: Support strengthening competitiveness, financial system encompassing all suppliers in its technology, quality and management systems that are unique Support, joint overseas expansion, reinforcing communication networks between companies being emphasized, ethical management to Doosan Corp, such as strengthening of technological competency and advanced business systems. ● Conducting Fair Selection and Evaluations for Suppliers is an issue extended to the company’s area of influence, including Through shared growth with suppliers, Doosan Corp engages in efforts to realize a ‘virtuous partnership’ its suppliers. In Korea, besides economic democratization, shared ● Compliance Program by enhancing system competitiveness across sustainable production and supply chains and by building growth and relationships with subcontractors are vigorously discussed, ● Operation and Establishment of Code of Conduct concrete systematic monitoring system. and social demands, including the government’s fair trade laws and subcontracting laws, are increasing. Shared Growth System Doosan Corporation supports product innovation, management guidance/support and educational programs to suppliers to achieve innovation in production price, quality, supply and demand, based on trust and cooperation. Doosan Corp conducts various support programs in four areas, strengthening Our Approach Future Action competitiveness, financial support, joint overseas expansion, and strengthening communication. Based on the firm’s integral value, ‘Doosan takes honesty and transparency Doosan Corporation is strengthening its anti-corruption, CP, supply 4 Areas of Shared Growth as fundamental strengths, and we make fair profits. We acknowledge our chain CSR activities more than ever. Operation of support group and Improvements in payment conditions, Creation of opportunities for joint Visits to supplier’s business site, operation of Joint mistakes and keep our promises.’ Doosan Corporation conducts ethical and Strengthening support cultivation of professional Financial finance support, adjustments to unit Overseas overseas expansion and investment, Strengthen cooperative committees, technical exchange Competitiveness manpower Support price participation in overseas exhibitions Communication meetings, hosting shared growth day, award for mutually beneficial management based on its group’s core values. ● Development guidelines for anti-corruption of suppliers and education Expansion excellent supplier, operation of supplier hotline encouragement ● Establishment of ‘Virtuous Circle Partnership’ system that makes possible ● Establishment of a supplier selection process considering fair competition in Strengthen Competitiveness shared growth with suppliers purchasing policy and CSR Operation of Competitiveness Reinforcement Team for Suppliers ● Fair trade based on guidelines for selecting and managing suppliers such as ● Operation and promotion of CSR in supply chain Doosan Corporation operates a supplier reinforcement team for suppliers comprising internal experts and advisable agreement guidelines between large corporations and small and technical advisors for the enhancement of its suppliers’ competitiveness. This team operates special themed medium businesses for win-win partnerships. programs customized for each supplier to enhance process and quality. Mottrol conducted a 3R 5S* hands● Transparent and fair company activities complying to global standards, based on workshop and supported the establishment of a R&D lab for enhancement in technical management on the compliance program processes and protection of technology. Mottrol also proposed measures to fundamentally improve defective ● Realization of the company’s social responsibilities, and increasing casting material through analyzing the defective data, grasping the current status and applying advanced competitiveness through Inhwa, our customer-oriented management philosophy; transparent management and innovation technology. Doosan Corp Industrial Vehicle is in the process of building a customized LEAN program for each supplier, guided and supported by public officials and technical advisors with focused enhancement programs to strengthen the production competitiveness of its suppliers. The reinforcement team is receiving good feedback from suppliers for contributions to the enhancement of suppliers’ quality and facility Competitiveness Reinforcement Support Stakeholder's Interview Agreement Ceremony environment, and Doosan Corp plans to expand its competitiveness reinforcement support business. *3 Jeong (right position, right product, right quantity) / 5S (arrangement, cleanup, cleanliness, and habituation) activities Shared Growth Program through communication with suppliers is Doosan Corporation’s biggest strength. Support Supplier Learning Doosan Corporation provides a diverse range of educational programs for its suppliers to bolster the Woojin E&G, Woojin E&G has been in a cooperative relationship with Doosan Corporation Industrial Vehicle and Doosan Subsidiaries competency of their employees. Industrial Vehicle collaborated with Inha University and conducted seven job CEO related to construction machines since 1988. Doosan Corp is not only an important partner in our business but a training courses with 49 suppliers and 104 employees, and enhanced the competency of suppliers with four companion in company management, whom we can learn much from. I think that the company culture of emphasizing Seo Jungbeom sessions of FTA country of origin management course and four sessions of EU REACH Regulation Response the importance of communication is Doosan Corp’s biggest strength. The flexible and rational communication between education. Mottrol collaborated with Changwon University to conduct seven job-training courses including all employees, including the CEO, and the way that suppliers’ opinions are reflected in company management are aspects we need to learn. Based on this communication culture, the various shared-growth programs operated by FTA hands-on management, hands-on innovation and quality assurance system. And in 2014, Mottrol plans Doosan Corp are positive influences that promote sincere partnerships. A positive relationship through communication to continue its affiliations with Changwon University and operate eight job-training courses including a is more integral that systematic relationships in on-site development activities. In that sense, Doosan Corp’s on-site customized production site measuring system. improvement consulting program becomes an opportunity to learn how to move even our employees’ minds through sincere communication. The on-site instruction sessions were very effective and optimistic, encouraging on-site employees and executives to identify the problems of the facility together and drawing improvement measures. Effective inventory management and on-site environments were improved through programs like these and with Accompanied Participation at Overseas Exhibitions for decreased defects and inventory, we were able to increase our productivity by 30%. Doosan Corp’s shared growth Overseas Expansion activities not only give financial support but are opportunities to reinforce suppliers’ competency together with support Industrial Vehicle participated in the British IMHX 2013 Exhibition with four activities allowing improvements internally. My anticipations are that Doosan Corp will continue lead shared growth suppliers as a part of the shared growth program. This provided an opportunity through various programs that promote shared growth with suppliers. for their employees to understand industrial trends through the designs and technology of the various distribution equipment, learn new technological information on their subject of interest, and find improvement ideas. 52 53 DOOSAN CORPORATION CSR Report 2013 Overview · Developing People · Reliable Operating · Responsible Engagement · Appendix Fair Supplier Selection and Evaluation Financial Support Establishing a Supplier Management Guide Supporting Operating Costs of Suppliers Doosan Corporation specifies and conducts the supplier selection standards and since 2009, has Doosan Corporation Mottrol provides direct and indirect financial support to suppliers for their financial operated measures in the purchasing guidelines, reflecting and complying with them in the ‘DooBuy’ and managerial stability. Mottrol supported KRW 4.5 billion in network loan for operational costs and process, Doosan Corp’s purchasing system. KRW 600 million to 36 suppliers for the development and improvement of their production equipment (mold and jig). In addition, Industrial Vehicle supported 172 sets of production equipment to its suppliers Advanced Supplier Selection Process worth KRW 2 billion for development of new models, localization of parts and increase in production. Following consultation on of Doosan Corporation’s purchasing process, it established the New ‘DooBuy’ Doosan Corp plans to create more funds to support its suppliers and to continuously expand financial purchasing system in the procurement, development purchasing, and SRM (Supplier Relationship support through checking the validity. Management) sectors in 2013 to reinforce the selection and evaluation of suppliers, and it has been applied and operated since March 2014. Doosan Corp makes it possible for suppliers to request to register for Reinforcing Communication trading through the New ‘DooBuy’, and designates those who have put in a request as potential suppliers Visiting Suppliers through a fair process, by classifying, and registering suitable suppliers as new suppliers through preEach leader of Doosan Corporation business operations engages in efforts to reinforce communication by evaluation and registration evaluation. Supplier(cooperative firms) visiting suppliers with a view to enhancing mutual understanding and trust. Doosan Corp engages with its Event Details(2013) *DooBuy: Used by Electro-Materials, Mottrol, Doosan I&C, Glonet, Doowin: Industrial Vehicle, suppliers through regular council operated events, such as general and exchange meetings, educational programs and workshops. Mottrol especially promoted communication with suppliers by hosting a Shared Growth Day in December 2013 to emphasize the meaning of shared growth and conducting management Cooperative Committees General Meeting 2 Supplier Selection Process briefing sessions, presentingtechnology awards, a CP implementation proclamation, and rewarding outstanding suppliers. Workshop Cooperative Committees Workshop 7 New Suppliers Potential Suppliers Registered Suppliers Small and Medium Business Registered Potential Purchase Ratio(2013) Supplier Supplier Operating Supplier Hotline Cooperative Committees Exchange Meeting 5 Auto Screening Registration Evaluation Supplier Designation Supplier Designation Unit: % Doosan Corporation opened and now operates a ‘supplier hotline’ to reinforce communication with suppliers. The supplier hotline acts as a window for any complaints on trading and inquiries/consultation/ Cooperative Committees Education Program 14 Establish a Supplier Evaluation System 51.3 proposals related to the shared-growth program. *Based on Mottrol and Industrial Vehicle Suppliers, even after registration through the New Doobuy, are managed by conducting routine Small and Medium Business Providing Health Exams for Supplier Employees evaluations. Depending on the evaluation results, good suppliers are cultivated and supported while Holiday Pre-Payment Amoun(2013) Together with Chungang University Hospital, Doosan Corporation provided free health examinations for bad suppliers should get feedback and additional support to improve on their shortcomings. Doosan Unit: 1 million KRW its suppliers’ employees. Doosan Corp covered 50% and the hospital covered with 50% of the cost of the Corp operates a differentiated management strategy to manage the performance of suppliers, which examinations. Doosan Corp plans to expand these benefits to its secondary suppliers as well. combines analysis of strategy per category with evaluation of the performance. 1,020 Small Business Purchasing Small and Medium Business Doosan Corporation is increasing small and medium business purchasing to support those businesses. It Total Purchase Amount makes early payments to small businesses twice a year, at the New Year and Thanksgiving holidays, to help Unit: 1 million KRW the businesses secure funds. Doosan Corp converted all bank bill payments (of less than 60 days) into cash Shared Growth Program for Reinforcement of Communication with Suppliers payments to meet capital demands on holidays. It completed 1,017 early payments for the holidays in 2013. 2011 4,758 Industrial Vehicle established the ‘Doosan Corporation Industrial Vehicle Vehicle also delivered appreciation plaques and rewards to its outstanding Doosan Corp plans to continue this early payments program every New Year and Thanksgiving holiday to 2012 3,722 Cooperation Committee’ in August 2011 with 50 suppliers, and holds quarterly suppliers. Industrial Vehicle also promotes shared growth in other ways, help satisfy the need for funds of small and medium businesses. Doosan Corp will continue establishing 2013 6,568 meetings to share exemplary shared growth cases and complaints. In March 2013 encouraging executives and dealer representatives to share cooperation plans virtuous circle partnerships through win-win cooperation between large corporations and small and a general meeitng was held at the Songdo Convensia in Incheon with 51 suppliers, through mutual engagements. medium businesses. *Data collection range: Electro-Materials, Industrial where Industrial Vehicle introduced business and operation plans. Industrial Vehicles, Mottrol, Glonet, I&C, FM Participation of Large·Small Business Purchasing Counseling and Discovering New Suppliers Mottrol discovered new suppliers by participating in the 2nd Large/Small Business Purchasing Counseling hosted by the National Commission for Corporate Partnership in 2013. This event was held at Busan Bexco on 19th June to give a chance for large corporations and small businesses to meet together. The 20 large corporations and government agencies and 130 small businesses who participated shared company and product information and evaluation methods. Doosan Corporation business operations, including Mottrol, shared about the shared growth program and purchasing details, and about supplier requirements and processes, and spent time discovering new partners. 54 55 DOOSAN CORPORATION CSR Report 2013 Overview · Developing People · Reliable Operating · Responsible Engagement · Appendix Reinforcement of Fair Trade Compliance Programs Ethical Management Under the Doosan credo, “We practice business ethics through transparent and fair management activities, CP Operating Organization Corporate wide Code of Ethics and promote shared growth of the company and society”, Doosan Corporation engages in efforts to grow as a BG(U) Doosan Corporation, for its continuing growth, established and enforces a Code of Ethics to strengthen global corporation through fairness and transparency. Doosan Corp adopted the compliance program (CP) for competitiveness and to fulfill social responsibilities through Inhwa, its customer-oriented management fair trading in June 2004, and has constantly engaged in efforts to establish the foundations for shared growth CEO philosophy, transparent management, and innovation. Doosan Corp applies this Code of Ethics to all through a healthy corporation eco-system, and to realize the ‘Doosan Way’. Doosan Corp delivered the CEO’s employees and also recommends third parties such as its suppliers to abide by it. wish for compliance through a CEO declaration of fair trading CP in May 2013. The status of the fair trade compliance program is reported twice a year to the board of directors. CP Ethical Management Activities Manager CP Ethical Management Education Operating the Voluntary Compliance Program for Fair Trade Managing In order to enhance employee’s awareness of ethical management, Doosan Corporation conducted Support CP Adoption and Management Standards Department ethics management education introducing Doosan Corporation’s ethics management policies, violation For the establishment of a voluntary compliance culture for fair trading, in 2013, Doosan Corporation Person in Ethics Management Education Charge of cases, and requests for practice through collective training, new/experienced/transferred employee Performance (2013) published and distributed the 4th edition of the ‘Voluntary Compliance Program Manual for Fair Trading’, CP training, and specialized training for vulnerable division employees to a total of 2,353 employees in Unit: Hours reflecting the changed business contents and amendments since the manual’s first publication and 2013. Henceforth, Doosan Corporation will conduct training as needed whenever an organization or Ethics Management Education distribution in September 2004. It also wrote a ‘Voluntary Compliance Pledge for Fair Trading’ for those situation needing continuous ethical management training arises; and in 2014, it plans to expand ethical Education Hours Education Hours employees in departments at high risk of violations. In addition, Doosan Corp continues to anticipate Department Per Person management training to its suppliers and companies overseas. in Charge any risks by adding detailed sanction standards for those employees who violate the law in the CP of CP 2,392 0.7 operational regulation, which lays out the basic processes and standards for law abidance related to fair The Whistle-blowing Policy and Cyber Accusation Center Sexual Harassment trading. Doosan Corp also runs education programs for employees at invested companies, and supports The whistle-blowing policy considers as subjects to report employee violations of law and internal Prevention Education CP adoption and operation at suppliers to disseminate a fair trading culture. regulations such as the Doosan Way and the Code of Ethics, and other instances of unfair conduct; it Education Hours Education Hours Per Person ensures that the identity of the person filing the complaint is kept confidential and that they do not suffer any Educational Program 2,392 0.7 disadvantage due to the lodging of the complaint. Doosan Corporation reports the investigated content to the Doosan Corporation runs various forms of education programs group training, visit training, specialized CP Education Performance(2013) CEO and if it is major, reports it to the audit committee as results of an accounting or job audit. Doosan Corp training and online training to raise awareness of fair trading. Doosan Corp continues to engage in Unit: Hours receives reports/claims on employee violation of its Code of Ethics or the law, and on unfair practices from efforts at prevention education since the fair trading online program for employees opened in 2005, and Education Hours Education Hours Per Person outsiders, by opening a cyber-reporting center within the corporation website. It registers complaints with or in 2013, conducted fair trading programs targeting new recruits and related employees. The department in charge engages in efforts to improve efficiency in CP operations through exemplary case studies and 3,345 13.2 without a name, through various channels, by phone, email, letter, or fax, or in person. In 2013, Doosan Corp received a total of two claims through the cyber accusation center, and following an internal audit, issued a in-house fair trading workshops, and by participating in external CP forums. In 2014, Doosan Corp plans * Based on those who are subject to compulsory CP education warning notice about one claim. to improve the contents of the current online program, and to develop and operate programs appropriate to business and departmental characteristics to enhance more than ever the level of the educational Code of Ethics Agreement and Conflict of Interest Statement program related to fair trading. All employees, including new and career recruits, submit a Code of Ethics Agreement. Members of Voluntary Compliance Monitoring management above leader-level compose and sign a statement of understanding conflict of interest Doosan Corporation, since the establishment of the pre/post monitoring system in September 2004, has every year to reaffirm the law standards themselves. been pre-monitoring for sections that run risks of violating the law, conducting voluntary inspections White Paper Policy on departments doing subcontract trading and inspecting sites of departments in charge of CP. In 2013, Doosan Corporation operates a White Paper Policy with goals to prevent reoccurrence of similar problems Doosan Corp reinforced the inspection system of voluntary compliance in fair trading. An inspection was by analyzing the fundamental causes of a problem, and identifying and sharing improvement plans. A White conducted across all subcontract trading in cooperation with an outside expert. Doosan Corp had one Paper is written when the management determines it is necessary for prevention of reoccurrence or for job count of Fair Trade Law violation in 2013, violation of Restriction of Holding Company (holding shares of a improvement, on major issues that occur during internal audits or management processes. financial subsidiary), and paid the fines and distributed all relevant shares. Shared Growth Day – Voluntary Compliance for Fair Trade Proclamation Ceremony *Code of Conduct Doosan Corporation Mottrol held a proclamation ceremony on December Doosan Corporation’s Inhwa is meaningful Integrity and transparency are values that must Doosan People compete fairly in accordance 20, 2013, supporting the supplier’s adoption of CP to expand the voluntary teamwork grounded on confidence and Integrity and be kept in all aspects of our organization and Fair to the principles of free competition and Inhwa compliance culture of small business with fair trading A total of five warmth, Doosan People believe people are Transparency business. Competition observe related laws. suppliers participated in this celebration, which targeted those suppliers the foundation of our competitiveness, and we respect individuality. with a higher evaluation grade three and yearly sales of KRW 2 billion who wished to participate. These companies will be supported with CP related educational programs and consulting, a CP manual for small businesses, and CustomerDoosan People believe our customers are Community Doosan People engage in efforts to make a oriented the reason we exist, we judge and think from Development, trusted corporation promoting shared growth establishment of CP regulations. Doosan Corp anticipates prevention of law Innovation and our customers’ perspective, and promote Safety and with society. As members of society, we are violation by its primary suppliers through fair trading between primary and Growth Environment sustainable growth though endless innovation. responsible for the protection of people’s lives, secondary suppliers , and also through stabilization of supply and demand of safety and the environment. parts and quality. *Full version of Doosan's Code of Conduct is posted on website of Doosan 56 57 DOOSAN CORPORATION CSR Report 2013 Overview · Developing People · Reliable Operating · Responsible Engagement · Appendix Strengthen Product·Service Responsibility Our Business & Social Context Our Efforts Quality Management The importance of quality of product and production costs continue Doosan Corporation continues product R&D and quality innovation to Quality Management Principles to be emphasized due to intensified global competition, and quality provide its customers with safer and higher quality products. Doosan Doosan Corporation establishes customer satisfaction as its foremost value and engages in efforts to and technology have emerged as potential risks for the growth of Corp also supports its suppliers so that they can achieve the highest maximize customer satisfaction through quality innovation based on technical competitiveness. Doosan business. Countries, as well as corporations, are paying close attention quality products. Corp’s business operations will solidify quality competitiveness by enacting quality management policies, to quality enhancement with the intensification of the competition and by establishing and practicing specific quality strategies to abide by these policies. in securing energy and resources, and the reinforcement of product ● Efforts for Product Innovation environment and safety standards in nations. The US, European nations ● Customer Oriented R&D Quality Management Principles and China continue to invest in R&D every year. Product safety issues, ● Efforts to Secure Product Safety Electro-Materials Mottrol including recent large-scale recalls, are prominent in the industry, and ● Efforts for Customer Satisfaction With the pursuit of customer satisfaction based on quality established as its basic Based on the quality policy pursuing customer satisfaction through best products communication activities to solve these are emerging as major issues. principle, Electro-Materials builds a quality culture by practicing the following: zero and services, Mottrol considers both the safety and the environment conservation defects generation through quality assurance, high quality achievement through aspects of products and services to all stakeholders including customers. Mottrol maximizing quality limit, uniform quality insurance through statistical process established and operates a quality management system that fulfills quality policy, management, zero process failure and customer dissatisfaction from raw materials, and engages constantly in its best efforts to enhance quality. and quality consciousness on the part of all employees. Our Approach Future Action Industrial Vehicles Information & Communication (I&C) Doosan Corporation’s world-best technology and innovation guarantees Doosan Corporation, in addition to establishing product and service To realize world’s best quality that touches customers, Industrial Vehicle pursues Regarding major projects, I&C contributes to quality enhancement by establishing Doosan Corp’s survival, as it provides better products and services with responsibility strategy and policies, plans to reinforce product a strictly customer-oriented quality management policy including management a pre-quality guide and by conducting quality inspection at the completion stages innovation and parts quality training, improvement activities, quality assurance to check and maintain company standard observance and inconsistencies in continuous technological change and innovation. responsibility through education for product efficiency and the release infrastructure and activities improving reliability, and implementation of a quality quality beforehand. of health and safety information. management system audit. ● Differentiated high quality product R&D, including modernizing and miniaturizing, to expand customers’ benefit and value creation ● Releasing product and service health and safety information. ● Establishing infrastructures such as the reinforcement of the quality inspection ● Energy saving operation education targeting dealers within Korea Quality Management System process and cultivating managing experts, and product innovation through Doosan Corporation engages in efforts to acquire and maintain quality certification that satisfy the exchange activities with stakeholders demands of global customers. Electro-Materials operates a quality management system based on the ● Development of quality and safety guaranteed products and product quality ISO9001, and continues to manage quality based on it. Industrial Vehicle supplemented the existing responsibility activities to provide products possessing customer convenience and safety TQC System and rebuilt an ISO9001 quality management system, and all major partner companies ● Providing high value through communication, information protection and acquired the ISO9001 quality management system certification. Mottrol and Glonet continue to retain the increased satisfaction to its customers ISO 9001 quality management system since acquiring the certification, and the I&C operates a quality management system based on ISO9001 and ISO20000, and has also implemented a ITSM system to maximize customer value. *ITSM(Information Technology Service Management): Provide services that satisfy IT system users and maintain and improve service quality though continuous maintenance activities Stakeholder's Interview Strengthening Operation Competitiveness through Operational Innovation Daeduk Electronics’ qualifications as an ideal partner are fast payment and Daeduk Operational Innovation System | Doosan Corporation, by expanding and reorganizing the Operation high quality products. Electronics Excellence Team in September 2013, strengthens operational innovation. Employing operational Operational Innovation Cycle Department Head innovation experts, Doosan Corp is deriving and supporting core initiatives to strengthen quality, cost, Kim Yoosuk and delivery competitiveness for each subsidiary; and Doosan Corp conducts supporting activities Doosan Corporation Electro-Materials engages efforts to satisfy its demands on fast payment and high quality. But, not Supplementation Selection of pursuing the fundamental competitiveness of each subsidiary. It operates a regular communication and Improvement/ Direction all payment due dates are met and perfect products are delivered on all trading. What makes Doosan Corp Electrochannel between the corporation center and its subsidiaries to continuously monitor operational Compensation Alignment of Materials different from other companies is its fast response to problems. I can feel that Doosan Corp Electro-Materials innovation goals and the level of implementation, thereby promoting internalization of capability. Encouragement operation and always thinks from their customers’ perspective when they respond with assertion, and fast communication to solve any and expansion of strategy Securing Sustainability of Operational Innovation | To strengthen fundamental competitiveness and issues when a quality issues when they comes up. internal BP* realize advanced processes and systems promoted in the ‘Doosan Way’, Doosan Corporation develops I also think highly of their communication efficiency. Doosan Corporation Electro-Materials hosts tech seminars and various operational innovation activities along with change programs to spread the innovative mind market briefings which provide for mutual sharing of market status and latest technology, and also propose what and to continue positive change in the actual business on-site such as ‘technical employee group Doosan Corp and we, as suppliers, have to consider, from short term market responses to long term perspectives. Checking Execution activities’. The excellent operational competency secured through these programs allows for continuous Support for Mutual relationships with suppliers bring job satisfaction and shared growth through diverse communication channels & Monitoring performance creation and will become the foundation for endless growth. As part of the vitalization and activities to looking at the market in the long-term. In addition to delivering basic payment conditions and high quality, Doosan Corp Performance analysis strengthen internalization of operational innovation, Doosan Corp will host ‘Operational Innovation Best Practice and resolution of fundamental should become a company that thinks one step ahead and from the customer’s perspective. practical issues Exchange Meeting’ in November 2014 to stimulate operational innovation. This event is in association competitiveness with Doosan Corp’s drive for operational innovation. It will level up the operational competency standard *BP: Best Practice of Doosan Corp and thereby contribute to securing a consistent and continuous growth engine. 58 59 DOOSAN CORPORATION CSR Report 2013 Overview · Developing People · Reliable Operating · Responsible Engagement · Appendix Innovation in Product R&D Efforts for Quality Innovation Total R&D Investment The Present of R&D Investment Unit : 1 million KRW Systemized Cultivation of R&D Workforce Doosan Corporation continues its efforts to cater to differentiated customer values. It strives endlessly for We carry out functional improvement activities by registering customers’ demand on a VOC database technology development as an ISB leader what provides high quality products to increase profits and to 2011 20,954 through the corporate VOC Daily Report. Electro-Materials reviews the response history from various create value for its customers. To provide these products with the price competitiveness that the market 2012 24,752 perspectives through the corporate Quality Review Board (QRB), hosted by the tech director and demands with a more concentrated R&D competency, Doosan Corp invested KRW 34.7 billion in R&D in participated in by the sales and development director, production director, and the quality and technology 2013 34,667 center chief, and it discusses technology/quality details. The CEO’s monthly QRB performs not only 2013, 40% more than the previous year. R&D Investment Ratio a status inspection on the improvement process and balancing process, but also on major decision Contribution to Industry Advancement Through Electron Material Advance (2013 R&D Investment / Sales) making, aiming to fully satisfy the demands of customers. Electro-Materials developed the OLED and board material for circuit printing which are the essential Cultivating Quality Management Experts materials for the smart device and display industry, so it contributes to Korea’s competitiveness in the electrical industry by mass producing and distributing to worldwide electronic companies. Also, by fulfilling 2.24 % Doosan Corp engages in efforts to cultivate quality management experts to reinforce internal customer needs by launching highly functional FCCL used in smart phones and tablet PC’s, Doosan Corp competency, which is the foundation for securing quality. Electro-Materials engages in efforts to achieved first place in global market share. With the need for fast and large data transport due to the recent cultivate experts in foreign substance management, statistical analysis, reliability, and audit, to provide growth in smart devices, Doosan Corp is in process of planning for the launch of a core material needed in customers with stable quality products through management of raw materials, processes and products. data servers (communication network equipment) onto the market. In addition, Electro-Materials plans to promote quality management awareness throughout the company 1) OLED: Organic Light Emitting Diodes by conducting product quality education programs by job-level, and a worker verification system in 2) FCCL: Flexible Copper Clan Laminate 2014. Mottrol conducts four introductory programs including the ISO 9001 program and two intensive programs including SPC (Statistical Process Control) for its internal quality control personnel. Mottrol Product Innovation by Miniaturizing also has employees working in production quality control participate in the following programs: precision Mottrol conducts ongoing product development and product quality enhancement, and its traveling measurement, quality inspector qualification skills, basic quality management, and using the knowledge mechanism for excavators has been acknowledged as a ‘World-Class Product’ by the Ministry of Trade, learned to contribute to improving quality issues and establishing processes. Industry and Energy. In particular, the DPA Series, a hydraulic pump which is a core part in construction equipment, is a space saving product, 14% shorter I -length and 23% lighter than competitors’ products, Process Quality Improvement Activities and this was achieved by the optimization of the the swash plate angle control mechanism and the shaft Doosan Corporation improves its process quality through quality audit on all production processes. connection structure. The DPA series is an environmentally friendly product with its shorter length saving Electro-Materials inspects the process quality such as 3R 5S management and SPC management, the material cost and reducing space making it suitable for the compact design of construction equipment; through the CAR (Corrective Action Request) process, and remedies shortcomings by publishing it is also designed to reduce noise. an ‘inadequate data’ report for those in charge. Mottrol operates a CTQ (Critical to Quality) process management on those products or processes that need focused management to fulfill customers’ Development of Medical Materials demands. Also, it has been strengthening the management on relevant processes, analyzing and Glonet researches and develops highly purified phospholipids based on its accumulated biotechnology. managing the performance on those processes for which quantitative data can be collected. Mottrol The medical emulsifier extracted and refined from egg yolk was designated as a ‘World-Class adopted the new MES (Manufacturing Execution System) in December 2013, establishing a realProduct’ by the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy, and acknowledged as the safest emulsion for time statistical process management system, collecting data about production processes and quality the solubilization of poorly water soluble substances, including medical fat emulsion and fat soluble management. anesthetics, satisfying the diverse demands of customers and markets. Glonet continues to innovate by entering new markets such as enteral nutrition, an emerging category in this aging society. Innovation in Product R&D Infrastructure A Technical Information Exchange Meeting for Product Improvement with Partner Companies and Customers Efficiency of the R&D organization | Doosan Corporation engages in efforts Systemized Cultivation of R&D Workforce | To secure superiority in Electro-Materials conducts regular technology exchange meetings Electro-Materials takes part in product quality improvement exchange for organization efficiency to develop technologies and products that rapidly technological competition with advanced corporations, attraction of talented with suppliers and clients for product quality improvement. Electromeetings with clients every year. lead the market. Electro-Materials operated the business-oriented product individuals is needed together with the cultivation of researchers. Since 2013, Materials held quarterly meetings with its main raw material suppliers The 40 exchange meetings conducted in 2013 not only led to information development R&D and research-oriented advanced development R&D in good Electro-Materials promotes technology forums and a creative R&D culture and shared improvement activities and evaluation results to narrow down sharing but apprehending customer demands pre-delivery and reflecting balance, and Mottrol provides products with performance, quality and price to enhance researcher competency along with the establishment of a job an improvement direction. Electro-Materials registered chronic defects them onto the QDP (Quality Development Process) and increasing the competitiveness that the market demands based on its focused organization competency system, and further prepares for a customized educational as improvement tasks on both companies, and engaged in efforts to development of customer-satisfied products. competency made by regrouping R&D teams by technology. Glonet, with a program for individual competency through evaluation. Industrial Vehicle make substantial improvements on the raw materials, cross checking R&D Project Management System specialized for bio-businesses, established plans to expand educational opportunities for stronger early cultivation of its the improvement performances. Also, to be equipped with an advanced step-by-step goals and execution plans, and continues to optimize systems R&D workforce, and to reinforce the current training systems by utilizing the product quality system for product quality enhancement pre-delivery, and processes. Functional Competency Model, a researcher job matrix. 60 61 DOOSAN CORPORATION CSR Report 2013 Overview · Developing People · Reliable Operating · Responsible Engagement · Appendix Securing Product Safety Provide a System for Product Liability Improving Safety Through Product Information Doosan Corporation has a product responsibility system to fulfill safe product and quality assurance. Doosan Corporation prevents damage to the customer caused by safety accidents, providing information Mottrol operates product assurance activities, emphasizing the following basic product quality assurance on technology and safety for all products within the product manual. Electro-Materials releases activities: CTQ process, 4M change point management process, production self-inspection, process information on technology and regulated materials on all products, making yearly updates on the quality audit. regulated materials available. Glonet draws up a report on all information since the beginning of Products go through PDI (Pre-Delivery Inspection), checking performance, measurements and exterior development of a new product at its research institute and provides the MSDS (Material Safety Data before reaching customers for safe and verified product distribution. Also, Glonet voluntarily operates an Sheet) for each product to customers. internal auditor system to find and fix needs for improvement within the production process, as required by Quality Management System. This system is the key activities to improving products and processes by pre-emptive action to prevent inappropriate processes and production. 1) CTQ(Critical To Quality) : Pruducts and processes needing focused management to satisfy customer demands Efforts for Customer Satisfaction 2) 4M Change Point Management: Process model where 4M, man, machine, material and method, are the centers of change. Customer Satisfaction Activity Principles Customers are the reason for Doosan Corporation to exist. Therefore, Doosan Corp endlessly tries to Activities Reinforcing Product Safety provide customers with more exceptional value than its competitors. Doosan Corp listens closely to its Doosan Corporation conducts a number of reinforcement activities to secure product safety. Industrial customers’ opinions and respecting them, makes great efforts to meet their expectations. Doosan Corp Vehicle conducts quality cross-checks when making a new model using the same method as when will continue to work aggressively to provide reliable products and offer prompt service. the quality of mass produced vehicles is checked, conducting comparative evaluations with current mass produced vehicles and on plan specification satisfaction. During the process, production strategy Direct Communication Channels with Customers technology, production and the service team who have expert knowledge on the vehicle and the Doosan Corporation takes measures for prompt communication with customers through various working environment collaborate to find the problems that can occur with long-term use, complaints channels. It provides real-time after-sales service through its website and call centers, dividing them into that customers might have during maintenance and maintenance convenience, before reaching its separate service areas so they can quickly respond inquiries whenever and wherever. Once a VOC (Voice of customers. Industrial Vehicle follows this process with endless modifications and supplements to Customer) is registered, the VOC is then redirected to representatives for each product, and also registered remedy those problems identified. Mottrol also operates the ‘NPD Process’ which prevents problems on the website. The numbers, nature of VOCs from all businesses, and the customer information and TAT at each stage of development from continuing on to the next stage. Through this, assurance of safety (turn around time) can be monitored real time on the VOC website. An internal intranet VOC website is and quality can be achieved at each stage, from the development stages until the product reaches the also operated and the VOCs are shared across the corporation. Using this, Electro-Materials reinforces the customers. Mottrol ultimately increases customer satisfaction by ‘launching products with safety and ‘customer response mind’ through substance management education, which determines the quality of quality assurance’. the electro-material, and education and improvement activities for quality management. Industrial Vehicle reinforces customer communication by paying visits to customers worldwide, and through operation of an online customer service center in Korea. Doosan Corp also continues its efforts for customer satisfaction through a general meeting system on customer satisfaction collected through different channels once a month. Enhancing Customer Satisfaction Doosan Corporation operates effective response through voluntary product quality inspection and customer satisfaction surveys every year. Mottrol went a step further in 2013 by breaking down the survey content by category and conducting online surveys alongside with offline surveys to collect diverse and objective evaluations. Electro-Materials responds with immediate improvement activities by analyzing customer evaluations by category and by level, and requesting solutions to the related team for those requiring internal improvements. It also makes efforts to increase customer satisfaction with a customized response matrix, managing the customer satisfaction KPI by product and by customer type in a company internal index. Doosan Corp will continue its efforts to satisfy its customers by promptly meeting customer demands, expanding customer survey targets, and conducting more frequent surveys. Enhancing Information Security Doosan Corporation established and runs ‘Doosan Information Security Policy’ to protect its customers from any personal information leakage. It performs legal compliance review through regular Information Security Education performance inspections for customer information protection, and conducts programs to raise the Hours(2013) security awareness of all employees. Also, by fundamentally blocking any outward leakage of our customer information, we have never found any complaint related to customer information protection or Unit: Hours Total Hours 13,859 loss of customer data in 3 years. Hours Per Person 4.3 Activity reinforcing industrial vehicle safety. 62 63 Responsible Engagement Doosan Corporation shares a warm heart and cultivates new hope to make a sustainable society everyone dreams of. DOOSAN CORPORATION CSR Report 2013 Overview · Developing People · Reliable Operating · Responsible Engagement · Appendix Strategic Community Participation Development Our Business & Social Context Our Efforts Corporate Community Involvement Direction and Performance Corporate community involvement, a firm’s most sincere way of Doosan Corp, with its belief in“investment and management in advance Strategy and Implementation communicating with a local community, has taken its place as an for the future”, provides long-term corporate community involvement Doosan Corp set ‘Growth and Independence of People as its main theme based on its corporate essential element in corporate management. Corporate community towards the target to enhance society’s future competitiveness through philosophy, and it continues strategic and sustainable corporate community involvement activities. With involvement is more than a simple act of donation or community human growth. the 5 key initiatives as the center, the corporation pursues a mutual development of the firm and of society service, but it is the company’s means of solving issues with the society, by conducting ongoing activities in the local community, and it also considers the community’s need and it also offers another opportunity for the company to pursue profit. ● Development and operation of new forms of educational programs such as and demand in the whole process of corporate community involvement from planning to evaluating and <The Time Traveler> and <University Student Mentoring Program>, targeting The company, through corporate community involvement, not only supplementing. In addition, Doosan Corp increases the effect of corporate community involvement by youth, the future leaders fulfills its duty as a corporate citizen, but also creates positive influence deploying its maximum resources and by intimately cooperating with stakeholders in the local community. ● Support activities in various areas of life and independence of less privileged by sharing its corporate philosophy with the local community and by people, cultural development, and international relief by identifying Recently, Doosan Corp strengthened the performance management which had previously be neglected increasing fellowship among employees. issues within a local community in existing corporate community involvement activities, and it now enhances the value of corporate ● Voluntary community services and donations based on corporate citizenship community involvement by constantly monitoring the process and by objectively analyzing the effect on local community. Our Approach Future Action Growth and Independence of people Doosan Corp considers corporate community involvement a Doosan Corp plans to identify the needs and demands of the local Mission: Improvement of community competitiveness and company value through fundamental duty of any member of society, and the corporation, community, and further to perform authentic corporate community corporate community involvement reflecting its own characteristics, plays a role as an exemplary involvement activities that provide practical assistance to the local 5 Key Initiatives member by developing and supporting essential corporate community community for its sustained growth. Starting in the year 2014, the involvement to the community. The corporation, in addition to solicitude corporation intends to concentrate on proposing a blueprint which ·Local community based activities or sharing action for the less privileged, attempts to contribute to enhances future competence of the local community based on the ·Reflection of local community needs society in order to create a bright future by resolving fundamental social social contributive brand, ‘Doosan Community Blueprint’. Local issue using its most confident approach. Community Education ● Development and operation of a long-term program that can strengthen the Centered ·Consideration of characteristics and provision for independent power of a local community status of each company ● Educational activities supporting the holistic growth of the future generation with the the future theme of ‘Growth and independence of people’, under our belief that education is the Consideration ·Use of human and material resources ● Establishment of a performance management system to objectively evaluate generation leading foundation stone of the development of our society and examine the effects of corporate community involvement on the local on Business ● Focus on solving a fundamental social issue utilizing a corporate philosophy community Environment and business characteristics after identiffying issues of the local community. ● Expansion of participation opportunities in corporate community involvement Growth and arrangement of support system for employees Employee’s support for the ● Creation of a voluntary Corporate Community Involvement culture through direct participation of employees in community service and donations ·Creation of a voluntary Participation community ● Network formation and coordination around local community stakeholders participation culture ·Creation of employee communication Participation Sustainability Stakeholder's Interview ·Rejection of one-off community activities of service or donation employees Doosan Corporation is concern for what is really needed in our community and Art & Community ·Operation for at least a year engages in corporate community involvement activities for the future. Network Partnership Team Manager ·Creation of a cooperative system between public Formation and private agencies Jang Raejoo ·Synergy creation through cooperation of related The Art & Community Network expands young people’s perspectives on humanities, and provides support in each agencies and experts Corporate Community Involvement business of culture and art education by producing and executing a range of educational programs. Since 2012, along Performance with Doosan Corp, we have practiced a joint culture and art program. While corporate community involvement usually Unit : One million KRW target children, Doosan Corp targets youth groups under its philosophy of talent cultivation, therefore fitting in with our ‘Art & Community Network’. Personally, it was very helpful and worthwhile to work with Doosan Corp, which considers 2012 6,871 the need for the local community and attempts to perform authentic corporate community involvement. We are now Performance of Social Constitution 2013 7,972 proceeding with educational activities for the youth on history, the environment, and the community through the medium of photography. Our joint program is now in the process of design and progress to broaden the young peoples’ sight on Doosan Corp invested KRW 8 billion in 2013 for community growth, including future generation education support, community growth increase and employee participation, with an annual increment in the Number of Participants in Corporate the humanities and to provide a sense of fulfillment through exhibitions. We also attempt to bring out change and growth Community Involvement(2013) of those youths with defensive characteristics and low self-confidence. investment amount. The range of corporate community involvement investment, which used to be limited First class education with 60 participants began in the districts of Jung-gu, Jongno-gu, Dongdaemun-gu, where Doosan Corp’s head office is located; it is now expanding over all areas of Seoul as it has received a positive response. We believe to philanthropic donation, expands to various social contributing programs such as <The Time Traveler>, <Environment Reformation Project>, and <University Student Mentoring Program>. Employee donations 1,684 Persons that it is a plausible outcome for Doosan Corp’s continuous effort to provide high quality education by researching and Participation Hours in Corporate continuously increase with the promotion of employee donation activities; along with this, employee’s developing new curriculums every year. Moreover, we expect further growth as we make efforts to stimulate students to Community Involvement(2013) participation is growing annually as well. During the year 2013, a total of 1,684 employees participated in lead in voluntary changes during the classes. community service for 9,241 hours; the content of the community service also expands from basic labor services to diverse areas including talent sharing and mentoring. 9,241 Hour 66 67 Overview · Developing People · Reliable Operating · Responsible Engagement · Appendix Doosan Corporation’s Representative Program, Teen Emotional Sensibility Development Project “The Time Traveler” Education Support for Future Generation Doosan Corp, with its belief that education is the basis of both individual and corporate, and even national development, provides support for the holistic growth of the future generation based on the theme of ‘growth Starting with the Community’s Demands and Needs | Doosan Corp’s and independence of the people’. The corporation also offers activities programs such as emotional cultivation, representative corporate community involvement activity, <The Time scholarship, vocational education, and mentoring in order to give the future generation with an uncertain Traveler>, is a program to cultivate sights and independent will among future and an inflexible educational environment an opportunity to grow into healthy members of society. middle and high school students with concerns on their unstable family In the case of Doosan Corp’s representative program, <The Time Traveler>, it performs objective verification environment and uncertain future. From the beginning phase of the of the effects of corporate community involvement on participants and even on society at large, and it is program, Doosan Corp was concerned with the resolution to the issues constantly supplemented and improved on in order to maximize the effect of the program. above, and it came to the conclusion that an essential but insufficiently met need of current teenagers is ‘emotional cultivation’ through Stepping Stones for Environment Reformation Project consulting with stakeholders of government, local governments, and Doosan Corporate FM, with its advantage as a business, provides support for the growth of the future schools. Doosan Corp thereby began developing <The Time Traveler> generation in a pleasant and safe environment by repairing and renovating deteriorated facilities of local to offer improvement on ‘emotional cultivation’ of teens through the community children’s centers, community centers, and orphanages. We plan to take advantage of our consultation and participation of experts in different specialties. business and continue to provide practical contributions to local communities. University Student Mentoring Program <The Time Traveler> Exhibition Doosan Corp engages in activities to bolster the will of youths at their most important stage of becoming Support on Consilience Education through the Medium of Photography | members of the society. For the mentoring program targeting Chung-Ang University students, the <The Time Traveler> provides teenagers with an opportunity to review employees of Doosan Corp play role of mentors, concern students’ future career and employment with themselves from various perspectives by combining humanities, which them, and provide active advice and direction of their life. We provide one-on-one matching between a have the power to look into the root of a person or an object, and the mentor and student according to different categories of job, gender, and age through survey, and allow them medium of photography, which allows us to express ourselves freely. to share knowledge and experience. We cultivate the quality of education by developing a curriculum with Scholarship and Supplies Provision writers, Byung Woo Bae and Joong Man Kim, professors, Dae Hwe Ahn, Byung Ju Shin, Byuing Yi Yang, and a dancer, Eun Mi Ahn. We also lead Doosan Corp helps talented individuals realize their dreams through scholarships. In 2013, we provided teenagers’ interest and active participation through diverse activities development funds for both Chung-Ang and Seoul National Universities. The corporation also supports such as discussion, outdoor photo shoots, camping, community service, child/youth facilities such as community children’s centers and community centers located near its and exhibitions. Since the program’s launch in July, 2012, the total of business facilities with supplies of computers, books, and office supplies in order to improve children’s 155 middle and high school students successfully completed all of the educational environment. Furthermore, Doosan Corp provides funds for school uniforms and meals so 30 courses, and in two exhibitions in 2012 and 2013, they also shared that the students can adapt easily to school life. their photographs and essays with more than 10,000 viewers. (Student Work) We need photosynthesis There is a kid playing games on his phone every break. He is really fat and weak. He plays LOL at home and Cookie Run at school. He lacks Vitamin D because he doesn’t get any sun. The kid needs to photosynthesize. Like those flowers. Objective Effect Verification | The results of the joint research with Chung-Ang University on the effect of <the Time Traveler> over two years showed that teenagers who participated in the program not only improved their self-esteem, self-efficacy, sociality, and emotional (Student Work) Mom empathy, but they also showed a stress index reduced by 30% or more; therefore, we confirmed that the program actually helps teenagers’ I thought about my mom while taking this picture. emotional development. We plan to run quantitative and qualitative Whenever I’m flustered, or shaken, tests continuously to keep track of any transitions in the teenagers, and She always directed me to the right place with advice and spanking. further improve the overall quality of the research by interviewing those Wouldn’t the ship be thankful to the sail? who are close to the students such as parents and teachers. In that way I thank my mom. Representative Program <The Time Traveler> Environment Reformation Project 68 69 DOOSAN CORPORATION CSR Report 2013 Overview · Developing People · Reliable Operating · Responsible Engagement · Appendix Supporting Community Growth Employee Participated Activities Local Community Support Employee Fund Business Doosan Corp engages in aid activities for less privileged individuals such as children of low-income Employees of Doosan Corp create a corporate community involvement fund by donating a fixed amount families, children raised by grandparents, and seniors living alone to have healthy lives. Along with of their monthly salary, and through the Matching Grant system, the corporation develops its Community the voluntary participation of employees, the corporation and local governments together provide rice, Involvement by donating the same amount as the employees. Doosan Corp, instead of spending employee clothes, and briquettes to the less privileged class. In addition, we sponsor many non-profit organizations funds as a simple donation or community service expense, appoints and operates its Community to help sick members of local communities. Involvement business through a fund committee composed of employee representatives. Starting with <Single Moms’ Independence Support Project> through the 2012 Community Chest of Korea, we provided Promotion of Culture aid to the <Youth Growth Scholarship Project> with Seoul Scholarship Foundation and <Single Moms’ Doosan Corp, with the acknowledgement of cultural activity’s influence on the community, continuously Independence Support Project> through the foundation of Babo Nanum. In line with a decision made by fund sponsors various cultural areas of sports, music, and humanities. We provide support on cultivation of committee, we continue to pursue funds in 2014 with the linked foundations of 2013. Share-a-Meal future gymnasts and Korea Special Olympic for sports area, and further provide cultural promotion through support on mecenat project, exhibitions, and museum operations. Regular Outreach Program Nowadays, teenagers are under a lot of stress due to the competition-based educational environment. In International Relief particular, low-income children and teenagers require emotional support in addition to physical aid for their Doosan Corp joins in international relief activities to fulfill our social role as a global corporation. We spare unstable family environment. Doosan Corp supports regular community service for the emotional cultivation no expense in providing medical supplies, necessities, and restoration costs to international emergency of low-income children and teenagers by annually developing new cultural programs. In 2013, our new relief missions arising after yearly natural disasters such as the tsunami in Philippines. We also continue genre of cultural art project ‘Shadow Play’ not only comforted the bodies and minds of local children, but our support for international social responsibility by participating in international water aid for African it also provided them an opportunity to express themselves openly. Moreover, we provided a meaningful refugees through global NGOs. experience to fulfill achievement and worthiness by hosting at the end of the year a performance show by our employees and those children. Sending Tea with Love Doosan Corp has conducted ‘Sending Tea with Love’ for 23 years since 1991 to thank soldiers on the Volunteer Week frontline. We provide an annual encouragement activity by visiting our twinned troops, providing such Since 2013, Doosan Corp designates one week as ‘Volunteer Week’ when all its business operations necessities as tea, coffee, and heating supplies, as well as having conversations. Moreover, we provide participate in community service for the improvement of local community welfare. We have been wellbooks, PDPs and TVs, and establish libraries in barracks, in order to support their cultural activities. received by local communities for improving single mom care facility (flower garden construction, mural drawing, facility repair, etc.), providing a first birthday photo service for single moms’ babies, preserving cultural assets, and offering food service for homeless or for seniors who live alone. We elicited employees’ voluntary participation by letting them choose which activity to be a part of. Doosan Corp plans to expand joint corporate community involvement activities to create synergy among different business operations. Tea with Love Delivering charcoal briquettes Single Mom’s Fund Delivery Ceremony Drawing Murals 70 71 Overview · Developing People · Reliable Operating · Responsible Engagement · Appendix Economic data Creation of Economic Performance (Unit: 1 million KRW) Category 2011 2012 2013 Total assets 3,212,763 3,149,139 3,291,631 Balance Sheet Current assets 699,148 567,179 571,884 (Financial Status) Non-current assets 2,513,616 2,581,960 2,719,748 Total liabilities 1,198,100 1,165,531 1,323,744 Current liabilities 562,604 438,272 487,660 Non-current liabilities 635,496 727,259 836,084 Total Capital 2,014,663 1,983,608 1,967,887 Capital Stock 154,295 132,778 132,894 Appendix Additional Paid In Capital 712,269 729,523 638,682 Other capital adjustments (343,704) (333,675) (368,033) Other Accumulated income (loss) (1,493) 16,050 39,434 Earned Surplus 1,493,296 1,438,932 1,524,910 Total Liabilities and Capital 3,212,763 3,149,139 3,291,631 Income Statement Operating Income 1,730,330 1,487,631 1,652,025 (Business Performance) Sales 1,660,490 1,439,962 1,549,828 Dividends profit 69,840 47,669 102,196 Operating costs 1,544,545 1,361,343 1,456,584 Cost of sales 1,297,049 1,104,020 1,187,253 Sales Cost and Administrative Expenses 247,496 257,323 269,330 73 Economic Data Operating Profit 185,785 126,288 195,441 75 Social Data Non-operating Profit 46,450 33,415 37,631 77 Environmental Data Non-operating Expense 68,390 62,614 74,657 78 Third Party Verification Profit (loss) before Corporation Tax 163,845 97,089 158,415 80 GRI Indicators Corporation Tax Expense 13,758 23,973 19,173 84 UN Global Compact Continuous Operating Profit 150,087 73,115 139,242 85 Membership Status of Committee and Colloquium Discontinuous Operating Profit 5,180 12,292 10,446 Net Income 155,267 85,407 149,688 72 73 DOOSAN CORPORATION CSR Report 2013 Overview · Developing People · Reliable Operating · Responsible Engagement · Appendix Social Data Economic Performance Sharing Employment and welfare status (Unit: 100 million KRW) Category Unit 2011 2012 2013 Stakeholder Content 2011 2012 2013 Total Employees people 3,073 3,353 4,038 Investors Interest expense 315 357 375 Employee of Electro-Materials people 1,377 1,404 1,477 Shareholders Dividends 579 653 743 each Business Industrial Vehicles people 528 Customers Sales 16,605 14,400 15,498 Operations Mottrol people 604 559 592 Partner companies Purchase Expense 10,633 8,773 12,794 Glonet people 235 253 102 Employees Employee wages, retirement payment, welfare expenses 2,034 2,037 2,828 Information and Communication people 509 541 569 (Based on financial statement) Facilities Management (FM) people 252 263 Government Tax and dues and corporate tax expense based on Financial Statement 159 273 224 Business operations, management headquarters people 348 344 498 Local Community Donation and corporate community involvement activity expenses 69 80 Permanent employee people 2,771 3,107 3,716 Total 30,326 26,562 32,542 Employee Status Temporary employee people 302 246 313 R&D Gender Male people 2,614 2,881 3,477 Female people 459 472 552 Category Unit 2011 2012 2013 Disabled (Handicapped/Disadvantaged) people 32 34 39 Employment diversity R&D Investment 1 million KRW 20,954 24,752 34,667 Veteran people 22 25 33 R&D Investment / Sales ratio % 1.26 1.72 2.24 New Recruit Permanent employee people 365 363 124 Temporary employee (excluding dispatched employees) people 464 245 288 Credit Rating Turnover rate* % 4.5 4.9 3.3 Category 2011 2012 2013 No. of employees who received proper performance evaluation* % 99.4 99.5 99.3 Labor union Korea Investors Service Inc. A+ A+ A+ Membership rate % 99.5 97.0 98.8 membership status** Korea Ratings Corporation A+ A+ A+ Maternity Leave No. of employees who used maternity leave people 7 22 10 NICE Information Service Co. A+ A+ A+ No. of employees who returned from maternity leave people 6 19 9 No. of employee who worked for 12+ months after people 4 15 5 returning from maternity leave Retirement Support Operational Cost 1 million KRW 22,739 51,580 Defined Benefit Retirement Pension(DB) people 2,972 3,656 Defined Contribution Retirement Pension(DC) people 3 * data collection range : Office worker **data collection range : Electro-Materials ,Industrial Vehicles, Mottrol Production technical post A total of 4,029 employees contribute to Doosan Corp’s future. We recruit through various channels, including regular open recruitment, rolling experience recruitment, internships and industry-education scholarships; and operate a fair selection policy based on competency, removing family information and grade submission from the hiring process. We operate a fair and rational HR policy without any discrimination on grounds of nationality, gender, religion, ethnicity, age, or education. 74 75 DOOSAN CORPORATION CSR Report 2013 Overview · Developing People · Reliable Operating · Responsible Engagement · Appendix Environmental Data Employee Education Item unit 2011 2012 2013 Item Unit 2011 2012 2013 Raw Materials Ton 104,579 77,093 79,785 Employee Training Total Cost 1 million KRW 11,921 18,855 11,791 copper foil Ton 11,937 10,599 9,598 Total Time Hours 167,214 185,619 214,637 Glass Fabric Ton 23,635 23,793 24,559 Educational cost per person 1000 KRW/person 3,879 5,623 2,927 epoxy resin Ton 13,999 12,963 12,517 Educational hours per person hour/person 74 73 67 phenol Ton 4,063 2,277 883 Ethics and Information Ethics Management Education Hours hour/person 0.3 0.4 0.7 methanol Ton 8,228 4,696 2,402 Safety Education Sexual Harassment Prevention Education Hours hour/person 0.8 0.7 0.7 Steel Plate Ton 4,549 Compliance Program Hours hour/person 13.2 casting Ton 42,039 21,748 24,476 Information Safety Education Hours hour/person 7.8 8.0 4.3 egg yolk lecithin Ton 275 378 295 Shared-Growth ethanol Ton 176 244 213 acetone Ton 227 396 293 Item Unit 2011 2012 2013 Recycling materials (ethanol and amount Ton 357 563 447 No. of Major Supplier units 113 120 227 acetone) use ratio % 52.7 55.3 55.8 Total Supplier Purchase Amount 1 million KRW 10,633 8,773 12,794 Energy intensity (amount / sales) TJ/1 billion KRW 1.0 1.1 1.0 Major Supplier Purchase Amount 1 million KRW 5,182 3,827 8,235 Energy TJ 1,659 1,590 1,593 Small and Medium Business Total Purchase Amount 1 million KRW 4,758 3,722 6,568 Electricity TJ 1,035 989 1,012 Small and Medium Business Holiday Pre-Payment Amount 1 million KRW 552 783 1,020 Gas TJ 623 602 581 Water resources Ton 517,254 537,584 581,030 Corporate Community Involvement water supply Ton 220,873 210,487 284,906 underground water Ton 220,918 250,907 227,626 Item Unit 2011 2012 2013 industrial water Ton 75,463 76,190 68,498 Corporate Community Involvement Investment Amount 1 million KRW 6,871 7,972 Total Reused and Recycled Water Ton 277,173 296,464 319,376 Corporate Community Involvement Participation Status persons 1,354 1,684 Waste Discharge Ton 14,676 14,704 14,768 Corporate Community Involvement Participation Hours hours 7,045 9,241 Recycled Ton 11,262 11,711 11,740 landfill Ton 134 93 157 Incinerated Ton 3,281 2,901 2,870 Hazardous waste Ton 8,125 9,555 9,183 Greenhouse gas emission tCO2e 81,969 78,611 78,722 Scope 1 tCO2e 31,396 30,318 29,264 Scope 2 tCO2e 50,572 48,293 49,458 Greenhouse gas intensity (amount / sales) tCO2e/100 million KRW 4.9 5.5 5.1 Greenhouse gas emission per Electro-Materials tCO e2 68,468 67,126 62,857 Business Division Industrial Vehicles tCO2e 5,014 4,583 3,665 Mottrol tCO2e 11,576 9,230 9,813 Glonet tCO2e 1,925 2,255 2,386 Water Waste Generated Ton 487,388 446,231 430,148 Chemical oxygen demand(COD) ppm 20 22 24 Biochemical oxygen demand(BOD) ppm 12 12 17 Environmental Investment Amount 1000 KRW 1,048,950 281,910 948,750 *Data collected from: Electro-Materials, Industrial Vehicle, Mottrol, Glonet business divisions in Korea **includes the recycling materials ratio of ethanol and acetone. 76 77 DOOSAN CORPORATION CSR Report 2013 Overview · Developing People · Reliable Operating · Responsible Engagement · Appendix Third Party Verification Statement Introduction Conclusion Doosan Corporation commissioned DNV GL to perform third party verification of the ‘2013 Corporate Social Responsibility Report’ (‘the Report’ hereafter). After verification, DNV GL concluded that Doosan Corp’s 2013 sustainability management strategy, management system and performances presented in The verification focuses on the management and reporting processes related to the information presented in the Report. the report are fair. Additional suggestions about the principles specified on the AA1000APS (2008) are explained below. Doosan Corp holds all responsibility for the collection, analysis, gathering and reporting of all information presented in this Report. The contract limits the Inclusivity: Doosan Corp conducted inclusive participation of its stakeholders on issues related with sustainability management. There are 6 stakeholder responsibilities of DNV GL during the verification to the job scope listed on the contract. DNV GL conducted the verification under the assumption that all groups identified in this report: shareholders and investors, customers, partner companies, employees, local community, and government, and the data and information provided are complete, sufficient, and true. The readers of Doosan Corp’s CSR report are its stakeholders. report present major suggestions and communication channels for each of these groups. Each business department use direct and indirect methods to identify stakeholders’ major concerns, and carries out active communication and participation. Doosan Corp also reflected the online stakeholder surveys on its materiality test, and reflected the interests and anticipations of its stakeholders on this report. Verification Range Materiality: Doosan Corp identified a pool of major issues after analyzing global standards, benchmarking competitors, analyzing media and reviewing The verification duty of DNV GL includes data from 2013. The verification range is the headquarters and business operations located in Korea. Verification internal documents, and prioritized sustainability issues reflecting stakeholder opinions confirmed through interviews. Doosan Corp reports 2013 engagement undertaken is as follows: performances related to materiality. ·Evaluation of sustainability report content and the defining principles of quality in accordance with GRI G4 Responsiveness: Doosan Corp prepared stakeholder opinions, concerns and anticipations in the report and reflected them in systemizing the ·Evaluation of accountability principles presented on AA1000 Accountability Principles Standard (APS) 2008 according to the AA1000 Assurance Standard (AS) corporation’s sustainability management. Doosan Corp presents its CSR strategy and governance through the report. Doosan Corp established a CSR 2008 (Type 2, mid-level guarantee). Committee to implement sustainability management and built foundations for strategy execution. In the stakeholder participation section, the report ·Verification of the content released on ‘in accordance’ Core in the GRI G4 Guideline (verification of high-level data and activities related to sustainability presents and reports the anticipations and demands of each stakeholder group to increase responsiveness. from January to December 2013) Identified issues related to specific performance information: In addition to the evaluation of Doosan Corp’s abidance by AA100APS (2008) principles ·DNV GL conducted verification at Doosan Corp HQ and its 5 business operations’ business on-sites from April 2014 to May 2014. mentioned above, DNV GL verified the reliability of information and data (Type 2 Verification). We conducted interviews with persons in charge, heard about the data handling process, and confirmed the collection and work process, and base documents and records. DNV GL conducted a detailed type Limitations 2 verification on the environmental, health and safety data. After analysis and evaluation of Doosan Corp’s processes of specific information and data generation, the verification team confirmed that the information and data published are the results of stable and repetitive activity. This report does not cover sustainability management, performance and report processes of organizations, suppliers, partner companies and third parties mentioned in the report outside Doosan Corp’s control. DNV GL does not conduct interviews with external stakeholders during the verification process. This Recommendations verification does not include Doosan Corp’s business report, official documents from 2013-2014 and financial-related evidentiary materials. Comparison with Below is a summary of observations and recommendations provided to Doosan Corp’s management. The following do not affect the verification results, Doosan Corp’s internal documents and financial information audited by financial audit agency verified the economic performance including financial data, and are provided to promote continuous improvement: and the verification team reviewed and tested the data collection and assessment process for economic performance. A confirmation method of collected data verified social and environmental data. DNV GL specifies that it has no obligation of liability or joint responsibility for an individual or organization that ·Setting goals by CSR priority, adoption of performance index and report strategy execution status for the execution of the CSR strategy presented in the makes a decision based on this statement. report ·Systematic management of major processes (data collection, analysis, report editing, etc.) through documented procedures for publication of the report ·Implementation of a periodic internal verification to enhance data and information quality using the verified management system Verification Methodology ·Reinforcement of process to reflect stakeholder suggestions identified in the constant stakeholder participated activities in the materiality assessment DNV GL performed the verification in accordance with the VeriSustainTM, a verification protocol for sustainability management reports, and the AA1000AS (2008). The verification team confirmed the texts and claims related to sustainability presented in this report, and evaluated the flow of information and Eligibility and Independence solidity of the regulation. The verification team reviewed documents, data and other information provided by Doosan Corp and confirmed by conducting interviews with the person in charge. It also collected information and technological data generated from a certified management system and conducted DNV GL provides various sustainability management services including sustainability management report verification. DNV GL’s environmental and verification using a sampling screening method on the items stated below: social assurance professionals are active in 100 countries. DNV GL, excluding the current statement, did not engage in any duties associated to the technical details or data preparation in this report. DNV GL maintained neutrality during stakeholder interviews during the verification process. ·Process determining materiality of report contents ·Quantitative and qualitative data generation, collection and management process included in the report ·The accuracy of the data subject for verification June 2014 Seoul, South Korea Inkyun Ahn CEO and Director 78 79 DOOSAN CORPORATION CSR Report 2013 Overview · Developing People · Reliable Operating · Responsible Engagement · Appendix GRI Indicators *Reported : ●Reported, ◐Partially Reported Category Index Core Content Reported Page Verified Category Index Core Content Reported Page Verified 1. General Standard Disclosures 1. General Standard Disclosures Strategy and Analysis G4-1 Core A statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization ● 2~5 ● Report whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer (and, if so, his or her G4-39 ● 18 ● function within the organization’s management and the reasons for this arrangement). 2~5, 14~17, 21, 22~23, G4-2 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities ● ● 25~27 The nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body and its committees, and the criteria G4-40 ● 18 ● used for nominating and selecting highest governance body members Organizational Profile G4-3 Core Name of the organization ● 12 ● G4-4 Core Primary brands, products, and services ● 14~17 ● 18, 19, Business Report G4-41 Processes for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided and managed ● ● 219, 222, 225 G4-5 Core Location of the organization’s headquarters ● 12, 13 ● The highest governance body’s and senior executives’ roles in the development, approval, and updating of Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries where either the G4-42 the organization’s purpose, value or mission statements, strategies, policies, and goals related to economic, ● 18, 19, 20 ● G4-6 Core organization has significant operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics ● 12, 13 ● environmental and social impacts covered in the report Measures taken to develop and enhance the highest governance body’s collective knowledge of economic, G4-7 Core Nature of ownership and legal form ● 12 ● G4-43 ● 18 ● environmental and social topics Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers and The highest governance body’s role in the identification and management of economic, environmental and G4-8 Core ● 12, 13 ● G4-45 ● 18, 19, 20 ● beneficiaries) social impacts, risks, and opportunities. Scale of the organization (Total number of employees, net sales, total capitalization, products and The highest governance body’s role in reviewing the effectiveness of the organization’s risk management G4-9 Core ● 12~17 ● G4-46 ● 18, 19, 20 ● services) processes for economic, environmental and social topics 75, Business Report The frequency of the highest governance body’s review of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, G4-10 Core Total number of employees ● ● G4-47 ● 19, 20 ● 22~27, 232 and opportunities G4-11 Core Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements ● 75 ● The highest committee or position that formally reviews and approves the organization’s sustainability report G4-48 ● 20 ● G4-12 Core Describe the organization’s supply chain ● 24, 52~55, 76 ● and ensures that all material Aspects are covered Significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s size, structure, about this report Nature and total number of critical concerns that were communicated to the highest governance body and G4-13 Core ● ● G4-50 ● 19 ● ownership, or its supply chain Business Report 12~13 the mechanism(s) used to address and resolve them G4-14 Core Report whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization ● 22, 23 ● Remuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior executives for the below types of G4-51 ● 19 ● remuneration List externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other G4-15 Core ● 84 ● initiatives to which the organization subscribes or which it endorses Ratio of the annual total compensation for the organization’s highest-paid individual in each country of Business Report G4-54 significant operations to the median annual total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid ● ● Memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and national or international 232, 233 G4-16 Core ● 85 ● individual) in the same country advocacy organizations in which the organization Organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes of conduct and codes of G4-17 Core Entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents ● 7, 12, 13 ● Ethics and Integrity G4-56 Core ● 57, homepage* ● Identified Material Aspects ethics and Boundaries G4-18 Core Process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries ● 25~27 ● Internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful behavior, and matters related to G4-57 ● 57 ● G4-19 Core Material aspects identified in the process for defining report content ● 27 ● organizational integrity, such as helplines or advice lines G4-20 Core Report the Aspect Boundary within the organization ● 25~27 ● Internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior, and matters G4-58 related to organizational integrity, such as escalation through line management, whistleblowing mechanisms ● 55 ● G4-21 Core Report the Aspect Boundary outside the organization ● 25~27 ● or hotlines Effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such G4-22 Core ● First Published Report ● Category Index Content Reported Page ISO 26000 Verified restatements 2. Specific standard disclosures G4-23 Core Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries ● First Published Report ● Economy Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 Core List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization ● 24 ● G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed ● 24, 73, 74 6.8.1-6.8.2, 6.8.3, 6.8.7, 6.8.9 ● G4-25 Core Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage ● 24 ● Economic Organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type performance Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for G4-EC2 ● 42, 44, 46 6.5.5 ● G4-26 Core and by stakeholder group, and an indication of whether any of the engagement was undertaken ● 24~27 ● the organization’s activities due to climate change specifically as part of the report preparation process G4-EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations ● 37, 75 6.8.7 ● Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from government ● Business Report 279 ● G4-27 Core ● 27 ● organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting Indirect economic Development and impact of infrastructure investments and Report Profile G4-28 Core Reporting period for information provided. ● about this report ● G4-EC7 ● 66~71 6.3.9, 6.8.1-6.8.2, 6.8.7, 6.8.9 ● impacts services supported G4-29 Core Date of most recent previous report ● about this report ● Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of 6.3.9, 6.6.6, 6.6.7, 6.7.8, 6.8.1-6.8.2, G4-EC8 ● 14~17, 25, 26, 53 ● G4-30 Core Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial) ● about this report ● impacts 6.8.5, 6.8.7, 6.8.9 G4-31 Core Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents ● about this report ● Environment G4-32 Core The ‘in accordance’ option the organization has chosen. ● about this report ● Materials G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume ● 50, 77 6.5.4 ● Percentage of materials used that are recycled input G4-33 Core Organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report ● about this report, 78, 79 ● G4-EN2 ● 50, 77 6.5.4 ● materials Governance The governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest governance Energy G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization ● 50, 77 6.5.4 ● G4-34 Core body. Identify any committees responsible for decision-making on economic, environmental and ● 18, 19, 20 ● G4-EN5 Energy intensity ● 77 6.5.4 ● social impacts. G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption ● 46, 47 6.5.4, 6.5.5 ● The process for delegating authority for economic, environmental and social topics from the G4-35 ● 20 ● G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services ● 44, 45 6.5.4, 6.5.5 ● highest governance body to senior executives and other employees Report whether the organization has appointed an executive-level position or positions with responsibility *http://www.doosan.com/kr/csr/csr-code/code-of-conduct.jsp G4-36 for economic, environmental and social topics, and whether post holders report directly to the highest ● 20 ● governance body. Processes for consultation between stakeholders and the highest governance body on economic, G4-37 environmental and social topics. If consultation is delegated, describe to whom and any feedback ● 20 ● processes to the highest governance body. 80 81 DOOSAN CORPORATION CSR Report 2013 Overview · Developing People · Reliable Operating · Responsible Engagement · Appendix GRI Indicators *Reported : ●Reported, ◐Partially Reported Category Index Core Content Reported Page ISO 26000 Verified Category Index Core Content Reported Page ISO 26000 Verified 2. Specific standard disclosures Human Rights Total hours of employee training on human rights policies or Water G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source ● 50, 77 6.5.4 ● Investment G4-HR2 procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant ● 57, 76 6.3.5 ● G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused ● 50, 77 6.5.4 ● to operations, including the percentage of employees trained Emissions G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions (scope 1) ● 51, 77 6.5.5 ● Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions Non-discrimination G4-HR3 ● 0 Case 6.3.6, 6.3.7, 6.3.10, 6.4.3 ● G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions (scope 2) ● 51, 77 6.5.5 ● taken Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions intensity ● 77 6.5.5 ● Freedom of association and 6.3.3, 6.3.4, 6.3.5, 6.3.8, G4-HR4 freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated ● 36, 76 ● G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions ● 46, 47, 77 6.5.5 ● collective bargaining 6.3.10, 6.4.5, 6.6.6 or at significant risk, and measures taken to support these rights Effluents and waste G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination ● 51, 77 6.5.3, 6.5.4 ● Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of 6.3.4, 6.3.6, 6.3.7, 6.3.8, Indigenous rights G4-HR8 ● 0 Case ● G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method ● 49, 51, 77 6.5.3 ● indigenous peoples and actions taken 6.6.7, 6.8.3 G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills ● 0 Case 6.5.3 ● Total number and percentage of operations that have been subject Assessment G4-HR9 ● 57, 76 6.3.3, 6.3.4, 6.3.5 ● to human rights reviews or impact assessments Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products Products and services G4-EN27 ● 44, 45, 48 6.5.3, 6.5.4, 6.5.5, 6.7.5 ● Human rights grievance Number of grievances about human rights impacts filed, and services G4-HR12 ● 54 6.3.6 ● mechanisms addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that G4-EN28 ● 48 6.5.3, 6.5.4, 6.7.5 ● Society are reclaimed by category Monetary value of significant fines and total number of nonPercentage of operations with implemented local community Local communities G4-SO1 ● 67, 69 6.3.9, 6.5.1-6.5.2, 6.5.3, 6.8 ● Compliance G4-EN29 monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws ● 0 Case 4.6 ● engagement, impact assessments, and development programs and regulations Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts G4-SO2 ● 13, 48, 49 6.3.9, 6.5.3, 6.8 ● Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by on local communities Overall G4-EN31 ● 48, 77 6.5.1-6.5.2 ● type Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks Anti-corruption G4-SO3 ● 23, 54, 55 6.6.1-6.6.2, 6.6.3 ● Environmental grievance Number of grievances about environmental impacts filed, related to corruption and the significant risks identified G4-EN34 ● 50, 51 6.3.6 ● mechanisms addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and G4-SO4 ● 54, 55, 66 6.6.1-6.6.2, 6.6.3, 6.6.6 ● Employment procedures Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken ● 1 Case 6.6.1-6.6.2, 6.6.3 ● Employment G4-LA1 ● 75 6.4.3 ● turnover by age group, gender and region 2. Specific standard disclosures Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided G4-LA2 to temporary or part-time employees, by significant locations of ● 37~39 6.4.4, 6.8.7 ● Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, antioperation Anti-competitive behavior G4-SO7 ● 56 6.6.1-6.6.2, 6.6.5, 6.6.7 ● trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender ● 75 6.4.4 ● Monetary value of significant fines and total number of nonCompliance G4-SO8 ● 56 4.6 ● Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations G4-LA5 management–worker health and safety committees that help ● 38 6.4.6 ● Grievance mechanisms for Number of grievances about impacts on society filed, addressed, Occupational health and monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs G4-SO11 ● 54 6.3.6, 6.6.1-6.6.2, 6.8.1-6.8. ● impacts on society and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms safety Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, G4-LA6 and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by ● 39 6.4.6, 6.8.8 ● Product responsibility ● region and by gender Percentage of significant product and service categories for which Customer health and safety G4-PR1 ● 62, 63 6.7.1-6.7.2, 6.7.4, 6.7.5, 6.8.8 ● Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to health and safety impacts are assessed for improvement G4-LA7 ● 38, 39 6.4.6, 6.8.8 ● their occupation Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations 4.6, 6.7.1-6.7.2, 6.7.4, 6.7.5, Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade G4-PR2 and voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts of ● 0 Case ● G4-LA8 ● 38 6.4.6 ● 6.8.8 unions products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes Product and service Type of product and service information required by the Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by Training and education G4-LA9 ● 32, 76 6.4.7 ● labeling organization’s procedures for product and service information 6.7.1-6.7.2, 6.7.3, 6.7.4, 6.7.5, employee category G4-PR3 ● 62, 63 ● and labeling, and percentage of significant product and service 6.7.9 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that categories subject to such information requirements G4-LA10 support the continued employability of employees and assist them ● 31~33, 37 6.4.7, 6.8.5 ● Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and in managing career endings 4.6, 6.7.1-6.7.2, 6.7.3, 6.7.4, G4-PR4 voluntary codes concerning product and service information and ● 0 Case ● 6.7.5, 6.7.9 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and labeling, by type of outcomes G4-LA11 ● 76 6.4.7 ● career development reviews, by gender and by employee category G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction ● 63 6.7.1-6.7.2, 6.7.6 ● Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and Diversity and equal G4-LA12 per employee category according to gender, age group, minority ● 75 6.2.3, 6.3.7, 6.3.10, 6.4.3 ● Marketing communications G4-PR7 voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including ● 0 Case 4.6, 6.7.1-6.7.2, 6.7.3 ● opportunity group membership, and other indicators of diversity advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes Equal remuneration for Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by Business Report Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of G4-LA13 ● 6.3.7, 6.3.10, 6.4.3, 6.4.4 ● Customer privacy G4-PR8 ● 63 6.7.1-6.7.2, 6.7.7 ● women and men employee category, by significant locations of operation 282 customer privacy and losses of customer data Labor practices grievance Number of grievances about labor practices filed, addressed, and Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws G4-LA16 ● 52 6.3.6 ● mechanisms resolved through formal grievance mechanisms Compliance G4-PR9 and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and ● 0 Case 4.6, 6.7.1-6.7.2, 6.7.6 ● services 82 83 DOOSAN CORPORATION CSR Report 2013 Overview · Developing People · Reliable Operating · Responsible Engagement · Appendix UN Global Compact Membership Status of Committee and Colloquium Since joining the UN Global Compact in 2014, Doosan Corporation abides by the UN Global Compact’s ten principles in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. We reflect global standards for sustainability management and stand firmly on our will to carry out social responsible management, to carry out our social responsibility and our role as a global sustainability management corporate leader representing Korea. Category Principle GRI Indicator Page Business Operations Committee and Colloquium Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of HR1. HR2, HR3, 57 Electro-Materials Korea Printed Circuit Association, Korea Electronics Association, Korea Industrial Technology Promotion Association, internationally proclaimed human rights; and Korea Display Industry Association, Journal of Industrial and Engineering Chemistry, HR4, HR5, HR6, Institute of Microelectronics Packaging, Macromolecular Research, Korea Chemical Society, HR7 The Materials Research Society of Korea Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. HR4, HR8 57 Industrial Vehicles Global Fork Lift Truck Association, China Fork Lift Truck Association, North America Fork Lift Truck Association, Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the HR5, LA5, LA4 36 Korea Industrial Safety Association, Korea Construction Equipment Manufacturers Association, effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Korea Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Korea Industrial Technology Promotion Association, Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; HR7 Korean Standards Association, Korea Conformity Laboratories, British Standards Institution, Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and HR6 Korea Construction Equipment Manufacturers Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and HR4, LA2, Mottrol GyeongNam Employers Federation, Changwon Chamber of Commerce and Industry, 75 occupation. LA10, LA13, LA14 Korea Association of Machinery Industry, Korea Construction Equipment Manufacturers Association, Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to Korean Nurses Association (Gyeongnam Nurses Association), Korea Fire Safety Association, 4.11 22, 42, 43 environmental challenges; Korea Industrial Safety Association, Korea Customs Logistics Association, Volvo Construction Machine, EN12, EN13, EN14 46~49 The Korea Society of Fluid Power and Construction Equipments, Japan Fluid Power Society, Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; Korea Electric Engineers Association, Korea Defense Industry Association, Korea Industrial Complex Corp, EN18, EN21, EN22 and Seoul Region Defense Security Council, Mini-cluster project annual fee, EN26, EN30 The Korea Institute of Military Science and Technology Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly EN5, EN6, EN7, 44, 45 Information & Communication technologies. Korean Personnel Improvement Association, Korea Information and Communication Contractors Association EN10, EN18, EN26 Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including SO2, SO3, SO4 Doosan Corporation 56, 57 Federation of Korean Industries, The Korea Employers' Federation, Korea Economic Research Institute, extortion and bribery. Korea Advertisers Association, Korea Management Association, Korea Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Korea Mecenat Association, Korea Listed Companies Association, Korea IR Service 84 85 Thanks to Member Business Operations Department Strategy, HR, Labor Relations, EHS, Tech Planning, RCCL Dvp, Electro Materials Strategic Purchasing, Quality Planning, Overseas Sales Strategy, HR, Labor Relations, EHS, Product Planning, Industrial Vehicles Shared-Growth, Quality Assurance, Domestic Sales, Management New Business Strategy, HR, Labor Relations, EHS, Motrol Research and Development 1 Team, Shared Growth, Quality Planning, Domestic Sales, Sales Planning I&C Strategy, HR, Business Management, Quality Innovation, FA Glonet Management Strategy, HR, EHS, Bio part, QA FM FA, Sales Management, General Affairs Corporate Office Legal, Human Relation, HR, CR IR, Financing, Consolidation Accounting, Accounting, HR, Administration Center Purchasing Management, Planning and Management, Management support FSCTM C102798 Doosan Way, SPM1, SPM2, Internal Control, HRD, HRM, OE, EHS, CC This report is printed on Forest Stewardship Council-certified paper, using Audit soy-based ink. 86 87
