\ scanoye / CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 1 January 2012 3l December 2012 scand/e CONTENTS scand/e 1. Message from the CEO I am happy to present our second, 2012 corporate social rcsponsibiliry report to the United Nations Global Compacf, organization which unites socially responsible companies around the world. The introduction ofLEAN production pdnciples is one ofthe central strategic taryets ofour company. We aim to identi4, and eliminate opentions that do not create value (time waste), to find reserves, accelerate the procedures, eliminate mistakes and defects, and thus optimize a(Id clarify the overall process. Aiming to diminish the negative impact on environment, JSC ,,Scandye,, is always on the look for modem effective technologies, always looking to improve recycling procedures and to optimize the consumption of energy resources. Assistance to local comnunity is an integ.al part of who we are. We continue to actively support the Special children,s school, providing various matedals which help children develop their creative skills. we are also happy to collaborate with ard support the Teliiai Arts Faculty and the Vilnius College ofDesign, education institutions which axe carrying out the Fashion Design study Fogram. We are actively promoting art and culture projects, supporting the Telgiai Zemaitd Drama Theater, as well as the vadous events organized by the Teldiai city municipality. In 2013 JSC ,.Scandye,,was actively working to introduce 100% green f.itfru-anfu|.l ercrgy in its consumption processes. This energy is produced from tenewable .rr rr, . oor _r. scand)e Thereby the company is protecting its immediate environment and exprcssing its outlook conceming national ecology issues. On the 4'h of Decemher, 2012 we introduced the social accountabilib, standard 548000:2008 and received a corresponding approval certificate. We consider this an importart achievement, a testimony to the facts that we care about our employee social wellare, do not use child or forced labor, meet all the safety and health requirement, do not tolerate discrimination. and guarantee equal career and wage opportunities to everyone. We encourage our providers to be socially responsible as well. In 2012 we sent out to our main providers a special questionnaire. By signing it the companies confimed their adherence to the main social responsibility principles. We are proud to be socially responsible towards our employees, communrry and business partnerc. We support the international human rights and respect employee dignity as specified in The Universal Declaration of Hurnan Rights, the principles of the uN and the JSC Scandye Ethical employment policy. A pleasant and reliable work environment is something we are creating not only for our employees, but also for our business partners. we believe this is the way to achieve excellent results, guarantee employee satisfaction and stimulate loyalty. We provide employees with opportunities to grow personally, so that they feei appreciated and motivated to participate actively in our activities. Our target is to tain and r€tain the best employees, so that we can always improve the quality of or.t services. We are convinced that our responsibility in economic, sociai and envrronmental lields encouages our padners to behave likewise, and be more responsible. we believe that our values of responsibility have a positive general impact in the state whe.e we a.e conducting out activities. We are convinced that oul values make our activities sustainable. Values do have a pupose, and so do lasting relationships with clients, employees, communlty members and proyiders. Sincerely, JSC ,,SC t. q//,-4 /1 CEO / , 6,.//1 , c ./t-t.:-,,, Viol // scand)e 2. About the Company JSC SCANDYE was founded in 2003. Following the best traditions of Scandinavian business, in 2005 the compary started providing textile tdmming services: . Trimmirg of knitted fabrics (washing, painting, whitening, combustible finish, brushing, ironing); . Trimming of cloth (washing, flrlling, painting, combustible finish, ironing, cutting, sorting, winding); . Trimrning ofyam (washing. painting, whitening, re_sofiing) ,,Scandye is a foreign capital, medium-sized company with a curent workforce of 71. ,,Scandye,, is oraned by three legal entities: cab.iel NS (49,29%), JSV,,Devold.,(47,18%), JSC,,Arnber Holding (3,53%). The rnain clients of our company are JSC ,,Devold,,, A/S Gabdel, Innvik Sell$en, lSC,,Baltijos tekstile... We are making important investunents in new and more efficient equipme[t, infbrmation management and production technologies, as well as professional taining of our employees. This way we can always guarantee both the highest quality of the product and our compliance with ecology requfements. We make sure that our organizational targets never conflict with the principles of social responsibility. We apply these principles directly in our daily activities, developmg successlirl and tansparent relationships with our clients, providers and employees. Aiming for a constant improvement of our activities, we have introduced important intemational standards and are applying the newest Foduction management methods: Quality Management Systen ISO 9A0t; Enr)ironmental Management System ISO llAU; Occupational Safety & Heahh Management System ISOlg00j; Social Accountability S1.,sten SA 8000; Lean Production System. scand)e our complianoe with the ISo standards is certified and supervised by the certification agency JSC Buieau Veritas . Ow products are labeled with certifred labels representing social responsibility, fair trade and ecology, such as Eco-hbel (environrnental label), Cradle to Cradle (abel for biodegradable products)' and rhe Nordic swan (environmental label with en extra emphasis on social responsibility). All interested parties are invited to visit www.scandye.lt for all the rclevant infonnation on ow social activities. The company website is updated oo a regurar basis. New infonnation regarding improvements of our social responsibility standards is presented to our employees during meetings and on stands inside the company premises, Our shareholders arc kept up to date regarding new initiatives during board and shareholden' meetinss. JSC Scandye Contact Penon: Rasa Ladyginiend SA8000 Management Representative rasa@scandve.lt wwwscandve .lt scand)e 3,General Information on the CSR Report JSC Scandye presents a corporate social responsibility report for the second time. In it we provide concise information and specific examples how the company implements social responsibility principles on a daily basis. JSC Scandye is a pafiicipant ofthe LrN initiated ,,Global Compact . This is our second progrcss report, prepared according to the pdnciples of the -Global Compact,, and their implementation. These principles are in the areas of human rights, labor, the environment and anti_conuption. The Clobal Compact encompasses ten principles of responsible activity and encourages the no_ damage approach towards the envi.onment, the community, other business€s. It also emphasizes societal development and economic gro\l'th. The ten p nciples are: ) Human Rights Businesses should: . Principle 1: Suppofi and respect the protection of intemationally proclaimed human rights; . Principle 2: Make sule that they are not complicit in human ghts abuses. ) Labor Standards Businesses should uphold: . Principle 3: the freedom ofassociation and the effective recognition ofthe ght to collective bargaining; . Pdnciple 4: the elimination ofall forms offorced and compulsory labor; . Pdnciple 5: the effective abolition ofchild labor; . Principle 6: the elimination ofdiscrimination in emplolment and occupatlon. ! Environnent Businesses should: . Principle 7: support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; . Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote environmental responsibilit), . Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. r' Anfi-Corruption . Principle 10: Businesses should work against comrption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. scanc)e From 2011 onwards, the yearly colporate social rcsponsibility repo.ts of JSC ..Scandye,, are available at wxav.scandve.lt in both Lithuanian ard English. In the present repofi for the yea.2012, we present our socially responsible activities in the fields of the environment, labor and rerationships with the b.oader society. we arso set social responsibiiity targets for the next year 4. Actions Undertaken to lmplement the Ten principles of the UN Global Compact', 4.1 Employee Rights JSC Scandye respects human and employee rights. Our commitments in this respecr .!re expressed in our Employment Instructions, our personnel Management procedures, and oLrl Ethical Employment Policy. We do no tolerate human rights violations of any kind. We are against all fbrms of discrimination, as well as forced or child labor. we have no tolerance towaxds harassment and psychological violence. We respect ou. employees, leisure time. We act upon an honest atd transparcnt wage policy, always adhering to the laws regulating work and overlime hourc. At the end of2012, JSC Scandye had a workforce of 71, with 16 administrative employees, and 55 non-administrative employees. 4.2 Equal Opportunities for Everyone, and Emptoyee Breakdown by Gender JSC ,,Scandye Employee Breakdown by Gendet, 2Al2; Ge Employees Administrative Non-Administrativ€ nder Employees Employees Male 22 3 t9 49 l3 l6 JSC Scandye strictly follows the principles of equal opportunities and nondisc mination. Neither gender, nor age is a relevant factor in our emplolrnent decisions. Curently, our female employees outnumber male employees by the ratio of two to one. Over the years we have noticed that gender scand)e distribution in our workforce depends on the market supply. For instance, in 2012 we have hired six new employees, two males and four females_ 'fyy@jlployee Bteakdown by Gen(le/ ancl Statut; . 4.3 The Average Age of the Emptoyees All Employees 41.88 Adminishative Employees 37.5 Non-AdministrativeEmployees 43.7 For a production company like ours it is only natual that most employees have a non_ administrative status. The average age ofour employees is around 42 years. we value both yo'ng and older emproyees. what matter are the work results and the will of an employee to achieve company targets. Our youngest employee is 23 years old. Currently he is employed as a production worker, but his initiatives and a very strong will to improve made the compa.ny consider moving him to a managerial position. Our eldest employee is 59 years old. We are proud ofhis long-lasting experience in our company. Employees between the ages ot 46 and 59 constitute the biggest part of the workforce. These people are very expe enced and are true experts oftheir respective professions. We are happy and proud to have such loyal and reliable employees. 4.4 Freedom of Association, and the Right to Co ective Bargaining The company's m,uEgement recognizes, respects and supports the right of the employees to establish and padicipate in unions, organize their activities and engage in collective bargaining. scand)e Although presently the company does not have an employees, union or a works council, we are noticing (and encouraging) a growing employee involvement in decision making, as well as their growing will to fom associations. we react to this by providing alr the necessary consurtations and information regarding the forming of associations and a u'orks counc as welr as information , on relevant legislation ln the meantime (\ r'hile the v/orks counc idea is still being discussed among the employees), v/e maintain other methods of communication with the employees, such as general meetmgs. company parties, direct conversations, a confidential .,euestions and Suggestions,, box, or through a representative of SA8000. We are always ready to listen to our employees, suggestions and observations. Thei. input is extremely important for the development of the company. Our experience has taught us that the more involved the employees are in decision making. the more satisfied they are with their work, and the more efficient the company becomes. We understand that active employees are a major factor in the success and prosperity of our company. We are happy that this is also the opinion of our employees. They undeNtand that the wellbeing of the company is, fimt and forcmost, the wellbeing of its employees, their tbmilies and their conmunity. 4.5 Employee Training We pay special attention to the professional training of our employees. Following an approved yearly training plan, in 20 I 2 the company organized trainings of a number of different types. Employees have participated in a number of formar and informal compulsory training courses (744 training hours in total). During these courses, employ€es mastered new tasks and operations, improved their qualification, and acquired the .ight to conduct special operations (for which a conlirming document is necessary). The implementation of the LEAN project required special training focused on the execution of practical tasks. ln 2012 we have devoted 900 hours to this project, that is, 14 hous per employee. 295 training hours were devoted to the training of specialists as socially responsible leaders. 36g houls were dedicated to conferences, seminars and business trips. scand)e Furthemore, our company organizes intemal trainings supeNised by heads of deparhnents or specialists oftheir respective fields. These trainings are guided by health and safety prcgrams, fire and civil prctection programs, social responsibility programs, and environmental programs. We always strive for the highest quality olthese training. Therefore we often collaborate with extemal experts ard taining organizers. 4.6. Employment and lntegration of New Employees We search for new employees via a variety of information channels. We amounce new job openings on information stands, in regional and national press, in the company's website and in special job listing websites. we also use the services of employment agencies. Being committed to the pri[ciples of tansparency, we always proceed with an open and professional employment pmctice. V/e always adhere to legal rcquirements. We respect human rights, as well as employee rights and freedoms. We understand that the success of the company depends on the wellbeing of an employee. Therefore, we always pay a special attention to the integration of new employees. First of all, they are lamiliarized witl intemal company documents, which are based on legal acts, as well as our company's mission, vision. values, ethical employment policy, our management systems and their guidelines. V/e find it very important that a new employee would always have at hand all the relevant inlbrmation regading his or her work specifrcs. To this goal, during the probationary period, the new employee is assigned a fellow employee who operates as a teacher, sharing his or her experience and helping the new employee feel better in the new environment. Since we deeply care about an efficient and smooth integration ofnew employees into the daily activities ofthe company! we often talk to our employees about the impodance of mutual tolerance and respect. We provide the employees with working conditions conducive to their personar and professionar growth, and to their sense of dignity. We also foster mutual rcspect between the employer and tne emptoyees. scand)e 4.7 Internal Communication with the Employees Our business model is based on social responsibility and respect for the human rights. We always staive to improve the $'ork environment, and we also show a great amount of respect for the company guests. A good relationship with the empioyees is of utmost importance to us. And we arc happy to see our employees make use off all the communication methods by the company. Fovided We are always happy to discuss with the employees and to search togetl.ler for new rvays to imp.ove the company. JSC scandye works very hard to nourish a strong intemal comm'nication curture. This is why we never mlss an oppofiunity to bring together the whole company for special occasions. In 2012 we ananged cozy gatherings for both Easter and Christmas. There was also a special event planned for the World Quality Day we ananged a craft competition ,.euality in my own way,'. Our employees pafiicipated willingly and expressed their talents in extemely creative ways. Employees picked the wimers who were then awarded with a varuable prize. This and other expe ences taught us that financial motivation is not the only factor in making the employees happy. petsonal attention and informal gatherings matter as weli. The company also has a stong tradition of rewarding the best employees for their exceptional individual accomplishments and successful initiatives. we aim to maintain the warmest possible relationships with the employees. This is why re are recognizing their initiatives, detemination and enthusiasm. We thank them personally and publicly. often using letters of appreciation. The employees are also rewarded with anple opportunities to leam and develop professionally. We understand the needs ofour employees and are, thus, doing eveq,thing in our power to protect their economic rights. This is why we have a ftansparent wage policy and why we always adhere to legal requirements. We believe that our employees have a right to a dignified living. Therefore, we have established an intemal minimal wage which is higher than the one set by the Lithuanian gove11lrl1ent, 4.8 Employee Health and Safety We respect the fundamental human rights to life and health. Therefore, we tale care of our employees and put all the necessary efforts to secure a safe and healthy work environrnent. This is scand)e why we have introduced management systems that comply with intemational BS OHSAS 18001:2007 occupational Health and Safety standard requirements. as well as SAg000:200g social Accountability standard requirements. Our adherence to these requirements is superuised and audited by extemal audit companies on a yearly basis. JSC ,,Scandye has established internal management procedues tegulating occupational safety. We lbllow these procedues in order to include the occupational safety consideration into our everyday processes and operations. Because we want the company employees to be healthy, we provide them with the possibility of a free of charge health check-up. In 2012, this possibility was used by 3g employees. We adhere to high hygiene standards and always strive to secLue a clean, safe and comfortable environment for our employees. Our compaay has in operation a set of occupational safety instructiols and strict proceduaes regarding the direct instruction of the employees. If necessary, we undertake additional occupational dsk evaluations, thereafler farniliarizing the employees with the new safety rcquirements. We are comtantly working to improve the methods for the tansmission and systematization of safety and health infomation. This task is supervised by a specialist of our Employee Safety and Health Council, as well as the Employee Safety and Health Coinmittee. Furthermore, we organize special occupational safety and health training programs for our employees. We make sure to examine on a regular basis ifour employees have the necessary safety knowledge lf we establish that their knowredge of safety requirements is not sufficient, additional saf'ety trainings are organized. In order to keep the emproyees alert everyday, we use visuar aids such as signs, infomational slogans, posters and photos. occupational safety and health are guaranteed and prol'essional risks eliminateir with the herp of both collective and personal safety measures. New technical solutions are employed to improve the geneml salety system of the company. In 2012 we made imporlant investments to create a satbr working environment: The company has bought a safer squeezing equipment with an extremely sensitive safety system. The company has improved the fire safety system. We have installed a fume removal system which was integated with our fire dam system. A better fir€ safety system allows us to manage the fire risks better and guarantee the safety ofboth employees and \,isitom. scand)e In order to eliminat€ pofessional risks related to the lifting and pulling of heaw loads, the company is constantly improving the intemal tansportation system. We are always observing the work processes, eliminating potential professional risks, identirying potential disqepancies and taking the necessary steps to eliminate them. For instance, last year we have roughened the floor of the washing deparhnent in order to minimize the possibility of slipping and falling. To prevent falls from height, exta railing was added on a nunber of dsvices. Since we are working with chemicals, every precaution is taken to prevent accidents. In 2012 we have improved our chemical dosage method, and installed new safer lanks for fiiable and liquid Droducts. 4.9 Fight Against Corruption We believe in the values of transpaxent business and honest communication with our employees, provid€rs, clients, the aommrmity ant the state institutions. we have no tolemnce for any kind of coruptlon. In our daily activities we promote the culture of honest behavior. We are a socially responsible company with strong values and an Ethical employment policy. It is very important for us to keep tue to our values, to satisft the needs ofow clients, ard to be a company which has the full trust of its employees and its commwity. Tarccts for 2013: To assist the employees in fulfilling their right to crcate a works council. We have noticed a grcwing intercst, on the part of the employees, to have their represenratrves in the company's management, We want to make this a reality. We have already provided the employees with the necessary information regarding the establishment of a works council. We believe that our efforts will be fruitftrl, and the employees will realize their Aeedom of association. Official representation of the employee i would definitely enable better decision making regaxding labor, economic scancve issues. This would improve the welfaxe of our employees, and make the company stonger in general. To further improve our civil protection system. Even though JSC ,'Scandye,' is not among the companies required by law to have an Emergency plan, we think a possession of such a plan can only improve our safety. Therefore, we are cuaently having talks v/ith the municipality of Telsiai region regarding the drawing of an Emergency Plan. To prepare new regulations regarding the evaluation ofemployees. According to these new regulations, all employees will have individual goals as means [o tne accomplishment of general company goals. Later on, the realization of those goals would be evaluated. We believe that such a system (together with a greater number of direct conversations with the managers) will increase the motivation ofour employees. We also want our employees and their direct managers to have a better understanding of each other's €xpectations. To regularly study the employee mic.oclimate using confidential questionnailes. We believe this is the way to go if we want to have a better understanding of the most sensitive issues our employees are dealing with, and to eliminate all possible problems. 4.10 Environmental Protection St ving for product quality. we make sure that the cost is not paid by the environment. A responsible use of narural and energy resources is of paramount importance to us. Besides, our environmental approach is especially appreciated by our clients abroad, which is one of our competitive advantages. Textile dyeing is an old industry that requires a great amount of water and .l.he energy resoulces. process takes a lot ofchemicals and dyes, the warming ofthe water requires a lot ofnatural gas, and a lot of pollution is emitted. Thus, each year the company identifies imponant aspects ol enviroDmental protection. and sets ambitious goals. These aspects are discussed in company meetings with specialists. The negative environmental impact of oul activities ls assessed, aird the possibilities of diminishing it are carefully considered. We take into account the opinion of ow scancve employees and, of course, the public health concen* of the community. We then proceed with specific programs to minimize the negative environmental impact. Because natural resouces are limited and they renew slowly, we must consider how our immediate environment will look in ten of five years! or even [ext year. .lhis is why we have to embrace an economic approach to the usage of resources. For instance, we save watea by reusing it for other purposes alier it was used for the cooling down of the dyeing process. We save elecnc energy by p.acticing low-temperature wool dyeing with rcactive dy€s. In 2013 we arc plarrning to sign a contact with the Kaunas Hydroelectric power plant. from which we plan to buy the,,l00 o/o green Lithuanian eneryy . This is a label that signifies electric energy produced in Lithuania fiom renewable energy souaces. Furthermore, we are planning to decrease energy consumption and, thus, protect the environment by replacing luminescence lighting with LED lighting, which is much more efficient and does not contain such environmentally dangerous components as mercury. waste collection, soting and recycling are decisive for a clean, healthy and stable enviroitnent. Therefore our company actively promotes ,vaste sofiing habits, waste reduction and recycling. We have a contract with the public agency .,Zaliasis taik as,' (Green point) regarding the recycling of packaging waste. As a result. 87 % of our paper and plastic packaging waste gets .ecycled. This year we have also malaged to cut the amount of dangerous plastic waste. For example, our big dye contrarners are reused for the containment of dangerous waste. ln total. we cut the amount of dangerous waste by one tonne. We have also invested in the sewing of multiuse container covers which are used in transpoftation. This way we have manag€d to save not only a torute of plastic film, but also a lot of time which would otherwise be wasted on the packaging prccess. Furthermore, each year the company participates in the traditional, local envfonmental event Darcm (Let's Do It) during which we collect waste in the tenitories ofthe company. ln this \ r'ay not only do we have a cleaner teritory, but we also teach our employees about the importance of waste sorting, which has a long-lasting value. Company Management System Guidelines: To grow the company,s influence in diminishing pollution; To embrace an economical approach to the usage ofnatural and energy resourccs; To identiry aspects of environmental protection and consistently improve thelr management. scand/e Measures to accomplish the targets. Most import ntly, we selected reliable partn€rs, making sule that our prcviders of chemicals and dyes are companies renol,vned 1br their social responsibility, quality and high standards. In other words, all dyes and chemicals used by our company adhere to the standards of the REACH prcgram. We are also int.oducing new dyeing technologies such as more etlicient dyeing devices that allow us to save water and energy rcsources. Fufihe.morc, LEAN methods allows us to optimize the production process which prcvents the waste of \rater, ene.gy resowces, chemicals, dyes and packaging materials, nor to mention time resoutces. Most of our products are marked with these labels: I ,::, i'! F 'i: tnnlBnpl , ;:-*: i.;J; The flower label is rhe,.EU Ecolabel,,. It guaxantees that, during production, a paramount attention was paid to envircnmental protection (from the extractton of raw materials, tbrough manufacture, packaging, distribution, use and disposal ofthe prcduct). In other words, not only the product itsell but the whole life cycle of the product must be environmentally friendly. t\t !v crodlerocrodre_ Cradle to Cradle,, is a label that signifies a life cycle of the product. The proclucts must be biodegradabre, whereas other products used in the production should be reusable for new production processes. ta/// U ..The No.dic Swan.,is an environmental label that also encompasses the aspect ofsocial responsibility. production processes must respect the environment and comply with the requirements of sociar responsib ity, aom the extraction of raw materiars to the final product. These requirements apply to all the counties ofthe world. scand/e Each month a comprehensive r€poft is presented regarding the consumption of energy resouces and the formation of waste_ Each year ambitious targets are set, and their realization controlled. The table below shows the warer ano energy savings data for 2012; Year Water tlsage (iI@ Electricity Usage Natwal Gas Usoge lrT@ production) (Klt4x/kg production) production) fargel Fqct Saved Target Fact Saved % l Arget Fact Saved 04 % )011 0.165 0,159 4 |,44 '7 I,14 1,02 10 20t2 0.158 0.142 i 5s10.13 1.53 1.3 l,l r.03 6.36 2013 0.136 1.48 1.08 Envitunmentat Taryets fot 201j: Water usage (for mr/kg production) must be reduced by 4%. Electricity usage (for KWhAg production) must be reduced by 2%. Natural gas usage (for m3/kg production) must be reduced by 9%. Washing and dyeing must be done in the same tub, the temp€rature increase speed must be augmented from 1 oc/min to a maximum of _3-4 oc/min, reducns the p.ocess by I to 3 hours, and saving energy cosrs. In order to decrcase gas usage and to save energy rcsorrces, we are planning to install h€at recovery ventilation on our Krantz_Moenus machine. This will allow to reuse the heat, and to economize on gas. We are planning to decrease energy consumption and, thus, protect the environment by replacing luminescence righting v/ith LED lighting which is much more ellicient and does not contain such envircnmentally dangerous components as melcury we are planning to sign a cont*ct with the Kauus Hydroerectdc power prant, liom which we plan to buy 100 % green Lithuanian energy. This is a raber that sisnifies etectnc energy produced in Lithuania fiom renewable energy sources
