Second Annual Communication on Progress (COP) United Nations Global Compact Abdul Monem Limited (AML) Reporting Year 2013 Reporting Period: 2012 -2013 Annual COP-AML Message from the Chairman Dear Colleagues, Friends & Stakeholders: I am happy to put forward our second annual Communication on Progress (COP) for the year of 2012-2013. Let us emphasize on our continuous and active support to the Ten Principles of the UNGC‟s Global Compact as regards to human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption along with new issue platforms of UNGC – Business for peace, Education and Sustainable Agriculture comprised of Caring for Climate, Women‟s Empowerment Principles, CEO Water Mandate, Children‟s Rights and Supply Chain Sustainability. We continue to uphold the commitments and endorse Global Compact and its principles as part of the strategy, environment, culture and day to day operations of our Company. AML endeavors to retain transparency and accountability in all its business segments adhering to our commitments to the UNGC objectives. Started as a Construction Company in 1956, we have built Abdul Monem Limited and diversified our business into many fronts. Our business ventures have a distinct appeal to the society for their inimitable qualities. AML‟s focus on this philosophy of quality grew over the years by providing the best services and high quality products. To meet our long term growth objectives, we practice within a set of corporate principles on human rights, labor rights, environmental and anti-corruption. It is noteworthy to mention that our business operations are not in high-risk and/or in any conflict-affected areas. Our company takes actions to advance UN goals and issues (such as development, disaster relief, health, education) through core business, philanthropy, advocacy and partnership activities. AML would like to reach the next level of corporate sustainability thorough Global Compact by increasing capacity of Local Networks, providing greater linkage with investors, developing specialized engagements platforms for actions e.g. Caring for Climate, Women‟s Empowerment Principles and Collective options opportunities. As we are engaged with Global Compact Local Networks, we regularly receive assistance from Local Networks in implementing the Global Compact principles, participating in policy dialogue, sharing practice and experience with peers, networking with non-business stakeholders and finding opportunities in collective actions. 2 Annual COP-AML I, as the Chairman and Managing Director, am earnest towards the UNGC and enduring support and commitment to the UNGC initiatives and its principles through 2014 and beyond. AML will continue to endeavor through its business values and commitments to encourage and uphold the United Nations Global Compact principles by practicing good corporate governance. With best wishes. Yours sincerely, Abdul Monem (Chairman & Managing Director) Abdul Monem Limited 3 Annual COP-AML Group Management Abdul Monem Chairman and Managing Director Abdul Monem Limited Mr. Abdul Monem is the founder of the Company and is working as the Chairman and Managing Director of the Abdul Monem Limited. A veteran Civil Engineer by profession Mr. Abdul Monem masterminded the AML Business, its expansion and Horizontal integration and diversification. For his splendid achievement in this respect, Mr. Abdul Monem is awarded “Commercially Important Person (CIP)” status by the Government of Bangladesh. A.S.M. Mainuddin Monem A.S.M. Mohiuddin Monem Deputy Managing Director I Deputy Managing Director II Abdul Monem Limited Abdul Monem Limited Mr. A.S.M. Mainuddin Monem, a Business Graduate from reputed Harvard Business School, USA, and Mr. A.S.M Mohiuddin Monem, an Industrial Engineer from North Eastern University, USA are the key management responsible for the Finance, Administration and Strategic Operational Management of the Company. Deputy Managing Director I and Deputy Managing Director II are also awarded “Commercially Important Person (CIP)” status by the Government of Bangladesh for their outstanding efforts to the Country of Bangladesh. 4 Annual COP-AML Communication on Progress (COP) Abdul Monem Limited has been committed to the ten principles of the UN Global Compact since 2009 and emphasizing the continuous supports and commitments to the Ten Principles of the UNGC‟s Global Compact as regards to human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. The following table sustains our commitments to the ten principles of the UN Global Compact and progress made during the year of 2012-2103. UNGC Principles CommitmentsFirst COP Substantial Progress Made Actions to be made on Year Reporting Year 2011-2012 in the Year of 2012-2013 2014 and Beyond Human Rights: Commitments to care people, health and safety. Abdul Monem Limited has given supports To assess Human rights risk and Manage sustainable environment and empowering and practiced internationally declared impacts. societies. Practicing no discrimination on the human rights not only for our employees Principle 1: grounds of race, gender, region, cast, color, or but also for the communities where we To build a Complaint Mechanisms in Businesses should ethnic origins and treats all employees equally at operate our businesses. In line of Human our company. support and respect the the work place. Resource philosophy of AML, we are an Protection of “equal-opportunity-employer.” Human rights will be addressed in internationally Respect and protect the internationally proclaimed life, liberty and security of the proclaimed human Human Rights practicing the labor Code-2006. AML has prohibited child labor person. rights Safeguard human rights and its protection and engagement. We have practiced no promotion. discrimination on the grounds of race, To Facilitate adequate standard of Principle 2: Make sure gender, region, cast, color, or ethnic origins living and right to privacy that they are not Resemblance with fundamental rights such as right and treat all employees equally at the work complicit in human to equal opportunity, right to freedom of speech place. Being mindful to our female rights abuses and association, right against exploitation, right for employees, “Maternity Benefit Scheme” has cultivating own culture and education. been offered to women who are on maternity leave. An “Employee Loan Meet and uphold the human rights, reduce poverty Scheme” has been offered for the level, spread education among poor, promote immediate needs of the employees of AML peace and to help every citizen to enjoy religious to meet any unanticipated crisis. A large rights. number of employees of AML have taken the advantage of this loan scheme with zero interest and easy repayment plan. We have managed to contribute a reasonable portion of our earnings to the underprivileged, distressed and poor people. For example, we have established educational institutions and foundations to 5 Annual COP-AML UNGC Principles CommitmentsFirst COP Substantial Progress Made Actions to be made on Year Reporting Year 2011-2012 in the Year of 2012-2013 2014 and Beyond EWEC commitments – Commitment to raise enlighten the poor people of our locality awareness of malnutrition among pregnant and with necessary knowledge lactating mothers and children through participating in “Every Woman Every Child” initiative. We have EWEC commitments – Commitment to planned to reach 50,000 poor and needy mothers raise awareness of malnutrition among (both pregnant and lactating) in the next five years pregnant and lactating mothers and through its nutrition awareness program. children through participating in “Every Woman Every Child” initiative. We have Commitments for providing free vitamins to the planned to reach 50,000 poor and needy underprivileged and poor people of the society. mothers (both pregnant and lactating) in the next five years through its nutrition awareness program. Responding to raise awareness of malnutrition among pregnant and lactating mothers and children through participating in “Every Woman Every Child” initiative, Novus Pharmaceuticals Limited of AML is implementing the programme . Novus Pharmaceuticals Limited is still collaborating with “The Hunger ProjectBangladesh” in providing free treatment along with medicines free of cost to the poor distressed/pregnant/lactating women in the different parts of country by engaging qualified doctors, pharmacists, nurses and volunteers. Till date 2,569 (Two Thousand five hundred and sixty nine) women took the services of this programme from Novus Pharmaceuticals Limited. 6 Annual COP-AML UNGC Principles CommitmentsFirst COP Substantial Progress Made Actions to be made on Year Reporting Year 2011-2012 in the Year of 2012-2013 2014 and Beyond Labor Commitment to the right to freedom of association We have provided workers‟ representatives To assess Labor rights risk and and the effective recognition of the right to with appropriate facilities to assist in the impact. Standards collective bargaining; to use collective bargaining development of effective collective as a beneficial forum/medium for addressing agreement To build a reliable mechanism to Principle 3: working conditions and terms of employment, and avoid active exclusion of union Businesses should relations between employers and workers. Senor officials of Human Resources members from employment uphold the freedom of Department and General Management of association and the Commitment to address any problem-solving or AML have regularly attended to the labor Public disclosure of Labor policies and effective recognition of other needs of interest to workers and rights related open dialogue, round-table practices. the right to collective management, including restructuring and training, seminars in Bangladesh. Recently, we have bargaining safety and health issues, grievance and dispute attended to a round table settlement procedures, disciplinary rules, and dialogue/workshop on a topic of “Tripartite Principle 4: family and community welfare. Constituents and key stakeholders“ jointly The elimination of all organized by ILO and Bangladesh forms of forced and Not to employ to any form of forced or compulsory Enterprises Institute. We are also a compulsory labor labor in our working place; no form of member of Bangladesh Employers threatening/violence or physical assault or sexual Federation. Principle 5: abuse present at our workplaces and we are trying The effective abolition to accomplish the higher standards of protection of It is mentioned that there is no form of of child labor workers in working threatening, physical assault or sexual abuse present at our workplaces and we Principle 6: have tried to accomplish the higher The elimination of standards of protection of workers in our discrimination in respect working areas. of employment and occupation Several training and short courses have been offered to the plants supervisors, safety officers and administrative officers. The training made awareness of understanding of the labor laws Every workers and employee have been appointed with accurate employment job description (written in easy Bengali and English language so that all employees can understand them) mentioning the terms and conditions of service and working conditions following Bangladesh Labor Code 2006/2013. All Employees have been entitled to enjoy all public declared holidays 7 Annual COP-AML UNGC Principles CommitmentsFirst COP Substantial Progress Made Actions to be made on Year Reporting Year 2011-2012 in the Year of 2012-2013 2014 and Beyond and their designated annual earned and sick leaves. AML has managed to hold a compulsory yearly health checkup program at free of cost for all employees. We have maintained employees database with basic information mentioning date of birth. HRD has practiced strictly for obtaining National Identity Card and birth registration certificate from the workers to verify the legal age and status of candidates to avoid any form of child labor. Besides, HRD has practiced a “Recruitment Policy Statement” where fair, transparent, skill-based competitive employments have been encouraged and any discrimination in respect of race, gender, region, cast, color, ethnic origin are not allowed in recruitment process. HRD has continually updated with the local accepted labor laws enacted by Bangladesh Government. All employees have been treated equally at the work place. HRD has maintained up-to-date records on recruitment, training and promotion. HRD has already provided an apparent view of prospects for employees and their progression within the organization. For fostering of training of employees, Abdul Monem Skill Development Institute (AMSDI) has aimed to promote access to skills development training and to the nonskilled, semi-skilled and skilled workers. 8 Annual COP-AML UNGC Principles CommitmentsFirst COP Substantial Progress Made Actions to be made on Year Reporting Year 2011-2012 in the Year of 2012-2013 2014 and Beyond Environment Commitments to conform to and caring for the AML has incorporated with ISO To include sustainable consumption Environment, Occupational Health, Safety and 22000:2005, OHSAS management systems, and responsible use objective, Quality procedures of our working area HACCP management systems etc. We have cleaner and safer production Principle 7: completed OHSAS and PASS223 audit and objectives in our corporate policy. Businesses should To adhere company's policy of conserving natural practice the Occupational Health and Safety support a precautionary resources, raw materials, water and energy by Policy for its employees and others as To implement eco-design for our approach to process improvements, recycling and reducing concerned. Technologies that use materials production. environmental waste more efficiently and cleanly are applied to challenges most of the companies under AML with To introduce 3R (Reduce, re-use, Commitments to the continuous progress of long-term economic and environmental recycle) effectively in our business. Principle 8: environment-friendly technologies; technologies benefits. Undertake initiatives to that use materials more efficiently and cleanly can To build awareness program for the promote greater be applied to most companies under AML with AML has emphasized to control and employees. environmental long-term economic and environmental benefits. improve the environmental performance to responsibility meet the challenges. Conforming to all of Public disclosure of environment Dissemination of information available to the environmental regulatory compliances policies and practices Principle 9: stakeholders that illustrate the environmental and guidelines of Department of Encourage the performance and benefits of using such Environment (DoE), Ministry of Facilitating Environmental risk and development and technologies. Environment and Forest (MoEF), impact assessment. diffusion of Bangladesh exercising the best possible environmentally friendly Refocus research and development (R&D) towards usage of water consumption and reuse of To establish a corporate company or technologies „design for sustainability‟. treated waste water for drainage cleaning group policy on the use of and irrigations. environmentally sound technologies. AML has encouraged forestations, gardens, reuse of treated water and has created To join CEO Water Mandate and environmental awareness among Caring for Climate. employees. We have installed Effluent Treatment Plant (ETP) to most of its plants To strengthen R&D further towards areas to make the water pollutant free „design for sustainability‟. before discharging into the environment. Gardening and treated effluent recycling is being carried out in all our units to replenish the ground water Talented and research oriented R&D are continuously giving efforts for the development of pharmaceutical, construction, facilities service, financial and information management. 9 Annual COP-AML UNGC Principles CommitmentsFirst COP Substantial Progress Made Actions to be made on Year Reporting Year 2011-2012 in the Year of 2012-2013 2014 and Beyond Anti-Corruption Practice and govern business by honesty, integrity, Practicing our Code of Conduct, we have To craft zero tolerance policy towards fair dealing and full obedience to all applicable discouraged employees in taking an offer corruption and Policy against business laws and ethics. or receipt of any form of gift, fee, reward collusion Principle 10: or other advantage to or from any person Businesses should work as an inducement to do something which is against corruption in To assess corruption risk and impact Deplore any form of bribery, corruption and dishonest, illegal or a breach of trust in our all its forms, including extortion in business. organization. extortion and bribery. Public disclosure of anti-corruption policies and procedures Employees have become totally responsive to honesty, integrity, fair dealing and full obedience to all applicable business laws Setting Hotline for reporting of any and ethics. corruption instances We have deplored any form of bribery, corruption and extortion in business. Our Internal Audit Teams have given supports in conducting inventory management, financial compliances management and related issues of all units twice a year with data records in ERP to ensure that all data match with primary terms and conditions and that no form of divergence is occurring. All units are by our own Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) package financial data are transparently transacted through ERP. 10 Annual COP-AML Broader UN Goals and Issues Disaster Relief Abdul Monem Limited organized its contributions toward humanity through Corporate Social Responsibility to RANA Plaza (an eight-storied commercial building collapsed on 24 April in Savar, a sub-district of Dhaka, the capital of Bangladesh) accidents victims. The catastrophic event is considered to be one of the deadliest industrial disaster and massive accidental structural failure in modern human history. A dedicated salvage team of 25 personnel including safety and administrative officer, excavator, crane, bulldozer, welder and machine operators, water-tank and pick-up driver, skilled general constructions workers and security guard with supporting equipment, machine and tools from AML were engaged fulltime in the rescue operation We deployed and mobilized one concrete breaker with excavator for breaking the slabs and columns and damaged floors of the collapsed building under which a large number of garments workers in very crucial condition. The team had worked and given support to the rescue unit Bangladesh Army till the rescue operation ended. We distributed 2400 packets of energy biscuits , 2400 PET bottle of drinking water, 2000 PET bottle of Coke and Sprite, and life saving medicines at free of cost for the victims. We distributed three large water tanks of drinking water to the victims on 30 April, 2013 to meet the drinking water crisis. The water was redistributed to the victims by rescue unit of Bangladesh Army up to 5 May 2013. Management of AML was very much concerned with deadliest tragedy. AML has establishment of 45 School-cum-Cyclone Shelters in SIDOR (a very severe cyclonic storm that made landfall on the coastal regions of Bangladesh on November 15, 2007 resulting in one of the devastated natural disasters in Bangladesh) affected coastal areas of the Bay of Bengal is one of iconic landmark development work of Bangladesh. The shelters have been used by approximately 100 families as their temporary accommodation who gradually then shifted to their own houses. Recently, these Shelters also have provided shelters to approximately 10,000 people from at least 100 villages during the Cyclone Aila. (Cyclone Aila hit 14 districts on the south-west coast of Bangladesh on the 25th May 2009.) Health Novus Pharmaceuticals Limited, a pharmaceutical-unit of AML has committed to raise awareness of malnutrition among pregnant and lactating mothers and children through participating in “Every Woman Every Child” initiative. AML has also started providing free vitamins among the target groups. Education We have established educational institutions to enlighten the poor people of our locality with necessary knowledge. Mr. Abdul Monem, the founder of AML, always had the dream to do something for the orphans. His dream came to reality when he established an orphanage center in his hometown of Bijeshwar, under Brahmanbaria district of Bangladesh. Since the inception of this orphanage in 1998, at least 12 of children have completed their primary educations, 7 of them have completed High School and 2 of them have got admitted in College education. 11 Annual COP-AML We are a firm believer of community development, rescue from disaster, support to the national calamities, education for the less privileged, healthcare to the poor and children for the benefit of the society. “Continuing to sustain the commitments and endorsing Global Compact and its principles as part of the strategy, environment, culture and day to day operations of Abdul Monem Limited. For any enquiries, please contact us. Mr. Kazi Sharafath Hossain Assistant General Manager, Human Resources and Administration Abdul Monem Limited Monem Business District 111, Bir Uttam C.R. Dutta Road (Sonargaon Road) Tel: +8802-9676301-3, 9664913, 9669570, Mobile: 880 1712 144711 Email: sharafat@amlbd.com Web: www.amlbd.com Dhaka-1205, Bangladesh R&D Associate Md. Mamunur Rahman, Manger R&D Abdul Monem Limited IT Associate Mohammed Liakwat Ali Khan Sr. Manager, IT & MIS, Novus Pharmaceuticals Limited Abdul Monem Limited 12
