1 PRACTICING THE 10 PRINCIPLES: The MTN Nigeria Way BACKGROUND INFORMATION Company Name MTN Nigeria Communications Limited Address Golden Plaza Building Falomo, Ikoyi, Lagos Mailing Address: P.M.B. 80147 Adeola Odeku Post Office Victoria Island Lagos Country Nigeria Telephone no +234 803 902 0001 www.mtnonline.com Web address October 2014 Submission date 2006 Membership date Number of employees 4,932 permanent and contract staff (as at December 2013) Sector Telecommunications Contact name Position Akinwale Goodluck Corporate Services Executive 2 Contents  Nature of Business  Executive Statement of Continued Support for the Global Compact  The Ten Principles  Summary of Highlights in This Report  SECTION 1: Human Rights  SECTION 2: Labour Standards  SECTION 3: Environment  SECTION 4: Anti-Corruption  Making this C.O.P available to stakeholders  APPENDIX 1: List of MTNN Sponsored Festivals in 2013 3 NATURE OF BUSINESS We are the Leading Provider of ICT Solutions in Nigeria and West Africa... MTN Nigeria provides cellular network access and ICT solutions to millions of Nigerians, connecting whole communities with each other and with the rest of the world. MTNN has led the growth in the voice market since 2001 and is now pursuing new growth opportunities in the data and ICT space. This lead position is evident in a differentiated and attractive array of product and service offerings as well as a growing bouquet of ICT products. With over 58 million subscribers, MTN Nigeria remains the largest subsidiary of the MTN Group a multinational telecommunications group offering voice and data communications products to individuals and businesses. The MTN Group has its operations spread across 22 countries in Africa and the Middle East and has recorded over 210 million subscribers. MTN Nigeria secured one of four GSM licenses to operate digital global GSM (Global System for Mobile technology) telephony by the Nigerian Communications Commission in February 2001. On May 16 of that same year, MTN Nigeria became the first GSM network to make a call in Nigeria and shortly afterwards, in August 2001, began full commercial operations. MTN’s commitment to providing first class network quality, customer service and value to all subscribers across Nigeria, is guided by core brand values of Leadership, Innovation, Integrity, Relationships, and a Can do attitude. For over 13 years now, MTN has continued to connect people with friends, family and opportunities, while enriching lives through a rich array of products and services. MTN is 75.81% owned by MTN International (Mauritius) Limited (MTNI); 18.7% held by Nigerian shareholders through special purpose vehicles; 2.78% owned by Mobile Telephone Networks NIC B.V and 2.71% owned by Shanduka Telecommunication (Mauritius) Limited. Breaking New Grounds in Building Africa’s Largest Network… Since commencing business operations in 2001, MTN Nigeria has consistently placed a high premium on first class network quality, which is at the centre of our key value proposition to esteemed customers. MTN’s leadership position in the area of network coverage, expansion and state of the art infrastructure is evident with more than $13 billion invested to date in fixed assets and facilities nationwide. In 2013, the company built an additional 2, 763 Base transceiver Stations (BTS) (or base stations as they are more commonly known), thus making MTN the first telecommunications operator to build and deploy a record 10, 000 BTS in Nigeria. In addition, a total of 1,390km of new fibre-optic cable was added to the network in 2013. With this addition the company’s fibre-optic cables network now covers over 11, 500km across Nigeria. This makes it the longest privately-owned fibre-optic cable ever laid in Africa and also perhaps one of the most modern. Presently, the MTN Nigeria network is coordinated from one hundred and twenty nine (129) switches located in 12 cities spread across the country. MTN Nigeria continues to expand and improve the transmission capacity on its network. Today, the length of MTN Nigeria’s transmission network stands at 11, 500km thus making it Africa’s most 4 extensive digital transmission infrastructure, and this has significantly contributed to enhancing call quality on MTNN’s network. In 2013, MTN Nigeria completed its comprehensive Network Modernization exercise, which involved the upgrade and replacement of key network components with newer versions to enhance network capacity and provide much improved quality of service. Pursuing New Growth Opportunities… Indeed, MTN Nigeria has achieved such growth that we are now an international benchmark for what can be achieved in the telecommunications industry in an emerging economy. As the company pursues new growth opportunities in the data and ICT space, it is with the same commitment to making an impact on the lives of Nigerians. With the rapid penetration rate of smart devices, phones and tablets in the telecoms space, there has been an explosion of mobile data traffic worldwide. Equally important is the convergence of a number of other industries with telecoms such as media, broadcasting, entertainment, IT and banking, which have provided significant opportunities in data for mobile operators in Africa. MTN Nigeria, thus understandably, continues to invest in its 3G, WiMax and Fibre networks to take advantage of these growing data/ICT opportunities. Indeed, through the MTN Business, MTN is also in the forefront of providing reliable and dependable business communication solutions to the Nigeria enterprise market. Offering a suite of Voice, Internet, Data and Branch Connectivity Solutions, MTN Business currently serves a teeming number of corporate and public sector organisations across several industries. With continuous extensive investment in infrastructure and a focus on innovation, MTN Business is able to deploy new and flexible services and solutions tailormade to address customers’ peculiar business communication needs. Ultimately, the MTN Business team will continue to work with various partners to design and deploy solutions that are both affordable and innovative meeting the need of Nigerians and supporting small, medium and large business enterprises across the country. …and Still Enriching Lives! MTN Nigeria’s commitment to Corporate Social Responsibility has earned us a reputation as “The No.1 CSR Telecoms Company”, and the first Nigerian mobile company to establish a Foundation. MTN continues to go the extra mile to put smiles on the faces of Nigerians through sustainable projects spanning the Education, Economic empowerment and Health sectors, which have a high impact on the quality of life in communities across Nigeria. To date, the Foundation has invested over 10 billion naira in executing various projects in 338 locations across the 36 states of Nigeria and the FCT. In addition, MTN is also committed to adding value through ensuring good corporate governance, leading to commendation from various arms of government. MTN would continue to make the necessary investments in telecommunications infrastructure as well as in all levels of government through the payment of taxes, levies and other statutory obligations to relevant government agencies. 5 It is worthy of note that MTN’s operations in Nigeria and level of fiscal compliance has made a significant contribution of 4% to Nigeria’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP). Undoubtedly, MTN remains committed to adding true value to society, through corporate governance, targeted, wide-impact corporate social investment initiatives and the development of innovative products and services to empower people and enrich lives. As the company progresses with its operations, its various initiatives and projects as well as its products and services will continue to demonstrate the company's vision to lead the delivery of a bold, new Digital World to our customers, propelled by a mission to make our customers' lives a whole lot brighter. For more information about MTN Nigeria’s products and services, please visit the MTN website: www.mtnonline.com. You can also get more information via the following social media: www.facebook.com/MTNLoadedNG www.twitter.com/MTNNG and www.twitter.com/MTN180 www.youtube.com/MTNNG www.instagram.com/MTNNG 6 EXECUTIVE STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT FOR THE GLOBAL COMPACT: I am proud to note that this year marks the seventh anniversary of MTN Nigeria’s commitment to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). While so much has changed since our first submission, our commitment to the 10 noble UNGC principles remains unwavering. In addition to our compliance with the core tenets of the UNGC principles, we also continue to integrate responsible business practices with our core values of Leadership, Innovation, Relationship, Integrity and Can-do, and this has helped sustain our standing as a global brand of repute. As Nigeria’s leading ICT Company, we recognise that people rely on us to make a productive and meaningful impact on their lives and families and indeed on society at large. This places a depth and breadth of responsibility on us that we take very seriously; captured by our company's vision to lead the delivery of a bold, new Digital World to our customers, and mission to make our customers' lives a whole lot brighter. These statements convey the premium we place on understanding our customers’ needs and deploying ICT to meet these needs and thereby enhance the way they live, work and play. In much the same way, our firm commitment to the time-honoured principles of the United Nations Global Compact is a fundamental part of how we fulfil our responsibility to all our customers – internal and external. Indeed, we recognise that we have a responsibility to ensure that we continue to uphold the UNGC principles of accountability, transparency and respect for basic human rights, while creating shared value for our stakeholders, customers, communities and employees. This report captures our efforts in this regard in 2013. We were able to consolidate on various initiatives aligned to the 10 UNGC principles, as well as commit to setting new targets for 2014. As I restate MTN Nigeria’s commitment to the principles of the UN Global Compact, I thank our Board of Directors, Management and staff for their role in achieving the successes highlighted in this report. Thank you and happy reading! Michael Ikpoki Chief Executive Officer, MTN Nigeria 7 THE TEN PRINCIPLES The UN Global Compact’s ten principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anticorruption enjoy universal consensus and are derived from: • The Universal Declaration of Human Rights • The International Labour Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work • The Rio Declaration on Environment and Development • The United Nations Convention against Corruption The UNGC Principles are listed below: Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Standards Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentallyfriendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Membership of the UNGC requires companies to issue a Communication on Progress (COP) report annually. MTN Nigeria is committed to upholding these principles and the report you are about to read will outline our activities in support of these principles during the year 2013. 8 Summary of Highlights in This Report Human Rights Enhanced Employee Incentives: Continued the practice of the annual gifts, bonuses and salary reviews; conducted Hepatitis B & C Screening and Vaccination Exercise and commenced the New MTNN Medical Scheme. Sponsoring cultural celebrations: Demonstrated our commitment to Nigeria’s proud heritage and warm, dynamic people, through our sponsorship of major festivals and cultural celebrations across the country. Labour Standards Uplifting our employees: Launched the MTN Y’ello Careers initiative, deployed the MTN Innovation Portal and organised the second edition of the CEO Y’ello Manager Award. These are key aspects of our Employee Value Proposition designed to provide employees with the right environment and culture to thrive. Uplifting Upcoming Entrepreneurs: Empowered 424, 441 Nigerians who are now members of our MTN Bizlift dealer scheme. Environment Going Green While Staying Yello: Sustained carbon-reduction measures through enforcing strict compliance with approved speed limit. Expansion of Web solutions: Introduced the MTN Facebook Self-Care App and the MTN Proposal submission portal to encourage more active use of web solutions as an alternative to traditional means that encourage paper usage. Anti-Corruption Protecting the Business: Promoted best practice standards through staff enlightenment initiatives such as the compulsory Annual Code of Ethics Certification and the International fraud Awareness week while deterring potential threats through the public announcement of Integrity-Related staff exits. Protecting our customers: Updated the MTN No Gift Policy 9 At MTN Nigeria, we conduct our business with deliberate responsibility; recognising its enormous impact on people, the economy and society SECTION 1: Human Rights 10  Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and  Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Strengthening our commitment through Policy For over a dozen years, we have enabled Nigerians connect to each other thus safeguarding a basic human right to speak freely, share ideas and access information. In this way we support economic and social opportunity as well as promote openness and transparency. We recognise that the capacity to stay in touch can serve as a critical tool for public safety or security. We therefore strive to deliver a secure and reliable infrastructure thus ensuring that our services are always available. Equally important is that we do not engage in ANY discriminatory practice based on race, national or ethnic origin, colour, religion, age, sex, sexual orientation, marital status, family status, disability or conviction for an offence for which a pardon has been granted. As a business, we recognize the responsibilities that come from providing communication infrastructure, products and services to a huge percentage of the populace and remain committed to upholding codes of conduct that promote fundamental human rights as defined by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. This commitment is applied through various policies that govern our work and business relationships. They include: Wellness Policy, MTNN Recruitment Policy, MTNN Code of Ethics, MTNN Corporate Business Principles, Guidelines in the Conduct of Government Affairs, Conditions of Service Manual, Supplier Code of Conduct, MTNF Policy Manual. Demonstrating our commitment through Action UDHR Article 19: Everyone has the right to freedom of opinion and expression; this right includes freedom to hold opinions without interference and to seek, receive and impart information and ideas through any media and regardless of frontiers. Promoting open communication 2013 Group Culture Audit 11 As a Group, MTN is committed to creating a work environment that promotes free and open communication. We recognize the importance of honest feedback in enhancing organizational growth and success. That is why, since 2005, the MTN Group has organised an internal Group Culture Audit (GCA) survey to enable all staff provide objective feedback about the workplace without fear of victimisation. Organised by an independent consultant, the results from this survey are treated confidentially towards ensuring total anonymity. The 2013 GCA for MTN Nigeria recorded a staff participation rate of 94.46% which was a rise from the 92% recorded in 2012. Internal Satisfaction Survey (ISS) In 2013, we conducted another Internal Communication Audit which is a Group wide survey developed from a consultative process involving all the 22 operations in the MTN Group with MTN Nigeria contributing significantly to the content of the audit. The Internal Communication Audit helps measure the effectiveness of internal communication within MTN, as well as the effectiveness of available communication platforms. It also helps internal communicators understand what needs to change or improve and what type of tools or support are needed to ensure MTNers are always well informed. The Investors in People (IIP) Accreditation Following the success of the assessment exercise in 2012, MTN Nigeria was formally accredited by the Investors in People (IiP) Governing Board, United Kingdom as an Investor in People organisation in May 2013. The Investors in People (IIP) Standard is a business improvement tool designed to assist organisations achieve high performance through their people. One of the world’s leading people management standards, it is a proven methodology for increased financial performance, productivity and profitability in an organisation. In order to receive the accreditation, MTN employees were called to provide anonymous feedback during the IiP assessment exercise about the work culture and environment. As such, achieving the IiP accreditation validates the strength of the MTN’s Employee Value Proposition also known as the MTN Deal and also reinforces MTN’s position as an employer of choice. By this development, MTN Nigeria becomes the first company in Nigeria and in West Africa to be so recognised. It is also the first operating company of the MTN Group to attain the status. UDHR Article 23(3): Everyone who works has the right to just and favourable remuneration ensuring for himself and his family an existence worthy of human dignity, and supplemented, if necessary, by other means of social protection. 12 Enhanced Employee Incentives Annual gifts, bonuses and salary reviews  Management continued its favourable practice of recognising the efforts of employees who contributed to the company’s success. For the fifth year running, employees received the award of one-off household items under the Go-Benefit scheme. This is in addition to the end-of-year gifts (monetized in 2013) and annual salary review. Medical care  Hepatitis B & C Screening and Vaccination Exercise was conducted for staff across ALL MTN locations. Since HIV-positive individuals require a higher dose of the Hepatitis B vaccine than those who are not, HIV-screening was part of the process. Screening results were treated with utmost confidentiality.  New MTNN Medical Scheme Following the Selection of two new Health Maintenance Organisations (HMO) staff were registered on the new MTN Medical Scheme. UDHR Article 25(1): Everyone has the right to a standard of living adequate for the health and wellbeing of himself and of his family, including food, clothing, housing and medical care and necessary social services, and the right to security in the event of unemployment, sickness, disability, widowhood, old age or other lack of livelihood in circumstances beyond his control. Improving quality of life…  Empowering widows The MTN Nigeria Foundation Board approved the Widows’ Empowerment Scheme (MTNFWES), a micro-finance initiative, aimed at providing business management skills and equipment support to boost the businesses of 300 widows from across the six geo-political zones, made up of 50 widows in each of the six locations. The beneficiary states are Imo, Lagos, Rivers, Sokoto, Taraba and the Federal Capital Territory. The project is being implemented by Growing Businesses Foundation (GBF). The beneficiaries were selected following application through state ministries of women affairs and widow-serving organizations, interview sessions, administration of vulnerability index analysis and execution of agreements with microfinance institutions for repayment of value of empowerment tools. Beneficiaries have been provided with basic business management skills training and are being monitored to ensure that they develop a savings culture. 13  Enhancing ability in disability As it had done in 2012, the MTN Foundation provided starter-packs to 46 beneficiaries of the second phase of MTNF/Friends of the Disabled Skills Acquisition Projects for Persons with Disabilities. The beneficiaries were presented with the following empowerment items to assist them in setting up their businesses: o 21 Ultrasonic Tailoring Embroidery Machines; o 11 Electric Arc-Welding Machines; and o 14 Straight Shoe Sewing Machines Through MTNF Disability Support Project (MTNF-DSP), a total of 4053 mobility aids and appliances were distributed to beneficiaries in the following states: Federal Capital Territory, Adamawa, Anambra, Benue, Cross River, Delta, Ebonyi, Kebbi, Lagos, Oyo, Sokoto and Taraba states. The MTNF-DSP is aimed at improving accessibility and functionality of persons living with disabilities through the provision of mobility aids and appliances. Under the first three phases of the project 15,000 disability aids and appliances were distributed in the 36 states and the FCT between 2009 and 2011. Following assessment of the process some items from prior phases being dropped and new items like such as bendable calipers for beneficiaries with polio, stylus & mar burgs and talking phones for blind students. Taking health care to our communities MTNF Community Health Screening Project (MTNF CHSP) In 2013, MTNF in collaboration with the Nigerian Association of Nephrology (NAN) successfully executed the 3rd Phase of the MTNF Community Health Screening Project (MTNF CHSP). The MTNF CHSP is geared towards early detection of common noncommunicable diseases (such as diabetes, hypertension, obesity, kidney disease etc). The intervention facilitates early medical treatment for these diseases. A total of 3,142 persons benefitted from the outreach programme where health indicators such as Body Mass Index, Blood Pressure, Blood Sugar, total cholesterol, Creatinine, Urea, and Triglyceride etc. were checked. The MTNF CHSP has invariably become a veritable platform for the collection of scientific data on non-communicable diseases in Nigeria which will help determine the noncommunicable disease prevalence and distribution pattern across the country. 14 MTNF Y’ello Doctor Mobile Medical Intervention Scheme  The MTNF Y’ello Doctor Mobile Medical Intervention Scheme was inaugurated in Lagos. The scheme popularly called the MTNF Y’ello Doctor aims to improve the quality of Primary Health Care in Nigeria, through the deployment of six state-of-the-art Mobile Clinics (stocked with consumables and drugs), designed to provide maternal and child health services, as well as interventions for communicable/non-communicable diseases, to communities in six states across the country. The MTNF Y’ello Doctor Mobile Medical Intervention Scheme was delivered in partnership with the National Primary Health Care Development Agency (NPHCDA) and will further enhance the efforts of the Federal and State Ministries of Health, towards improving health care delivery in Nigeria. The Mobile Clinics MTN Foundation Eyesight Restoration Intervention Scheme (MTNF EyeRIS PROJECT) The MTNF EyeRIS Project–endorsed by the Federal Ministry of Health, is an ocular health intervention in response to Nigeria’s low vision and high blindness prevalence rate which in most cases can be ascribed to Cataracts. A total of 27,485 participants from six states across the country were screened and treated for cataracts and other ocular diseases. Out of this number, 10,610 patients nationwide benefitted from free cataract surgeries while 11,946 reading glasses and 10,808 drug packs were also distributed to patients for treatment of allergies and other eye infections. The MTNF EyeRIS Project was implemented by the Eye Foundation Centre for the Prevention of Blindness, a reputable indigenous organisation and ophthalmological service provider, in collaboration with the following states: Osun, Niger, Delta, Abia, Sokoto and Jigawa. 15 Performance Bar Graph-Total MTNF Sickle Cell Project:  Under the MTNF Sickle Cell Project the Foundation has continued to contribute to the reduction of sickle cell related deaths in Nigeria through the delivery of preventive healthcare management services, essential drugs and consumables to sickle cell carriers and sufferers across the country. 25 healthcare workers took part in the 14th edition of the Genetic Counseling Training Course (GCTC) which held in Lagos thus bringing the total number of trained healthcare workers operating across the country to 236. UDHR Article 3 Everyone has the right to life, liberty and security of person 16 Contributing to Improving Security in Nigeria… MTNF Security Support Project (MTNF-SSP) is a platform to contribute to a secured and favourable environment for lives, property and business operations across the country. In 2012, MTN Foundation provided 55 fully equipped security patrol vehicles to 10 states and the Federal Capital Territory. In 2013, the project was replicated in the following states: Ondo, Lagos, Enugu, Gombe, Kaduna, Kogi, Bayelsa and Akwa Ibom. UDHR Article 22 Everyone, as a member of society, has the right to social security and is entitled to realization, through national effort and international co-operation and in accordance with the organization and resources of each State, of the economic, social and cultural rights indispensable for his dignity and the free development of his personality. Supporting Communities with Basic Infrastructure The fourth phase of the MTNF Community Sponsorship project was approved in 2012 by the Board of Directors to provide infrastructure to deserving communities where MTNN operates. In 2013, a total of 16 Community Projects which includes provision of boreholes, transformers and renovation of community schools and community halls were successfully implemented. Communities in the following states benefitted in 2013: Adamawa, Akwa Ibom, Anambra, Bayelsa, Delta, Edo, Ekiti, Enugu, Ondo, Rivers, Sokoto and Taraba States and FCT Abuja. UDHR Article 25 (2) Motherhood and childhood are entitled to special care and assistance. All children, whether born in or out of wedlock, shall enjoy the same social protection. Care for Children MTNF Orphanage Support Initiative In December 2013, MTN through its Foundation continued its MTNF Orphanage Support Initiative, through which they visited 40 orphanages and hospices in the six geopolitical zones of the country. Items donated include food and household items ranging from washing machines, fans, mattresses, pillows, bags of rice, semovita, garri, vegetable oil, sugar, beverages, detergents, soaps, sugar etc. 17 UDHR Article 26(1): Everyone has the right to education. Education shall be free, at least in the elementary and fundamental stages. Elementary education shall be compulsory. Technical and professional education shall be made generally available and higher education shall be equally accessible to all on the basis of merit. Empowering Learning MTN Nigeria continues to improve educational standards in the country in the following ways:  21 Days of Y’ello Care 2013 MTN held it an annual staff volunteer programme, 21 Days of Y’ello Care, which again focused on Education. With the theme Investing in Education for All, it proved a veritable platform for over 2500 MTNers to give back to the communities in the following ways: Six reading clubs were set up in Lagos, Abuja and Port Harcourt, 15 Libraries were upgraded in schools across various regions of the country, Teaching activities were held in 67 schools across Nigeria and Six secondary schools in Lagos participated in the Y’ello Spelling Bee competition.  MTNF Science & Technology Laboratory Project, Phase 1 This project was completed and commissioned in 4 Nigerian states Abia, Katsina, Edo and the FCT in 2013. 24 teachers and lab attendants were also trained in Abia, the FCT and Edo in 2013. Under this initiative, the MTN Foundation provides the following to each of the Secondary Schools:  Renovation/make-over works and provision of laboratory furniture  Supply and installation of modern Science & Technology equipment for each subject: Physics, Chemistry & Biology  One full year’s supply of consumables (materials, chemicals and reagents) to the beneficiary Secondary Schools  Training of 24 Science Teachers and Laboratory attendants across all the beneficiary schools 18  Supply of a 5KVA generator to each beneficiary Secondary School and fuel supply to each school for one year. Pictures of the Science labs in Abia State  The MTNF Science & Technology Scholarship Scheme Under this Scheme, the Foundation currently provides financial support to Science & Technology students in public Universities, Polytechnics and Colleges of Education across the six geo-political zones in Nigeria. In phase 4 (2012/2013), a total of 10,810 applications were received from which 2,500 applicants were shortlisted for verification. After the test, a total of 500 new awardees were included to the scheme, bringing the current number of beneficiaries to 1,087. Overall, a total of 3,536 science and technology scholarships have been awarded by the MTNF. The table below provides a summary of the scholarship awards: Summary of Scholarships awarded since inception. 2010 2011 2012 2013 Phase 1 500 451 393 277 Phase 2 483 367 261 Phase 3 255 49 Phase 4 500 19 Phase 4 addition Phase 5 Total No. of Awardees 500 934 1,015 1,087 Total No. of Scholarship awards given since 3,536 inception Some Scholarship Recipients with Ambassador Hamzat Ahmadu, CON, Chairman, MTN Foundation, Directors, and Dignitaries at the award ceremony in Lagos. MTNF Restructured SchoolsConnect Project MTN continues to contribute boldly to ICT and science & technology in education in Nigeria. Under the MTNF Restructured SchoolsConnect Project existing SchoolsConnect sites in 49 secondary schools were renovated and re-equipped for effective and focused study of three core subjects: Mathematics, English Language and ICT Appreciation. The 49 restructured SchoolsConnect schools are located in Lagos, Enugu, Imo, Cross Rivers, Ekiti, Ogun, Kwara, Niger, Bauchi, Rivers, Kaduna and the FCT. Each school received the following from this project: 1. Replacement of all computers, servers and other appurtenances 2. Architecture enhancement to improve learning 3. Updating the content in all 49 locations. 4. Refresher courses for teachers to empower them in the use of restructured SchoolsConnect facilities. Two trainings interventions have already been delivered 5. Renovation of building housing SchoolsConnect sites 20 SchoolsConnect facility in one of the beneficiary schools in Rivers State. PROVIDING LEARNING MATERIALS AND FACILITIES TO AID EDUCATION  The MTNF Learning Facility Supply Project Under the phase 3 of this project, 16,000 students’ desks & benches and 2,000 teachers’ chairs & tables were distributed to 80 public schools, including military and police schools across the 36 States and the FCT. Furniture at Command Day Secondary School, Ijebu Ode, Ogun State Distribution of Learning Materials MTNF Learning Support Materials Initiative provided different learning aids for use in primary and secondary schools and children’s organisations in 2013 for various events including: Children’s day, Sports Day, Prize Giving Day, Religious season and end of year celebrations. The branded items includes: school bags, rain coats, pencil cases, mathematical sets, learning puzzle maps, and exercise books. About 250 public and private secondary schools and children organisations received these materials in 2013. 21 In 2013, 75,090 exercise books; 10,075 school bags; 35,235 rain coats; 6,595 pencil cases and 7,870 maths sets were distributed to 368 schools and organizations in Nigeria.  MTNF MUSON Music Scholarship MTN Foundation partners with the Musical society of Nigeria (MUSON) to offer scholarships to 30 talented Nigerians annually, leading to the award of a MUSON Diploma in Music after two successful academic years. To date, 162 Nigerians have graduated from this program and have moved on to various musical careers including performance in world class orchestras, further scholarships to study at world class music schools in the US, Europe and Africa; and resource persons at premium Private and Public Schools in Nigeria. Cross-section of graduating scholars performing with one of their teachers, Mr Kanitz 1st prize winner playing the sax in a performance with other graduands during the ceremony 22 UDHR Article 27 (1): Everyone has the right freely to participate in the cultural life of the community, to enjoy the arts and to share in scientific advancement and its benefits. Strengthening the ties that bind…  Sponsoring cultural celebrations MTN continues to identify with Nigeria’s rich ethnicity and cultural diversity and in 2013, we again demonstrated our commitment to Nigeria’s proud heritage and warm, dynamic people, through our sponsorship of major festivals and cultural celebrations annually. MTN Nigeria sponsored 10 cultural festivals across the country including: Leboku; Ofala Nnewi; Oronna Ilaro Festival; Gembu Festival and Osun Oshogbo among others. See Appendix Connecting to Our Customers Passions  MTN Lagos Street Soccer As title sponsor of this popular 5-a-side street football competition, MTN uses this platform to enrich the lives of youth by connecting them to their passion for world class football, while promoting grassroots development. The competition which comprises of street teams from all the 57 local government councils in Lagos State, was designed to channel the energies of the youth constructively, thereby diverting them from negative practices which are detrimental to their future and the society. The 2013 edition is the seventh in the series and was expanded to include an Under-15 category. Apart from the cash prizes, winners in the male & female categories were sponsored on a training tour to the UAE while the U-15 winners were taken to South Africa. MTN Football Academy The MTN Football Scholar is a youth soccer camp that focuses equally on football and academics. It provides a platform for Nigeria's best student athletes/soccer players that are academically sound to earn scholarships to American universities. It is a scholarship program that connects MTN with the positive dreams and aspirations of Nigerian youths for international exposure in Soccer and education. The third season of the project, which held in 2013, produced 15 finalists who based on their educational performances and football skills have now secured admission into various American universities. 23 We recognise that the possibilities for business growth go hand in hand with the immense potential for positive social impact, restoring human dignity through self-sustaining initiatives, products and services SECTION 2: Labour Standards Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: Businesses should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5: Businesses should support the effective abolition of child labour. Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 24 Strengthening our commitment through Policy MTN Nigeria is committed to creating a conducive working environment for the over 4, 932 highly skilled men and women who contribute towards establishing the company as a successful global brand. Through its Employee Value Proposition (the MTN Deal), MTN Nigeria remains committed to attracting and retaining the best talent and ensuring that recruitment and remuneration of employees is fair and transparent. In addition, we are constantly promoting a work environment that abhors any action, attitude or policy that might in any way discriminate against our female employees. Furthermore MTNN actively collaborates with the recognised employees’ liaison platform: the MTNN Employee Council. MTNN is averse to all forms of forced labour and child labour and rigorously supports activities which prevent its occurrence. We also ensure strict adherence to age restrictions for ALL our work force, and insist that our suppliers; contractors and service providers do same in their operations. We work to uphold the aforementioned objectives via the following policies: the Conditions of Service Manual, Employee Council Constitution, the MTNN Code of Ethics, Supplier Code of Conduct Policy, and the MTNF Policy Manual. Demonstrating our commitment through Action Empowering and Recognising our employees  Launch of Y’ello Careers This is a business-wide, career management initiative designed to support and enhance employee development and mobility in MTN Nigeria. The Y’ello Careers initiative seeks to create awareness on career development opportunities, support employee development and mobility whilst improving staff engagement levels and retention. Through the Y’ello Careers initiative, employees will have access to: information on possible career path ways to make informed choices; professional guidance on how to effectively manage and progress their careers; opportunities for job rotation and a fully functional career management centre and much more  The CEO Y’ello Manager Award A second set of CEO Y’ello Managers emerged from across the business following nominations by their subordinates (direct reports). 290 managers were nominated from which 14 were selected to receive the CEO Y’ello Manager Award. 25 The “CEO Y’ello Manager Award” is designed to recognize and reward managers and teamleads who practice the four cardinal points of the MTNN People Management Framework (Know Me, Focus Me, Guide Me, Recognise Me).  MTN Innovation Portal The MTN Innovation Portal, an exciting Group-wide initiative aimed at fostering a culture of innovation across the business and further embedding the pillars of the MTN Deal, was inaugurated. The Innovation Portal is designed to provide employees with an opportunity to collaborate and share ideas that will: • Resolve business challenges • Improve business processes • Lead to the development of viable products and services Uplifting Upcoming Entrepreneurs: MTN BizLift  MTN BizLift is designed to engage, empower and expand the businesses of small scale retailers whilst rewarding them for landmark achievements. In 2013, the number of MTN Bizlift members grew 24% from 342, 620 to 424,441. 26 MTN’s overriding objective is to ensure that our operations have a minimal impact on the environment while helping our subscribers to stay in touch in more environmentally sustainable ways. SECTION 3: Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 27 Strengthening our commitment through Policy MTN Nigeria continues to demonstrate its commitment to making a positive difference to the environment within which we carry out our business. In the past dozen years, we have complied with various international environmental regulations and ensured the environmental safety of our employees, operations, locations, products/services and our communities, through strict adherence to various environmental and safety policies. We relentlessly continue to explore avenues to partner with relevant Government, regulatory and private sector stakeholders, to promote safer, environmentally-friendly practices among our employees, partners, suppliers and customers. Section 5 of our MTNN Code of Ethics also covers our commitment to ensuring a safe environment for employees, whilst also ensuring greater environmental responsibility across the country with regards to all our products and services. We also adhere to a written environmental policy which is available on notice boards across all our offices, and also hosted on electronic media. The policy comprises a Safety, Health and Environmental (SHE) Policy, Hazardous Waste Management Policy and a waste disposal and management policy. Demonstrating our commitment through Action Preserving the Environment Compliance With Approved Speed Limit As part of efforts to discourage excessive use of fuel (with attendant implications on the environment), MTN commenced the installation of speed limit tracking devices on all official vehicles, which are used by management staff and some junior staff on official assignment. Staff buses were also fitted with these trackers. These speed limits will be monitored to assess level of compliance and sanctions specified for defaulters. Expansion of Web Solutions The growth in electronic transaction is making it possible for more people to efficiently and effectively telecommute; transact business online and remain connected virtually. In addition to efforts of automating various internal processes to reduce paper usage, as well as introducing some automation to our external processes, through the use of special apps and other software which will reduce the time/energy spent by customers in visiting our offices to resolve any issue. 28 Some of the new services include:  MTN FaceBook Self-care App MTN Facebook Self-Care App is an application that customers can use to checking account balance, monitor account, manage data usage and access support information related to subscriptions. With this application downloaded on any device (phone or laptop), customers can: •Check account profile. •Check recent account recharges. •Subscribe to a blackberry/Fastlink/mobile internet/simple surf data plan. •Subscribe to MTN callertunez, music and games on MTN Play. •Check available balance and expiry data of BlackBerry/Fastlink/mobile internet/Simple Surf data plan. •Perform a SIM Swap on lost/stolen MTN line. •Purchase airtime or pay phone bills using Interswitch ATM card. •Retrieve PUK code to unlock SIM. •Request for MTN Data Settings to manually connect to the internet. MTN Proposal Submission Portal Established the MTN Proposal Submission portal to enable the general public submit proposal / business idea directly to MTN Nigeria. Our conviction that Institutionalised Ethical Conduct is key to the development of a vibrant 29 private sector underscores our commitment to doing things right, at the appropriate time and in all situations. SECTION 4: Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Strengthening our commitment through Policy Guided by our core value of integrity, we take great care to ensure that all our employees, partners, and customers are aware of our commitment to promote ethical best practice across the business. Integrity is at the very heart and soul of our corporate culture and is one of MTN’s five brand values. It builds our reputation, distinguishes our brand and has established us as Africa’s biggest network for over 10 years. MTN practices a zero-tolerance policy against corruption in all forms. Several policies/practices have been put in place and disseminated to ensure compliance. Some of these policies include: MTNN Conflicts of Interest Policy, Conditions of Service Manual, MTNN Code of Ethics, Disciplinary Process, MTN Nigeria Gifts & Donations Policy, The MTN Corporate Business Principles, Whistle Blowing Policy, Document Retention Policy, Guidelines in the Conduct of Government Affairs, AntiFraud and Zero Tolerance Policy, MTN Group Confidentiality Undertaking, Information Security Policy, MTNN Code of Conduct and Disciplinary Matrix, Supplier Code of Conduct Policy, Conditions of Service Manual and Employment Contract Demonstrating our commitment through Action  The Annual Code of Ethics Certification In line with our continuous drive to promote ethical best practice across the business, all staff are required to undertake an Annual Code of Ethics Certification. The Certification is 30 designed to drive awareness and understanding of policies and related documents on ethical conduct, amongst staff. To complete the Certification, staff members are expected to read the following policy documents which are listed in the Certification: • The MTNN Code of Ethics • The MTN Corporate Business Principles • Whistle Blowing Policy • Document Retention Policy • Guidelines in the Conduct of Government Affairs • Anti-Fraud and Zero Tolerance Policy • MTN Group Confidentiality Undertaking • Information Security Policy • MTNN Code of Conduct and Disciplinary Matrix • Conditions of Service Manual • Employment Contract • The Group Gifts Policy Once this has been done, staff members were required to sign an Employee Code of Ethics Certification, confirming that they have read and understood the policies and will adhere to the principles stated therein.  International Fraud Awareness Week MTN Nigeria joined thousands of organisations around the world to raise employees’ awareness of fraud and its negative impact on organisations. The Theme: “Actively Collaborating to Fight Fraud and Corruption”, speaks to our commitment to partnering effectively with our employees (in the spirit of our Vital Behaviours), to proactively fight fraud and protect the business from fraudulent activities. To achieve this, a series of Fraud Awareness Roadshows were held across various MTN locations nationwide. Encouraging “ethical conversations” amongst staff  Announcement of Integrity Related Staff Exits Management approved the communication of Integrity related Staff Exits on a monthly basis to reinforce MTN’s zero tolerance stance on ethical misconduct.  The Ethica Series MTN continued the monthly publication of its Ethica educational cartoon series which was designed to provide employees with information that should enhance their understanding of MTN’s ethical policies. Some of the topics covered in 2013 included: Gifts, Hospitality and Favours; Privacy and Confidentiality; Environmental Responsibility; Conflict of Interest and Guidelines in the Conduct of Government Affairs, among others. 31 Examples: Protecting our customers/Suppliers  The MTN No Gift Policy Updated In 2013, MTN reviewed its “No Gift Policy” which now includes firmer directives to employees on accepting or giving gifts to vendors, contractors, customers or any other individual or organisation. This policy was rigorously enforced all year, especially during seasonal celebrations where such practices are liable to occur. 32 Making this C.O.P available to stakeholders An electronic version of the C.O.P will be made available via our Corporate intranet (for employees) and also on our corporate website (www.mtnonline.com) to be available to the following stakeholders:  All categories of staff  MTNN/MTNF Directors  MTN Suppliers  MTN Consultants and agencies  Media partners  MTNF Implementation partners  MTN Health providers APPENDIX 1: List of MTNN Sponsored Festivals in 2013 S/N REGION NAME OF FESTIVAL EVENT DATE 1 Lagos Epe Festival March 2 South Leboku Cross River July 28 August South 31 3 Igue Festival December 4 South Iriji Mbaise December 27 28 East 5 Ofala Nnewi December 27 28 6 South Osun Oshogbo September 7 West Oronna Ilaro Festival July 28 – August 5 8 North Gembu Festival, September 12 East Sarduana Taraba 9 Nwonyo Festival September 12 10 North Zamfara Kalankuwa September 21 West 33
