Communication of Progress 2014 Introducing GNT 2 Introducing GNT GNT-Group’s subsidiary in France was This now allows GNT-Group to combine created in May 2003 with the specific the strengths of a world renowned objective of building a Managed Services support center with the light and agile business through the recruitment of skilled structure of a startup. engineers and consultants from HP. This was as a result of the take-over of GNT-Group private company is Compaq by HP and the closure of the specialized in Managed Services, consulting as well as software Managed Services team in Sophia development and integration. Antipolis.  Service providers are usually viewed as administratively rigid. Green network understands those disadvantages and focuses on being flexible whilst remaining humanly sized. We encourage close relationships between our clients and collaborators.  Green network is present internationally and capable of adapting to different environments and the needs of the clients.  Information technologies are often looked upon as a costly. Green network Consultants offer flexible solutions, both financially and technically.  Proactive and reactive services through a close proximity: this proximity is geographical, cultural and industrial. 3 Introducing GNT GNT, a worldwide company America Europe Africa Middle East Asia-Pacific Brazil Baltic Algeria Bahrein China Canada Benelux Madagascar Dubai Hong Kong Chile Denmark Mauritius Indonesia USA France South Africa Tokyo Germany Vietnam Italy Norway Poland Portugal Spain Sweden UK OUR CUSTOMERS large and small Our service offerings are scalable and allow us to provide high quality services at a modest cost to a wide range of customers. For example:  A local customer needs us to take total responsibility for his LAN, Windows servers and MS Exchange messaging service ;  An international customer who needs us to provide full help desk, network monitoring and fault management for their worldwide Cisco based WAN. 4 Introducing GNT Green Network intervenes in various sectors  Banking, Insurances and Financial services  Industries and Engineering  Telecoms  Public Sectors Flexibility is key! Diversity of business commitments Distributed over all continents, GNT is involved on the development of the information systems of tomorrow. The long-term success of our company depends on our ability to meet the need for a safe, comfortable and efficient service in accordance with the market and in a profitable manner that also addresses environmental and social aspects. In this sense, the major part of GNT’s success and at the same time the interest of its customers, employees, shareholders and other key stakeholders is assured. Information about Corporate Social Responsibility shows how GNT, as a full member of the Business Network for Corporate Social Responsibility takes care of the human rights, labor, environmental and anticorruption principles and assumes conscientiousness for various interest groups. Values and Social Responsibility The vision of Green network technology translates as Leadership through Service. Moreover, the name Green network technology in itself means that we are dedicated to maintaining the Corporate Social Responsibility Principles. In this context, GNT has already introduced 10 years ago a code of conduct, which requires our worldwide staff to be in accordance with the CSR principles 5 Introducing GNT STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Green Network Technology reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Henri Cerda Green Network Technology President and CEO 6 Human Rights 7 Human Rights Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Green Network Technology is highly supportive to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and ensures that all their employees abide to the same principles. The company conducts its business guided by ethics. Therefore, the company seeks to support, respect and sensitize different stakeholders for the fulfillment of human rights. Thus, GNT does not collaborate in any way with clients who disrespect these principals and insures that all our projects are developed in countries which respect these principles. Implementation  WORKSHOPS As described above, Green Network technology doesn’t accept the lack of respect of human rights. To diffuse the same ideology through all the collaborators, the company will provide workshops regarding ethical behaviors with the aim of bringing them reflections about the theme and help them to avoid/prevent critical situations.  BUSINESS GNT will continue to ensure that all of their partners/ associates comply with the Global Compact Human Right Principles and that none project is developed on countries that does not follows the same principles.  PUBLICATION To promulgate their ethical business performance, GNT is publishing the commitment to the United Nation’s Global Compact in its website (www.greennettech.com). This document is shared with stakeholders including collaborators, customers and all communities. On the date hereof, no incident has been reported. The company’s policies are reviewed and analyzed every 6 months. 8 Labour Labour Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Regarding the Global Compact Labour Principles, Green Network Technology is completely supportive of them. All employees are issued with a contract of employment which clearly states their terms and conditions including pay rates, overtime pay arrangements and health insurance. The staff is also issued with deontological rules which include information on standard terms and conditions of employment, company benefits, company rules, grievance and disciplinary procedures. Furthermore, GNT provides different kinds of formations to its staff with the aim to grant them more skills and knowledge, enriching their professional and personal experience. GNT also fights against social exclusion and discrimination. All recruitment and selection processes are performed promoting the equal opportunities for all. Implementation  HUMAN RECOURCES POLICIES Green Network Technology has a range of Human Resources Policies which support best practice in terms of labour and employment including an Equal Opportunities Policy and a Dignity at Work Policy.  TRAINING SESSIONS To ensure that the staff responds correctly to concerns that could be raised, GNT is providing internal training sessions regarding awareness about different forms of discrimination in the labour environment. As of the date hereof, GNT has not been involved in any investigations, legal cases or other relevant events related to the disrespect for the Global Compact Labour principles. 9 Environment 10 Environment Environment Principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Protection of the environment is becoming an increasingly important point in these years. Aware of this situation, Green Network Technology has recognized that we have the duty to care for the environment in its daily operations, with waste reduction, paper save, green procurement, energy reduction etc. Key figures of the operation, environmentally speaking, show that almost 60% of the environmental load should be allocated to energy consumption, engaged in the world. Therefore, Green Network Technology's in association with the Carbon Trust association are pursuing their values on the environment cares and issues, which are: tackle climate change by accelerating the move to a sustainable, low carbon economy and putting sustainable development at the heart of the business strategy. To accomplish that GNT uses an online invoice software (preventing the paper waste), implements a recycling system and all technological devices are energetically regulated to reduce energy consumption. The company also participates frequently on Carbon Trust conferences, in order to be updated on the latest news/opportunities/advices about footprinting and technology that can be used to improve sustainable development of the business. Implementation  KEEP ON WORKING AT THE CURRENT MEASURES GNT will remain focused on applying and developing the current measures regarding recycling, energy control and paper waste decreased.  RAISE CONSCIOUSNESS Preparation and display of key messages about environmental awareness and information in office spaces, halls, corridors and bathrooms. As of the date hereof, GNT never had any environmental incident and has never been subject of any prosecutions. 11 Anti-Corruption 12 Anti-Corruption Environment Principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Green Network Technology takes a zero-tolerance approach to bribery and corruption and is committed to acting professionally, fairly and with integrity in all our dealings wherever and whoever we operate. We are also committed to implementing and enforcing effective systems to counter bribery. To enforce this policy GNT is participating in the Partnering Against Corruption Initiative (PACI) created by the World Economic Forum, which aims to confine any form of corruption in the world. In this company any corruption situation detected that involves employees, business partners or suppliers, must be investigated and may lead to contract termination. Implementation  INTERNAL TRAININGS In order to sensitize and develop critical thinking, point solutions, meet and share best practices as well as mechanisms and methodologies that can be implemented in public and private organizations, GNT is developing and delivering internal training to its staff on anti-corruption practices. On the date hereof, no fraudulent or corruption activities were reported. 13
