West Atlantic AB (publ) United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2013 – 2014 Gothenburg, Sweden October 1, 2014 Statement for continued support from the CEO of West Atlantic AB (publ). “I am pleased to confirm that West Atlantic AB (publ) continues to support and encourage the ten principles of the United Nation’s Global Compact with respect to Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. With this communication, we express our intent to advance those principles within our sphere of influence. We are committed to making the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our Group, and to engage in collaborative projects, which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, particularly the Millennium Development Goals. West Atlantic will continue to make a clear statement of this commitment to our stakeholders and the public. We recognize that a key requirement for participation in the Global Compact is the annual submission of a Communication on Progress (COP) that describes our company’s efforts to implement the ten principles. We support public accountability and transparency, and therefore commit to report on progress within one year of joining the Global Compact, and annually thereafter according to the Global Compact COP policy.” Yours sincerely, ___________________ Gustaf Thureborn Chief Executive Officer West Atlantic AB (publ) About West Atlantic Group West Atlantic Group is a European dedicated cargo airline specialised in mail and express freight. Developing from many years’ experience the Group can offer its customers customised efficient solutions for airfreight services, maintenance and airworthiness services and aircraft leasing. West Atlantic AB (publ) Org. no: 556503-6083 Box 5433, SE-402 29 Gothenburg, Sweden Phone: +46 (0) 31 – 703 04 50, Fax +46 (0) 31 – 703 04 55 Contact Email: info@westatlantic.eu Webpage: www.westatlantic.eu Human Rights Principles  Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights;  and make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Assessment, Policy & Goals The West Atlantic Group employs over 450 employees within the European Community, comprising many different nationalities with different religious and cultural backgrounds. The Group policy is included within a strict “code of conduct” on respecting human rights at all times, in line with European Union legislation that are in parity with the United Nations stipulations. Reports of any human rights abuse are dealt with in cooperation with law enforcement. Labour Principles  Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining;  the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour;  the effective abolition of child labour;  the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment, Policy and Goals As a Group of cargo airlines, it is imperative to us that our staff are well taken care of, as our human capital is a critical component in our service offering and value proposition. Following our highly regulated business, many positions offered in the West Atlantic Group organisation require substantial education, certification and in most cases plentiful previous experience (e.g. pilots & engineers). Consequently, we follow nationwide collective working agreement (CWA), as customary in Sweden, or better and we are in continuous discussions with committees representing different unions/workgroups. Moreover, we have developed our own CWAs in place for staff groups in certain countries. These agreements cover all relevant labour principles. We support all employees and their freedom of association. We continuously work to make our culture and working environment as safe, satisfying and productive as possible therefore, we do not approve of any discrimination of any kind and such activities will not be tolerated. Environmental Principles  Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges;  undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility;  and encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assessment, Policy and Goals The West Atlantic Group has a policy of minimising its environmental impact and we strive to be the best possible corporate citizen that we can. We actively support the development of social and economic infrastructure to refine society’s connectability and efficiency for mail and parcels carried by air. We support the continued development of the Single European Sky project and participate mainly through our participation in the European Regional Airlines association. We expect that it can increase efficiency and lower cost of navigation for both airlines and society, while also lowering fuel burn due to fewer delays and flying closer to optimal vectors.  Fuel Emissions West Atlantic continuously work with minimizing fuel consumption and as part of that we monitor fuel efficiency on flight level thru EU ETS including emission regulation within the ‘cap and trade’ CO2 market in intra-EU aviation. Thereto, we seek out and design optimal flights, i.e. adjust climb & descent to maximise cruise length for minimum fuel burn as well as raise awareness amongst pilots for fuel efficiency and possible savings.  Research & Development Continued investment in the implementation of the second generation cockpit with a full Electronic flight instrument system (EFIS) that makes us more productive with less diverted flights and wasted fuel. This also lowers consumption of energy dense semiconductors and circuitry from the old cockpit. The development of a potential new propeller that could grant up to five per cent lower fuel burn continues. The Group operates with continuous refinement and investment into our aircraft fleet with modifications & upgrades to improve efficiency and to maintain our competitive advantages in the marketplace.  Management of Petroleum based products West Atlantic, through its subsidiaries, deals with oils and other petroleum based products. We strive to minimise consumption and waste as well as always complying with environmental regulation. Naturally also fulfilling our responsibility to notify authorities if any incident occurs. No incident has been reported during the period covered in this report.  Noise emissions Given upgrades made in our aircraft fleet we are also continuing on our strategy to lower the overall noise signature in the environment surrounding us. We are always reviewing modifications and other option to improve aircraft performance. Anti-Corruption Principle  Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Assessment, Policy and Goals Following European legislation, The West Atlantic Group has a zero-tolerance towards any form of corruption and actively controls the compliance through audits and controls. During 2012 the Group developed a new anticorruption and anti-mafia policy that is more firm and strict, following the Global Compact framework as it does not only ban corruption, it also sets a policy that we actively shall work against it. The Group financial department is tasked with surveillance for corruption and our quality department perform audits on operational resources. The Group is proud to have no incident during the period covered by this communication. We expect this to continue and we are still evaluating the possibility to include the UN fight against corruption learning films in a training program. Any reports of corruptions or initial investigations are reported to CEO and any case with substance of fraud or corruption is to be immediately filed with local authorities and law enforcement. We look forward to integrating these principles further into our business. Last year, we planned to include a risk evaluation of our operating environment in our annual report, but as we have transitioned into IFRS this has not been done given the new setup. However, as we planned last year we are now more actively participating in the Global Compact Nordic Network and working together with our colleagues to further promote both the UNGC and GCNN. Prepared on October 1st 2014 by ______________ Roderick Nilsson Business Analyst West Atlantic AB (publ)
