The network that connects us all KPN Integrated Annual Report 2013 Our mission We believe in a society in which communication technology enriches life. It is our mission to provide safe, reliable and future-proof networks and services, enabling people, businesses and organizations to be connected anytime, anywhere, adding value to their lives. A special day for the Netherlands and KPN The day the Netherlands welcomed its new King Willem-Alexander was one of the stand14 million phone calls out events of 2013. For KPN, the day was a 14 million high-profile chance to showcase our services and commitment to excellence. Throughout text messages this report, you will find examples of ways we contributed to the day’s success. We are proud of the dedication by our employees, 25 suppliers and partners to provide seamless terabyte of data traffic communications and flawless connectivity on this special day. 200 calls to 112 every 15 minutes KPN Broadcast distributed the TV signal from and to camera teams Contents Introduction IT Solutions 52 Introduction by the CEO 2 NetCo 54 Review of the year 2013 4 Germany (including discontinued operations) 58 The world around us 6 Belgium 60 Stakeholder engagement 8 iBasis 62 Our business 12 Privacy and Security 64 Strategic Review Risk Management and Compliance 66 Our connection with society 14 Regulatory developments 74 The value we create 16 Our strategy 18 Governance Strategic principles in detail 20 Corporate Governance 76 Composition of the Boards 80 Report by the Board of Management Group performance 24 Report by the Supervisory Board Our organization and main achievements in 2013 24 Supervisory Board Report 84 Financial performance and outlook 26 Remuneration and Organizational Development Report 88 Share performance 30 Innovation and investments 32 Assurance Report 100 Social performance and reputation 34 Environmental performance 40 Financial Statements 102 Consolidated Financial Statements 104 Segment performance 44 Corporate Financial Statements 173 Consumer Mobile 44 Other Information 179 Consumer Residential 46 Business 48 Appendices 186 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 1 Introduction by the CEO Enabling a connected future CEO Eelco Blok looks back on an exciting and What were the three most significant developments of the year? eventful year for KPN in which it achieved good Firstly, the roll-out of 4G, which started in operational results and saw customer satisfaction the Netherlands in February and in Belgium improve. KPN was also the first telecoms provider in October. The speed at which we made this next generation of high-speed mobile to roll out 4G in the Netherlands. technology available to our customers puts us well ahead of our competitors in the Netherlands. In less than a year since its launch, our 4G network in the Netherlands How do you look back on 2013? of our service channels increased in 2013. already covered 76% of the Dutch population “Both financially and operationally 2013 was We have a similar package for our business in December 2013. The first responses of an exciting and eventful year for KPN. The ICT customers called KPN ÉÉN, which differentiates customers are positive. and telecoms industry is in flux and we are us in this segment. Also, 4G was absorbed facing major changes here in Europe. The very well among both consumer and Strengthening our financial position through industry is characterized by mergers, new business clients. the rights issue was another important alliances and extensive consolidation. On development. To this end, we executed a the other hand, we faced a year with a weak For our employees too, 2013 was a turbulent successful capital raise. Furthermore the macro-economic climate, competitive markets year. To deliver a good performance in a intended sale of our German subsidiary and high investment levels that impacted our changing organization required a lot of E-Plus was an important development. financial results. flexibility and loyalty from them – qualities Since the divesting is a complex and lengthy they have shown they possess in abundance. process, we expect it to be finalized in the Nevertheless, we achieved good results. Furthermore, it is essential for our people course of 2014. With the proceeds, we can We significantly strengthened our financial to grow with our organization in an evermake the necessary investments to pursue position. We have made investments over the changing world. our strategy and it will allow us to resume past years in order to make our infrastructure dividend payments to our shareholders and services the very best and we can now We have made progress in the area of over 2014. move into the next stage of our strengthen, sustainability. We reached many of our simplify, growth strategy and scale down our CSR targets, especially on saving energy in The intended offer by América Móvil, which capital spending. However, we will continue to fixed and mobile networks in the Netherlands was announced in August and withdrawn in invest more than EUR 1 billion per year, which and Belgium. This is reflected in our excellent October, also put its mark on the year. The is crucial if we want to retain our position as a positions in national and international possibility of a takeover triggered responses leading telecommunications and ICT provider. sustainability benchmarks, such as the Dow from the public, politicians and our customers. Jones Sustainability World Index. Our inclusion It created a lot of positive sentiment around Looking at our market shares, we have seen in this important benchmark in 2013, makes KPN and an awareness that we are much more positive developments, for example with us one of the world’s top 10 most sustainable than a communications service provider. Interactive Television in our Residential telecom companies. However, we can still We play a crucial role in all areas of society. segment and in Belgium with BASE. More improve on items such as collecting mobile customers recommend KPN, especially iTV phones, which appears to be a sensitive What about KPN’s sustainability policy? customers. Customers with the new combined matter to our customers. A few years ago, we identified six themes, fixed and mobile service KPN Compleet which are elaborated extensively in this appreciate KPN with a higher NPS than other report. They seamlessly fit with our ambitions KPN customers. Furthermore, the appreciation and are now inherent to our operations. 2 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 We can now move into the next stage of our strengthen, simplify, growth strategy.’ We believe in the power of connection. Our This is KPN’s first integrated report. Why What is required to make 2014 networks, our employees and our expertise did you decide to merge your financial a successful year for KPN? make an essential contribution to society. and sustainability reporting? By continuously implementing our strategy, This was demonstrated last year during the An integrated report provides the best we have created the conditions necessary inauguration of Dutch King Willem-Alexander. overview of the company we are; a company to deliver on customer needs, enhance our We are proud to have played a major role, closely linked to society. Our two previous operational performance and enjoy the from facilitating police communications financial and sustainability reports already ensuing financial results. Now we must and TV broadcasts to helping national shared identical pages. It therefore makes build on these positive developments and railway company Nederlandse Spoorwegen sense to publish one integrated report this continue to improve. Among other things, coordinate the train journeys of thousands year rather than two separate reports. this means accelerating the simplification of spectators. That’s why the inauguration of our business and our portfolio. It is a is a recurring theme throughout this report. One of KPN’s six CSR themes is privacy phenomenal challenge that will ask a lot and security. Why did this receive so of our employees. It is the combination of our communications much attention in 2013? technology and services that differentiates I welcome the public debate around privacy Looking at the longer term, what will KPN and makes us an integral part of and security. Consumers and businesses telecom and ICT look like in five years? society. Therefore, I would also like to are increasingly aware of cyber security. Smartphones, tablets, the growth of mobile mention KlasseContact. This is an initiative Customers expect us to guarantee their data and the surging popularity of social organized by our charity KPN Mooiste Contact confidentiality and to keep their personal media have all led to far-reaching changes Fonds, which supports chronically ill children information safe. As the largest telecom and over the past few years. People are who are unable to attend school. With our ICT service provider in the Netherlands, we communicating in new ways and getting communications technology, they can attend realize we have a great responsibility in this their information from many different lessons as if they were sitting in the classroom area. This is why we have invested so much sources. This trend will continue. Everything and stay connected to their classmates from time, money and energy this year to secure will be connected as more and more devices home or hospital. and modernize our infrastructure and our are fitted with SIM cards, providing them services. The increasing dependence on ICT with access to communications networks, Not all of our stakeholders are aware of our means this is an area that will continue to be anytime, anywhere. Since the importance role in society and the performance on our six closely scrutinized. of digital communication in our society will themes. Creating more awareness is a challenge grow, KPN wants to continue to contribute that we want to take on in 2014. On top of Is there an area where you think KPN to these developments.” that, further embedding our sustainability could have done better in 2013? progress in quarterly business reviews based We have made great progress in on well defined and targeted KPIs, as presented strengthening our company but there is still in the social and environmental reviews in this work to do. Customer care and simplifying our report, is a top priority for 2014. business and processes are areas where we can improve. This is essential to be successful Our challenge for the coming years is and will make KPN a more effective and measuring, targeting and enlarging our real efficient organization. We also need to further impact in society, especially focused on the simplify our portfolio so our customers may chosen themes. By doing so, our ultimate goal choose from a clear range of services that is being recognized as a change enabler in a excel in simplicity and transparency. sustainable direction, bringing benefits to society, customers and shareholders. KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 3 Introduction Review of the year 2013 From the introduction of 4G in the Netherlands to our Christmas activity for the KPN Mooiste Contact Fonds. The twelve months of KPN in 2013 summarized on two pages. January April ýý KPN new main sponsor of the Rijksmuseum ýý J oost Farwerck appointed to KPN’s Board of Management February ýý E -Plus, founded in 1993, celebrated its 20th birthday ýý K PN announced EUR 4 billion equity capital raise ýý K PN and XS4ALL won Customer Centric DNA Award ýý América Móvil announced support for 173k KPN’s capital raise ýý K PN Compleet, KPN’s quad play proposition, launched for consumers in the Netherlands ýý First in the Netherlands to introduce 4G ýý B ASE Company introduced a completely ýý B ASE Company launched SNOW, its new renewed mobile portfolio in Belgium brand for digital television, internet and KPN Compleet subscribers fixed-line telephony ýý Millions of people shared their experiences of the inauguration of March King Willem-Alexander: 1.5 times more data used than on Queensday 2012 ýý K PN reached over 200 thousand cloud-subscribers May 543k ýý Z orgVrijThuis launched together ýý K PN introduced KPN ÉÉN, a complete with Eurocom Group communication solution for the small and medium sized enterprises segment ýý K PN, Vodafone and T-Mobile cooperated 4G subscribers in regional roaming, to ensure network availability in case of network interference 4 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 June September November ýý 4G roll-out in the Netherlands accelerated ýý S teven van Schilfgaarde appointed as ýý B  ASE Company acquired one of the interim CFO of KPN after the departure 800MHz licenses auctioned by the BIPT, ýý K NSB and KPN prolonged main sponsor of CFO Eric Hageman the telecom regulator in Belgium contract until 2016 ýý KPN consolidated its position in Dow Jones ýý BASE Company has a leading mobile ýý U nions and KPN agreed on collective Sustainability World Index network position in Belgium: number agreements and social plan one position in voice quality and a joint ýý KPN reached principle agreement with number one position in data quality1 July Dutch tax authority on tax book loss upon intended sale of E-Plus. This ýý The Dutch Consumers’ union tested ýý T he Dutch Data Protection Authority agreement was further formalized positively on KPN performing as confirmed that KPN did not unlawfully and finalized in December promised on 4G viewed the contents of customer ýý K  PN reached over 100 thousand KPN communications October Compleet customers ýý K PN announced the intended sale of ýý E xtraordinary General Meeting of E-Plus to Telefónica Deutschland December Shareholders approved the intended ýý C ompensation for our customers after sale of E-Plus to Telefónica Deutschland ýý Following the 4G launch in the beginning network outage mainly in France ýý Launch of 4G by BASE Company in Belgium of the year, KPN reached more than 500 ýý KPN introduced renewed mobile thousand 4G subscribers and covered 76% ýý América Móvil formally withdrew its subscriptions with a 4G connection of the Dutch population with 4G intended public offer ýý K  PN built a new indoor mobile network August ýý New interactive television service (high density network coverage) for ‘Begin gemist’ introduced the Amsterdam ArenA, the largest ýý A mérica Móvil announced intention Dutch stadium, in cooperation with to launch public offer T-Mobile and Vodafone ýý Foundation Preference Shares B KPN ýý About 500 KPN employees volunteered exercised call option to do the catering at a Christmas dinner ýý Announcement of improved terms or lunch for elderly people via the KPN for intended sale of E-Plus to Mooiste Contact Fonds Telefónica Deutschland 1) Based on NetCheck (voice) and Commsquare (data) network test. KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 5 Introduction The world around us In a world that is increasingly reliant on internet These developments require Information technology, KPN aims to anticipate to technological and Communication Technologies (ICT) and telecoms companies to think creatively, change and adapt to meet the new requirements flexibly and innovatively. We need to of the digital age. anticipate on changes and trends quickly. For that, the Digital Agenda for Europe, in which the European Commission sketches the future of ICT and telecom, is both crucial and indispensable. The agenda defines the key enabling role that the use of ICT will have to play if Europe wants to succeed in its ambitions G lobalization has accelerated rapidly Technology is changing the way we work. for 2020, for example access for all European in the 30 years since consumers and Cloud computing and video technology citizens to fast fixed and mobile internet. The businesses first started using the enable people to choose where, when agenda states that this should reboot Europe’s internet. The world has become and how they work. For example, in the economy and help Europe’s citizens and smaller and society is more international. healthcare sector, advances in technology businesses to get the most out of digital As borders have blurred, new social and are connecting healthcare professionals technologies. The worldwide telecoms sector cultural relationships have developed. and patients in innovative ways that improve is consolidating further and the innovative Time and distance are no more the barriers outcomes. Similarly in education, it broadens impact of global players such as Apple and they once were. Sophisticated technology perspectives and opens up new learning Google is creating a new playing field. |and affordable equipment have made opportunities. Technology can also create information accessible to everyone, energy-efficient products and services, We are able to adapt to this changing world. everywhere, all the time. It has created helping to reduce carbon emissions and We combine our assets – a strong and reliable an instant 24-hour connection between contributing to a better environment. fixed and mobile network and extensive consumers and businesses. technological expertise and experience The growing reliance on internet-based – with modern, advanced services and We are all online, all the time. Digital services and applications makes data products. We believe sustainability and communication has evolved to facilitate security our core business. Consumers and technology strengthen each other; that the need to be connected 24/7. Mobile businesses demand a safe and reliable digital economic growth can go hand in hand communication is a necessity and smartphones environment. It is imperative that personal with saving energy and using the planet’s and tablets are commonplace. Fixed and information is kept safe and confidentiality resources efficiently, as long as ICT is mobile networks are increasingly integrated is not breached. At the same time, modern integrated in the saving goals. and in future will form a single infrastructure. communication is ever faster and consumers Internet and television are merging, requiring want more and better service as well as Society nowadays requires organizations huge amounts of data to be sent through fixed unlimited access. to participate proactively in coping with and wireless connections. major environmental and social challenges, which formerly used to be seen as public or governmental domain. Areas where we specifically can contribute to societal challenges are reflected by our six social themes. 6 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 We see more and more opportunities Dutch inauguration day to differentiate ourselves through our communication technology. For example, in the healthcare sector, ICT services should not only enhance healthcare but also help to keep it accessible and affordable for all. KPN’s innovative services may lead to less travel time for healthcare professionals, help improve the quality of care and enable people in need of care. Our ICT technology also helps chronically ill children to attend school lessons on their computer from home or from the hospital. We realize that excellent service is crucial for being successful in modern communication technology. With our substantial investments in ‘future-proof’ networks such as 4G and glass fiber we are convinced that we play a meaningful role, and we value collaborating ‘TV broadcasts, social media, police communication. KPN with national and international partners facilitated it all. Its contribution to the success of the king’s as both crucial and valuable. We believe in synergy created when business and inauguration was invaluable.’ other organizations benefit from each Hans Wijers, National Inauguration Committee Chairman other’s qualities. Building on innovations and anticipating on global trends and developments in our industry, KPN will Organizing one of the biggest-ever Dutch events, the inauguration of continue to be successful in the Dutch the Dutch king in 2013, was always going to be a challenge. The National and Belgian markets. Inauguration Committee relied on thousands of volunteers, professionals and companies to help to make the handover of the Dutch crown a day for all to remember. ‘KPN’s contribution was crucial,’ says committee chairman Hans Wijers. ‘Thousands of people attended the inaugural festivities welcoming King Willem-Alexander to the Dutch throne. KPN connected event organizers, local authorities and police to ensure it all went without a hitch. Its infrastructure allowed the event to be broadcasted around the world and people could share their experiences on social media. Thanks to KPN’s expertise, enthusiasm and professionalism, communication on the day was flawless.’ KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 7 Introduction Stakeholder engagement We are fully aware that KPN has an impact on different stakeholder Our stakeholder groups: groups in society, each with its own interests. We are in continuous Retail customers dialogue with our stakeholders. We listen to their opinions and act upon What they expect their feedback and suggestions. Our retail customers expect value for money and high-quality service. This includes clear propositions and processes, a quick and proper response to queries and good communication. KPN is connected to its stakeholders. People constantly They want to have access to our products and services all the time, communicate experiences and opinions on social media, everywhere and from any device. Our customers expect faster data networks and wider coverage. Doing business with us should so we have to be on top of what they want and need. We be effortless. are working with our internal and external stakeholders to create platforms that connect us anytime, anywhere, all the How we engage time. We also have to find ways to investigate their needs We engage with our retail customers through customer panels, market when they are offline and create an open dialogue with research and ‘Superpromotors’ – loyal and enthusiastic supporters of our stakeholders about their observations and suggestions. KPN. We monitor what is said about KPN on social media, both positive The expectations of our stakeholders with regard to our and negative. We also use tools, such as the Net Promoter Score and Reptrak, to monitor our reputation quantitatively and qualitatively. policies and activities are part of our annual materiality determination (see page 192-193). Their expectations help Main topics in 2013 us to determine which topics we can and should address ýý Delivering simpler products and services or act upon. ýý Preventing unexpectedly high bills when data usage exceeds agreed limits We are careful in how we deal with the interests of ýý Showing more appreciation for our most loyal customers. our stakeholders. We take our stakeholders’ interests ýý Realizing better service online, in our stores, in our call centers and from our engineers. seriously by delivering clear and transparent reports on what we are doing. The results of our businesses, Our response our contribution to society and organizational changes ýý We are simplifying our propositions and have integrated our must show our commitment to our stakeholders – our multi-play services into one comprehensive retail package customers, employees, investors, government, NGOs (KPN Compleet) and others – while our products, services and activities ýý We do not charge for extra data use. Instead the speed of should prove that we are working on the things they transmission slows once the agreed data limit is exceeded ýý We continue to roll out flat fee propositions value most, and take into consideration all of their ýý We improved several drivers of our customer service. varying interests. We defined seven stakeholders groups. Their expectations, the way we engage into dialogue, their main topics addressed in 2013 and our corresponding actions are elaborated on the next pages. 8 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 Business customers Employees What they expect What they expect Business customers expect effortless ICT solutions that make a Employees expect us to be clear about the strategic direction difference to the way they work. This means user solutions that allow and focus of our businesses. They want clarity about their roles and their employees to work and collaborate at any time, from any place responsibilities, goals, performance management and development. and on any device with high user experience. It also means business They appreciate attractive working conditions, for example flexibility continuity, secure services and good quality of service. Our customers about when and where they work. Employees also expect us to take expect simplicity in managing their ICT services, good online tools and their interests into consideration when we reorganize processes such professional service and advice from technical experts. They expect as outsourcing and offshoring, and to involve and consult employee us to guide them so they benefit from developments in ICT. bodies such as the Works Council. How we engage How we engage We engage with our business customers through customer panels, We facilitate a continuous dialogue with our employees through market research, round table discussions, workshops connecting initiatives such as management cafés, national strategy sessions, the customers’ strategies with KPN’s and social media through our B2B annual employee survey, regular contact between senior management platform KPN Inspire. and the Works Council and our interactive intranet TeamKPN Online. This internal social media platform has initiated more communication Main topics in 2013 and interaction between employees and their managers. ýý New ways of connectivity and collaboration ýý Privacy and security Main topics in 2013 ýý ICT as a service. ýý Growing uncertainty amongst employees about what the future could have held under América Móvil Our response ýý Obtaining clarity about how to contribute to strategic goals ýý We integrated our propositions into one comprehensive package ýý Execution of big reorganizations, including outsourcing for business customers called KPN ÉÉN and offshoring ýý We are working on converged and integrated ICT solutions with ýý Sustainable employability, wellbeing, future-proof careers. one customer interface ýý We develop vertical partnerships to create business solutions Our response for our customers, for example with local government, healthcare ýý We provided frequent communication about América Móvil to institutions and educational organizations employees by the CEO in videos, blogs and messages on the intranet ýý We have programs to improve our customer service. ýý We implemented a new performance management system ýý We recognized the strategic importance of employee engagement and turned it into action ýý We evaluated outsourcing and offshoring to redefine our policy for the future ýý We finalized the collective labor agreement on working conditions and benefits with trade unions, which includes a revised social plan and focus on sustainable employability. KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 9 Introduction Stakeholder engagement – continued Our stakeholder groups: Investor community Community What they expect What they expect The investor community – financial markets, our shareholders, and People expect us to be socially and environmentally responsible; to debt investors and research analysts – expects us to be extensive and be a good corporate citizen. They want products and services that help transparent about what we disclose. We should be clear in our strategy, to solve social and environmental issues. For example, as an internet objectives and outlook, and transparent about executive remuneration. provider we should act to limit the possible side effects of our service Their main interest is our commitment to creating value. They want by helping to make the internet safer for children. timely and accurate updates and ample opportunity to seek clarification and ask questions. How we engage We are active in working groups initiated by NGOs and participate in or How we engage liaise with organizations such as the World Wildlife Fund (WWF), European We hold key corporate events such as the annual general meeting Telecommunications Network Operators’ Association (ETNO), United of shareholders, investor roadshows and meetings with analysts and Nations Global Compact Foundation, Dutch Association of Investors for investors. We also provide relevant company information through Sustainable Development (VBDO) and the ICT Coalition. Furthermore, we regular publications such as our quarterly results. have an annual dialogue with stakeholders to discuss our contribution to society and the desired next steps. We continually evaluate our CSR The main topics in 2013 themes, policies and current business with the CSR Advisory Board. ýý Realizing better alignment of our financial position with our strategy ýý The intended sale of E-Plus at an attractive valuation The main topics in 2013 ýý The reaction to the unsolicited public offer by América Móvil. ýý The CSR Advisory Board suggested we intensify our cooperation with the WWF in the Netherlands to benefit from the synergies, Our response and challenge our suppliers to co-produce and take initiatives ýý We conducted a EUR 4.0 billion equity equivalent capital raise to to improve the chain strengthen our balance sheet ýý The Advisory Board also advised us to use our expertise to help ýý We explained the initiative of the Foundation Preference Shares B KPN develop the Fairphone further, a Dutch initiative to produce a ýý We expect to increase our financial flexibility with EUR 5.0 billion in smartphone from conflict-free materials cash from the proceeds of the sale of E-Plus and 20.5% in Telefónica ýý Our main CSR stakeholder event highlighted the need for more Deutschland, offering attractive synergy and growth potential communication about CSR ýý We held investor roadshows throughout the year to clarify KPN’s ýý The VBDO was critical about our commercial goals around strategy and accomplishments. healthcare services and our lack of diversity at the top. Our response ýý We took steps to improve our policy in several areas based on our score in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index ýý We lengthened our corporate campaign on CSR ýý We set goals for joint efforts to improve sustainability in the supply chain. 10 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 Government and regulators Suppliers What they expect What they expect Government and regulators expect us to comply with the rules and Our suppliers expect to agree on fair prices, conditions and to be paid regulations and meet the requirements for licensing. Their goal is, on time. amongst others, to create a level playing field and protect the interests of end users. How we engage We have one central Corporate Procurement Organization (CPO) within How we engage KPN that is responsible for contracting deals with suppliers. We work as We proactively engage with government and regulators. As the much as possible with preferred suppliers that add value to our supply incumbent in the Netherlands, there are special obligations imposed chain by delivering against the best terms and conditions. This allows us on us. We engage in a continuous dialogue to explain our compliance to negotiate lower prices while maintaining the quality of our products efforts and results and enable competition. and services. In addition, we make sure the principles of our suppliers’ CSR policies are in line with our own. The CSR targets related to suppliers The main topics in 2013 are part of the target sheet of the employees within the CPO organization. ýý Compliance with the Dutch Telecommunications Act under close We are constantly in touch with our suppliers and invite them to our supervision of the Dutch Authority for Consumers and Market (ACM) annual Supplier Day. Increasingly, we are partnering with them on ýý The European Commission initiative on Digital Single Market environmental solutions. ýý The ACM started a new ACM consumer market analysis ýý Discuss potential interest of América Móvil and vital Dutch The main topics in 2013 Infrastructure interests. ýý Finding ways we can work together to reduce the cost level. Our response Our response ýý We improved our compliance efforts through programs such ýý At the Supplier Day we, amongst other things, challenged our as optimizing our business control system, external reviews, suppliers to propose ways we can join forces to reduce the cost level benchmarking, promoting the SpeakUp line, a whistleblowing while maintaining the level of quality and increasing the CSR profile. procedure for employees, enhanced compliance training and top management meetings focused on and stimulating company culture ýý We continuously work to meet compliance requirements through clear and practical legal advice, clear operational procedures, related controls mechanisms, and clear and safe ways to report potential misconduct. We interact closely with the ACM in relation to compliance, incidents and potentially different views on the interpretation of the law ýý We are active on EU level as an individual company and via trade associations ýý We have an internal project team for consumer market analysis and participate in industry groups ýý We have ongoing discussions with political and governmental stakeholders. KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 11 Introduction Our business We connect people and businesses, through our infrastructure, our Our customers skilled employees and our suppliers. As the challenger on the Belgian We serve consumers and businesses mobile market, we play a significant across the Netherlands with telecom role in shaping the market place. and ICT services. In Belgium we have a mobile brand for consumers and W e aim to be the best service provider business customers. of fixed and mobile telephony, internet and television in the Netherlands. Anytime, anywhere: at home, at work and on the We provide international wholesale move. With our products, services and various brands for voice and data services through specific customer groups, we connect people, companies our global subsidiary iBasis. and organizations. In a world in which fixed and mobile services are integrating and mobile data traffic is increasing, we 2.9m want to be the leading provider of integrated access in the Netherlands. This requires a high-quality fixed and mobile infrastructure that is both reliable and stable. That is why we invest every year to renew, improve and maintain our fixed and mobile networks. In 2013 alone, we invested EUR 1.2 billion in our networks Broadband customers and technology. Part of this was in 4G, making us the first in the Netherlands provider of 4G services in the Netherlands and the second 12m provider in Belgium. Mobile customers in the Netherlands and Belgium 12 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 Our networks Our products Our main brands We deliver our services through our We connect through: copper and fiber fixed-line networks and our mobile network, which we Fixed-line voice telephony are upgrading to 4G to offer faster, higher capacity mobile services. Broadband services IP TV services Mobile telephony (voice, internet and SMS) For businesses we also offer data network services, consulting, data center storage and other network 76% related ICT solutions (optionally cloud-based). 4G indoor coverage across the Netherlands €1.2bn Invested in our networks in the 1.2m ‘Triple-play’ customers For more information, see our website Netherlands and Belgium in 2013 in the Netherlands www.kpn.com/corporate/aboutkpn/ Company-profile/Brands KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 13 Strategic review Our connection with society As part of our strategy – to strengthen, Transparent and reliable service provider simplify and grow – we have identified six themes where we believe we fairly priced, with crystal clear can make a difference and show contracts. To make sure we are doing the right things on these leadership in advancing society. subjects, we are in continuous dialogue with our customers. See page 34-35 W e believe our networks and services can help improve the world around us. Our We aim to be the best service contribution to society not only serves our provider. Our customers should clients’ needs but also improves their quality be able to rely on the highest quality products and services of life and living environment. This way we strengthen our to connect them all the time, position and contribute in solving social challenges. everywhere and from any device, with 24/7 support a mouse click To provide direction for our CSR policy, our business or phone call away. Therefore, propositions and strategic goals, we yearly perform a we want to make sure that our materiality assessment to define the priority of CSR topics products are easy to use and for KPN. This assessment considers our competencies, risks and opportunities, our role in society and the possible impact we can have on society. It also considers the topics Best-in-class networks that stakeholders expect us to act upon. We ask them their views and their expectations of us with regard to making a difference. Our six CSR themes were developed as part of feel a responsibility and this process, as they reflect our most material topics and obligation to provide the the positive impact we can have on society, both in our country’s best-in-class networks. We also made views and those of our stakeholders. large investments in Belgium to bring the next generation We define the priority of CSR topics based on GRI G4 of mobile networks to guidelines, our impact and expectations of our stakeholders. customers there. We divide the results into three categories: high, medium Communication technology is vital in today’s social and See page 56 and low priority topics. High priority topics are included in our six CSR themes and the themes ‘employees’, ‘suppliers’ business communities. We depend on it in our private and ‘sponsoring’. These topics are included in this report. lives and for economic The medium and low priority topics are included in the transactions. A strong and annexes of this report, the GRI index or on our website. The reliable ICT infrastructure 2013 materiality determination did not result in any changes drives the innovative power to our CSR policy and reporting compared to previous years. and attractiveness of the Additional information on the materiality assessment, its Netherlands as a business results and the boundaries of material subjects can be found location. That is why we in the Annex 'Scope, reporting process and materiality determination' and in the GRI index. 14 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 Energy-efficient The New Way of Living & Working influence our strategic agenda. potentially benefits the road This approach makes us a infrastructure, for example, by credible partner in helping our helping to reduce traffic, and clients save energy and costs increases productivity, which is by switching to energy-saving good for both employer and ICT solutions, such as the New employee. Way of Living & Working. See page 50 Fossil fuels are under See page 40-43 Driven by the demand for a increasing pressure because better work-life balance, of environmental concerns. technology is advancing to give That is why the entire KPN people more control over when Group is using green electricity and where they work. People from renewable sources, while now have more choice because simultaneously increasing our they can digitally connect to their energy efficiency. Concerns workplace from anywhere. This about climate change and New Way of Living & Working is renewable energy also also good for the economy. It Healthcare of the future Privacy & Security medical disciplines and between individuals – to have confidence caregivers and patients. This in our network and our ability to can improve the quality of care protect their privacy and security. and lead to less travel time for However, discussions on the healthcare professionals so they methods of the NSA put security can spend more time helping and privacy under pressure. people to get well. At the same Digital criminal activity (cyber time, this facilitates people in crime and hackers), as well as the It is our strategic ambition to the way they lead their lives. Society relies on internet service explosive growth of social media, grow in specific, well-defined providers to process data traffic can lead to personal information markets. One of these is the See page 50 securely and carefully. As the becoming public. We have a duty healthcare sector. The Dutch amount of data sent over the to keep our networks safe and population is ageing and this internet increases, so does our protect our customers’ data will put increasing pressure role in safeguarding privacy and and privacy. This drives our on healthcare in the future, as security. The value that society business performance. will the prevalence of diseases attaches to safe and secure data of affluence. Technology can transport offers opportunities for See page 64-65 facilitate communication among growth. We want our customers healthcare providers, different – government, businesses and KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 15 Strategic review The value we create We believe in a society where communications technology Our assets enriches life. It enhances day-today business and can make a real difference. This brings with it a serious responsibility: service has Integrated network to be of top quality and security and product range and privacy must be protected. Skilled employees and W e formulate our business plans based on these beliefs. As a front-runner in distribution networks bringing new technologies such as 4G and fiber into the homes and offices of our customers, and by stimulating others to build upon these technologies in areas such as healthcare, education, Diverse customer base security, entertainment and business, we directly benefit the economy, the environment and society. We invest in assets that benefit all our stakeholders and support our strategy to strengthen, simplify and grow. We strengthen our networks and propositions and market Key relationships them in a simpler way. This lowers our costs and enables us to reach more customers with more products and services, leading to growth. It helps to make ICT affordable for all. We will execute this strategy by making efficient use of the planet’s resources. Our efforts in the past years have Core values made us one of the most sustainable telecommunications companies worldwide. This is recognized by our inclusion � Inspire confidence in the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index. We remain � Simple solutions committed to minimizing our own and our customers’ � Personal attention ecological footprint, while at the same time increasing our positive social impact. 16 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 Enriching life through the power of communication Our strategy The value we create Better business for our customers � Delivering a full range of communication services to millions of customers � Providing state of the art communication technology � Being a reliable service provider Better future for our employees and the community Strategic principles � Secure network � Making efficient use of the planet's � Create customer loyalty resources and unlocking the potential of � Invest in best-in-class networks ICT for saving energy for our customers and services � Providing real social benefit by developing � Simplify the operating model innovative solutions � Integrate fixed and mobile services � Investing in people skills � Conduct business in a sustainable way Total shareholder returns for our investor community � KPN recommences sustainable dividend payments with a dividend per share of EUR 0.07 in respect of 2014, subject to closing of the E-Plus sale. KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 17 Strategic review Our strategy Our main ambition is to be the connectivity provider of choice in all our markets. To achieve this we have a focused strategy based on three pillars: to strengthen, simplify and grow. Create Strengthen consists of two main elements. First, strengthening our relationship with customers, customer through operational excellence and by rewarding loyalty loyalty. Second, strengthening our fixed and mobile networks and ICT platforms by implementing the Provide customers with best, most energy-efficient and information-secure excellent service and with technologies, since we believe our network gives additional benefits when us a competitive edge. buying multiple products. Simplify is crucial to strengthening our customer relationships and networks. We can only realize operational excellence if we have simple products Target: and services, delivered with simple processes and standardized IT. And we can foster better customer ýý Net Promoter Score to +1 relationships by simplifying how we interact with in 2015 customers as we move towards an onlineand ýý ~8x more 4G customers customer-oriented company. in 2016 compared to 2013 Grow directly follows from strengthen and simplify. We believe that operational excellence, simplified products and services, and using the best networks in a sustainable way, will result in more customers who use more of our services and remain with KPN longer. This is how we will grow. Strengthen, simplify and grow are the foundations of our strategy. We invest in the strategic principles, set out on this page, to grow the value of our business. 18 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 Invest in best-inSimplify Integrate fixed Conduct class networks the operating and mobile business in a and services model services sustainable way Front-runner in the roll-out Fewer products and services Benefit from KPN’s unique Minimize our ecological of future-proof, best-in-class to enable a leaner operating position of having both fixed footprint and optimize our network technologies such model, higher customer and mobile network assets contribution to society and as 4G and fiber to the home. satisfaction and a structurally enabling innovative, excellent stakeholder wellbeing. lower cost base. integrated services. Target: Target: Target: Target: >€300m ~1m ýý Nationwide 4G coverage Inclusion in Dow Jones (indoor) in the Netherlands Sustainability World Index in Q1 2014 in 2014 Opex and capex reduction KPN Compleet customers ýý Nationwide 4G coverage in 2016 compared to 2013 in 2016 (outdoor) in Belgium end 2014 Target: Target: Target: ~55% of Dutch households have access to bandwidths >200 ~500k KPN ÉÉN seats in 2016 0 tonnes net CO2 emission before 2020 Mbps in 2015 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 19 Strategic review Strategic principles in detail Strategy Create customer loyalty Bundled services Top-notch service We want customers to choose more of our The more ways customers can connect services, and we reward them for doing so. and interact with KPN, the better. We That is why we bundle our fixed and mobile use online channels such as our website, services into an all-inclusive package that social media and customer service apps combines telephone, television, internet and to communicate with customers and mobile and offers our customers additional provide relevant information that is benefits. The more services customers choose accessible and makes it easy for them from KPN, the more loyal they become. to subscribe to our services. Invest in best-in-class networks and services First in connectivity Front-runner in technology We continuously improve the speed and When it comes to new technologies such as quality of our fixed and mobile services. After 4G and fiber we lead the way. That we were all, connectivity is at the core of our business first to implement 4G in the Netherlands is and is why customers choose our products testimony to our commitment. and services. By being first in connectivity, supported by our best-in-class networks, we will secure our long-term position. Simplify the operating model Portfolio rationalization Less complex operating model We can lower our cost base by eliminating Reducing our internal complexity will overlapping products and services. We will lower our costs, improve the time it simplify our portfolio, customer processes, takes to bring innovations to market networks and IT, without affecting customers and improve customer service. in terms of added value rendered. Integrate fixed and mobile services Anywhere, anytime Seamless services Customers want to be connected all the time, How customers access connectivity will everywhere. KPN is perfectly positioned to fulfil become increasingly irrelevant. Seamless this need for ‘anywhere, any time’ using its services make optimal use of all access best-in-class mobile and fixed networks. available (WiFi, 4G, fixed broadband). Conduct business in a sustainable way Minimize environmental footprint Maximize social benefits and social concerns We believe our services can enrich both life We put continuous effort into making sure that and business of our customers. We therefore the services we offer do not come at a cost to invest in our infrastructure and the skill level of the environment. Or to our customers who need employees to facilitate changes in for example to feel secure while using our services without healthcare, working and living. As a result we having to worry over information breaches and aim to contribute to the solution for a number privacy. Nor to society as a whole who can count of key social and economic challenges our on us to make use of resources efficiently. society faces, such as climate change, traffic congestions and increasing healthcare costs. 20 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 Objectives and ambitions Performance indicators 2013 ýý Minimum broadband market share of >40% Net Promoter Score KPN the Netherlands ýý Minimum long-term total mobile NL market share >40% ýý Long-term mobile market share goal of 25% in Belgium 2011 -14 ýý Increased Net Promoter Scores (NPS), we aim for an NPS of +1 in 2015 ýý Focus on multi-play to increase customer lifetime; triple-play 60% 2012 -111 in 2016 2013 -10 ýý ~8x more 4G customers in 2016 compared to 2013 ýý Focus on online client processes 1) Restated compared to Annual report 2012. ýý Realize nationwide 4G (indoor) coverage in the Netherlands 4G coverage in the Netherlands and Belgium in 2013 by Q1 2014 Outdoor coverage Belgium Indoor coverage the Netherlands ýý Aim for nationwide 4G (outdoor) coverage in Belgium end 2014 36% 76% ýý ~55% of Dutch households have access to bandwidths >200Mbps in 2015 ýý Bonded vectoring live mid 2014 (2012: 0%) (2012: 0%) ýý Simplified products and reduced product portfolio Since the program started at end of 2013, no historical data is available ýý Simplified client processes with focus on online ýý Standardized network and IT systems ýý Simplifying the operating model will result in opex and capex savings by >300 million in 2016 and as a consequence ~1,500-2,000 fewer FTE's in 2016 compared to 2013 ýý Provide market leading products to drive take-up of multi play Number of KPN Compleet customers ýý Reduce churn ýý Approximately 500 thousand KPN ÉÉN seats in 2016 2013 173k ýý Approximately 1 million KPN Compleet customers in 2016 (2012: 0) ýý Climate neutral (zero net CO2 emissions) before 2020 KPN's own net CO2 emissions ýý Better protect our customers' privacy and security (Kton) (Scope 1+2)1 ýý Facilitate business and personal life with our services ýý Attract skilled and engaged employees 2011 77 ýý Enable the energy-saving potential of ICT 2012 46 ýý Inclusion in Dow Jones Sustainability World Index in 2014 2013 38 1) Based on continuing operations. KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 21 22 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 Report by the Board of Management Group performance 24 Our organization and main achievements in 2013 24 Financial performance and outlook 26 Share performance 30 Innovation and investments 32 Social performance and reputation 34 Environmental performance 40 Segment performance 44 Consumer Mobile 44 Consumer Residential 46 Business48 IT Solutions 52 NetCo54 Germany (including discontinued operations) 58 Belgium60 iBasis62 Privacy & Security 64 Risk Management and Compliance 66 Regulatory developments 74 Governance76 Corporate Governance 76 Composition of the Boards 80 Report by the Supervisory Board Supervisory Board Report 84 Remuneration and Organizational Development Report 88 Assurance report Assurance report 100 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 23 Group performance Our organization and main achievements in 2013 Through our services, products and network we ensure that people and businesses are online anywhere and anytime, with whatever device they choose. That is where our strength lies. KPN Group in 2013 The Netherlands Consumer Residential Consumer Mobile Business IT Solutions NetCo We provide a broad With our mobile brands We offer our small, We offer multinationals The beating heart of KPN portfolio of services in KPN, Hi, Telfort, Simyo medium-sized, large and other enterprises a where infrastructure and and around the house, and Ortel Mobile, we and corporate business broad range of services ICT coincide. This division, such as internet, offer customized mobile customers a wide range and products: consulting, which is responsible for (interactive) TV and fixed services and products, of services, from fixed workstation management, the fixed and mobile telephony. Our brands are ensuring that people and mobile telephony cloud services, data networks and wholesale KPN, Telfort and XS4ALL. can be contacted and internet to a variety center capacity and customers, makes it anytime, anywhere. of data network services, other network-related technically possible for optionally in the cloud. ICT solutions. KPN to run its services Among the brands we and deliver its products. operate are KPN, XS4ALL, Furthermore, NetCo Telfort Zakelijk, Yes includes our fixed Telecom and Talk & Vision. wholesale services. International iBasis Germany Belgium iBasis E-Plus is the successful challenger in the German BASE Company is the successful challenger as the third iBasis is a leading player mobile market with its brands E-Plus, BASE, Simyo, largest mobile provider in Belgium. Its flagship is BASE. in the international Ortel Mobile, yourfone, Blau and Ay Yildiz, as well We also operate there with Simyo and Ortel Mobile. wholesale market for as via wholesale customers. This year a new broadband and fixed-line proposition telephony services. was launched under the brand name SNOW. 24 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 EBITDA1 (in billions of EUR) Capital expenditure1 Free cash ﬂow1 EBITDA margin1 (in billions of EUR) (in billions of EUR) 4.1 3.8 1.6 1.6 3.9 3.3 2.9 1.6 1.6 1.4 1.5 39.6% 1.3 1.3 36.6% 37.4% 35.4% 34.0% 0.6 0.5 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Net debt / EBITDA2 Earnings per share3 Customer loyalty (in EUR) (Net Promoter Score in the Netherlands) 2.7 1.33 2.3 2.4 1.15 2.1 2.2 1.06 -6 -10 -114 0.14 -13 0.07 -14 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Reputation Energy consumption1 FTEs1 (ranking among top-30 Dutch companies) (in petajoules) (as of December, 31) 12th 4.53 4.52 4.34 28,514 4.12 3.98 26,234 26,251 21,495 16th 18,949 17th 18th 23rd 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 1) Based on continuing operations. 2) Including discontinued operations. 3) 2012 and 2013 are restated for the rights issue and are based on continuing operations, 2009-2011 figures are not adjusted. 4) Restated compared to Annual Report 2012. KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 25 Group performance Revenues and other income Group revenues and other income from continuing operations were 10% or EUR 986 million lower compared with last year, negatively impacted by the net effect of acquisitions and disposals of subsidiaries (EUR 122 million), gains on tower sales in 2012 (EUR 96 million). The impact from regulation was EUR 94 million (1.0%). A continued competitive environment in the mobile markets and declining revenues from traditional fixed services impacting Business and NetCo were the primary reason for the revenue decline. Revenues and other income (in millions of EUR) 2013 2012 ∆ KPN Group – continuing operations 8,472 9,458 -10% KPN Group – continuing operations underlying1 8,335 8,994 -7.3% Germany (incl. discontinued operations) 3,197 3,404 -6.1% Belgium 728 804 -9.5% Rest of World – 247 -100% Other (including eliminations) 41 -84 n.m. Mobile International 3,966 4,371 -9.3% Financial performance Consumer Mobile 1,510 1,707 -12% and outlook Consumer Residential Business 1,962 2,716 1,852 2,956 5.9% -8.1% NetCo 2,343 2,621 -11% Other (including eliminations) -2,086 -2,133 -2.2% Dutch Telco business 6,445 7,003 -8.0% We have significantly strengthened our capital structure during 2013, enabling IT Solutions 621 862 -28% Other (including eliminations) -264 -333 21% us to invest in our business and execute The Netherlands 6,802 7,532 -9.7% our strategy.’ iBasis 969 1,035 -6.4% Jan-Maarten van Osch, Corporate Treasurer position KPN Group – incl. discontinued operations 11,568 12,708 -9.0% All KPN Group figures presented are based on KPN’s continuing operations and of which discontinued operations 3,096 3,250 -4.7% do not include the financial results of E-Plus, unless stated otherwise. E-Plus is classified as held for sale and discontinued operations. Comparative financial 1) For the definition of underlying and more details please refer to the appendix information has been restated in accordance with relevant IFRS standards. on page 186. EBITDA Overview Group EBITDA from continuing operations decreased by 14% or EUR 463 million in 2013 compared with 2012. EBITDA was impacted by Highlights regulation for EUR 53 million and the impact of restructuring costs on ýý Group financial results reflect competitive markets and high EBITDA was EUR 122 million (2012: EUR 134 million). Furthermore, the investment levels net negative impact of incidentals on EBITDA amounted to EUR 135 ýý Strengthened financial position by EUR 4 billion equity million. The incidentals in 2013 included releases of asset retirement equivalent capital raise obligations related to mobile sites for EUR 11 million, adjustments of ýý Lower Group revenues and EBITDA in 2013 due to pressure deferred revenue of EUR 20 million, and the net increase of incidental in Consumer Mobile and Business markets, partly offset by provisions for EUR 78 million. The incidentals in 2012 consisted mainly good performance Consumer Residential of the net proceeds of tower sales for EUR 96 million, the impact of ýý EGM approved sale of E-Plus to Telefónica Deutschland disposals of subsidiaries for EUR 33 million and the net increase of provisions for EUR 27 million. EBITDA Revenues This resulted in an underlying EBITDA decline of 8.6%, which was €2,883M €8,472M mainly driven by lower revenues across the Group. In the Netherlands EBITDA was supported by FTE reductions, offset by the effect of the phasing out of handset lease. (2012: 3,346m) (2012: 9,458m) In Germany (discontinued operations), the EBITDA decline was mainly due to higher commercial investments supporting growth in postpaid 2.4X €0.5BN and data. Net debt to EBITDA Free cash flow (incl. discontinued (2012: 0.6bn) operations) (2012: 2.7x) 26 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 Dutch inauguration day Operating results Group operating profit (EBIT) decreased in 2013 by EUR 360 million due to EUR 463 million lower EBITDA and EUR 103 million lower net depreciation, amortization and impairment charges. Net finance costs Net finance costs over 2013 decreased by EUR 100 million to EUR 757 million, mainly as a result of fair value movements on swaps and a lower increase of the Reggefiber option liability. Net finance costs include the net result of the sale of available-for-sale financial assets (11% stake in Compucom) for the amount of EUR 21 million, realized in May 2013, offset by several one-off items. Income taxes ‘KPN was an essential partner to the city KPN benefits from an agreement with the Dutch tax authorities with of Amsterdam during the inauguration, regard to the application of innovation tax facilities. Innovation tax facilities are facilities under Dutch corporate income tax law whereby we greatly appreciate their efforts.’ profits attributable to innovation are taxed at an effective rate of 5%. Due to the application of the innovation tax facilities, KPN’s effective Eberhard van der Laan, Mayor of Amsterdam tax rate in the Netherlands is reduced from the statutory tax rate of 25% to approximately 20%. The effective tax rate for KPN’s continuing ‘Keeping the technical connections going was one of the big operations for 2013 is -11.5% (2012: 38.6%), mainly due to releases challenges faced by the Amsterdam municipality and the security of a risk provision and the valuation of losses in 2013 and the nonservices during the inauguration, especially in the crowded city deductible goodwill impairment of KPN Corporate Market in Q4 2012. center. KPN proved to be an essential partner in helping us address The decrease in effective tax rate is a consequence of one-off effects this. Not only did KPN enhance the capacity of its communication and a change of the mix of profits and losses in the various countries. masts, but we also greatly appreciate the hard work its employees The effective tax rate for KPN’s continuing operations is expected to put in on the day at the City Hall and the police headquarters.’ be approximately 20%2 in the 2014-2015 period. For further information on the tax impact of the sale of E-Plus, refer to paragraph ‘Disposal group held for sale’ on page 28. EBITDA Net profit (in millions of EUR) 2013 2012 ∆ Net profit from continuing operations decreased in 2013 by EUR 21 KPN Group – continuing operations 2,883 3,346 -14% million (-6.7%), as lower operating profit was partly offset by lower KPN Group – continuing operations underlying1 3,013 3,296 -8.6% net finance expenses and lower income tax expenses. Operating profit Germany (incl. discontinued operations) 963 1,290 -25% (in millions of EUR) 2013 2012 ∆ Belgium 192 272 -29% Operating profit from continuing Rest of World – -25 -100% operations 1,026 1,386 -26% Other (including eliminations) 4 -1 n.m. Net finance costs -757 -857 12% Mobile International 1,159 1,536 -25% Share of the profit of associates and joint ventures -7 -11 36% Consumer Mobile 410 510 -20% Profit before income tax from continuing operations 262 518 -49% Consumer Residential 375 367 2.2% Income taxes 31 -204 n.m. Business 676 747 -9.5% Profit for the period Netco 1,297 1,461 -11% from continuing operations 293 314 -6.7% Other (including eliminations) -32 -19 -68% Profit / (loss) for the period from Dutch Telco business 2,726 3,066 -11% discontinued operations -508 451 n.m. Profit / (loss) for the period incl. IT Solutions 30 69 -57% discontinued operations -215 765 n.m. Other (including eliminations) -1 – n.m. The Netherlands 2,755 3,135 -12% iBasis 29 30 -3.3% KPN Group – incl. discontinued operations 3,842 4,638 -17% of which discontinued operations 959 1,292 -26% 1) For the definition of underlying and more details please refer to the appendix on page 186. 2) Excluding effects of, among others, impairments, revaluations and/or Reggefiber options. KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 27 Group performance Cash flow, free cash flow Pension position Cash flow from operating activities from continuing operations for the As at December 31, 2013, the average coverage ratio of the KPN year 2013 was EUR 166 million higher and came to EUR 1,926 million. pension funds in the Netherlands was 109% (2012: 104%). The average EUR 463 million lower EBITDA was offset by EUR 263 million positive coverage ratio rose due to an increase in the value of the investments changes in working capital, EUR 64 million positive effect from changes of the pension funds as well as higher interest rates which led to a in provisions and EUR 57 million less taxes paid. Capex was EUR 41 million decrease in the pension funds’ obligations. No recovery payments are higher and the tax recapture was EUR 159 million lower compared with expected in the first half of 2014 based on the coverage ratios at the last year, resulting in free cash flow of EUR 489 million for the year 2013. end of Q3 and Q4 2013. In 2013, an amount of EUR 55 million related to pension recovery payments was made. Cash and cash equivalents At December 31, 2013, cash and cash equivalents amounted to For more information about KPN’s pension plans, reference is made EUR 3,946 million, compared with EUR 1,286 million at December 31, to Note 22 of the Consolidated Financial Statements. 2012. The increase in cash and cash equivalents mainly relates to the successfully concluded capital raise consisting of EUR 2 billion hybrid Disposal group held for sale bonds and a EUR 3 billion rights issue, partly offset by the payment of the obtained frequency licenses in the Dutch spectrum auction On July 23, 2013, KPN announced to have entered into a transaction to amounting to EUR 1,352 million. Part of the proceeds were used sell and transfer 100% of its interest in E-Plus to Telefónica Deutschland. to repay drawings under the credit facility and to finance bond On October 2, 2013, the shareholders of KPN approved the transaction. redemptions in March and September 2013. The remaining The transaction remains mainly subject to Telefónica Deutschland EGM proceeds of the capital raise have been used to strengthen KPN’s approval and regulatory approval. capital structure and to continue to invest in KPN’s operations. E-Plus is classified as ‘disposal group held for sale’ as of July 23, 2013, Net cash and cash equivalents, including EUR 326 million bank some small operations in Germany are not included in the disposal overdrafts related to cash pooling arrangements, amounted to group held for sale and remain reported in continuing operations. The EUR 3,620 million at December 31, 2013, as shown in the cash classification as ‘disposal group held for sale’, caused an impairment of flow statement. Cash and cash equivalents consist of highly liquid EUR 555 million due to the fair value of the disposal group being lower instruments, mainly deposits, interest-bearing bank accounts and than its carrying value. This impairment was recorded as ‘profit for the money market funds. KPN’s cash balances have been invested year from discontinued operations’. Furthermore, an impairment of with a wide range of strong counterparties. deferred tax assets for tax losses carry forward of EUR 747 million was recorded as ‘profit for the year from discontinued operations’, resulting For further details on the cash and cash equivalents, reference is made from changes in expectations of future taxable income in the German to Note 17 of the Consolidated Financial Statements. legal entities remaining within KPN Group. In addition, following an agreement with the Dutch tax authorities on the tax consequences of Capex the tax book loss which is expected to be recognized upon completion Capex for continuing operations was EUR 1,616 million in 2013, of the sale of E-Plus to Telefónica Deutschland, KPN recognized a EUR 41 million higher compared with 2012. Continued investments deferred tax asset of EUR 932 million which is also included in ‘profit in the existing 2G and 3G networks and the roll-out of the 4G for the year from discontinued operations’. network in the Netherlands and Belgium were the main drivers for the continued high capex. All assets and liabilities of E-Plus have been presented separately on KPN’s statement of financial position as of July 23, 2013 as ‘non-current Cash flow assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale’ and ‘liabilities (in millions of EUR) 2013 2012 ∆ directly associated with non-current assets and disposal group held for Operating profit from continuing operations 1,026 1,386 -26% sale’. Given the significance of E-Plus to KPN Group, E-Plus is classified Depreciation and amortization 1,857 1,960 -5.3% as ‘discontinued operation’. Reference is made to Note 18 in the Interest paid/received -654 -644 1.6% Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Tax paid/received -253 -469 -46% Change in provision -191 -255 -25% Borrowings, bond issues Change in working capital 162 -101 n.m. Other movements -21 -117 -82% On March 14, 2013, KPN issued a EUR 1.1 billion hybrid bond with Cash flow from operating activities from a 6.125% coupon and a GBP 400 million hybrid bond with a 6.875% continuing operations 1,926 1,760 9.4% coupon (swapped to EUR 460 million and a 6.78% coupon for a period Capital expenditures from continuing of seven years). On 28 March, 2013, KPN issued a USD 600 million operations 1,616 1,575 2.6% hybrid bond with a 7% coupon (swapped to EUR 465 million and Proceeds from real estate 3 117 -97% a 6.34% coupon for a period of ten years). Tax recapture E-plus 176 335 -47% Free cash flow from continuing operations 489 637 -23% The EUR 1.1 billion hybrid bond is a subordinated bond with a perpetual maturity, while the GBP 400 million and USD 600 million hybrid bonds are subordinated bonds with 60-year maturities. The EUR, GBP and USD hybrid bonds can, at KPN’s discretion, first be redeemed in September 2018, March 2020 and March 2023 respectively. KPN may, at its discretion 28 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 and subject to certain conditions, elect to defer payments of interest On August 29, 2013, the Foundation Preference Shares B KPN exercized on these hybrid bonds. The hybrid bonds are listed on NYSE Euronext its call option and obtained 4,258,098,272 newly issued preference Amsterdam. The ratings for the hybrid bonds are BB by S&P, Ba1 by shares B. These shares reflect an interest in KPN’s outstanding shares Moody’s and BB by Fitch Ratings. The rating agencies recognize 50% of 50% minus 1 share. In compliance with the current statutory of the hybrid bonds as equity. The hybrid bonds are for 50% treated arrangement, 25% of the nominal value of these shares (EUR 255 as equity and 50% as debt in KPN’s gross and net debt definitions. million) has been paid to KPN in cash. The Foundation holds the The EUR hybrid bond is classified as equity on the balance sheet, preference shares B only temporarily, as the EGM of 10 January 2014 while the GBP and USD hybrid bonds are classified as liabilities approved the cancellation of the outstanding preference shares B. in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. Therefore, the paid up value is classified as current liability (EUR 255 million) and dividends due are recorded as financial expenses. On March 18, 2013, KPN redeemed the 4.5% coupon Eurobond 2006-2013 with an outstanding amount of EUR 540 million. Reference is made to Note 29 of the Consolidated Financial Statements On September 16, 2013, KPN redeemed the 6.25% coupon for further information. Eurobond 2008-2013 with an outstanding amount of EUR 545 million. Both bonds were redeemed in accordance with the Financial outlook regular redemption schedule. KPN expects that the improved operational performance driven by In June 2013, KPN used an extension option for its EUR 2 billion investments in networks, products and customers will lead to financial revolving credit facility. All 14 relationship banks agreed to a one performance stabilizing towards the end of 2014. The year 2014 will year extension, which extends the maturity of the revolving credit be a year where KPN expects to see some important changes; closing facility to July 2018. The credit facility is undrawn at the end of 2013. of the sale of E-Plus and the consolidation of Reggefiber. The new KPN Group profile will emerge in 2015. At the end of 2013, the average maturity on the overall bond portfolio was 6.6 years. The average interest rate on the overall bond portfolio, The following outlook metrics are based on the continuing operations including hybrid bonds, was 5.2% as at the end of 2013. Excluding the of KPN: hybrid bonds, the average interest rate on the senior bond portfolio was 5.0% as at the end of 2013. 2014 ýý Financial performance stabilizing towards the end of 2014 For further details, reference is made to Note 22 of the Consolidated ýý Capex less than EUR 1.4 billion1 Financial Statements. 2015 Equity position ýý Capex less than EUR 1.5 billion, including Reggefiber1 ýý Free cash flow (excl. TEFD dividend)2 growth expected in 2015 At December 31, 2013, total equity amounted to EUR 5,303 million. Limited tax cash out in the Netherlands is expected in the coming years On April 25, 2013, KPN set the terms of its EUR 3 billion rights issue, due to the recognized tax loss on the sale of E-Plus. In addition, interest which was announced on 20 February, 2013, and approved by the payments are expected to trend down due to a reduction of gross debt Annual General Meeting on April 10, 2013. KPN announced a 2 for in the coming years. Furthermore, KPN will potentially benefit from 1 rights issue of 2,838,732,182 new ordinary shares with a nominal additional excess cash by receiving dividends on the 20.5% stake in value of EUR 0.24 (Offer Shares) at an issue price of EUR 1.06 through Telefónica Deutschland. the granting of transferable subscription entitlements to holders of ordinary shares in KPN’s issued and outstanding share capital pro rata KPN recommences sustainable dividend payments with a dividend to their shareholdings. The issue price represented a discount of 35.1% per share of EUR 0.07 in respect of 2014, subject to closing of the E-Plus to the theoretical ex-rights price (TERP), based on the closing price of sale. The dividend pay-out structure will consist of 1/3 interim dividend EUR 2.78 per ordinary share on April 24, 2013. in August 2014 and 2/3 final dividend in April 2015. Dividend per share is expected to grow in respect of 2015. At the end of the subscription period, the take-up amounted to 97.4% of the Offer Shares. The remaining Offer Shares were placed at KPN remains committed to an investment grade credit profile and institutional investors through a rump placement. Payment, delivery expects to utilize excess cash for operational and financial flexibility, and start of trading of the Offer Shares occurred on May 17, 2013. The (small) in-country M&A and/or shareholder remuneration. net proceeds from the rights issue amounted to EUR 2,957 million. Upon closing the number of KPN ordinary shares outstanding totaled 4,270,254,664. On May 17, 2013, KPN successfully concluded its EUR 5 billion capital raise, consisting of EUR 2 billion hybrid bonds, which are recognized for 50% as equity and a EUR 3 billion rights issue. On August 9, 2013, América Móvil announced an unsolicited intended public offer for all outstanding ordinary shares of KPN. 1) Assuming Reggefiber consolidation per December 31, 2014. 2) Free cash flow outlook defined as cash flow from operating activities, plus proceeds from real estate, minus capex and excluding Telefónica Deutschland dividend. KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 29 Group performance Listings and indices Since June 13, 1994, KPN’s ordinary shares have been listed on Euronext Amsterdam (ticker: KPN). KPN has a Level I ADR program which allows investors to trade KPN ADRs in the United States on the Over-TheCounter market (ticker symbol: KKPNY). KPN shares are included among others in the following leading Indices: AEX, EURO STOXX Telecommunications Index, STOXX Europe 600 Telecommunications Index and MSCI Euro. KPN shareholding1 Estimated geographic breakdown (based on institutional holdings) Mexico 25 – 30% United States 15 – 20% United Kingdom 10 – 15% The Netherlands 0 – 5% Canada 0 – 5% Rest of Europe 10 – 15% Rest of World 0 – 5% Other2 15 – 20% Share performance Source: Thomson Shareholder ID Q4 2013 1) Excluding preference shares B 2) Retail, broker/trading and other Share ownership KPN assigns great importance to América Móvil published on February 12, 2014 that they owned transparent and regular communication 27.1% of KPN’s ordinary shares (excluding the preference shares B) at December 31, 2013. Taking into account the preference shares B held with its shareholders, bondholders and by the Foundation Preference Shares B KPN at December 31, 2013, other capital providers.’ this represents a share of 13.6% in KPN’s total share capital. To KPN’s knowledge, no other shareholder owned 3% or more of KPN’s Hans Söhngen, Head of Investor Relations outstanding shares at December 31, 2013. Capital raise Overview KPN successfully concluded its capital raise through settlement of the EUR 3 billion rights issue on May 17, 2013, and a EUR 2 billion Highlights issuance of hybrid capital instruments in March, which are recognized ýý Recommence dividend payment in respect of 2014 (EUR 0.07), as 50% equity. subject to closing E-Plus sale ýý Intended sale of E-Plus at attractive valuation As a consequence of the EUR 3 billion, 2 for 1 rights issue, an aggregate of 2,838,732,182 new ordinary shares were issued at an issue price of EUR 1.06 for each ordinary share. The issue price represented a 35.1% Earnings per share discount to the theoretical ex-rights price, based on the closing price EUR 0.07 of KPN’s ordinary shares on NYSE Euronext in Amsterdam at April 24, 2013. Upon closing of the rights issue, KPN had 4,270,254,664 ordinary shares outstanding. (2012: EUR 0.14)1 Foundation Preference Shares B KPN 1) Adjusted following rights issue On August 9, 2013, América Móvil formally notified KPN of its intention to make an offer to acquire all outstanding ordinary shares of KPN at a price of EUR 2.40 per KPN share. Subsequently, KPN´s Board of Management and Supervisory Board (the 'KPN Boards') have carefully Presentations for, and meetings with, investors and analysts are held considered América Móvil’s unsolicited intended offer consistent with on a regular basis, including those in connection with the publication their fiduciary duties and their commitment to the continuity of KPN of KPN’s quarterly results. On the same day as the publication of the and the interests of all stakeholders, including all KPN shareholders, quarterly results KPN organizes a presentation that is broadcast live and explored all strategic options open to KPN. The KPN Boards have via the internet to ensure that all groups of investors receive the same had numerous discussions with América Móvil on all aspects of the information at the same time. unsolicited intended offer including financial and non-financial items. In all these activities, KPN’s Board of Management is supported by the Investor Relations department, which is at the investors’ and analysts’ disposal on a daily basis. 30 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 On August 29, 2013, the Foundation Preference Shares B KPN (the shares instead of in cash. Subject to Supervisory Board approval 'Foundation') announced that it exercised the option granted by KPN to and certain legal requirements, the Board of Management may acquire preference shares B in KPN in order to safeguard the interests of furthermore decide to pay out interim dividends on ordinary shares. KPN and its stakeholders, including shareholders, employees, customers, trade unions and Dutch society more generally. As a consequence thereof Obligations to disclose holdings 4,258,098,272 preference shares B were outstanding with the Foundation Preference Shares B KPN. These preference shares B carry the right to Pursuant to the Dutch Financial Supervision Act (‘Wet op het exercise 4,258,098,272 votes in each (Extraordinary) General Meeting of financieel toezicht’ or ‘Wft’), legal entities as well as natural Shareholders of KPN, as long as the preference shares B are outstanding. persons must immediately notify the Dutch Authority for the Financial Markets (AFM) when a shareholding equals or exceeds The Foundation said that it came to its decision in order to safeguard 3% of the issued capital. The AFM must be notified again when this the interests of KPN and its stakeholders, as América Móvil announced shareholding subsequently reaches, exceeds or falls below a threshold. its intention to make a public offer for all KPN shares on August 9, 2013, This can be caused by the acquisition or disposal of shares by the without prior consultation of KPN. The Foundation emphasized that it shareholder or because the issued capital of the issuing institution would be holding the preference shares B only temporarily and from is increased or decreased. Thresholds are: 3%, 5%, 10%, 15%, 20%, time to time it would be considering its position. 25%, 30%, 40%, 50%, 60%, 75% and 95%. The AFM incorporates the notifications in the public register, which is available on its website. The KPN Boards announced on October 16, 2013, that discussions with Failure to disclose the shareholding qualifies is an offense, and may América Móvil regarding its announced intention to make a public result in civil penalties, including suspension of voting rights and offer had not led to an agreement which could be recommended by administrative penalties. the KPN Boards to its shareholders. Furthermore, América Móvil had formally withdrawn its intended offer. Financial calendar 2014 On November 10, 2013, the Board of the Foundation Preference January 10, 2014: Extraordinary General Meeting of Shareholders Shares B KPN requested the Board of Management to convene February 4, 2014: Publication of full year 2013 results an Extraordinary General Meeting of Shareholders to redeem the April 9, 2014: Annual General Meeting of Shareholders 4,258,098,272 preference shares B. The Board of the Foundation was April 25, 2014: Publication first quarter 2014 results of the opinion that there was, subsequent to the withdrawal of the July 29, 2014: Publication half year results 2014 unsolicited intended offer by América Móvil, no reason to defer a October 28, 2014: Publication third quarter 2014 results decision to effect the redemption of the preference shares B. KPN’s Extraordinary General Meeting of Shareholders granted the requested Note that these dates may be subject to change. approvals to cancel all outstanding preference shares B on January 10, 2014. The Supervisory Board and Board of Management acknowledge that the right granted to the Foundation to acquire preference shares B Share price 2011-2013 is unconditional and continuous, and that the Foundation is therefore (EUR) entitled to acquire preference shares B in the future. 10 8 Shareholder remuneration 6 In 2013, KPN has increased its financial and strategic flexibility by 4 means of a EUR 4 billion equity equivalent capital raise including a 2 EUR 3 billion rights issue. As the rights issue led to a significantly higher number of shares outstanding, KPN decided to pay no dividend for the 2011 2012 2013 financial years 2013. However, also in 2013, KPN reached an agreement KPN Dow Jones Telecom Index AEX Index with Telefónica Deutschland to sell 100% of its interest in E-Plus at an attractive valuation of EUR 8.55 billion. Source: Bloomberg, prices rebased to KPN share price of EUR 6.71 on January 3, 2011 KPN remains committed to an investment grade credit profile and expects to utilize excess cash for operational and financial flexibility, (small) in-country M&A and/or shareholder remuneration. Dividends KPN recommences sustainable dividend payments with a dividend per share of EUR 0.07 in respect of 2014, subject to closing of the E-Plus sale. The dividend pay-out structure will consist of 1/3 interim dividend in August 2014 and 2/3 final dividend in April 2015. Dividend per share is expected to grow in respect of 2015. Articles of Association Under the Articles of Association, the Class B preference shares carry preferred dividend rights. Subject to the approval of the Supervisory Board, the Board of Management will determine what proportion of the profit remaining after satisfaction of these preferred dividend rights will be appropriated to the reserves. The Board of Management may decide to allocate the complete remainder to the reserves. Any remaining profit resulting after this appropriation is available for distribution on the ordinary shares. The decision to pay out a dividend is made by the AGM, upon proposal by the Board of Management with the approval of the Supervisory Board. Dividend may also be paid in KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 31 Group performance Innovation in action As ‘integrated access provider’, we continuously invest and innovate in order to enable customers to access services and data anywhere, any time, on the best possible fixed and mobile networks. These networks are increasingly integrated and provide our customers all-in-one packages. Next to that, we develop new applications that can be used on top of our networks, in cooperation with various partners. For instance, in 2013 we were part of a pilot project to initiate mobile payments in the city of Leiden, working with several banks, a credit card company and about 100 retailers. We co-developed an app that allows consumers to pay for their purchases using their mobile phones. KPN is also well positioned in the market for machine-to-machine (M2M) solutions and the Internet of Things. Via our partnership with technology provider Jasper Wireless, we can offer our (international) customers powerful cloud-based solutions for managing their connected devices. Infrastructure and network innovation Innovation and investments Mobile network In the Netherlands, KPN aims to operate a best-in-class network that provides a superior customer experience. In 2013, EUR 206 million was invested in the new 4G network and in capacity upgrades of 2G and 3G in the Netherlands. We rolled out our biggest infrastructure innovation, the high-speed 4G We started the roll-out of the highnetwork. As the first provider of 4G in the Netherlands, this puts us well speed 4G network, one of our biggest ahead of our competitors. The 4G indoor coverage as of December 31, 2013 was 76% of the Dutch population. 4G offers more bandwidth infrastructure innovations, as one of and thus higher data transfer rates, up to ten times faster than the 3G the first telecom providers worldwide. network, and extended indoor coverage. That puts us in a position in which we can distinguish ourselves as a provider of integrated services We even started to prepare the roll-out in the Netherlands, because 4G enables us to bring the performance before we bought the frequencies. This of mobile and fixed-line internet closer together. We want to have nationwide 4G coverage by the end of Q1 2014. way we let our customers be the first to benefit from the advantages of 4G.’ To be able to handle mobile data growth, we also continued the modernization of our 2G and 3G networks, started in 2012. We Erik Hoving, Group Chief Technology Officer renewed the equipment and antennas. By modernizing and increasing the number of mobile phone masts by the end of 2013, about 96% of the Dutch population had 3G coverage. A stable IT infrastructure also means as few disruptions as possible. Overview We modified the architecture of our network and we increased capacity on our hubs in Amsterdam and Rotterdam. Besides an Highlights (international) capacity expansion, the architecture of our network ýý Roll-out of 4G network and continued investments now includes more international backup routes, which will help in the modernization of 2G and 3G networks decrease disruptions. ýý New hardware insurance service and B-Phone service developed and launched by BASE Company In Belgium, we are also upgrading our network and implementing ýý KPN was part of a pilot project initiating mobile payments 4G. We expect to have the nationwide outdoor 4G coverage by the in the city of Leiden in the Netherlands end of 2014. ýý 24% of Dutch households have FttH available Fixed network Our fixed infrastructure is of vital importance for our continued business operations and financial performance. Our All-IP networks – FttH and VDSL – enable more efficient, effective and scalable telecom infrastructure usage, providing greater bandwidth and higher speeds. We are the only operator of fixed copper infrastructure covering the entire population in the Netherlands and continue to make investments to upgrade our copper-based network. In 2013, our total investments 32 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 in copper upgrades were about EUR 70 million. New technologies, such The identity landscape is evolving and we have invested in research as the combination of pair bonding and vectoring, significantly increase and development of new identity schemes. Together with public the available broadband internet bandwidth (up to more than 120Mbps) and private parties we take steps in new developments. KPN is an on copper networks for subscribers. Our deployment of FttH in the accredited provider for this type of services, such as 'PKI Overheid', Netherlands is being executed through our joint venture, Reggefiber. BAPI and SBR certificates and 'eHerkenning'. ‘eHerkenning’ is a We believe FttH is a superior infrastructure. In particular, FttH service that enables safe usage of electronic identities and reliable allows greater upload and download speeds as compared with authentication for governments, businesses and citizens. We are cable or traditional copper DSL. As of end of 2013, 24% of the part of the ‘Stelselraad’ of ‘eHerkenning’, which is responsible for Dutch households, approximately 1.6 million, have FttH available. the strategic management of ‘eHerkenning’. In 2013, this service has grown significantly to more than 100 thousand transactions and Data centers has been improved with new functionalities. In 2014, ‘eHerkenning’ In July 2013, one of the most energy-consuming sites in Amsterdam will migrate towards a Dutch eID infrastructure that will enable several was fully converted to district cooling. All own mechanical cooling units eID services. To strengthen our position and develop next generation were switched off. This results in a yearly energy consumption reduction services with eID, we invest in research programs with universities. of 2.1 GWh. The new energy-efficient data center cooling with a rotary In 2013, KPN started a research project on privacy enhancement and heat exchanger was implemented in our data center in Haarlem in 2013. human centric security technologies with the University of Twente. The output of these studies will result in new insights, approaches and Besides these improvements in cooling, we investigated the possibilities technologies that will be used for further product development efforts of reusing heat. Residual heat is generally low temperature warm air, in the upcoming years. with very limited possibilities for reuse. Currently, we are testing IT equipment and water cooling systems which would enable us to Belgium generate higher quality residual heat for potential use as office or The fixed market was challenged by introducing SNOW, a simple and residential heating. Although this would probably result in higher transparent triple play offer, combining fixed internet, fixed telephony energy consumption in the data center itself, it could save energy and digital television for an attractive price. in the value chain. We intend to start a proof of concept in 2014. BASE Company launched a completely renewed mobile product Products and services innovation portfolio introducing unlimited calling and texting, and providing superior data volumes up to 5GB. In October 2013, we launched our KPN Compleet and KPN ÉÉN 4G network – being the second operator in Belgium. By the end of the A major innovation in our products and services offering was the year, 36% of the outdoor population was covered by 4G. introduction in the Netherlands of KPN Compleet, an all-inclusive package combining television, internet, fixed line and mobile services In cooperation with external partners, BASE Company also developed in one simple product for consumers. Similarly, KPN ÉÉN offers the and launched a hardware insurance service for mobile phones starting Dutch business market an integrated solution including fixed, mobile, at EUR 2.95 per month and a service that enables customers to buy a internet communication and ICT services. smartphone and pay for this phone in monthly terms without any additional cost and no interest (B-Phone). Healthcare of the future We introduced several innovations in our healthcare portfolio. With Patent application and intellectual property rights our secure email services, classified emails are placed on our eCare network server. Emails can then be securely collected by external We take steps to protect our intellectual property rights and generate users. With our existing service Tréés, a mobile alarm device with GPS, value from these rights where appropriate. To protect these rights, we carried out a pilot with a new target group, Alzheimer's patients, we currently use a combination of patents, trade and service marks, together with KPN Mooiste Contact Fonds and Alzheimer Nederland. copyrights, database protection, confidentiality agreements with We are developing a mobile proposition for HealthMedia, so it can be employees and third parties and protective contractual provisions. Our accessed on mobile devices, in addition to the existing fixed bedside current portfolio of registered intellectual property rights consists of terminals. This proposition is expected to be finalized in 2014. registered trademarks relating to our core brands and approximately 370 patent families. Of these, about 50 patent families are declared The New Way of Living & Working essential for the commercial exploitation of communication technology We test and implement innovations on the New Way of Living & and services. We continue to invest in the growth of our intellectual Working within KPN, to make sure we provide our customers with property portfolio, among others, through our targeted long-term R&D good products and services. In 2013, the BYOD (Bring Your Own program. This R&D program runs in close cooperation with TNO-ICT Device) technology was enabled within the KPN Group and a and universities and accounts for about 43% of our research spending corresponding policy is in development. Furthermore, we realized with TNO. A number of suppliers have entered into license agreements the possibility of connecting three different products and services with us related to these and other patents. (conference card, Lync and video conferencing), thereby enabling different communication interfaces within one meeting. Third parties may claim that KPN and its suppliers infringe their intellectual property rights, which could affect our business. If this Privacy & Security happens, it may have an effect on our ability to use certain products. We believe it is important to provide a safe internet environment Furthermore, any claims of infringement will require handling and for children. For several years, we have been providing the MyBee follow-up, could cause damage to our reputation and the value of browser for children to our customers. We are now extending this our brands, substantial defense costs and distract our suppliers, browser to other mobile platforms. An iOS version for iPad and management and employees from our business. iPhone is expected to be launched early in 2014. Later an Android version will become available. KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 33 Group performance Social strategy Our social strategy builds upon our ambition to become the best service provider in the Netherlands. We identified four pillars as highly material to our organization, all having the ability to enhance our performance and business. The first is the satisfaction level of our customers, who expect flawless service and are relying on the highest quality ICT products and services to connect them all the time, everywhere and from any device. We analyze both customer loyalty and our reputation. Our employees are valuable to our organization and represent the second pillar of our social strategy. Their efforts and enthusiasm determine whether we can achieve our ambition. Thirdly, we believe that the way in which we engage and cooperate with partners and suppliers and create a sustainable supply chain can enhance our business and bring about the necessary technological and sustainable innovations and new products. Lastly, by sponsoring initiatives connecting people, our key strength, we believe we can enhance the goodwill and reputation of our brand. Our targets, results and ambitions with regard to these four pillars and Social performance our overall ambition to be the best service provider are elaborated in this section. and reputation Customer loyalty Our efforts to become the best service provider in the Netherlands are focused on providing our customers with products and services Reputation is a shared responsibility of excellent quality, and, by doing so, increasing customer loyalty. We for top management. First and foremost continuously measure our performance in our customer base, using the Net Promoter Score (NPS) method. built on what we do for our customers Results 2013 and society, secondly on open and Based on the positive developments of the NPS for several of our clear communication.’ services, we believe we are doing the right things to achieve our goals on customer loyalty. We improved our overall NPS for Consumer Hans Koeleman, Director Corporate Communications and CSR Residential. The NPS for Consumer Mobile and Business remained relatively stable. Our average NPS for KPN in the Netherlands This chapter contains only information about continuing operations, with the increased slightly to -10 (2012: -111). The NPS is affected by different exception of the supplier section where Germany is included. Other social circumstances and developments. For instance, research indicates that performances of discontinued operations can be found in the segment the publicity around the bidding offer of América Móvil on KPN had a chapter on Germany. negative influence on brand NPS. Research also shows that a low score on brand level influences the NPS on contact and event level in a negative way. To us, this is another reason to continue improving the quality of products and services we provide to our customers. Overview New propositions In 2013, KPN introduced 4G services as well as combined fixed and Net Promoter Score (NPS) Reputation mobile services in both the consumer (KPN Compleet) and business segments (KPN ÉÉN). Based on the first indications from the consumer -10 23 rd segments, we expect these new combined mobile/fixed propositions to have a positive impact on our NPS. (2012: -111) (2012: 18th position) Improvements in quality and service In 2013, we further organized our activities around continuous improvement based on customer feedback. For example, a large part of 18,949 39% our call centers started or enhanced the use of ‘Closed Loop Feedback’ (CLF) as a daily way of working. With CLF, we survey our customers immediately after their contact with KPN. In this way, we receive direct Number of FTEs On-site audits suppliers feedback and are able to act instantly when the customer is not satisfied. (2012: 21,495) (2012: 26%) This approach paid off, as the NPS for most call centers where we introduced the CLF approach showed an increase during the year. After expanding the number of shops in 2012, we further optimized our customer service in shops. We improved processes, tooling and training of our workforce. We provided our employees with extra tools such as easy entrance to all customer data including logs of earlier 1) The NPS measurement method for the Business segment was adjusted in 2013, also affecting the overall NPS. The 2012 NPS have also been adjusted. 34 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 Reputation We use RepTrak to monitor our reputation. RepTrak, run by the Reputation Institute, publishes an annual ranking of the top 30 large Dutch companies including KPN based on a survey carried out among members of the public in the Netherlands. In 2011, the Remuneration Committee included reputation as a target in the Long Term Incentive (LTI) plan for the executives of KPN. As of 2013, we have reformulated our objective, aiming at improving our absolute RepTrak score, as expressed in the Pulse score instead of the ranking relative to other companies previously used. KPN XL stores Results 2013 We did not meet the goal that we set for 2013. In 2012, we performed a In 2011, KPN launched a new retail formula called KPN XL for thorough research with the Reputation Institute in order to gain insight both our business and consumer customers. At a KPN XL Store, into how KPN can improve its performance on the three core attributes ‘every customer leaves with a solution’. To achieve this, multiple in the future. Main conclusion was that the reputation benefits best by experts are working under the same roof: sales consultants, improving the quality of our products and service, the clarity of our service experts and repair experts. communication and the way we do business with our customers. The Remuneration Committee decided in 2013 to change the LTI target for reputation from 2014 onwards from the former absolute RepTrak score (the Pulse) into a score based on the moving average of the three contacts. We opened seven more KPN XL Stores, providing attributes that influence our reputation most significantly. our customers around the country with this full-service formula. Improvements in the KPN XL store formula in 2013 were highly Improvements customer experience and reputation appreciated by our customers, resulting in a rise of the NPS from Based on our research, we intensified our efforts to improve the +13 (December 2012) to +33 (December 2013). We also started the customer experience with our products and services and customer 'Attente Winkel' pilot in which employees of regular KPN shops are loyalty. Examples of this are service calls, the Are you happy-campaign, given instant access to top-level service experts in the KPN XL stores, KPN Familievoordeel and KPN Compleet. KPN keeps on adding new so customers can be helped with complex questions in regular shops, features and services for existing customers, such as Spotify. without having to visit a KPN XL Store. Our NPS in regular shops increased by nine points in 2013, from +10 (December 2012) to We also improved the simplicity of our propositions and the clarity +19 (December 2013). of our communication, for example by introducing KPN ÉÉN and by informing customers online about their data usage by the MijnKPN app. Our online service was also enhanced and improved in 2013. Many of our customer interactions take place online; for the business market In order to be a more transparent service provider towards all for example, about half of all interactions in 2013 were online. During stakeholders, we aligned internal and external communication by 2013, we started to improve the kpn.com environment for customers connecting our internal social media platform with the corporate including improvements regarding the online forum and self service website. We shared internal news and videos about 4G and other customer portal. business topics via kpn.com. A dilemma we are facing in connecting internal and external platforms is that not all internal information As mentioned above, the activities to improve our service when in can be shared externally, for example for reasons of competition, contact with our customers led to higher customer satisfaction at confidentiality or legal prohibitions. several customer interfaces (such as call centers and stores). However, this is not the case for all service experiences. The reasons that some Because our role within society is important, we intensified our 'event' level experiences (such as billing or delivery) stay behind are programs around CSR and corporate sponsorships. For example, we divers, for example price/value perception of customers, processes that became one of the main sponsors of the newly opened Rijksmuseum are not yet optimized and not well-managed customer expectations. as of 2013. External stakeholders such as our CSR Advisory Board For various customer interfaces and 'events', efforts are in progress suggested to communicate our CSR programs more explicitly to the to improve our NPS. outside world. Therefore, we organized events around all our CSR themes for external stakeholders in the Rijksmuseum and Pulchri Studio For more information on customer experience, please refer to the in The Hague and also an overall external stakeholder dialogue about segment chapters Consumer Residential, Consumer Mobile, Business, our CSR strategy. We launched a new corporate campaign in 2012 that NetCo, IT Solutions and Belgium. was well received and continued in 2013. As part of this campaign and, ahead of the Winter Olympics in Sochi, we communicated nationwide Ambition how we support and contribute to Dutch skating. In order to achieve our best service provider ambition, full attention on improving the NPS remains crucial. We will continue on our path of Ambition improving our level of service and customer processes on the basis of We can still improve on integrating sustainability and sponsorship customer feedback, day in, day out. We will also further optimize the more into our marketing campaigns for our brands. That is a challenge online customer experience. Focus on our customer processes should that we have to take on in 2014. In 2014, we set our target on reputation result in higher customer appreciation in NPS 'events’ such as delivery on the average performance of the three attributes that influence our and fault handling. At the KPN brand level, we will continue providing reputation most significantly. our customers with high-quality products and services, communicating transparently and showing our customers every day how KPN products and services can simplify their lives. Our target for the overall NPS is +1 for 2015. KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 35 Group performance Employees Reorganization In 2013, we continued to adapt our company to changing market Our employees are inextricably linked to our ambition to be the best conditions in the Netherlands to become more competitive. Part of service provider. It is only with their effort, enthusiasm and loyalty that these measures include reducing our workforce by 4,000 – 5,000 FTE we can achieve our strategic goals. That is why our human resources by 2014, compared with April 1, 2011. In 2013, the number of full-time department is committed to creating the necessary conditions to equivalents (FTE) in the Netherlands came down by 2,750 FTE, bringing strengthen performance and enable our employees to develop their the total FTE reductions over a three-year period to 4,650. We realize talent and professional skills. a reorganization requires resilience, adaptability and much effort from our employees. Following talks with the unions, we revised our social Results 2013 plan to include more initiatives to help employees improve their We consider it important for our workforce to be a reflection of society. skills and competences (‘work-to-work’ initiatives) and enhance We have met our overall target of 24% female employees within KPN their chances of finding another job within or outside KPN. The tools the Netherlands. Nevertheless, we did not meet our targets on female we introduced in previous years in our social plan were optimized in participation in middle (17%) and top management (21%). In 2013, order to support our goal to promote sustainable employability. An women made up 16.5% of middle management and 18.7% of top outplacement coaching program which ran from July 2012 to June 2013 management. About 29% of employees in the Netherlands participated ended for 396 employees and resulted in 208 of them finding new jobs in our interactive vitality coaching program ‘i change’, exceeding our externally, 20 redeployments within KPN and 25 people starting their 25% target. own company. We will take a next step towards a lean operating model with a large simplification program that aims for a simplified product Our internal target for the New Way of Living & Working was that 90% portfolio, simplified client processes and simplified networks and IT. of our employees feel that they can actually participate in the New Way This program will result in quality improvements but also in 1,500 of Living & Working, with the condition that the measurement would to 2,000 fewer FTEs in the Netherlands by 2016. be adjusted to exclude employees who, by the virtue of their work, cannot work according to the New Way of Living & Working. These Increased focus employees were not yet excluded in 2013. We therefore are not able to In 2013, we continued to focus on three areas – leadership development, draw conclusions on reaching our target. The percentage of employees change management and performance management – and added a that feels that they can participate in the New Way of Living & Working, fourth, employee engagement. including these employees, remained relatively stable compared to 2012, at 74%. Leadership development We identified nine key leadership competencies that we believe our senior managers must have to successfully lead KPN. We implemented tools, policies and coaching programs to improve and maintain these Dutch inauguration day competencies. These include leadership programs by leading business schools such as the International Institute for Management Development (IMD) and Ashridge, which are designed to get the best out of higher leadership across the KPN Group. We expect our leaders to promote diversity, both related to gender and ethnicity. In 2013, we organized a workshop and a mentoring program for a selected group of female managers to help them achieve their goals and strengthen their skills and competencies. We also ran a mentor program for students from ethnic minorities, training them in skills such as job interviews. Change management KPN seeks to build a simple and efficient organization with a sharp focus on its core business activities. Our HR department supports management in bringing about the required organizational changes. 'The immense speed and capacity In 2013, we continued the ‘Way of Working’ (WoW) initiative, an of 4G connections were a huge help.' improvement program that supports managers to become more purpose-focused and more customer-focused and to help employees to Ed Dusschoten, Escalation Manager KPN Service Quality Center perform to the best of their ability. This Way of Working also supports the implementation of the New Way of Living & Working, since this concept calls for WoW leadership. When newly-inaugurated King Willem-Alexander kissed his mother Princess Beatrix on the balcony of the Royal Palace in Performance management Amsterdam on April 30, Ed Dusschoten watched as the indicators In 2013, we improved performance management to ensure employees for KPN’s mobile networks shot up. 'Thousands of people were have a better understanding of their contribution to KPN’s strategy. simultaneously using their smart phones to send messages and Performance management encourages employees to take responsibility pictures of the kiss.' for the value they bring to the company and the development of their professional skills, and is a continuous dialogue between managers To accommodate the spike in wireless traffic this caused from and employees. Amsterdam’s Dam Square, Ed temporarily adjusted the mobile network to a maximum of mobile-capacity. He monitored the We further developed the KPN Academy to offer comprehensive wireless activity throughout the day, increasing or decreasing training programs that help our employees develop key professional signaling capacity at specific locations across the city to ensure skills necessary to achieve KPN’s strategic objectives. Strategic it remained at the same level everywhere so no communication programs included: integrating the KPN Way of Working (WoW) into was lost. 'What helped immensely was the speed and capacity KPN Academy management programs; implementing a new learning of the 4G network.' management system; developing and rolling out the Sales Excellence Program; the Young Talent program; and several e-learning programs. 36 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 Employee Engagement Challenges Our annual engagement survey led to an action plan to address three Making our company future-proof requires a new way of working topics: explaining the strategy for the Netherlands so it is understood and managing, optimizing and simplifying our business operations, by all levels of the organization; ensuring our processes, systems and improving efficiency and reducing our costs. This means reducing the way we work are clear and simple; and the positive impact of the number of employees as well as being more accountable to the working at KPN on employees’ wellbeing and performance. employees that stay. One of the challenges is keeping our people connected, meaning engaged and motivated to perform in a We invest in employees’ wellbeing and vitality by stimulating a healthy collaborative way, now and in the future. We also have to act quickly lifestyle through programs such as ‘i change’. ‘i change’ is an interactive to meet new consumer demands in a rapidly changing market in coaching program that supports employees in changing their behavior which the technology is continually advancing. This is challenging in health-related areas. It is offered to all employees. We believe healthy for everyone in our organization. employees contribute more and can cope better with changes and new developments. 4,636 employees in the Netherlands (29%) used this Belgium online wellness tool in 2013, up from 3,292 in 2012. An evaluation survey Making employees part of the execution of our mobile-centric strategy among 253 ‘i change’ users indicated improvements in health-related is an important focus for our HR department. Central to making this areas such as nutrition, weight, exercise, sleep, smoking, alcohol, mood happen is to attract the right talents for the company to enable all and stress. Employees said they feel more motivated and are able to employees to grow in personal and professional terms. BASE Company adopt a healthier lifestyle thanks to the program. ‘i change’ also wants people to feel good within the organization. measures absenteeism by the percentage of employees absent due to health problems for at least one hour in the week prior to the review. This We invest in talent development by creating coaching and development number fell from 7.5% in October 2012 to 7.1% in June 2013. In addition, tracks needed for all employees. We develop a target setting process employees can use the employability budget to have a health check. based on roles and responsibilities making everybody aware of how to contribute to company results and empower them. Meanwhile, we The New Way of Living & Working strengthen our leadership and coaching capabilities in order to support In 2013, we followed up on the findings of the 2012 internal research this process. on the New Way of Living & Working in order to encourage further development of the concept within our own organization. 24% of the We conducted a study on new ways of working aimed at developing surveyed employees felt that they could not work according to the New a fun and exciting work environment where everyone feels good and Way of Living & Working for various reasons. 37% of the employees at home. The goal is to develop a future-proof and flexible work indicated to be dissatisfied with the quality of the physical working environment linked to our company objectives. environment. Following this, we addressed two main issues, enhancing the availability of WiFi in the office buildings, and we started refurbishing BASE Company puts effort into the health and wellbeing of the the meeting rooms to meet the current needs of our employees. We employees by offering varied and healthy food in the restaurant and took technology one step further: we made it possible for employees by stimulating sports, such as a yearly invitation to all employees to to integrate communication with Lync, videoconference and mobile climb the Mont Ventoux by bike. In 2013, 51 employees joined this trip. phone and to work with the device of their choice (Bring Your Own Device, BYOD). Ambition The Netherlands Furthermore, the results showed that employees did not always In 2014, we will continue to focus on the above-mentioned areas and have enough knowledge of the solutions offered. Therefore in 2013, we formulated targets to support this. For our top management, we we organized training sessions on the use of Lync, an interactive want 70% of the total vacancies fulfilled internally and 30% externally. communication tool with which employees can easily contact each This will enable our organization to build on current practices, but also other by means of chat, document sharing and videoconference. We infuse our organization with new ideas and leadership competencies. also organized multiple initiatives during ´The Week of the New Way of Living & Working´, such as a market place with various suppliers to We continue to pursue our goals for women in our workforce and further explain the possibilities offered by different technologies that management, as we see good opportunities to attract female talent employees work with daily. In addition to informative workshops on or promote women to management level. In 2014, we want 22% of our technical usage and understanding, this week focused on enhancing top management, 18% of our middle management and 25% of our total collaboration (Het Nieuwe Samenwerken) and vitality. workforce to be women. The need to emphasize personal responsibility was another important We also aim for a higher employee engagement. We want the overall finding of the 2012 research. This finding also supports the fact that employee engagement in 2014 to be higher than 63%, the result of our employees highly value social contacts and collaboration. The need employee engagement research in 2013. This means that our employees for personal responsibility, communication and collaboration is tackled have more confidence in the decisions of the Board of Management, by the implementation of the Way of Working (WoW) program within feel prouder to be working for KPN and are happier to do a bit extra our organization. Clearly communicating team targets and enabling to contribute to KPN’s success than the year before. With regard to collaboration in such a way that, despite physical distance, social wellbeing, we aim for higher scores than last year’s average of 56%. interaction is facilitated remain fundamental. To address employees’ This means that we want more than 56% of all KPN employees to own responsibility, we included durable employability in the collective indicate that they experience job satisfaction, attention to life-phase labor agreement (CLA). related characteristics, vitality and sustainable employability. The findings that we have collected in the internal research will help We set a goal to reduce absence due to illness to 3.9% and made it us assess the needs of our employees in terms of being able to work a key performance indicator for management. We will analyze where according to the New Way of Living & Working and in terms of improvements can be made and create action plans for each business optimally working together. This means that we need to keep on division. Where the existing set of interventions happens to be looking beyond the content of work and also focus on psychological insufficient, we will aim to create tailor-made solutions to specific and social aspects such as vitality (improving the work-life balance, absenteeism questions with management and HR involved. enhancing time-management, reducing work stress) and collaboration. KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 37 Group performance For the internal development of the New Way of Living & Working, Code of Conduct, we enter into discussions. If their own code of we have three ambitions. Our first ambition is to have our facility conduct is based on the same principles as the one of KPN, which is department adapt its services on office workers to the New Way of based on the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights Living & Working. We plan to do this by starting to make locations and the core treaties of the International Labour Organization, we fit for the New Way of Living & Working, for example by making consider the suppliers code as compliant. We do not renew contracts them accessible for all employees, making meeting locations better with suppliers that refuse to sign and do not have their own equivalent equipped, optimizing parking and commercially exploiting vacant code, since our Supplier Code of Conduct is a standard part of our locations. Our second ambition is to implement and use our New Way purchasing contracts. In 2013, there were no such cases. of Living & Working products and services ourselves. In 2014, we want to realize growth in the internal use of the New Way of Living & Working High-risk suppliers are audited once every three years. Most audits are services and plan to take actions such as explaining workplace services conducted by the Joint Audit Cooperation (JAC), a collective of nine to users from a New Way of Living & Working viewpoint, stimulating telecom operators jointly monitoring sustainability across their supply the use of Lync and making Wi-Fi available in most locations. Our third chains. We audit suppliers that are not audited by JAC ourselves. Audit ambition is that on the long term all employees of KPN can work protocols are based on international standards such as ISO 14001, according to the New Way of Living & Working. In 2014, we want to SA8000 and OHSAS 18001. maximize the participation. To stimulate this new way of working, we plan to take several actions during 2014, e.g. performing our annual 39% of our 46 high-risk suppliers, more than we planned, were audited internal research, and investigate an opt-in policy and a mobility on site in 2013. As a JAC member, we provided staff for several of the budget in the collective labor agreement. We also have the ambition JAC audits. These audits are helping to raise supplier standards. For to include the HR advisors in coaching of managers, and improve the example, one of these audits found that a supplier failed to meet our connection of the New Way of Living & Working with Way of Working standards on working hours and safety. We raised the issue with the and sustainable employability. For 2014, we maintain the target of 90% supplier, who made the necessary improvements. of employees that feel they can work according to the New Way of Living & Working. The measurement will be adjusted to exclude We are actively involved in various other JAC projects, for example to employees who, by the virtue of their work, cannot work according aim to ensure that the employees of suppliers are paid a fair wage. We to the New Way of Living & Working. also attend the yearly JAC steering group meeting and we participated in a round table in Berlin. Belgium BASE Company will continue the program for talent development 52% of the high-risk suppliers completed a self-assessment on how they in 2014. Furthermore, we will continue our efforts to maintain and deal with social and environmental aspects. If a supplier is audited on increase the vitality of our workforce. As of 2014, a yearly check-up site, the self-assessment is not required. We also have a ‘Sustainability is offered to employees over 45 years. Tool’ that compares suppliers' products during the tender process. Suppliers1 We conducted a survey among suppliers to gauge their perception of our way of working. It included questions about our approach Building a sustainable supply chain to sustainability. The majority of suppliers were positive about our We believe a sustainable supply chain, in which we engage with commitment to sustainability and how we seek to build a sustainable partners and suppliers that pay attention to sustainability, will supply chain. enhance our business. We want our suppliers to provide products and services that are as environmentally friendly as possible. It can Sustainable solutions also help to reduce our own as well as our suppliers’ carbon footprint, In 2013, we organized workshops for our procurement staff in the and save costs. Netherlands and Germany to raise awareness about sustainability and train them in effectively raising sustainability issues with suppliers, To create a sustainable supply chain, it is important that we enter into as well as jointly developing ideas to make our supply chain more dialogue with our suppliers. These discussions help them to meet our sustainable in cooperation with suppliers or clients. Most of the Supplier Code of Conduct and help us develop ideas to make our procurement staff attended the workshops. supply chain more efficient and sustainable. In our endeavor to build sustainable supply chains, we focus on high-risk and medium-risk The CSR workshops inspired our buyers to integrate CSR practices in suppliers. We are making progress on our journey of sustainability. their procurement projects. We initiated five projects to make our It requires a mutual effort to implement sustainable solutions. supply chain more sustainable and save costs ('sustainable solutions'). These include among others: the installation of LED lightning, use of Results 2013 more environmentally friendly copier machines, a more sustainable Our sustainability supply chain targets were met in 2013. 96% of delivery model of handsets and other products to the customer. We also high-risk and medium-risk suppliers, representing 48% of our total used an ‘e-auction’ to buy office supplies and required suppliers to meet supplier spend, have signed our Supplier Code of Conduct. 83% of our sustainability criteria in order to be able to participate in the auction. high-risk suppliers participated in a self-auditing system (e.g. E-TASC, Electronics-Tool for Assessing Supply Chains) or were audited on site. Despite delays in the introduction, we continued our commitment to Of the high-risk suppliers – those supplying large volumes of products adding the Fairphone – a smart phone designed and produced with assembled in risk countries – 39% were audited on site. We initiated minimal harm to people and planet – to our mobile phone assortment five projects to make our supply chain more sustainable and save costs as soon as it becomes available. For more information, see the segment (‘sustainable solutions’). chapter Consumer Mobile. Our Supplier Code of Conduct is integral to both our standard supplier Supplier Day contracts and general conditions of purchase. We regard the Supplier In December 2013, we organized a Supplier Day, which was attended by Code of Conduct as a first step in our mutual journey towards building about 80 major suppliers and our CEO. We discussed suppliers’ issues, sustainable supply chains. If a supplier hesitates to sign our Supplier including building a sustainable supply chain. The attendants told us that we addressed the right topics, such as simplification, CSR and Procurement Strategy, and that the Supplier Day is an excellent first 1) Discontinued operations in Germany are included in the supplier results as it initiative. A point of improvement for next year could be to interact is not possible to differentiate between suppliers serving E-Plus only, suppliers more with the audience. of E-Plus and KPN Group and suppliers that only supply to KPN Group. 38 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 and the associated activities is to gain the loyalty, goodwill and preference of the Dutch skating public for our brand. We use our sponsorship to enable more customers to get in contact with ice skating. During the skating season 2012-2013, our Business segment made about 16,500 tickets for skating events available via campaigns, mailings, acquisition or as goodwill gestures. We aim to make ice skating accessible for different target groups, with a focus on children. During the 2012-2013 skating season, we facilitated the KPN Junior Skate Club, with events such as KPN Classmate IJSTIJD! (skating lessons in neighborhoods, the KPN NK (‘national championships’) and skating lessons at schools). Youngsters between the ages of six and thirteen experienced their first skating lessons, With this program, we can give sick children a 'virtual seat' in the including clinics by former world champions Barbara de Loor and classroom, via a webcam at home or in the hospital plus a special Annemarie Thomas. During the season, over 50 thousand children 'KPN Classmate' connection at school. participated in the KPN Junior Speedskate Club. In line with the ‘1% Fair Share’ concept, we donated 1% of our skating sponsorship budget to disability sport. Together with the Fonds Conflict minerals Gehandicaptensport, we organized the KPN Skating Friends Day We closely monitor initiatives to ban the use of so-called conflict for more than 1,400 disabled people. minerals in mobile phones and other telecommunications products. We attended a seminar organized by the Dutch Ministry of Economic Skating enthusiasts can find information about their sport at the portal Affairs on how to deal with scarce raw materials responsibly. For more www.schaatsen.nl or www.kpn.com/schaatsen information, see the segment chapter Consumer Mobile. Cultural sponsorship – Rijksmuseum Ambition In 2013, KPN became lead sponsor of the newly renovated Rijksmuseum We will continue to build a sustainable supply chain and keep talking in Amsterdam. We are proud to be able to make a contribution to this to our suppliers in 2014. Our targets remain the same as in 2013. national treasure. The Rijksmuseum, like KPN, has a long and rich history in the Netherlands and in a way belongs to all of us. The museum offers See http://corporate.kpn.com/procurement.htm for more information us relationship marketing potential for our business partners, customers on KPN’s supply chain and supplier policy. and employees. In 2013, we organized a number of events in the Rijksmuseum for our top business partners and our SME clients. Sponsoring: connecting people Belgium Our vision: our strength lies in connecting people BASE Company supported many different types of initiatives. We were The guiding principles of our sponsorship policy are, as in our core the main partner of Standard de Liège and Flanders Classics cycling activities, connecting people, reaching a wide audience and enhancing events, and invested in other cycling, football and basketball teams the goodwill towards the KPN brand. We focus on three main areas: and events. With our BASE Check brand and its Spotify offer, we also offering smart ICT solutions enabling people to stay in contact (via partnered with several music festivals. the KPN Mooiste Contact Fonds), and sport and culture sponsorship. We also make a connection between employees and society; KPN Ambition employees are able and encouraged to volunteer in projects run Our goal in 2014 is to provide 550 chronically ill children with a 'KPN by the KPN Mooiste Contact Fonds. Classmate' and increase this to 1,250 in 2015. Regarding ice skating, around 80 thousand KPN customers are expected to visit the ice skating KPN Mooiste Contact Fonds rink 'De Coolste Baan van Nederland' in the Olympic Stadium The KPN Mooiste Contact Fonds provides projects with long-term Amsterdam during the Winter Olympics in Sochi. support, as well as support for starting initiatives. Our ambition is to combine people and our technological resources to the best advantage. In 2012, we decided to intensify our activities for KlasseContact. KlasseContact gives chronically ill children a virtual place in the classroom and enables them to remain in contact with their classmates by using an ICT device called ‘KPN Classmate’, which is placed in the classroom. In 2013, we enabled 192 children ill at home to communicate with their class via a laptop equipped with a special webcam. During the summer, we revised and updated all active ICT sets. Besides that, we decided to cease ordering any outdated equipment as new high-quality equipment became available. As a result, we were not able to reach our target to provide 500 children with a KPN Classmate. We still expect, with new equipment and an excellent organization, to reach our target of 1,250 KPN Classmates in 2015. We try to involve as many (former) employees and partners as possible in the KPN Mooiste Contact Fonds. In 2013, employees and partners volunteered 1,480 times for several of Sponsorship Rijksmuseum the foundation’s projects. Sports sponsorship The Rijksmuseum belongs a little bit to all of us. As lead sponsor, Ice skating, a typically Dutch sport that suits us well, is the second pillar KPN is honored to be able to make a structural contribution to of our sponsorship policy. Since 2010, KPN has been lead sponsor of the this national art treasure. Royal Dutch Skating Association (KNSB). The goal of our sponsorship KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 39 Group performance Environmental strategy Our focus on energy efficiency and combating climate change are of strategic value to KPN, since worldwide increase in energy consumption will result in fossil fuel scarcity and increased global concern for climate change impact. Our strategy reduces our vulnerability in this field, which is specifically important since data communication volumes will continue to increase significantly. Besides mitigating risks, our strategy focuses on showing and enabling the potential of ICT products and services to contribute to a reduction in the global carbon footprint. According to the Smarter2020 report (published by GeSi in 2012), ICT is responsible for 2% of global greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, but can contribute to 16.5% GHG reduction in other sectors by 2020. As a result, climate change and energy efficiency are very important issues for KPN, the ICT sector and our customers. Our focus in our environmental strategy is threefold: 1. Reducing our own environmental impact Environmental 2. Reducing our upstream and downstream impact 3. Enabling the energy saving potential of ICT performance We aim to contribute to climate change mitigation by implementing our environmental strategy in which energy reduction in the sector and our products are central pillars, enabling both the sector and our customers to reduce energy consumption. We believe that enabling KPN is reducing the absolute energy reduction in other sectors is only credible when we aim for energy consumption in operations despite reduction in our own operations. KPN is a large consumer of electricity, using about 0.8% of the Dutch electricity consumption. Therefore, we rapidly growing data communication. started reducing our own consumption first, gaining knowledge and Also, our services help our customers experience that we can use to help our customers save energy and cost as well. reduce their energy consumption. By doing so, we aim to realize a net positive By reducing our impact in the value chain and enabling the energy saving potential of ICT, we contribute to the goals of our customers. climate impact.’ We are convinced that our environmental strategy and performance contribute to our competitive advantage, as energy efficiency Marga Blom, Manager Energy Management improvements lower costs, contribute to our business and enable our customers to reduce their energy consumption and associated costs. This chapter contains only information about continuing operations. The environmental performance of discontinued operations can be Reducing our own environmental impact found in the segment chapter on Germany. We are well on track to achieve our ambition to be climate neutral. Our energy efficiency program and renewable energy sourcing resulted in a reduction of our CO2 footprint (scope 1 and 2) by 94% compared with Overview 2005. In 2014, we aim to reduce our CO2 emissions by 96% compared to 2005. Our target is to be climate neutral before 2020. Reduction energy In our operations, we aimed to stabilize our energy consumption for consumption compared the KPN Group. We not only compensated the growth in consumption with 2010 Recycled mobile phones caused by extending our networks, but even reduced the total energy consumption by 0.14 PJ in 2013. The total reduction compared with 12.0% 86,400 2010 was 12.0%, better than our target of 8.6%. To manage our energy efficiency program, we defined KPIs for all (2012: 8.8%) (2012: ~60,500) our operational segments. To increase comparability and provide an overview of our progress, we calculated and visualized ratios on our energy consumption (PJ) versus business volumes in 2013. 94% 100% Energy consumption and net CO2 emissions 2013 Petajoules (PJ) Kton CO2 Scope 1 Kton CO2 Scope 2 CO2 emissions reduction Green electricity KPN the Netherlands 3.7 35.1 0 compared with 2005 (2012: 100%) Belgium and iBasis 0.3 2.8 0 (2012: 93%) KPN Group 4.0 37.9 0 40 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 Fixed and mobile networks Data centers Our long-term target is to realize 20% absolute electricity reduction The electricity consumption of equipment we use for customer in our Dutch network in 2020 compared with 2005. Despite the services has increased by 18% since 2010. However, as a result of the roll-out of 4G and the extension of our networks, we are still on track implementation of our energy efficiency program, the increase of our to realize this target. This year, we almost reached our 2005 electricity total electricity consumption was limited to 7% in the same period. consumption. In 2013, our energy saving measures resulted in 47.4 GWh The energy efficiency of data centers is expressed by comparing total of savings, which strongly exceeds our target of 27.5 GWh +/2.5 GWh. electricity consumption with electricity consumption of equipment This not only compensated for growth, but resulted in an absolute used for customer services. The international standard for this reduction of 3.2% compared with 2012. calculation is PUE (power usage effectiveness). In 2013, our PUE improvement compared with 2005 is 30.9%. In 2013, we improved Networks in the Netherlands1 our electricity efficiency with 0.5% compared to 2012. So, although we improved, the goal for 2013 (31.8%) was not fully realized. More 2.368 2.294 information on energy efficiency in data centers can be found in the 2.216 2.146 2.163 2.169 segment chapter IT Solutions. 420% 332% Data centers in the Netherlands1 259% 0.510 0.516 0.521 0.526 0.533 0.486 179% 127% 122% 126% 100% 118% 117% 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 111% Electricity consumption in petajoules (PJ) Growth data volume (Gb/s) compared with 2010 100% 1) The energy efﬁciency (in GWh per Gb/s) of the Network in the Netherlands 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 improved with 65% compared with 2010. Electricity consumption in petajoules (PJ) Growth electricity consumption ICT customers compared with 2010 Belgium improved its energy efficiency by 18% and is on track to realize 1) The energy efﬁciency (PUE) of the datacenters in the Netherlands the 2020 ambition of an 20% energy efficiency improvement compared improved with 30.9% compared with 2005. with 2009. More information and results on energy reduction in our network can be found in the segments chapters NetCo and Belgium. Network in Belgium1 Offices In our Dutch offices, we achieved a 36% reduction of energy 0.235 0.240 0.241 0.245 0.248 consumption since 2010, which mainly has been effected by the 0.218 implementation of the New Way of Living & Working and outsourcing. 808% Car fleet In our car fleet in the Netherlands, the fuel consumption reduction was 470% above our target of 9%. We reduced fuel consumption by 21%, which is 294% on track for our ambition to reduce 35% in 2016 compared with 2010. 181% The reduction is mainly the result of having fewer and more fuel127% 100% efficient cars. 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Car ﬂeet in the Netherlands Electricity consumption in petajoules (PJ) Growth data volume (Gbit) compared with 2010 0.592 0.572 0.538 0.474 0.464 0.455 1) The energy efﬁciency (in GWh per Tb) of the network in Belgium improved with 98% compared with 2010. 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Energy consumption car ﬂeet in petajoules (PJ) KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 41 Group performance Green energy and CO2 compensation on this advice, KPN developed a calculation model of which the first We carefully select our energy supply sources in order to meet our results are represented in the figure below. Although we realize that ambition to become climate neutral. In the Netherlands and Belgium the calculation is impacted by several assumptions and estimations, we use 100% green electricity. The electricity used in the Netherlands it provides a good first overview of our total carbon impact in all is 100% locally generated, mostly from Dutch wind (e.g. 23% of Prinses 15 GHG Protocol scope 3 categories. The results of the calculation Amalia wind park) and partly from biomass. of the upstream and downstream emissions give an indication of our impact in the value chain and provide information on which Our gas consumption in the Netherlands is 100% green, of which 2% hotspots to focus on in reducing our impact where possible. In 2014, is biogas. 98% relates to natural gas which is offset with gold standard we intend to improve the calculation of our upstream and downstream certificates. Despite the continued scarcity of biogas in the Netherlands, footprint and define targets for 2015 on upstream and downstream we will double the percentage of biogas to 4% in 2014. In 2014, we will emission reduction. compensate about 50% of our car fuel emissions in the Netherlands with gold standard certificates, and before 2020 we will compensate all The results show that our own net scope 1 and 2 emissions remaining CO2 emissions in scope 1 and 2. Not taking our green energy constitute only a small proportion of the total estimated strategy into account, our scope 1 and 2 emissions would total 384 Kton emissions, including scope 3 emissions. Without our green in 2013 (gross emissions). energy strategy our own emissions would account for about a quarter of the total estimated emissions. KPN Group own net CO2 emissions (in Kton) (Scope 1+2) More information on energy-efficient equipment and the energy reduction accomplished in 2013 can be found in the segment 617 609 chapter Consumer Residential. 540 Upstream and downstream emissions 415 10-20% 282 Downstream (customers) 180 3-5% 77 46 38 Own 20 3 operation 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 base year Reducing upstream and downstream emissions 70-90% We managed to reduce our own CO2 footprint by 94% compared with Upstream (suppliers) 2005. We also feel responsible for the total CO2 footprint of our products and services during the production phase at our suppliers (upstream) and during the use phase including recycling and disposal (downstream). In order to quantify the opportunities to reduce these upstream and downstream CO2 emissions, we started to calculate these emissions for Enabling energy saving potential of ICT our operations in the Netherlands. The calculations are based on the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG) scope 3 standard (Corporate Value Besides reducing our upstream and downstream CO2 emissions, Chain Accounting and Reporting Standard). we identified the potential of our ICT products and services to reduce the actual energy consumption and thereby the CO2 footprint of our Our upstream emissions are calculated based on procurement data customers. For example, the implementation of the New Way of Living combined with emission factors obtained from the Environmentally & Working and its associated products, such as videoconferencing, Extended Input Output data (EEIO), published by DEFRA. The have the potential to reduce travel kilometers and avoid CO2 emissions calculation shows that the most important part of the emissions caused by fuel consumption, enabling our customers to reduce their is supplier related and caused by the production of ICT equipment environmental impact. Our target is to save as much energy for our for our networks and customers. In our procurement process, customers as we use ourselves in 2020. we do require our suppliers to improve the energy efficiency of ICT equipment. By doing so, we also aim to reduce the energy In 2011, we introduced an online tool (www.kpnbespaarmeter.nl) consumption in the use phase and reduce our downstream impact. that enables customers to calculate the potential CO2, time and cost reductions by using KPN's products and services (e.g. the New Way We calculated our downstream emissions based on data of sold of Living & Working and data center services). These positive effects products and services. Ecofys supported KPN with qualitatively are especially profound for products supporting the New Way of identifying the most relevant scope 3 emission categories and Living & Working. with developing a methodology for a first calculation of our scope 3 emissions based on the currently available data. Based 42 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 In 2013, we started calculating the saved CO2 emissions from the use of eight selected products and services by our customers. Products and services within our New Way of Living & Working proposition (teleworking and conferencing services), together with our data center solutions, enable the majority of our positive climate impact. Emission reductions are realized by fewer kilometers traveled because of our telecommuting and conferencing solutions as well as by using our energy-efficient data centers. For our calculation, we used publicly available data, internationally recognized studies, methodologies and information about methodologies from other telcos such as BT. The calculation model is developed by Ecofys using the KPN data as the basic activity data. Our preliminary result shows that saved CO2 emissions by these eight services in 2013 are roughly twice our own carbon footprint (scope 1 and 2) in the Netherlands. In 2014, we aim to improve the calculations for products and services currently in scope and extend the savings calculation to more products and services. More information on our energy saving ICT products and services can be found in the segment chapters. External recognition WWF Climate Saver KPN is the only telecom operator with a WWF Climate Saver partnership. WWF challenges our environmental performance, but also supports us in emphasizing the effects of energy efficiency through the use of ICT and the New Way of Living & Working. In 2013, KPN presented EUR 100 thousand to WWF as result of the paperless invoicing program. We intend to extend this program to a bigger part of business market invoicing in 2014. In August 2013, WWF reported that KPN is the only Dutch Business Partner ahead of schedule with all climate goals in its 2012 Climate Saver Report. Lean & Green Awards The products and services conference card, videoconferencing and the cloud solution 'KPN Werkplek Online' have been awarded the Lean & Green Solutions Award by Connekt. Benchmark results In 2013, we were benchmarked on our climate and energy strategy, disclosure and performance by CDP (former Carbon Disclosure Project), which is a worldwide ranking for listed companies. We improved our score in the CDP benchmark from 94 to 95 points (out of 100) compared with last year and consolidated our A ranking on performance. This means that our score equals the number 2 score in the CDP global 500 world listing. Ambition We achieved almost all targets set for internal energy efficiency resulting in reduction of CO2 emissions and energy consumption and we restated our long-term goal to climate neutral before 2020. We will continue our internal energy efficiency program, and to stay on track, we redefined segment goals for 2014. The internal energy efficiency goals for our main operational segment are publicly disclosed on corporate.kpn.com/csrtargets and part of the remuneration targets. Energy reduction programs for segments are part of the targets of the responsible managers. For our customers we focus on energy reduction in the chain and abatement options. KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 43 Segment performance Our strategy in action We believe that having the best products available for our customers will be a major driver for growth in the Dutch mobile market. Within Consumer Mobile, we want to achieve this by leveraging 4G and quad-play (combining fixed and mobile services), optimizing our multi-brand portfolio and reducing costs and complexity. Multi-brand approach to target all consumer segments The brand positioning has been reinforced by differentiating our services per brand to cover all segments of the consumer market. In the premium market segment, we provide our customers with value-added services such as 4G, unlimited voice and SMS and unique offers including family discounts and a free Spotify subscription. In the value for money segment, our brands provide no-frills services based on our best-in-class network. Leverage impressive 4G head start We were the first to launch 4G in the Netherlands. In February 2013, less than three months after obtaining the spectrum, we already offered 4G to our customers in Amsterdam and the northern part Consumer Mobile of the Randstad, swiftly followed by The Hague, Rotterdam and Utrecht. We combined the introduction of 4G with new data-centric propositions. Through the KPN and Hi brands, we offer our customers 4G services that are transparent and charge no extra costs for data usage outside the bundle. Through our Simyo and Telfort brand, we will offer 4G as an extra option. Of the many things we did for our High-quality customer service clients in 2013, I am especially proud Following positive experiences with Consumer Residential contact centers, we started changing our in-house helpdesk organization for of how quickly we rolled out our 4G the mobile segment by handing call center agents more responsibilities network, the improvement in our and better tools to provide customers with ‘first time right’ answers to their questions. We also expanded the dynamic sourcing concept in customer services and the success our call centers for Consumer Mobile. Working with both an in-house of our KPN Compleet package.’ call center and external partners allows us to benchmark and continuously improve our services. Jaap Postma, Executive Vice President Consumer Mobile Products and services As market leader in the dynamic mobile arena, we continued to Overview optimize our multi-brand approach. The increasing dominance of smartphones and tablets leads to an explosive growth in mobile Highlights data traffic. High-quality brand KPN and youth brand Hi launched ýý Market share declined in competitive environment propositions with 4G and data bundles varying from 500 to 6,000 MB. ýý Targeting value segment with KPN and Hi brands Value-added services such as Spotify contribute to the service level through 4G and quad-play we offer our customers in the premium and youth segments. In the ýý Telfort and Simyo targeting volume growth in value value for money segment, Telfort offers a modular portfolio, including for money segment mid-range smartphones. Online brand Simyo is successful with its ýý Overall NPS mobile brands -6 ‘do it yourself’ SIM-only propositions. Our Mobile Wholesale activities offer flexible customized platforms Revenue EBITDA to ensure that partners can successfully introduce their own mobile €1,510M €410M propositions in the market. Around 2.3 million (2012: 2.4 million) end-users are connected to the KPN network via our mobile wholesale partners. (2012: 1,707m) (2012: 510m) Financial and operational review 323k 44% Underlying revenues and other income went down by 10% in 2013 driven by lower service revenues due to a continued competitive market and lower hardware sales. Underlying EBITDA decreased by 17% 4G subscribers Total Dutch mobile in 2013, mainly due to the phasing out of handset lease for the KPN (July (2012: 0) market share 1, 2013) and Hi (September 2, 2013) brands and additional subscriber (2012: 45%) acquisition costs to increase 4G subscriptions and reduce churn. 44 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 In 2013, the retail postpaid net adds were 10 thousand positive. Retail Fairphone postpaid ARPU remained under pressure and decreased to EUR 31 The production of mobile phones is not yet always according to ‘fair’ (2012: EUR 34), due to a competitive market with an increasing share standards, which is especially the case for the origin of the raw materials of SIM-only subscriptions. Committed postpaid retail ARPU improved (conflict minerals), working conditions in the production facilities and to approximately 72%, up 7 percentage-points year on year, supported the reuse and recyclability of components. The company Fairphone by unlimited voice and SMS bundles. developed a fair phone concept aiming to improve both social and environmental aspects in the value chain. The first 25 thousand phones 4G subscriptions in Consumer Mobile showed a good uptake with are being produced and, by being the first operator worldwide to sign a 323 thousand subscriptions by the end of 2013. 4G is available on all purchase order for this phone, we proactively supported this initiative. bundles within the KPN and Hi propositions as of December 2, 2013. In 2014, we will include the Fairphone in our portfolio. Key financials (in millions of EUR, Eco-rating unless indicated otherwise) 2013 2012 ∆ To better inform our customers about the environmental and social Service revenue 1,405 1,555 -9.6% impact of mobile phones, we want to use a credible eco-rating, based Revenue and other income 1,510 1,707 -12% on international standards. To realize this standard, we are working in Underlying revenue and other income 1,503 1,677 -10% a global consortium with other telecoms operators and main suppliers EBITDA 410 510 -20% to define the criteria for an international ranking. This led to an ITU Underlying EBITDA 410 495 -17% (International Telecomunication Union) recommendation, that will be Underlying EBITDA margin 27.3% 29.5% published mid-2014. Based on this recommendation we expect to make the first ranking in 2014. Operational performance indicators 2013 2012 ∆ Total Dutch mobile market share1 (in %) 44% 45% Privacy & Security Wireless customers (in thousands) 7,351 7,579 -3.0% We provide for our mobile customers the free application Net adds postpaid (in thousands) 14 66 ‘ToestelVeilig’, which helps protect personal and confidential Net adds prepaid (in thousands) -242 -150 data on a smartphone. A stolen or lost device can be traced via a ARPU retail postpaid (in EUR) 31 34 -8.8% special website (www.toestelveilig.kpn.com). The app also enables Committed ARPU (in %) ~72% ~65% a device to be locked and personal data to be erased remotely. Number of 4G customers (in thousands) 323 – Social and environmental 1) Based on service revenues. performance indicators 2013 2012 Net Promoter Score (NPS) -6 -6 Social and environmental review Recycled and reused cell 74,000 ~50,000 phones Net Promoter Score Implementation of eco-rating Eco-rating not Promise to take for cell phones yet available. part in international We consolidated the NPS of our mobile brands in the consumer Introduction as soon eco-rating market (KPN, Hi, Telfort and Simyo) in 2013, after a firm raise in 2012. as it is available Altogether, the NPS of these brands remained stable at -6 (2012: -6, 2011: -18). This means we did not reach our target for 2013 of -4. The scores on drivers ‘value for money’, ‘first time right’ and ‘keeping promises’ increased but the score on driver ‘stability network for voice and text messaging’ decreased slightly. We aim to keep making improvements and set an NPS target of -3 for 2014. In addition, for 2014 we have set a new goal of 99.35% mobile network availability. Recycling and fair production of our products Recycling mobile phones Mobile phones contain scarce minerals, often originating from unstable regions and conflict areas. We intend to recycle and reuse as many phones and parts as possible. With the introduction of handset lease in 2012, we expected the return rate of mobile phones would increase and the lifetime of phones would be prolonged. This has proven to be true with a result of 74 thousand returned handsets. In addition to handset lease, we used the ‘KPN-retourbus’ to emphasize the importance of returning unused mobile phones. However, as a result of the decision to cease handset lease for KPN and Hi during 2013, the outcome for the year was lower than predicted. In 2014, we want to emphasize that we care for the recycling of our customer products, therefore we restated our target to collect and recycle 10% of sold mobile phones for KPN Group in 2014. We will also set a target on the collection and recycling of fixed modems. KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 45 Segment performance Our strategy in action We believe that having the best products available for our customers will be a major driver towards multi-play in the integrated market. At Consumer Residential, we have a full focus on maintaining our market leading IPTV proposition and increasing the number of triple-play customers within our base. Focus on multi-play to increase customer lifetime and to reduce churn We offer differentiated propositions in a multi-brand approach to serve diverse customers groups. By continuously improving our IPTV proposition, we are successful in expanding our triple-play base (voice, internet, TV), since IPTV is an important driver for triple-play growth. As a result triple-play packages and RGU’s increased significantly in 2013. With KPN Compleet, introduced in January 2013, we are the first Dutch provider to offer our customers a proposition that combines fixed and mobile service. Customers who combine fixed internet, voice and IPTV with a mobile subscription benefit from free services, such as 45 extra IPTV channels; twice as much data, SMS and minutes within their mobile Consumer Residential subscription; and free unlimited calls within the family. After the launch in January, we expanded to 173 thousand customers subscribed by the end of 2013. KPN Compleet customers recommend our brand with an NPS of +17, which is higher than the recommendation by customers that use several KPN products without having KPN Compleet. Maintaining leading fixed network position Our customers have indicated that We execute a hybrid access strategy. In 2013, our strategy of upgrading service at our customer contact center our copper network to compete more successfully bore fruit with a stable broadband market share and growing broadband base. We combine the is improved and staff are friendlier.’ upgrade of our copper network with investments in FttH. Going forward, we will balance our investments between copper and fiber. Femke Kothuis, Vice President Customer Contact Center High-quality customer service For several years, we have gradually changed the way our call centers work. By handing individual helpdesk agents both the responsibility Overview and the tooling to help our customers with a wider range of service issues, we empower them to provide customers with a solution at Highlights the first contact. Our helpdesk is free of charge and open 24/7, which ýý Broadband market share stable at 41%, supported contributed to a higher NPS. We managed to raise the overall NPS for by increased TV market share of 25% helpdesk contacts from -20 in 2012 to +0 in 2013. ýý Overall NPS residential brands increased to -5 ýý Triple-play penetration increased to 44% In the engineers’ organization, we made changes to improve efficiency ýý 173 thousand KPN Compleet customers since start and customer experience. We have started with the optimization of our in January 2013 dynamic sourcing concept (working with both an in-house engineers’ organization and external partners), which allows us to benchmark and continuously improve our services. Visits by our engineers are highly Revenue EBITDA appreciated by our customers, at an average NPS of +44 over 2013. €1,962M €375M Furthermore, a big effort has been made to improve the quality of the way in which we communicate with our customers. For example, (2012: 1,852m) (2012: 367m) we simplified our basic communication items, such as letters, emails and invoices. 44% 2.19 Products and services We offer fixed-line telephony, broadband internet and TV on a standTriple-play penetration of Number of products per alone basis or triple-play packages. Continuous improvements in our broadband customers customer (RGU) IPTV proposition have taken place, including series recording, a ‘start (2012: 36%) (2012: 2.07) over’ function (Begin Gemist), a faster and more user-friendly user interface and enhanced offering of series and movies on video on demand. Due to our upgraded copper network and our fiber network, we are able to provide more customers with higher download and upload speeds. 46 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 Dutch inauguration day 2.07). Triple-play packages continued to increase to 1.2 million and resulted in a 44% triple-play penetration, eight percentage points higher compared to last year. Fiber-to-the-Home activations increased by 116 thousand in 2013 leading to 484 thousand homes activated. Our quad-play proposition ‘KPN Compleet’ reached a customer base of 173 thousand. The boost in the number of quad-play customers was supported by the introduction of quad-play for customers of the Hi brand in Q4 2013. Key financials (in millions of EUR, unless indicated otherwise) 2013 2012 ∆ Revenue and other income 1,962 1,852 5.9% Underlying revenue and other income 1,890 1,852 2.1% EBITDA 375 367 2.2% Underlying EBITDA 382 394 -3.0% Underlying EBITDA margin 20.2% 21.3% ‘We had reserve equipment ready for use Operational performance indicators 2013 2012 ∆ at strategic locations, just in case.’ Market share broadband1 (in %) 41% 41% Market share TV1 (in %) 25% 23% Peter van Delft, KPN Task Force Manager ARPU blended (in EUR) 42 40 5.0% RGU 2.19 2.07 5.8% Number of triple-play packages (in thousands) 1,216 979 24% The appearance of the newly-inaugurated King and Queen Number of FttH activated (in thousands) 484 368 32% on the balcony of the Royal Palace in Amsterdam on April 30 delighted audiences around the world. Peter van Delft ensured 1) Based on subscriber numbers at year-end. that, no matter what happened, no-one would miss a minute of the inauguration. Social and environmental review ‘We strategically positioned containers with reserve communications Net Promoter Score equipment throughout the city, in case an overload of phone calls The NPS of our brands for residential services for the consumer market and data transmissions, or technical problems, caused the system increased five points to -5 in 2013, which means we achieved our target to falter,’ he says. There were also dinghies on standby to transport for 2013. Customers of KPN rated our services higher than in 2012, spare parts on Amsterdam’s canals if necessary, rather than through mostly driven by higher scores on ‘I feel appreciated as a customer’, the crowded streets. Luckily, there was no need for the contingency ‘KPN provides value for money’ and ‘first time right solutions when measures. ‘The audience enjoyed the ceremony and could share contacting KPN’. Our brand XS4ALL still holds the highest NPS in the pictures and messages without any problems.’ market (+31, 2012: +17). We aim to increase the NPS for residential services to -1 in 2014. Energy efficient We continuously seek to combine higher quality for our customers We service our customers in the residential area with three brands. with diminishing our ecological footprint. At our stores, our customers KPN is our quality brand, providing our customers with included can return obsolete devices such as mobile phones, tablets, set top boxes, value-added services such as Spotify. XS4ALL is the high-end brand for modems and routers. In 2013, we optimized our recycling policies, so the top of the market. With Telfort, we are successful in serving the customers can return equipment at our shops, to visiting engineers and value for money segment. These three brands allow us to service all by ordering a pick-up service. Outdated equipment is replaced by segments in the broadband market. energy-efficient set-top boxes and modems. In 2014, we will define a target on the collection and recycling of fixed modems. In 2013, we cut Financial and operational review 3.16 GWh from the electricity consumption of our internet modems by providing more energy-efficient equipment. This is comparable to the Underlying revenues and other income increased by 2.1% in 2013 due average annual electricity consumption of 900 Dutch households and to continued growth in triple-play revenues driven by Fiber-to-the-Home corresponds with an estimated reduction of 1.28 kton CO2. and IPTV, and the implementation of price increases from July 1, 2013, partly offset by a continued decline of traditional voice services. Privacy & Security Underlying EBITDA decreased by 3.0% as a result of increased distribution For our internet customers, we provide the service ‘PC Veilig’. With ‘PC and marketing costs and a shift from high margin business to lower Veilig’, we offer customers a complete security package that gives the margin business. The decline was partly offset by higher revenues and computer optimal protection against viruses, spyware, pop-ups, spam improved profitability following FTE reductions and customer service and other internet hazards. quality programs. Social and environmental performance indicators 2013 2012 Despite competition and the implementation of price increases, Net Promoter Score (NPS) -5 -10 KPN’s broadband customer base continued to grow in 2013. Our IPTV Electricity saved for customers 3.16 GWh N/a proposition supported continued good IPTV net adds in 2013, leading to a total TV market share of 25%. ARPU per customer increased by 5.0% to EUR 42 in 2013 (2012: EUR 40). RGU increased to 2.19 (2012: KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 47 Segment performance Our strategy in action Our objective is to continue to be a leading provider of business-tobusiness services in the Netherlands and maintain stable market positions. A strong customer focus combined with a full range of market leading and innovative services will support our business. Integrated fixed, mobile and ICT services: KPN ÉÉN With the successful introduction of KPN ÉÉN, we are able to offer customers simplified, integrated solutions comprising bundled fixed voice, fixed internet and mobile services. One of the key drivers behind the proposition is customer demand for simplicity: one price, one contract, one integrated invoice, one helpdesk and one contact person. Further steps taken in 2013 to simplify and improve our portfolio were flat-fee offers and the successful launch of 4G services. Tailored approach focused on customer needs Our tailored approach is focused on customer needs in three segments: large corporates, the small and medium sized enterprises (SME) segment and the Small offices / Home offices (SoHo) segment. We serve these segments with our three brands. Our main brand, KPN, is used in all Business three segments and has a market leading position. The challenger brands focus on the SME (Telfort, Yes Telecom) segments and SoHo (Telfort) segment. Telfort and Yes Telecom continued to show strong growth in number of subscribers as well as revenues and EBITDA in 2013. In a number of specific sectors, we provide a sector solution with a customized approach across the whole service chain, a vertical Within the competitive business approach. We believe that our focus on dedicated sector solutions market, we differentiate with our will help to support our business. The main sectors we target with a vertical approach are healthcare, critical communications, education healthcare services. The use of and local government. more ICT is one of the solutions Innovative new services to provide a new source of revenues to keep healthcare affordable We focus on innovative services providing a new source of revenues to and accessible.’ offset declining traditional revenues, such as our cloud service Software Online, which offers among others Office 365 and Back-up Online. Monique Philippens, Managing Director Healthcare High-quality customer service As in the consumer market, we changed the way our helpdesks for SMEs are organized. Employees received additional mandates and tools Overview to take ownership of customer cases and provide immediate assistance. This led to an increase in our service level and customer satisfaction. Highlights Furthermore, we started the SMEs Solution Team: a multidisciplinary ýý Stable market positions maintained in difficult market team that is capable of handling more complex cases. environment and competitive market ýý Bundled services through KPN ÉÉN (integrated fixed, We also introduced a new service concept ‘Q’, providing immediate mobile and ICT services) and live help by technical experts. For independent ICT advisors, ýý NPS remained relatively stable ServicePro was introduced: exclusive telephone access to top experts, ýý Further development of portfolio for healthcare consumers enabling ICT consultants to answer technical questions and solve problems quickly and effectively for their customers. Revenue EBITDA €2,716M €676M (2012: 2,956m) (2012: 747m) 220K 994K 4G customers Access lines (2012: 0k) (2012: 1,137k) 48 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 Conduct business in a sustainable way Data network services The Netherlands is facing an increasingly expensive healthcare system, We offer network communication services ranging from traditional data due to the ageing of our society and the increase of lifestyle diseases. services to Virtual Private Network Services such as IP-VPN and E-VPN. We believe that, with smart ICT, we can help enable the healthcare These services are provided both nationally and internationally and are sector to collaborate better and more efficiently – which results in supplied via fiber or high-speed copper connections. By integrating IT more time for direct care. We enable elderly people to stay at home Solutions with KPN’s Business segment organization as from January 1, longer, looking after themselves for a longer period of time, with 2014, we aim to further improve our ICT services, such as Unified the help of user-friendly ICT. By doing so, we can contribute to the Communications, secure managed devices, private cloud and service participation society and help solve societal challenges we are facing aggregation services. in the Netherlands. KPN ÉÉN The New Way of Living & Working was developed to cater to societal Apart from voice and broadband services and data network services, needs. It is a part and a consequence of political, social, economic and we offer an integrated solution to business customers including fixed, technological developments in society that influence Dutch businesses. mobile, internet communication and ICT services. The price of KPN ÉÉN We are convinced that the New Way of Living & Working enables is based on a flat-fee per employee and takes into account different sustainability and higher labor productivity. Using the experience that employee profiles. we have gained over the last five years in implementing the New Way of Living & Working within our own organization (see the section Financial and operational review Social performance and reputation), we help other organizations to facilitate this way of working. We want to be a pioneer in facilitating Underlying revenues and other income declined by 7.7% in 2013, the New Way of Living & Working, because our experience and our due to the decline in traditional services, price pressure and continued products and services can contribute to more efficient and costdifficult macro-economic conditions resulting in reduced order intake. effective working and to reduce the number of kilometers driven, Underlying EBITDA decreased by 13% in 2013, due to price pressure energy consumption and CO2 emissions. Furthermore, it can enhance and a decline in high margin traditional revenues partly offset by lower the flexibility of workspaces and working hours and thereby foster personnel costs and good performance of challenger brands Telfort labor participation, vitality (in creating a healthy work-life balance) and Yes Telecom. The underlying EBITDA margin in 2013 was 24.9% and employee satisfaction. (2012: 26.4%). Market positions remained stable in a difficult macroeconomic environment and a competitive market. Products and services Wireless service revenues remained under pressure and ARPU Our customers want to communicate anytime and anywhere, but decreased to EUR 47 in 2013 compared with EUR 50 in 2012 due to are increasingly indifferent towards the underlying technical solution, declined traditional services. Wireless customer base increased to be it voice, data (IP), fixed or mobile. Therefore, we offer a wide 1.7 million. Furthermore, in the Business segment, the 4G customer range of solutions to provide customers with seamless, continued base increased significantly to 220 thousand at the end of 2013. communication through combined voice-data and fixed-mobile Traditional wireline services showed a continued decline in both solutions, along with more access-based, flat-fee price plans to access lines and traffic volumes. provide cost assurance. IP technology provides the ideal future-proof foundation for new ways of communication, such as mobile banking, Key financials (in millions of EUR, unless indicated otherwise) 2013 2012 ∆ videoconferencing, e-learning and electronic payments, enabling a Mobile service revenue 957 996 -3.9% new way of working. We utilize different brands such as KPN, Telfort Revenue and other income 2,716 2,956 -8.1% and Yes Telecom to serve customers in all market segments. Underlying revenue and other income 2,659 2,881 -7.7% EBITDA 676 747 -9.5% Voice and broadband services Underlying EBITDA 662 761 -13% In voice and broadband internet services, we provide a wide range Underlying EBITDA margin 24.9% 26.4% of fixed-mobile communication solutions. Our traditional business is heavily driven by customer demand for mobile email solutions and broadband internet access, in particular by smartphones, tablets, Operational performance indicators (in millions, unless indicated otherwise) 2013 2012 ∆ laptops, desktops and mobile internet cards. We continue to simplify Access lines 994 1,137 -13% our portfolio by introducing integrated solutions, benefiting from the Business DSL 193 183 5.5% use of our high-speed 4G mobile network and increasing our focus Connections VPN 77 75 2.7% on operational excellence. Furthermore, outsourcing of operational Wireless customers (excl. M2M) 1,674 1,656 1.1% activities resulted in partnerships with Koning & Hartman, enabling Number of 4G customers 220 – KPN to focus on core activities. ARPU wireless blended 47 50 -6.0% KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 49 Segment performance Dutch inauguration day We continued to develop the HealthCloud, which runs over our secured and safe eCare and HealthConnect networks. Among the additional value-added services we developed and made available are our secure email services and the Digital HealthArchive. We have already connected general practitioners, pharmacies and hospitals and look to tap into new markets within care and cure to support continued growth. In 2013, 4,319 health locations were connected by our eHealth and HealthConnect services, unfortunately slightly less than our target of 4,500 locations. Health institutions are undergoing a trend towards clustering and rationalizing, resulting in a slight drop in the total number of connections. Moreover, market conditions are becoming increasingly competitive. We still want to increase the number of healthcare locations connected, but because of the above-mentioned conditions, we adjusted our target for 2014 to 4,500 (was 5,000) and for 2015 to 5,000 (was 6,000). We aim to reach these targets by adding ‘It was reassuring to know KPN was care institutions to the HealthCloud. on standby for us on this extremely As targeted, we connected the ninth hospital to our HealthMedia busy day.’ service, including the digital patient file system. We acquired two major deals with health institutions that provide care for the Hessel Dikkers, CIO of NS physically disabled, where the complete ICT provision will be overhauled, managed and serviced by KPN. The day of the inauguration was one of the busiest ever for Dutch railway company NS. Thousands of people converged on Amsterdam The New Way of Living & Working to see their new king, Willem-Alexander. NS adapted its train To support the sales of typical the New Way of Living & Working schedule specially for the event and counted on KPN’s infrastructure products and services, we focused on the promotion of the KPN to keep passengers and staff informed. Bespaarmeter (www.kpnbespaarmeter.nl). This tool enables organizations to calculate CO2 emission reductions and savings ‘Failure of our passenger information systems would have been to costs and time realized by the use of our New Way of Living disastrous,’ says Hessel Dikkers, CIO of NS. ‘KPN provided extra staff & Working products and services. to monitor our IT systems throughout the day and keep everything running smoothly. It was reassuring to know we had KPN’s excellent Based on the implementation of the ‘Way of Working’ within KPN (see professionals on standby.’ section Employees), KPN Consulting developed the proposition ‘Smart Working’ which helps customers to change behavior according to the New Way of Living & Working principle and focuses on the need for target setting and communication alignment. Three typical New Way of Living & Working products (conference cards, talk and vision Social and environmental review videoconferencing and the cloud solution ‘KPN werkplek online’) have been awarded the status Lean & Green products by Connekt. Net Promoter Score This award recognizes the positive impact in the reduction of CO2 The NPS of our brands for the business market was -18 in December emissions and costs. 2013 and thus remained relatively stable (2012: -17).1 Although we implemented improvement activities in our customer services, we In line with the implementation of Bring Your Own Device (BYOD) did not reach our target for 2013 (-10). We plan to continue these in our own organization (see section Employees), we took the improvement activities in 2014, and adjusted our NPS target for opportunity to investigate the potential to commercially offer a the business market to -12 in 2014. BYOD security label for our products and services. It transpired that other parties already cover this section of the market, making Healthcare of the future further research superfluous. In 2013, we further developed our portfolio of personal alarm services Tréés and CareFree at Home (ZorgVrijThuis) for healthcare consumers. We held stakeholder dialogues to gather more specialized information We also broadened our HealthMedia portfolio with the introduction that could add to our expertise on the New Way of Living & Working. of a mobile service. Streamlining the Cardiac Rhythm service enabled Not only did we organize a round table session ourselves, we also were us to ensure the best service for the future, while also making it even approached by a number of organizations to share our best practices. more user-friendly for both patient and physician. These portfolio We discussed trends in working patterns and conditions with the developments contributed to us outperforming our target for reaching largest employment agency in the Netherlands and hold regular peer health consumers with healthcare comfort services: we reached about reviews with other large companies. Under the heading of the Dutch 40 thousand healthcare consumers, well above the target of 27 thousand. Ministry of Transport’s ‘Beter benutten’ (Better usage) initiative, we One of the drivers behind this success is the growing demand for smarter engaged small and medium sized enterprises (SMEs) in a dialogue and more reliable eHealth solutions. We ensured that our service and about a learning platform on the topic. processes are fully optimized, for example in terms of the availability of devices and in the way feedback on the results is structured. We In 2013, we aimed for 20% growth in the use of services that make the want to increase the number of connected healthcare consumers New Way of Living & Working possible. We achieved 5% growth and to 42 thousand in 2014, and to 48 thousand in 2015. thus did not achieve our target. The main reason for this is because our 1) The NPS measurement method for the Business segment was adjusted in 2013. The 2012 NPS score has also been adjusted according to this new method. 50 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 current portfolio has not been adjusted with new products and services supporting the New Way of Living & Working. As a result, it no longer provides a good reflection on the growth in this portfolio. The 2014 target for growth in the use of products and services that enable the New Way of Living & Working will be determined in 2014, as we are redefining which products and services to include. Our ambition for the future is to use the New Way of Living & Working on the one hand as a stepping stone into different customer contacts (e.g. with other DMUs) and on the other hand to support sales. In order to achieve further growth, we will organize customer events on the theme, further develop the KPN Bespaarmeter and integrate the use of this tool in our sales process. In addition, we aim for more New Way of Living & Working products and services to be granted the Lean & Green award by Connekt. We also want society to see us as a leader on the New Way of Living & Working. We therefore continue to participate in and contribute to relevant events and to communicate externally about best practices. Energy-efficient products and services We use our experience in reducing our own carbon footprint to help our customers achieve both energy and cost savings. We do so by offering them not only products and services that support the New Way of Living & Working, but also our cloud services and M2M solutions. These products enable customers to improve process efficiency while reducing costs, time and greenhouse gas emissions at the same time. We are convinced a green economy can only be realized by cross-sector cooperation. Together with the energy sector (both network operators and energy producers), we are working on defining and implementing ICT solutions that can make electricity networks and houses more efficient (smart grids and smart homes solutions). Privacy & Security Privacy and security have become important issues for society due to the rise of social media and cyber attacks. We want to ensure that our business customers have safe and reliable use of our services and datacenters. We have several programs in place that increase insight in underlying assets with matching controls regarding system hardening and identity & access to ensure improved privacy and security. Our ISO 27001 certificate for information security management demonstrates the effectiveness of security controls, processes and procedures. Furthermore, the business continuity of our services is periodically tested and plans are adjusted if necessary. During 2013, we worked towards getting an ISO 22301 certificate for business continuity management, which will be obtained in January 2014. Social and environmental performance indicators 2013 2012 Net Promoter Score (NPS) -18 -171 Number of healthcare 4,319 4,038 locations connected Number of healthcare ~40,000 ~21,000 consumers supplied with personal comfort services Growth in the Netherlands of 5% in comparison 17% in comparison the use of services that make with 2012 with 2011 The New Way of Living & Working possible 1) The NPS measurement method for the Business segment was adjusted in 2013. The 2012 NPS score has also been adjusted according to this new method. KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 51 Segment performance Our strategy in action Our objective is to continue to be a leading ICT service provider in the Netherlands. Integrate IT Solutions in Business Building on the successful integration of parts of Corporate Market in a new B2B organization in 2013, we take the next step in further improving our ICT services by means of the integrating of IT Solutions with KPN’s Business segment from January 1, 2014. We will be able to deliver a combined Telco and IT portfolio, while providing data security in the Netherlands. Our cloud strategy: service aggregation We have invested in developing cloud-based services that evolve from current focus areas on the workspace to delivering services that bridge the traditional IT services and the cloud services environment. Cloud Services Aggregation enables us to leverage KPN Group IT and network capabilities with our customers. It provides a means for crossand up-selling and new and compelling offerings to prospects. IT Solutions Cloud services: increased importance of privacy and security Privacy and security are becoming increasingly important themes for our business customers. Also the need for transparency is increasing. We want to ensure that our business customers have safe and reliable use of our networks and data centers. To support our customers in complying with law and regulations, we We offer our customers secure cloud developed the CloudNL platform. With CloudNL, we guarantee local data solutions from our Dutch based data storage in the Netherlands, being managed in the Netherlands. Together with professional partners, KPN has planned to assure compliance by centers, compliant with Dutch law and means of external audits on a quarterly base, starting Q1 2014. With regulations and monitored real-time and CloudNL Office, we assure a safe working space inside CloudNL. certified by an independent auditing firm.’ Within IT Solutions the department KPN Trusted Services specializes in Managed Security, Identity Management and Business Continuity Alexander van der Hooft, Managing Director IT Solutions services. In line with the strengthen, simplify and grow strategy, KPN Trusted Services rationalized its portfolio resulting in a focused portfolio that addresses the evolving security, compliance and business needs of medium and large enterprise and (semi) governmental Overview organizations. We further optimized our quality of service by changing the organizational structure and investing in the optimization of our Highlights processes and technology that power our services and strengthen ýý Integration of IT Solutions with Business our market position. We included Security Operations Center (SOC) ýý Increase in recommendation score services in our managed security services portfolio in 2013. ýý Energy-efficiency of data centers improved 30.9% compared to 2005 Conduct business in a sustainable way The use of ICT can enable our customers to save time, energy and costs. We aim to help customers realize a reduction in energy usage Revenue EBITDA by offering them our products and services. A large number of €621M €30M business customers make use of storage capacity in our data centers. It is our aim to implement sustainable solutions and increase the energy efficiency of our data centers. (2012: 862m) 1 (2012: 69m)1 1) Including Getronics International until April 1, 2012. 52 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 Enable a leaner operating model combined with higher Social and environmental review customer satisfaction We work with partners globally, such as the Getronics Workspace Recommendation score Alliance, to secure integrated end-to-end services for our customers, In the corporate clients segment, the recommendation score increased combining local presence with global reach. Partners such as to 7.1 in 2013 (2012: 6.7). The NPS program which was started in 2010 is Mindtree and TechMahindra create cost reduction and result in higher clearly showing results. The overall improvement is the sum of customereffectiveness for clients. Our partnerships are a strategic element and specific and general improvement programs. In 2013, the approach of can enhance customer experience, innovation and service continuity. making an improvement plan for corporate customers after each NPS measurement, and evaluate this with the customer after several Products and services months, was expanded by another 50 corporate clients. We offer multinational corporations and other large enterprises Energy efficient end-to-end solutions centered on workspace management, Energy efficiency of data centers is expressed by comparing total connectivity solutions and information security and data centers. electricity consumption with electricity consumption of equipment used for customer services. The international standard for this Workspace management calculation is PUE (power usage effectiveness). For our data centers, We provide service models to clients to combine existing legacy and the electricity consumption of ICT solutions for our customers has new cloud-based services. Together with the Business segment, we sell increased 18% since 2010. However, as a result of the implementation and deliver packaged online, hybrid and traditional workspace services of our energy efficiency program, the total electricity consumption in the Netherlands in all segments ranging from the mid-market to the of all the data centers was only 7% more than in 2010. The increase corporate enterprise market. in electricity efficiency is achieved by optimizing installations, consolidation of small data center locations and increasing the Data centers capacity utilization degree. We are responsible for housing and hosting data center resources for external customers and for KPN. In particular, we facilitate the In 2013, our PUE improvement compared with 2005 was 30.9%. In 2013, evolution of the traditional data center management portfolio to we improved our electricity efficiency with 0.5% compared with 2012. more cloud-based solutions, such as CloudNL. So although we improved, the goal for 2013 (31.8%) is not fully realized. The most important reason was implementing a new data center and a Consulting services double cooling effort during the implementation of more efficient free Our consulting services include (private) cloud, workspace innovation, cooling options. In 2014, we intend to achieve a PUE improvement of business communications, business applications, project and program 32.3% compared with 2005. management, services aimed at facilitating organizational development and change, and security and compliance. Brands used are Call2 and Our long term ambition is to improve our PUE by 38% in 2020 compared KPN Consulting. with 2005. This will be achieved by focusing on further optimization and implementation of technical concepts, such as free air cooling, Financial and operational review lowering energy losses in the technical environment and innovative improvements such as reusing residual heat. Underlying revenues and other income decreased by 9.5% in 2013, as a result of continued price pressure due to overcapacity in the market Privacy & Security and postponement of (large) IT investments by clients. Underlying For our Security Operations Center (SOC) services, we welcomed our EBITDA increased by 3.1% in 2013, mainly as a result of lower personnel first five customers in our managed security services portfolio. We costs due to the FTE reduction program, partly offset by lower revenues thus reached our target for 2013. and lower margins in new and renewed contracts. Consequently, the underlying EBITDA margin increased to 10.8% (2012: 9.5%). Social and environmental performance indicators 2013 2012 Key financials (in millions of EUR, Recommendation score 7.1 6.7 unless indicated otherwise) 2013 2012 ∆ Data centers: more energy 30.9% 30.4% Revenue and other income 621 862 -28% efficient than in 2005 Underlying revenue and other income 621 686 -9.5% Number of customers that take 5 N/a services from KPN’s Security EBITDA 30 69 -57% Operations Center Underlying EBITDA 67 65 3.1% Underlying EBITDA margin 10.8% 9.5% KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 53 Segment performance Our strategy in action Our strategy is based on a strong customer focus by providing the highest quality services, based on a full product range. Key to providing the best products and services are our networks. We invested heavily in our fixed and mobile networks, as well as in simplifying our processes and our organization, to improve the quality of service. Invest in best-in-class networks In 2013, we have again invested heavily in our network infrastructure. We are continuously working to maintain and improve the quality and speed of our fixed and mobile networks. In fixed-line services, we continued with upgrading our copper network. We have been upgrading from ADSL to VDSL, implemented pair bonding and now started vectoring as well. A combination of new technologies, pair bonding and vectoring, enables significantly increased broadband internet bandwidth on our copper network. With vectoring, KPN is front-runner in Europe and pair bonding is a unique feature for KPN to benefit from. We continued the roll-out of our fiber network through our Reggefiber Group B.V. joint venture. Fiber-to-the-Home offers NetCo subscribers superior upload and download speeds and better quality. Therefore, we believe in fiber as the superior infrastructure. At the end of 2013, we reached 24% of the households in the Netherlands with our fiber network. In mobile, we upgraded our existing 2G and 3G mobile networks and we were the first operator in the Netherlands to launch 4G services. Modernization of KPN’s network, In 2013, we scaled up our 4G roll-out and reached a 76% indoor such as the rapid roll-out of 4G and coverage by the end of the year and expect to reach nationwide coverage by the end of the first quarter of 2014. By accelerating VDSL vectoring, provides a structural the 4G mobile network roll-out, we have confirmed our role as improvement of quality and also creates the leading provider in the Netherlands. As part of our 4G strategy, we use a combination of 800MHz, 1800MHz and 2600MHz spectrum new opportunities to keep our consumer to ensure high-quality 4G services to consumers and business and business customers always and customers throughout the Netherlands. everywhere connected.’ Strategic partnerships In 2013, we continued to focus on network improvement and cost Jacob Groote, Vice President Mobile Operations reductions through strategic partnerships, efficiency and improved sourcing. At the end of 2012, we entered into several strategic partnerships and (out)sourced a number of our activities. In 2013, we operationally executed these (out)sourcing initiatives together with Overview negotiating and rationalizing our existing contracts with suppliers. Highlights Conduct business in a sustainable way ýý Front-runner in Europe with vectoring Invest in best-in-class networks also implies investing in the resilience of ýý Accelerated 4G roll-out and expect to reach nationwide our technical buildings and networks, which means improving security coverage by the end of Q1 2014 and business continuity of our networks in order to minimize the risk ýý Total absolute energy reduction, despite extending of disruptions by building resilience into structures and processes. networks and roll-out 4G It also implies an energy-efficient network infrastructure. Our networks contribute to 69% of our total electricity consumption. Especially Revenue EBITDA in the light of the strongly increasing data communication volumes, €2,343M €1,297M which increases our electricity use and costs, we acknowledge the need to address this issue. It is our aim to reduce our absolute electricity consumption and improve the energy efficiency of our (2012: 2,621m) (2012: 1,461m) networks. The electricity used for our networks is 100% green, generated locally from wind and biomass. By doing so, our Dutch networks operate climate neutral. 1,635k 76% Fiber-to-the-Home passed 4G indoor coverage (2012: 1,246k) (2012: 0%) 54 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 Dutch inauguration day Products and services NetCo is responsible for the operation and maintenance of fixed and mobile networks in the Netherlands. Furthermore, NetCo includes our fixed wholesale services. Network and IT services We offer a full range of fixed and mobile services and we aim to deliver the best connectivity to our customers, independent of location and device, in an intuitive and customer-friendly way. By further migrating to fiber and upgrading our copper network, we aim to become the best integrated access network and IT provider. Wholesale services We provide wholesale services that include access to our copper and ‘Working day and night, we built a new fiber networks such as wholesale line rental, wholesale broadband communications network especially for access and wholesale fiber and value-added services. Wholesale customers can purchase access to passive network infrastructure alone the emergency services to use during or together with our active operator services, which allow telecom the inauguration.’ operators and service providers to offer their own services to end customers. We also provide wholesale customers with cloud Pim Niessen, Technical Supervisor KPN Critical Communications computing and other services. Infrastructure ‘A few months before the inauguration of King Willem-Alexander it became clear that the large number of police and emergency Copper network services personnel deployed in Amsterdam on April 30 would need We operate a high-quality copper network and have continued to extra capacity for their critical communications,’ says Pim Niessen, invest in new technologies, such as pairbonding and vectoring, the Technical Supervisor KPN Critical Communications. removal of ‘noise’ between copper wires, significantly increasing the available broadband internet bandwidth (up to more than 120Mbps). Elaborating on the KPN build C2000 public safety communications network, the Critical Communications team designed a new network Fiber network especially for the event. ‘We worked day and night to get the C3000 Through our fiber network, we can offer unlimited data transport system up and running, including two control rooms in Amsterdam to customers with high bandwidth requirements and options for and activating 1,600 radios. To identify the last possible hiccups, we expansion such as data networks, and multi-room iTV as well as iTV tested it with the other radio networks and around 150 emergency Online with functionalities on laptop, smartphone and tablet. The services personnel. Everything ran smoothly on the day, thanks to roll-out of the Fiber-to-the-Home (FttH) network is carried out through the excellent teamwork of everyone involved.’ our joint venture Reggefiber Group B.V., which operates on the basis of an open-access model. At the end of 2013, 24% of Dutch households, approximately 1.6 million, had FttH available. Wireless network Customer experience In the Netherlands, we operate a 4G LTE, 3G UMTS/HSPA and a 2G Our customer experience is influenced by several factors. The GSM network system. In 2013, continued improvements have been performance of our networks is only part of what determines implemented to maintain the best-in-class networks in terms of the customer experience. Communication about our services has quality and coverage. We continued our network modernization and a greater impact. Proactive communication about disruptions and accelerated the 4G roll-out. 4G improves the customer experience by scheduled maintenance is very important. providing significantly higher speeds, up to ten times faster than the 3G network. Mobile data continued to grow, up 50% over 2013. However, NetCo regularly receives feedback from customers on our services some elements of the modernization process have a (temporary) (Closed Loop Feedback process). The feedback from customers is tested negative effect, such as the transfer of the network from old to new against our customer promises to work on continuous improvement equipment and the alignment of the 2G, 3G and 4G network. of our services. Customer account managers and NetCo look for solutions together. KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 55 Segment performance Dutch inauguration day Social and environmental review Best-in-class networks We want to offer our customers the best ICT infrastructure. In continuous research, we investigate to what extent they have a preference for our ICT infrastructure compared with the networks of our competitors. In addition to measuring technical parameters such as dropped calls and number of disruptions, we started measuring the perception of the best ICT infrastructure in the eyes of Dutch people in 2012. It is our ambition that in 2015 60% of the Dutch people consider KPN’s ICT infrastructure as the best. Due to the complexity of the measurement, we only surveyed consumers in 2012. In 2012, 51% of Dutch consumers considered that we had the best fixed network (fixed line, broadcast, internet and back-up service) and 51% ‘With KPN’s 4G network we can provide that we had the best mobile network1 (mobile telephone, SMS and better quality footage faster, so our mobile internet). In 2013, these percentages were 46% for our fixed network and 52% for our mobile network.1 The decrease regarding viewers are always up-to-date with the our fixed network is mainly due to disappointing customer experiences latest news.’ with Digitenne and low bandwidth of ADSL. Initiatives that will be implemented to improve these results include having customers switch Toon Toetenel, Chief New Media AT5 from Digitenne to iTV and the further roll-out of VDSL (with a significant higher bandwidth than ADSL). Moreover, KPN will continue to roll out Local Amsterdam TV station AT5 had 14 mobile teams covering the the improved 2G network (as drop-out calls are the biggest dissatisfier), inauguration of King Willem-Alexander on April 30. All relied on UMTS 900 (3G with better indoor coverage) and the new 4G network. KPN’s 4G network to broadcast events simultaneously from various locations and in high quality. In 2013, we expanded our measurement to the business market for our fixed networks, mobile networks and IT services (cloud services, data ‘With 4G we can cover everything that happens in the city – from centers). Results show that 64% of the business market considers KPN concerts to traffic accidents to sports events – at lower cost and in to have the best fixed networks, and 58% thinks this about our mobile higher broadcasting quality,’ says Toon Toetenel, Chief New Media networks.1 This means we have achieved our 2015 target (60%) for our AT5. ‘On the day of the inauguration, we needed access to more fixed networks and we have almost reached it for our mobile networks. bandwidth than ever. With 4G our reporters could send their footage The results of this first survey do not yet allow us to draw conclusions from the crowded canals and city squares to our studio whenever about the appreciation of our IT services in the business market. For they wanted. 4G made the difference. It has phenomenally improved 2014, we add a target on the nationwide drop call rate in order to our internet broadcasts.’ provide more insight in our networks performances. We aim for a nationwide drop call rate of an average maximum of 0.6%. In 2013, we had a major incident within our mobile network. Thousands of customers of KPN, Telfort, Hi and Simyo mainly in France were not Financial and operational review able to make a mobile connection during several days at the end of July. As the incident occurred during the peak of the summer holidays, the Underlying revenues and other income declined by 7.0% in 2013, impact was high. After resolving the issue, a national ‘sorry’ campaign mainly driven by FTA regulation impacting wholesale traffic revenues. was started and customers were given the opportunity to claim possible Underlying EBITDA decreased by 6.9% in 2013 as a result of a decline in damages. We received over 4,500 claims. high margin traditional services and higher FttH access costs partly offset by lower personnel costs. The underlying EBITDA margin Energy-efficient network increased to 55.4% in 2013 (2012: 55.3%). For our networks in the Netherlands, we set the target to realize a 20% absolute electricity reduction in 2020 compared with 2005. FttH roll-out continued and 389 thousand homes passed were added in Despite the roll-out of 4G and extending our networks because of 2013, resulting in a total of 1.6 million homes passed at the end 2013, strongly increasing data communication volumes, we still are on which is 24% of Dutch broadband households. track to realize this target. This year we nearly approached our 2005 electricity consumption. Key financials (in millions of EUR, unless indicated otherwise) 2013 2012 ∆ In 2013, our energy saving measures resulted in 47.4 GWh of savings, Revenue and other income 2,343 2,621 -11% which is almost twice our target of 27.5 +/2.5 GWh. These savings Underlying revenue and other income 2,342 2,519 -7.0% not only compensated for the growth in our networks, but resulted EBITDA 1,297 1,461 -11% in an absolute electricity reduction of 3.2% compared with 2012. Underlying EBITDA 1,297 1,393 -6.9% The reduction in our networks and technical buildings was mainly Underlying EBITDA margin 55.4% 55.3% the result of the implementation of our rationalization program, which ensures the upgrade of the networks to enable faster fixed Operational performance indicators 2013 2012 ∆ and mobile internet, and the simultaneous installation of energy% households >40 Mbps ~70% ~70% efficient equipment. Measures within the program include phasing Number of FttH homes passed (in thousands) 1,635 1,246 31% out networks, implementing the rectifier program and GSM swap. Indoor population coverage 3G (in %) 95% 95% The rectifier innovation project is responsible for a calculated annual Indoor population coverage 4G (in %) 76% 0% reduction of 8.2 GWh and increases the efficiency of equipment from 90% to 96%. 1) A substantial number of respondents has no opinion about who has the best network. We have not included this group of respondents in the scores. 56 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 Privacy & Security In 2013, we continued our efforts to improve security and business continuity. In order to minimize the risk of disruption to our critical operations buildings, we established new policies to ensure robustness and security, and started an improvement program for these buildings. We also developed business continuity architecture guidelines, aiming to increase the resilience of our critical services and networks. For many of these services and networks, we increased resilience, for example by removing ‘single points of failure’ from our networks. With these efforts we aim to ensure that we can recover from disruptions to our critical services. A lot of effort is spent on increasing awareness of security and business continuity. We worked on a communications campaign, called ‘Be Aware!’ and organized many information sessions for management and internal and external employees throughout the year. We improved our privacy robustness by better protecting our critical systems against hacking and loss of customer data. The KPN Security Operation Center (SOC) monitors the security of our high-risk systems 24 hours a day, seven days a week. Social and environmental performance indicators 2013 2012 Percentage of the Netherlands Consumers: Consumers: that agrees that KPN has the best 46% best fixed 51% best fixed ICT infrastructure network network 52% best mobile 51% best mobile network network Business:1 Business: N/a 64% best fixed network 58% best mobile network Percentage of the Netherlands 46% in the 0% that has availability of 4G summer; 76% end 2013 Electricity savings in fixed and Measures that save Measures that save mobile networks in the 47.4 GWh 32.6 GWh Netherlands 1) The results of this first survey do not yet allow us to draw conclusions about our IT services in the business market. Challenge Investing in the networks in order to provide the best coverage possible does not always receive unanimous consent from all stakeholders involved. One of the example cases we encountered in 2013, happened at the small Dutch island of Terschelling, where a second communications mast was needed to improve mobile coverage. There were complaints that emergency services numbers could not always be reached, putting people’s safety at risk. The existing mast was not able to cope with the high demand during the busy summer holiday season and the island’s popular Oerol cultural festival. However, local residents objected. They were worried about radiation and the matter went to court. The Dutch Supreme Court ruled in favor of public safety, after which we installed the mast. Cases like this happened several times over the last years and we expect this issue to return again every now and then in the future. KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 57 Segment performance Our strategy in action Unlock German mobile synergies In July 2013 we announced that KPN had entered into a transaction to sell and transfer 100% of its interest in E-Plus to Telefónica Deutschland. The transaction remains mainly subject to Telefónica Deutschland EGM approval and regulatory approval. Following the transfer of E-Plus to Telefónica Deutschland, KPN will receive EUR 5.0 billion cash proceeds and obtains a 20.5% stake in the combined entity. The combination will have annual revenues of more than EUR 8 billion and total estimated synergies amount to EUR 5.0-5.5 billion. Additionally, the merged company will have an enhanced competitive position with a highquality network with ample capacity to address increasing demands for high-quality (data) services and an extensive distribution network. Until completion of the transaction, we will remain fully focused on executing our operational strategy. E-Plus will continue to strengthen its position as a data-centric challenger, focused on data and postpaid, supported by its improved network. Data-centric challenger Germany (including In 2013, E-Plus successfully pursued a comprehensive growth and network upgrade initiative. We invested substantially in customer discontinued operations) acquisition, adding more than 1.5 million new customers throughout the year. The focus on postpaid customers paid off with the addition of 936 thousand new contracts. E-Plus also confirmed its strong position in the prepaid segment with a net addition of 610 thousand customers. Moreover, we achieved our strategic objective to significantly grow Despite headwinds for the industry, we our mobile data business. We expanded distribution through our made good progress in 2013 and achieved own and partner shops, online distribution and exclusive wholesale channels. Further support was given to our Yourfone, Blau and Simyo important strategic milestones. The propositions, addressing customer demand for increased mobile data results of our successful growth and usage. We also introduced further competitive offerings by Alditalk. network upgrade initiative put us in a Mobile broadband network good position for the combination with The strong improvements to E-Plus’ data network quality have been confirmed by leading network tests in Germany (CHIP, ComputerBild), Telefónica Deutschland. Going forward, resulting in a number three network position in the German mobile we will be the challenger in Germany market. In terms of HSPA+ data speeds and network reliability E-Plus is now on par with the number two. on eye level with the market leaders.’ We invested approximately EUR 500 million in our network in 2013, Thorsten Dirks, CEO E-Plus ramping up the roll-out of our HSPA+ network infrastructure. At the end of the year, we confirmed our challenger strategy by launching a new initiative which provides every customer with the maximum network speed of up to 42 Mbps at no extra cost for at least 7 months. Overview Improve customer service Highlights Multiple initiatives were started or continued in 2013 to improve the ýý Intended sale of E-Plus to Telefónica Deutschland customer experience at E-Plus. We started network improvements, ýý Strong improvement network speed revamped the BASE tariff portfolio and introduced value added ýý Significant net adds of new customers with a focus on postpaid services such as My MTV Music and BASE Cloud. In 2013, the Digital ýý High growth in mobile data revenues Transformation project was introduced which focuses on improving ýý Improvement of 14.9% in energy efficiency compared with 2009 the self-service features of the brand via their online platforms. Products and services Revenue EBITDA €3,197M €963M We operate through E-Plus to provide customers in German multibrand mobile telecommunications, offering prepaid and postpaid services targeted at multiple market segments. (2012: 3,404m) (2012: 1,290m) We offer various tariff brands with our multi-brand strategy: the E-Plus brand with various bundle packages, Base offering flat-fee packages, 936k ~15% Simyo as web-only mobile operator and Ay Yildiz with a tailor-made offering for the ethnic segment. We also provide wholesale solutions to partners acting as branded resellers, including Alditalk, WAZ, MTV, NABU Net adds postpaid Market share and MVNOs like Versatel, NetCologne and Ecotel. In 2013, we expanded (2012: 164k) (2012: 15.8%) our portfolio further on data propositions to adapt to our customers’ needs for more mobile data oriented packages, either with or without the smartphone of their choice. We also expanded our offering with the launch of a hardware-only web shop www.smartkauf.de. 58 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 Financial and operational review Dubai. Conclusions are that all-day driving with a hydrogen car can contribute to energy and CO2 savings and might provide a better On July 23, 2013, KPN announced the sale of E-Plus to Telefónica alternative than electrical cars. Deutschland. For further information on this transaction please see Note 18 of the Consolidated Financial Statements. E-Plus continues Other CSR themes to be included in KPN’s segment reporting until the sale is completed. E-Plus has reached almost 25 million customers, which brings along great responsibility. Responsibility provides opportunities. For example, Underlying revenues and other income in Germany increased by the responsibility to invest in more efficient technology makes us more 0.8% in 2013, due to strong postpaid performance, partly offset by viable in the long term and solid organization practices mitigate risks. the negative impact of declining SMS and voice usage in the prepaid Our main initiatives are to become climate neutral, to contribute to the segment. Handset sales continued to increase, supporting the uptake connection of people and to be an attractive employer. of data propositions. Underlying EBITDA decreased by 21%, due to increased growth related investments. These investments in customer We perform an employee opinion survey called ‘Stimmungsbarometer’ acquisition, marketing costs and handsets support growth in postpaid four times a year. In Q4, the percentage of satisfied and very satisfied net adds and data revenues. The underlying EBITDA margin was 28.3% employees increased by 5% to 55%. Almost all measured themes in 2013 (2012: 36.0%). improved slightly. The communication by our management was highly scored by 64% of the employees. Although the scores for ‘dialogue The focus on postpaid and data resulted in continued strong postpaid culture’ decreased, the overall score for this theme is still on a good net adds of 936 thousand in 2013, while prepaid net adds amounted to level. Our efforts also have been externally recognized: for the last 610 thousand. ARPU blended decreased in 2013 to EUR 10 compared to seven years, E-Plus has been rated amongst the top employers EUR 11 in 2012. E-Plus’ market share in Q4 2013 is estimated to be (Top-Arbeitgeber) in Germany. approximately 16% in a competitive environment. One of the main focus areas of our HR policy is talent management, Key financials (in millions of EUR, in combination with leadership development. E-Plus runs diverse high unless indicated otherwise) 2013 2012 ∆ potential programs, offers expert and manager career tracks and has a Service revenue 2,989 3,149 -5.1% talent review process in place. E-Plus introduced a new training catalogue Revenue and other income 3,197 3,404 -6.1% with more online e-learnings, which are more flexible for participants. Underlying revenue and other income 3,168 3,143 0.8% EBITDA 963 1,290 -25% Our rate of absence due to illness showed a significant increase during Underlying EBITDA 897 1,131 -21% 2013, mainly as a result of a flu epidemic. In 2013, E-Plus introduced an Underlying EBITDA margin 28.3% 36.0% individual risk assessment survey and PME, an individual consultancy service. Both focus on the risks of psychological stress and quantitative Operational performance indicators 2013 2012 ∆ workload. At the end of 2013, 99 employees took part in the PME. Market share1 (in %) ~15% 15.8% Wireless customers (in thousands) 24,946 23,400 6.6% Our responsibility for the (digital) connection of groups in society who Net adds postpaid (in thousands) 936 164 have difficulties in making or maintaining contacts is shaped by our Net adds prepaid (in thousands) 610 519 support for projects such as the ‘Weltkindertagsfest’ and ‘senior citizen ARPU blended (in EUR) 10 11 -9.1% tabs’. In 2013, we supported the annual ‘Weltkindertagsfest’ with the 1) Based on service revenues. theme ‘equal chances for children’. The day of festivities was attended by around 100 thousand children and adults. We hosted activities aimed at bridging the digital divide between children and their grandparents. Social and environmental review We continued our engagement in the senior citizens tab project which promotes digital literacy amongst the elderly and provided 17 locations Net Promoter Score with tablet computers and tutorials geared towards the elderly. The blended NPS for BASE/E-Plus in December 2013 was -30, which was slightly below market average. The main reasons for this score were Social and environmental negative side-effects of the network upgrades and a different price performance indicators 2013 2012 perception due to increased competition. Net Promoter Score (NPS) -30 N/a Mobile network: more energy 14.9% 12.8% Energy efficient efficient than in 2009 Our overall energy efficiency received a further boost from the use Percentage green electricity 92% 76% of more energy efficient equipment in our network roll-out activities Recycled and reused cell phones 34,600 17,0001 during the year. We are on track to achieve our 2020 ambition to realize 1) Restated due to availability of new figures. 20% energy efficiency improvement compared with 2009. In 2013, we achieved an 14.9% improvement in energy efficiency compared with 2009, mainly as a result of the continued modernization of our network. Network in Germany This is better than our target. Although the data communication volumes have tripled since 2010, our energy consumption was only 6.4% higher. 1.186 1.159 867% We improved the percentage of green electricity from 76% to 92%, 1.133 above our target of 85%. In 2014, all our electricity will originate 1.110 from renewable sources. Our energy efficiency program and energy sourcing resulted in a reduction of our CO2 footprint by 11 Kton in 1.045 533% 1.035 333% 2013 (our target was 9 Kton). 220% 173% In 2013, we started operating a second energy self-sufficient station. 100% With subsidies from the city Hamburg, 46 traditional air conditioning 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 systems are being exchanged for fans. Electricity consumption in petajoules (PJ) We finalized a test with a hydrogen car in 2013. Our employees drove Growth data volume (Gbit) compared with 2010 6,465 kilometers, comparable with the distance from Dusseldorf to KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 59 Segment performance Our strategy in action Mobile-centric challenger We differentiate ourselves from other operators by being mobilecentric, providing simple and transparent products to our customers. We are committed to delivering the best customer experience, the best mobile products and the best prices. Through our multi-brand strategy, our Belgian market model enables an advanced customer segmentation approach based on multiple partnerships. To further strengthen the mobile experience of our customers, we continuously focus on new services such as handset financing and insurance services or streaming services. As of August 1, 2013, our company name changed from KPN Group Belgium to BASE Company. By reintroducing BASE into our company name, we want to enforce our mobile-centric strategy. However, we are more than just BASE. BASE Company stands for partnerships supporting our multi-brand strategy. Improve customer experience Key for our company is to continuously improve the experience of our Belgium customers. Our ambition is to have more than just satisfied customers – we want to know how customers experience our products and services. That enables us to evaluate how well we serve our customers and allows us to steer our operations. Therefore, we use the Customer Experience index (CX index). The CX index is measured four times per year and takes into account general satisfaction as well as certain strategic customer priorities and is based on four questions to our Launching 4G as second Belgian customers. In 2013, we undertook several initiatives to improve operator and already covering 36% customer satisfaction. Some examples are a user-friendly introduction menu for our helpdesk and the launch of YouTube instruction videos. of the Belgian population at the end of 2013, confirms our ambition in In 2014, we will continue and finalize the initiatives started in 2013 and move to a more large-scale CX implementation. This includes leading not only in price and service optimization of customer journey, defining instructions from our but also in quality.’ service promise and monitoring them, implementing Lean in our operations to optimally respond to customer demand and lower Christian Vyncke, Head of Development Access costs, and continue our company-wide customer focus program. Low cost organization We are able to achieve this combination of a high-quality network Overview and attractive offerings by running an efficient and low cost operating model. We are focused on maintaining this competitive advantage. Highlights ýý Completely renewed mobile portfolio driving postpaid sales Invest in best-in-class network and data uptake Over the last years, BASE Company performed significant investments ýý Launched 4G as the second operator in the Belgian market in the further development of its mobile network, focusing on ýý Strong progress on network quality improving coverage even further, optimizing quality and increasing ýý Launch of fixed line triple-play offering, called SNOW, in Q1 data speeds. ýý Improvement of 18% in energy efficiency compared with 2009 The significant investments in the network infrastructure resulted in a number one position in voice quality and a joint number one Revenue EBITDA position in data.1 In October, we launched our 4G network – being the €728M €192M second operator in Belgium. By the end of the year, 36% of the outdoor population was covered by 4G and we plan to have nationwide outdoor coverage by the end of 2014. In November, we acquired the 800MHz (2012: 804m) (2012: 272m) license, allowing us to further increase 4G network coverage and performance. The license which we acquired for EUR 120 million is valid for 20 years. >20% 127K Market share Postpaid net adds (2012: ~20%) (2012: 17k) 1) Based on NetCheck (voice) and Commsquare (data) network test. 60 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 Products and services Social and environmental review Our multi-brand strategy offers a full portfolio of mobile services (voice, Customer service SMS, data), fixed line services and content services, such as Spotify. Our target for the CX index to measure customer experience for 2013 was 80. In December 2013, our CX score reached 76. With this score BASE is our mainstream retail brand offering both prepaid and postpaid we improved significantly in all measured elements compared to March products. BASE business delivers products for the SoHo and SME market. and outperformed all of our competitors overall and in the prepaid and In April 2013, BASE introduced a complete new portfolio, including postpaid market. We believe that some of our main improvements have both prepaid and postpaid and offering unlimited calling and texting not yet been picked up in the score. from EUR 39 per month, including 2GB of mobile internet. At the same time, BASE business also launched a complete new SoHo & SME Energy efficient portfolio, offering unlimited calling and texting at EUR 30 per month, Our overall energy efficiency received a further boost from the use including 1.5GB of mobile internet. The high-tier tariff plans offer up of more energy-efficient equipment in our network roll-out activities to 5GB mobile internet and unlimited calling and texting from Belgian during the year. We are on track to achieve our 2020 ambition to realize to European destinations. As a result, BASE postpaid sales rose sharply 20% energy efficiency improvement compared with 2009. In 2013, we to record levels, besides high customer migrations from old to new achieved an 18% improvement in energy efficiency compared with tariff plans. Churn further decreased, indicating that customer volatility 2009. This is better than our target. Our energy consumption was is stabilizing to normal levels. However, we observed a continued trend only 5.4% higher compared with 2010, although we had to extend our of customers migrating from prepaid to postpaid. networks because the data communication tripled in the same period. Next to Mobile, we challenged the fixed market in Belgium with the Social and environmental performance indicators 2013 2012 introduction of SNOW in February. SNOW offers a fixed triple-play CX index score 76 N/a service combining digital television, fixed internet and fixed telephony Mobile network: more energy 18% 12% for EUR 39 per month. SNOW 3-pack is an attractive low-priced and efficient than in 2009 qualitative offer on the Belgian market. SNOW combines high VDSL and Percentage green electricity 100% 100% TV quality with an original à la carte approach whereby the customer Recycled and reused cell phones 12,400 10,500 only pays for what he really wants, as opposed to the ‘all-in at high price’ approach from competition. In September, BASE business introduced a similar fixed-line offering, Pro Net & Tel, combining fixed telephony and fixed internet for the B2B segment at EUR 35 per month, in combination with a B2B mobile subscription even at EUR 30 per month. Financial and operational review Underlying revenues and other income decreased by 4.1% in 2013, due to continued price pressure caused by a competitive mobile market. Underlying EBITDA declined by 23% in 2013 due to lower revenues and price pressure resulting in an underlying EBITDA margin of 25.5% (2012: 32.0%). The new mobile propositions introduced in Q2 2013 continue to deliver strong operational results (mainly on postpaid), despite a continued competitive environment. This resulted in 127 thousand postpaid net adds. Prepaid net adds of -162 thousand in 2013 were less negative compared with 2012. Blended ARPU increased to EUR 16 (2012: EUR 15) mainly due to increased prepaid ARPU, partly offset by the impact of regulation. Key financials (in millions of EUR, unless indicated otherwise) 2013 2012 ∆ Service revenue 639 716 -11% Revenue and other income 728 804 -9.5% Underlying revenue and other income 728 759 -4.1% EBITDA 192 272 -29% Underlying EBITDA 186 243 -23% Underlying EBITDA margin 25.5% 32.0% Operational performance indicators 2013 2012 ∆ Market share1 (in%) >20% ~20% Wireless customers (in thousands) 3,389 3,424 -1.0% Net adds postpaid (in thousands) 127 17 Net adds prepaid (in thousands) -162 -724 ARPU (in EUR) 16 15 6.7% 1) Based on service revenues. KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 61 Segment performance Our strategy in action Our strategy is to enable carrier and mobile operator customers to deliver high-quality international voice and data services to their end users and introduce innovative products faster, with global reach and reliability. We leverage our global IP infrastructure and expertise, sophisticated back-office systems, and substantial scale to achieve sustainable leadership in international wholesale voice services and be a successful challenger in the Mobile Value Added Services market. In 2013, we continued to establish iBasis as a significant provider of LTE Roaming and Signaling solutions and to develop our innovative value-added services offerings for mobile network operators. For 2014 and beyond, we will remain focused on innovating and developing new services to establish new, profitable revenue streams. Products and services We offer a voice product portfolio consisting of Certified Voice, Premium Voice and HD Voice. These products offer a progression of code coverage, pricing and features formulated to meet the varied requirements of fixed carriers, mobile operators and consumer voice iBasis over broadband carriers. In addition to our voice services, we offer a comprehensive portfolio of value-added mobile data services and solutions, including our LTE Signaling eXchange, global signaling, mobile messaging and roaming. Our services aim to enhance mobile operators’ average revenue per user and customer loyalty. Financial and operational review iBasis is enabling mobile operators deliver a consistent LTE experience to Revenues and other income decreased by 6.4% year on year, due to lower traffic volume, continued price pressure and an unfavorable their subscribers wherever they are. currency effect (1.3%). The EBITDA margin remained relatively stable Through our LTE roaming solution and at 3.0% as the effect of lower revenues was partially offset by focus on costs. market-leading footprint, we are helping Key financials (in millions of EUR, to fulfill the promise of next generation unless indicated otherwise) 2013 2012 ∆ networks for consumers.’ Revenues and other income EBITDA 969 29 1,035 30 -6.4% -3.3% Chris Lennartz, Director Product Management EBITDA margin 3.0% 2.9% Operational performance indicators 2013 2012 ∆ Minutes International (in billions) 24.9 26.2 -5.0% Average revenue per minute (EUR cents) 3.9 4.0 -2.5% Overview Highlights Social and environmental overview ýý Focus on balancing revenues while maintaining healthy profit levels Energy efficient ýý Launched LTE roaming solution Our electricity consumption of 5.4 GWh is 0.6% of the total electricity consumption of KPN Group. Our electricity consumption is 100% green, Revenue EBITDA by sourcing additional green electricity in the Netherlands. €969M €29M (2012: 1,035m) (2012: 30m) 24.9BN €3.9CT Number of minutes Average revenue per minute (2012: 26.2bn) (2012: 4.0 EUR cents) 62 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 Dutch inauguration day ‘The speed of 4G completely changes the way photographers work. It’s mindboggling how quickly we can send pictures to news apps, newspapers and websites.’ Johan Groeneveld, Deputy Editor-in-chief of ANP National news agency ANP coordinated and facilitated all photographs taken during King Willem-Alexander’s inauguration on April 30. ‘More than 50 photographers needed a fast and secure wireless connection to file their pictures to editorial desks around the world,’ says Johan Groeneveld, Deputy Editor-in-chief of ANP. ‘We chose to use KPN’s 4G technology because it allows pictures to be filed from any location at high speed. Photos of the new king were uploaded by newspapers and websites worldwide just seconds after being taken. I’m convinced 4G will dramatically change photographers’ jobs. They will all want to work with a 4G device.’ KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 63 Privacy & Security works with champions in the security domain, which also strengthens our own role in this area. We help our customers with cyber security in the best possible way. To ensure privacy and security of our services throughout our supply chain, we also translate privacy and security requirements to our suppliers. In 2012, KPN introduced the Chief Information Security Office (CISO), whose tasks include responsibility for the security of our IT and our TI architecture. In 2013, the CISO was further enhanced, focusing on three main pillars: Prevent, Detect & Verify and Respond. We also revised and updated the KPN Security Policy framework. The CISO REDteam was introduced in 2013 and is KPN’s ethical hacking Privacy & Security team. This team is involved in security tests of KPN applications and services to ensure that our customers’ data is safe from unauthorized access, modification and loss. The CISO REDteam demonstrated its competence by participating in the Global Cyberlympics competition and becoming European Champions for 2013. The team furthermore contributed to and took part in security community events such as the KPN believes in delivering secure international technology and security conference Observe. Hack. Make. products and services for everyone so (OHM) to share knowledge and create awareness. In addition to the CISO REDTeam, KPN is willing to cooperate with anybody who identifies a that we can ensure the confidentiality, potential security leak, provided they use their expertise responsibly availability, and integrity of all of our and respect KPN’s Responsible Disclosure code. customers’ communications. Our A proactive attitude is crucial in being able to detect and defend against specialist teams keep vigilant watch over the rapid nature of evolving and persistent threats. The KPN-CERT (Computer Emergency Response Team) comprises technical experts our network to enable rapid response.’ who follow an industry standard incident response methodology which has been designed and tested to respond to attacks. The KPN-CERT Jaya Baloo, Chief Information Security Officer continued to mature in 2013 and has continually displayed its system and network forensics as well as incident handling capabilities. The KPN-CERT closely aligns with other CERTs worldwide, receiving and Enhancing digital security and privacy sharing knowledge and information on attacks and incidents. This allows us to respond to increasingly sophisticated and targeted attacks The internet is fully integrated into our daily lives and offers many against KPN customer data and ensure the preservation of commercial opportunities. It helps people connect and generates economic advantage and customer confidence. By participating in this community, growth. Yet, it also has a more negative side: unsafe use or, even KPN-CERT does not only gain information that strengthens KPNs worse, internet abuse. As a leading internet provider, KPN feels it has a security but also provides information to others working on a more responsibility to improve online security and to enhance its customers’ secure internet worldwide. digital skills in order for them to use internet safely and reliably. This is why we continually improve our systems and ensure 24/7 availability of Security Operations Center (SOC) our helpdesks to help our customers resolve their privacy and security In addition to the CISO, KPN runs the KPN Security Operations Center problems. We also help protect the Netherlands against cybercrime. (SOC) that monitors the security of the KPN services. The KPN SOC monitors the KPN systems and networks 24/7. The SOC looks for Culture and organization vulnerabilities that are subsequently strengthened and searches for people looking to abuse KPN services or trying to steal confidential Privacy and security are an integral part of our business. To embed information. In doing so, they contribute to the reliability and safety privacy and security even better in our organization, we continued our of KPN services. program to increase employee awareness of privacy and security and to stimulate and monitor the required behavior according to our internal Physical security policies. Our managers have a leading role in this program: they have to Information security and ‘traditional’ forms of security cannot be inspire employees with their commitment and by acting as a role model. seen apart. Therefore, the security policy also includes policies on The awareness program is a continuous journey and is therefore named the security of our buildings, assets and personnel security. In 2013, ‘The Security & Privacy Journey’. In 2013, we organized a company-wide we focused on further improving our physical access controls and awareness week with several workshops and presentations as part of the pre-employment screening of personnel and hired staff. In the ISO Dutch initiative ‘Alert Online’. A new e-learning program was launched in 27001-certification programs for information security management, the first quarter of 2013 including specific privacy and security sections KPN’s physical security showed positive testing results. to train KPN personnel in the Netherlands. Security incidents Security All employees can and must report security and compliance incidents and suspected fraud to the KPN Helpdesk Security, Integrity and Security is a matter of both technology and of the way people deal Compliance. The number of incidents reported has increased by 20% in with this technology. First and foremost, every individual is responsible 2013 to 13,613, mainly caused by incidents related to external telecom for taking security-enhancing measures such as installing virus scanners fraud (originated outside our organization) and the new reporting and choosing a safe password. However, the security challenges we obligations on potential data breaches. Incident reports are investigated face are simply too big for individuals and individual companies to cope and if required new security measures are implemented in order to with alone. We therefore cooperate with businesses, government and prevent recurrence of these incidents. Internal integrity and security knowledge partners, both in the Netherlands and internationally. KPN incidents are investigated and breaches of policies and internal fraud 64 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 lead to disciplinary actions. The number of disciplinary investigations support for problems on the Internet, like cyber bullying. KPN increased in comparison to 2012 and was 594 (2012: 397). However, a supported in cooperation with knowledge partner ‘Mijn Kind Online’ share of this increase was caused by a change in the registration system. awareness and training on how to explore the opportunities of the internet. Our free, downloadable child-friendly web browser ‘MyBee’ A new law on data breach reporting was introduced in 2012; the supports parents in letting their children access the internet in a safe amount of potential data breaches reported in 2013 remained relatively and age appropriate way. Parental supervision when using our stable compared with 2012. The majority of the reported incidents products and services is part of our design of services, for instance appeared not to have led to an actual data leakage. Potential data in our interactive TV offerings. KPN supports the hotline ‘Meldpunt breaches are assessed instantly to determine whether the reported Kinderporno’ which aims to prevent and stop child sexual abuse. The incident is an actual data leakage. If it is an actual leakage, we take ‘Notice and Take Down’ code of conduct adopted by KPN (and many measures and authorities and other people involved are informed others) is an essential instrument in the ambition to prevent access about the leakage. to hosted material that is manifestly unlawful. Telecom fraud and abuse Besides the support given to our customers to defend themselves Like all operators, we face the inherent risk of fraudulent use of our against malware entering their systems, via products ‘PCveilig’ and products and services. The pace of developments in the portfolio ‘Toestelveilig’ for PC’s and mobile devices, it is essential to share together with convergence of services creates new opportunities for information indicating a possible contamination with customers as soon fraudsters, while existing types of fraud are not diminishing. A small as possible. The Abuse Team of KPN takes decisive action to assist its team of professionals within KPN Security works diligently to mitigate customers if information on contamination becomes available. Together this risk. with colleague operators and top level domain registrars, we launched the initiative for an abuse information exchange, which contributes to Privacy the intelligence gathering process, obtaining the latest information about cyber threats for our customers. It goes without saying that we respect our customers’ privacy and protect their personal and business data. We process the data of our Perception customers according to our privacy statement. We could also use this information to improve our service to customers, for example to advise We invest in the safety and security of our network. We also want them on the best contract for their needs, but we will only do so if the customers to feel that their data is in safe hands with KPN. In an customer agrees. We abide by all relevant privacy laws. In case of external independent research performed in 2013, 69% of the violations, we immediately take necessary actions. respondents felt that their data is safe with KPN.1 We thus did not reach our target of 70%. In 2014 we maintain our current KPI and Learning from incidents and Deep Packet Inspection (DPI) we aim to achieve a “yes” from 70% of respondents. In June 2013, the Dutch Data Protection Authority (CBP) announced its conclusions on its nearly two-year ongoing investigation on the usage To create awareness and share knowledge, the Chief Information of Deep Packet Inspection (DPI) by telecommunications operators in the Security Officer and the Privacy Officer held various external Netherlands. The four largest telecommunications operators (including presentations throughout 2013, on topics such as data breach KPN) were subject to this investigation. Although certain violations of notification acts, dos and don’ts on the usage of personal data, privacy law had been announced, the CBP concluded that KPN was the fighting cybercrime and protecting KPN’s network. only operator that had ended all violations during the investigation. The violations of KPN concerned the anonymization process after data For more information on Privacy & Security business initiatives gathering and the storage of source data for network purposes. The and achievements, see the segment chapters of this report. CBP also concluded that KPN did not violate the Communication Secret, nor the customers’ privacy by its use of DPI for network management Ambition purposes. Based on the findings of CBP, we created and implemented a set of Golden Rules for data processing throughout the company and In 2014, we will give a broader insight in our achievements on security implemented a new standard for anonymization of personal data. by setting targets on helping customers who were unintentionally infected by malware. For 2014, we aim to successfully handle 98% of Value of data abuse reports by KPN customers within 8 hours. In order to find out We continue to improve operational processes to facilitate customer how people feel their data is in safe hands with KPN, we will start choice in processing/using personal data. While being fully aware of measuring how many of our customers choose opt-in for sharing the privacy (demands) of our customers we also recognize that the data personal data on traffic and roaming with KPN. For 2014, we aim in our networks can provide valuable information for our customers, to have 250 thousand customers choosing this option. for society or for commerce. There is a balance to be found and KPN attempts to play a key role in this debate: how to reach the benefits of this ‘big data’ without jeopardizing the privacy of our customers? Internet safety KPN wants all its customers to enjoy and contribute to the benefits of the internet in our digitized world, in a safe and informed way. To support this, KPN has developed initiatives for, participated in and made contributions to a broad spectrum of actions. Together with 30 leading industry players, KPN joined Vice President of the European Commission Neelie Kroes in her invitation to collectively enhance internet safety for kids. This collective approach has been demonstrated on an EU and national level. In the Netherlands, for example, the reporting mechanism ‘Meldknop’ (www.meldknop.nl) was introduced and made available for young people seeking direct 1) Measured as ‘top 3 companies where my data are safest’ from a list of 12 key telecoms/internet providers in the Netherlands. KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 65 Risk Management and Compliance Principal risks The table on page 70 and further shows the principal strategic, operational, financial, financial reporting, regulatory and compliance risks KPN is facing and the mitigating factors and initiatives taken to manage these risks. Please note that this is not intended to be an exhaustive analysis of all risks affecting KPN and the principal risks are presented in random order. Internal Risk Management and Control System KPN’s Internal Risk Management and Control System is designed to avoid or mitigate rather than to eliminate the risks associated with the Risk Management realization of KPN’s strategic, operational, financial, financial reporting regulatory and compliance objectives. It provides reasonable but not and Compliance absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss. To manage risks in general, KPN has combined elements of KPN’s existing internal Risk Management and Control System into an overall control framework, which satisfies the relevant criteria as set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (based on the In this section, the risk appetite, principle Integrated Internal Control Framework). Some key components are risks and the Internal Risk Management described below. The Internal Risk Management and Control system is managed by Group Compliance & Risk Management; the Group and Control System are described. Compliance and Risk Officer directly reports to the CEO of KPN. Integrity, culture and awareness Risk appetite KPN has continued to improve its integrity, culture and awareness program. Issues like integrity and awareness are presented and KPN has set itself clear strategic objectives as explained in the strategy discussed in team meetings, workshops and specific trainings. section of this report. Pursuing any business objective inevitably leads KPN strives for a business culture where compliance and integrity to taking risks. Risks can jeopardize those objectives in various ways. is embedded in the DNA of the employees. Four major initiatives Each type of risk encountered, is being dealt with in a manner and with are ‘tone at the top’, code of conduct, whistleblower procedure the intensity that matches the nature and size of the risk in relation to and the Business Control Framework. the risk appetite of the KPN Board of Management. The risk appetite is the total residual impact of risks that KPN is willing to accept in the Tone at the top pursuit of its (strategic) objectives. The risk appetite per strategic The attitude and behavior of KPN top management serves as an objective or risk area is determined annually by the Board of example for all KPN employees. In 2013, various ‘meaningful Management. These risk areas comprise themes such as financial, conversations’ dinners were held, in which themes like company strategic, compliance and (information) security themes. culture, integrity, compliance, security and common values were discussed extensively among top management. At the end of 2013, Effective risk management is a key success factor for realizing the a combined workshop was held, in which they agreed on the strategic objectives. Risk areas with a low risk appetite and thus a low desired example behavior (so called ‘keystone habits’). KPN’s top acceptable residual risk require strong risk management. Risk areas management is now in the process of making the shift towards with a high risk appetite need less risk management effort. the agreed example behavior. Risk Management and Control System at KPN Board of Management oversight Strategic risk Assessment Market developments Mergers and Acquisitions Investments in licenses Intensiﬁed competition Macro-economic conditions Disruptive technologies Reputation risks Other strategic risks Operational and Financial risk Management Reliable ﬁnancial reporting Compliance risks Security and Operational risks Continuity risks Financial risks Other risks Integrity, culture and awareness 66 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 Code of Conduct compliance of the segments with the requirements of the GRIP KPN is conscious of its social and ethical responsibilities and wishes to framework and discusses emerging issues and their timely resolution. ensure that work practices across the Company are compliant with the KPN is continuously improving the effectiveness and efficiency of the law and regulations and consistent with social and ethical norms. For internal control frameworks. In 2013 KPN further enhanced the GRIP this purpose, KPN has a Code of Conduct, which sets out the key values: approach with more focus on ‘understanding personal, trust and simplicity. KPN can be held accountable for its the business’ and more focus on key risks. performance by all of its stakeholders (customers, shareholders, employees, business associates, competitors, environmental The stream ‘Internal control over financial reporting’ ensures with organizations, international business relations and the community a reasonable level of assurance that material misstatements in KPN’s in the broadest sense). The Code of Conduct is available on the KPN annual accounts are timely prevented or detected. Each quarter, Risk website (www.kpn.com). KPN continuously updates its Code of Conduct Management and Internal Audit assess the overall effectiveness of and the underlying compliance policies, based on new and changed the GRIP framework before publication of the quarterly figures. The laws and regulation and communicates these via classroom trainings internal evaluation conclusions were in line with the observations and e-learnings. In 2013 a new e-learning named ‘Get the Code’ was discussed in the Board Report of the external auditors as part of their launched. Over 15 thousand employees have successfully completed audit of the 2013 Financial Statements. this e-learning. Passing the ‘Get the Code’ exam is a annual requirement for most employees in the Netherlands. The stream ‘Compliance Risk Assessment framework’ (CRA) comprises an integrated framework which oversees risks related to compliance Whistleblower with the Dutch Telecommunications Act, competition laws and privacy The Speak-Up line (formerly known as the whistleblower procedure) regulations. For these risks, relevant processes and controls have been empowers all employees and external parties to (anonymously) report implemented and are continuously monitored. This means that the misconduct of KPN employees. The Speak-Up line was personally compliance controls are tested and assessed for effectiveness by promoted by the CEO of KPN, specifically asking people to speak up if dedicated staff all year round. Each quarter, KPN assesses the overall they observe (suspected) misconduct. Also, we simplified and improved effectiveness of the CRA framework. Also each quarter, a compliance the procedure to speak up. The number of reported issues increased report with a broader scope is drafted, monitoring the timeliness of in 2013 compared to previous years to 28 (2011: 5 and 2012: 3). We implementation of new laws and regulations as well as the quality of believe that the improved procedure and attention for the changes incident reporting and compliance training. These reports are reviewed in 2013 have contributed to the increase in reports and we will remain by Internal Audit and discussed with the Board of Management, to actively promote this topic. segment management and the ACM (Autoriteit Consument & Markt). During 2013, ACM maintained increased supervision which was Business Control Framework established in December 2011. The Business Control Framework (BCF) contains all corporate policies and guidelines that are mandatory for KPN segments and entities. The An external review was conducted to assess the effectiveness of BCF policies support the control and governance of the KPN Group, not KPN’s compliance organization. The overall outcome was positive only for reliable financial reporting, but also for compliance with laws and the report stated that no control measures were found to be and regulations and the realization of KPN’s objectives. fully ineffective and that the ‘three lines of defense’ model is established in the KPN organization. The results, consisting of both Strategic Risk assessments positive findings and points of attention were shared with the ACM Business planning and review cycles and the Board of Management. In order to fulfill KPN’s strategy, the Board of Management and the management of the various segments discuss and define targets and Each quarter, management of the segments provides the Board of objectives. These targets and objectives are detailed in a strategic Management with an assurance letter (Document of Representation) business plan that covers a three-year period. This is the basis for regarding the reliability of their financial reporting and compliance operational plans per segment. During monthly reviews, management with Telecommunication laws and internal policies. of each segment discusses segment performance with the Board of Management. Progress over time and performance compared to the Security and Continuity Risks business plan are also discussed. The business risk management In 2013, the security and continuity organization was strengthened approach of KPN is integrated in the Planning and Control cycle. This through the implementation of necessary structure and capabilities implies that every quarter, segments perform a ‘most likely’ forecast by the Chief Information Security Office (CISO). Key CISO achievements four to six quarters ahead on their main financials and key performance in 2013 are the creation of the KPN Security Policy, embedding a indicators (the ‘Rolling Forecast’). Combined with the Rolling Forecast, structured security testing program through the Portal Authority, segments identify the main risks and opportunities, so a bandwidth proving KPN’s excellence in security ‘hacking’ by achieving third place around expected performance can be determined. These risks and at the Global Cyberlympics competition and the publication of the CERT opportunities are discussed during the business reviews with the Annual Report. Board of Management. In 2014, the CISO will begin execution of the KPN Security Policy (KSP) Operational and Financial Risk Management implementation plan. This plan defines a dual track approach which is Operational and Financial Risk management comprises a wide range made up of a ‘security by design’ and a ‘security in operations’ stream. of risks, such as Compliance risks, Reliable Financial Reporting risks, The KSP will be implemented in a phased approach by conducting Security and Continuity risks, Corporate Social Responsibility risks, activities that have achievable objectives which are part of KPN’s overall financial risks, tax risks and other risks. security strategy. The CISO ethical hacking team, the REDteam will expand its security test capabilities by setting up a malware analysis Reliable Financial Reporting and Compliance (GRIP) and hardware hacking lab, whilst the KPN CERT team will expand its KPN has an integrated risk management approach and control framework offering by adding forensic services to its capabilities. called ‘GRIP’ (Governance and compliance, Risk management, Internal control and Processes). GRIP comprises two main streams: ‘Internal The CISO Office is working on the project ‘KPN Schoon’ to improve the control over financial reporting’ and ‘Compliance Risk Assessment level of IT security of KPN. The program aims to prevent ‘opportunistic Framework.’ The controls within GRIP are tested and assessed for hackers’ from successfully hacking KPN. ‘KPN Schoon’ has already effectiveness by dedicated staff year-round. The CFO of KPN reviews scanned 90% of the KPN NL network for IP security risks. In the fourth KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 67 Risk Management and Compliance quarter of 2013, the project team started solving the main IP security Penalties risks. Currently 30% of the identified risks have been mitigated. By In 2013, KPN was subject to 11 penalty-cases. These penalties amounted implementing measures such as patching, hardening, segmenting and to approximately EUR 46 million. Out of this EUR 46 million, EUR 29.7 switching off systems, KPN in the Netherlands achieves a better security million relates to a fine by ACM relating to an alleged breach of the level on the outside facing part of the KPN network and the internal Telecommunications Law in relation to a public tender by the Dutch systems and connections are better protected against cyber security government in 2010. KPN has appealed this decision, as it believes the incidents. The scope is all systems in the Netherlands for which KPN fine is disproportionate. EUR 8.5 million refers to a penalty-case that has operational management responsibility, including those that KPN dates back to 2010 and was already reported in our 2010 report. In manages for its customers. Starting in the first quarter 2014, systems 2013, this penalty became irrevocable.1 All penalties were for breaches of all KPN participations and subsidiaries in the Netherlands will be of the law relating to telecommunication. Furthermore, KPN was taken into account as well. A full inventory of all systems of the relevant involved in nine court cases in connection either with its designation subsidiaries will be completed in the second quarter of 2014. Scanning as a party with significant market power on a particular market, or with and mitigation is executed in cooperation with these subsidiaries. the obligations imposed as a consequence and compliance therewith. Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) In 2013 the Dutch Advertising Code Committee gave a ruling Our focus on coping with major societal challenges is not free of (partially on appeal) on 12 advertising statements by KPN. In five obligations. If we would fail to address these concerns, KPN could cases the Committee ruled that the statement in question was face serious risks. We consider energy scarcity, attracting and retention wholly or partially in breach of the Dutch Advertising Code. of talented employees and protecting privacy and security to be the most important CSR-related risks for KPN today. By implementing our In the fourth quarter of 2013 ACM finished its investigation into energy strategy, we reduce our dependency on fossil fuel and reduce suspected cartel activities between the three mobile operators our vulnerability to increasing energy prices as a result of scarcity. (KPN, Vodafone, T-Mobile) in the mobile telecommunications market. With our ongoing efforts in employee engagement, KPN tries to ACM has concluded that there was no indication of any price-fixing reduce the risk of loss of commitment of employees. Finally, while agreements in this market. Nevertheless, the three operators have society rapidly becomes dependent on a vital ICT infrastructure, made a commitment to ACM that they will refrain from making public security threats increase simultaneously. We mitigate this risk by statements about future market behavior. In the first quarter of 2014 an extensive privacy and security program in order to safeguard KPN will incorporate this commitment into its compliance program, customers’ confidential information. which includes, amongst others, specific training with regard to this matter. Financial Risk Management Important financial risks are managed by the Corporate Treasury Internal Audit function department. Starting points are the identified financial risks related Internal Audit (KPN Audit) provides assurance to both the Board of to finance agreements, currency positions and insurance and their Management and the Audit Committee concerning the ‘In Control’ volatility, which is supported by scenario analyses. Clear boundaries status of KPN’s segments and processes. The Chief Auditor reports are set by various policies related to currency risks, interest rate risks, to the CEO and has unrestricted access to the Board of Management counterparty risks and liquidity risks as approved by the Board of and the Audit Committee. KPN Audit conducts its activities in a Management. Adherence to those boundaries is frequently monitored risk-based manner and in close cooperation with the external auditor, both prospectively and retrospectively. based on a continuous evaluation of perceived business risks. Auditors have unrestricted access to all documents and records, properties and For more information regarding Financial Risk Management at KPN, staff. KPN Audit plays an important role in assessing the quality and reference is made to Note 29 of the Consolidated Financial Statements. effectiveness of KPN’s Internal Risk Management and Control System. The Internal Audit function conducts systematic and ad hoc financial, Tax risks IT and operational audits and special investigations. Furthermore, Tax risks are monitored by the Corporate Fiscal Affairs department. KPN Audit conducts periodic reviews on the quality of GRIP. Audit Dutch tax risks are managed and governed based on a covenant findings are discussed with responsible management, including ‘Horizontaal Toezicht’ between KPN and the Dutch Tax Authorities with directly responsible Board members, and every quarter the main mutual responsibilities. KPN is committed to address tax issues at an findings are reported and discussed with the Board of Management early phase and comply with relevant tax laws. The Tax Authorities are and the Audit Committee. committed to give rapid clarification on tax issues identified by KPN. Disclosure Committee Results The Disclosure Committee examines all relevant reports on financial Main results of KPN Risk Management were that we are well on the way information which are disclosed externally, to ensure that they are to a high integrity corporate culture, we have clearly identified strategic accurate, timely and complete. In this perspective, the Committee risks and continuously monitor them. We have no material errors in the reviews the disclosure controls and procedures. Based on the findings, financial reporting nor material breaches with regard to compliance the Disclosure Committee advises the Board of Management, the Audit risks related to Telecom Law and privacy regulations. Other operational Committee and the Supervisory Board. As in 2012, in 2013 the risks are properly monitored by business management or Corporate Committee consisted of the directors of Corporate Control, Corporate Center departments. Treasury, Internal Audit, Corporate Legal, Corporate Communication, Investor Relations, Corporate Fiscal Affairs, the Secretary to the Board of Management and the finance directors of the segments and the Divisions. The Committee met periodically in 2013 and reviewed disclosure controls and procedures and proposed public disclosures. 1) Due to a change in definitions, this penalty is included in both our 2010 and 2013 report. 68 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 In Control Statement and Responsibility Statement The Board of Management is responsible for KPN’s Internal Risk Management and Control System. This system is designed to manage the risks that may prevent KPN from achieving its objectives. However, this system cannot provide absolute assurance that material misstatements, fraud and violations of laws and regulations can be avoided. The Board of Management reviewed and analyzed KPN’s: ýý Strategic, operational, financial, financial reporting and regulatory and compliance risks, as discussed in the paragraph ‘Principal risks’; and ýý The design and operating effectiveness of the internal risk management and control system, as discussed in the paragraph ‘Internal Risk Management and Control System’ of this Annual Report. The outcome of this review and analysis was shared with the Audit Committee and Supervisory Board and discussed with KPN’s external auditors. With reference to best practice provision II.1.5 of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code, the Board of Management, to the best of its knowledge, believes that the Internal Risk Management and Control System, with regard to financial reporting, worked properly in 2013 and that the Internal Risk Management and Control System provides a reasonable assurance that the financial reporting does not contain any errors of material importance. With reference to section 5.25c paragraph 2c of the Financial Markets Supervision Act, the Board of Management states that, to the best of its knowledge: ýý The annual financial statements of 2013 give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of KPN and its consolidated companies; and ýý The Annual Report gives a true and fair view of the position as at December 31, 2013, the development during 2013 of KPN and its Group companies included in the annual financial statements, together with a description of principal risks KPN faces. The Hague, February 26, 2014 E. Blok Chairman of the Board of Management and Chief Executive Officer T. Dirks Member of the Board of Management and Chief Executive Officer E-Plus J.F.E. Farwerck Member of the Board of Management KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 69 Risk Management and Compliance Risks and countermeasures KPN Group Category Risk Countermeasure Intensified ýý KPN could face an increased competition in ýý Maintain balance between profitability and incentives competition (mainly consumer and lower end of business market, to customers Consumer market) caused by new market entrants in (mobile) markets ýý Innovative products and services to meet changing or by market consolidations in fixed market; customer needs competition based on price, increase of investment ýý Fast roll out of 4G in customer acquisition and retention costs by ýý Superior network quality and improving NPS competition, subscription options, coverage and ýý Offer bundled services (triple-play, quad-play) service quality could lead to lower profitability and ýý Invest in quality of service and execution power lower market shares. ýý Multi-brand strategy ýý Investments to upgrade KPN network speed to make copper more competitive ýý Further improve marketing and sales effectiveness ýý Integration of Business Market and Corporate Market ýý Strengthen distribution power with business partners, online and shops ýý Further enhance regionalization strategy and mobile data penetration in Belgium. Adverse macroýý Continued gloomy macro-economic conditions: ýý Innovation, develop new propositions economic If economic climate would continue to decline, ýý Swift response to new market developments and trends conditions (mainly this could lead to lower revenue growth and lower ýý Cost-cutting initiatives Business market) profitability affecting our businesses both in the ýý Simplification program, this will lead to improved time-toNetherlands and abroad and may lead to an market, better quality of service and a simplified and agile impairment of assets. For business market the organization. Additionally, this will also lead to a structurally addition of new portfolio might not lead to lower level of operational costs. revenue growth within the expected time frame. Financing KPN and ýý The pressure on KPN’s self-imposed financial ýý KPN has significantly strengthened its capital structure during volatile financial framework may increase, in case of higher net debt 2013 through the issuance of equity and hybrid bonds markets levels and/or lower profitability. In that case, KPN ýý Maintaining a strong liquidity position and prefunding would probably not be able to maintain its current maturing bond redemptions credit ratings, which could negatively impact ýý Commitment to investment grade credit levels pricing and availability of financing resources. ýý Monitoring and forecasting of metrics used by rating agencies ýý Anticipating future changes in methodologies used by rating agencies ýý Maintaining discipline in allocating capital to investment opportunities ýý Sale of E-Plus. ýý Uncertainty in financial markets, which could ýý Maintaining a strong liquidity position negatively impact pricing and availability of KPN’s ýý Smooth redemption profile and upcoming bond redemptions funding sources. financed well ahead ýý Diversification in funding sources, e.g. tapping different currencies, credit facilities ýý Active monitoring of counterparties, including measures to reduce counterparty risk ýý Sale of E-Plus. ýý KPN holds substantial cash balances, which could ýý Manage counterparty risks by spreading excess cash among further increase following the sale of E-Plus. This sufficient number of strong counterparties. could lead to high counterparty risks. 70 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 Category Risk Countermeasure Reputation risk ýý KPN’s technical infrastructure and IT may be ýý Monitor performance of networks (e.g. performance, traffic due to operational vulnerable to damage or service interruptions, growth and utilization rate) and IT and quality related operational issues and quality related incidents. ýý Benchmark network quality and maintain investment level incidents These incidents may include network failure (e.g. in network hacking, failure of power supply, low coverage, ýý Strengthen the IT infrastructure and continue implementation cyber attacks that disrupt (parts of) the internet or of new security policy insufficient customer services. Such incidents ýý Back-up and recovery plans in case of emergencies would have a negative impact on KPN’s reputation ýý For business continuity in the Netherlands: internally and customer satisfaction and KPN’s results. continuity and disaster recovery programs including governance and training. ýý Regional roaming in which a part of the mobile voice traffic can be transferred to other operators in case of calamities and ‘Commissie Vitaal’ are examples of external programs ýý Continued acceleration of network roll-out in Belgium. ýý Simplification and quality: KPN may accomplish ýý Execution of quality improvement programs like ‘First Time insufficient progress in realizing necessary quality Right’ and ‘Quality Circle’ improvements (NPS, First Time Right) and time to ýý Focus on drivers to improve Net Promoter Score (NPS) markets of new products and services is too long, ýý Centralization of innovation and direct innovations and which could lead to lower customer satisfaction/ simplification on Executive level. NPS and lower motivation of employees. Sale of E-Plus ýý The closing of the sale of E-Plus is conditional upon ýý KPN will monitor the investigations of the relevant competition satisfaction or waiver of certain conditions. If the authorities of the European Commission and/or Germany transaction will not be closed and finalized, this ýý Board of Management will closely monitor progress and status may lead to impairment risks on the assets and of the sale and will closely support and cooperate with goodwill of E-Plus. Also, if the transaction will be Telefónica S.A. terminated, KPN may need to participate in future frequency auctions in Germany (2013/2014); KPN may potentially not be able to acquire or to renew the required frequency blocks or may have to pay too high a price for the acquired spectrum. ýý As part of the consideration for the sale of E-Plus, KPN will receive a 20.5% stake in Telefónica Deutschland. This 20.5% stake will be recorded in KPN’s books at fair value based on the listed share price of Telefónica Deutschland at completion of the sale. The fair value of this stake at completion of the sale could be lower than KPN management’s estimated fair value at December 31, 2013 in which case an additional impairment of the E-Plus disposal group would have to be recognized. The amount of any additional impairment depends on the listed share price of Telefónica Deutschland at deal close. Reference is made to Note 18 in the Consolidated Financial Statements for further details. Acquisition of ýý The acquisition of the majority of the shares in ýý If the acquisition would not be possible, KPN would continue majority share in Reggefiber might not be approved by the regulator. the current joint fiber model with Reggefiber. Reggefiber KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 71 Risk Management and Compliance Category Risk Countermeasure Inability to ýý KPN is pursuing a challenger strategy in the Belgian ýý Development of KPIs to monitor the progress and success compete effectively mobile telecommunications market, and competes of an enhanced challenger strategy in Belgium with large, established players. KPN’s competitors ýý Continued acceleration of network roll out in Belgium in Belgium are larger established network ýý Fixed – mobile integration operators that benefit from considerable financing, ýý Mobile broadband network minimally on par with competition marketing and personnel advantages, broad ýý Customer differentiators like price/value leadership and brand-name recognition, perceived network enhanced customer experience quality and a deeply entrenched customer base. ýý Business model differentiators like improvement of brand KPN may prove unable to compete effectively with positioning and segmentation, regionalization and simplicity, these established players, resulting in a material cost leadership initiatives and innovative wholesale and adverse effect on its business, financial condition operational partnerships and results of operations. ýý Encourage the DNA of a challenger in the company’s culture ýý New Mobile Virtual Network Operator (MVNO) contracts. Lack of return ýý High investments in fiber, copper or mobile ýý Balance the investments in copper upgrades and fiber-to-theon investments infrastructure, including licenses, may not be home rollout recovered. The mobile market is characterized by ýý Continuous monitoring of performance, e.g. utilization increasing competition, accelerating changes in and return on investment per area customer behavior, increasing prices pressure and ýý Minimize risks in business cases shrinking markets, on the other hand large scale ýý Maintain balance between profitability and growth investments in infra-structure are required to meet ýý Decision-making based on business cases (including capacity demands. For the fixed market, fiber continuous monitoring) roll-out may not meet expectations and activations ýý Develop strategic partnerships and investigate options may fall behind, not reaching the required for network sharing coverage ratio. This could lead to impairments ýý Centralization of management of capital expenditures. of assets and increased liabilities related to the options, investment in licenses and goodwill. Non-compliance ýý KPN may face issues in relation to non-compliance ýý Improving and maintaining a robust control framework with regulation with regulation or lack of information security dedicated to complying with Telco regulation (CRA framework) and impact of new (theft or loss of information caused by e.g. ýý Proactive stakeholder and reputation management including regulatory decisions cyber-attacks and similar events). These incidents dialogue with regulators on predictable and pro-competitive could have a negative impact on KPN’s reputation (wholesale-based) regulation to minimize interventions in retail and relation with regulators and/or supervisors markets, consistently over time ýý New regulatory decisions (e.g. related to MTA and ýý Strengthening the IT infrastructure and continued roaming) in the EU or the Netherlands could impact implementation of a new security policy KPN’s future operations and profitability. ýý Strengthened and centralized organization for Compliance and Risk management –– Maintenance of internal control framework –– Further roll out of compliance training sessions for staff and management –– An e-learning about the company codes for all staff members of KPN in the Netherlands –– Conducting of internal compliance investigations –– Surveys and culture improvement programs. Disruptive ýý KPN’s business model and financial performance ýý Develop new business models and new pricing models technologies in the past two years have been impacted by ýý Closely monitor market developments and trends in and failure of (disruptive) technologies, such as smartphones and customer demands introduction of OTT (over the top) services. KPN’s response to new ýý Build lean and mean and flexible business organization new products technologies and market developments and ability ýý Develop strategic partnerships and services to introduce new competitive products or services ýý Maintain multi-brand strategy with differentiated propositions in the market will be essential to KPN’s and develop fallback scenarios performance and profitability in the long run ýý Develop strategic partnerships and non-organic growth. ýý The introduction of new products and services such as new propositions may not be successful and/or timely. This could result in a market share loss and reduced profitability. 72 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 Category Risk Countermeasure Dependence ýý Supplier and outsourcing/offshoring risks: ýý Establish a strong demand organization that defines, enforces on suppliers KPN could depend too heavily on the ability to and monitors compliance with terms of contracts with suppliers obtain adequate supplies of telecommunications and outsourcing parties and prepare re-transition plans as equipment, related software and IT services; fallback scenario KPN’s contractors’ ability to build and roll out ýý Perform audits on outsourcing contracts telecommunications networks on schedule, and ýý Implement a well-defined outsourcing process (toll gates, suppliers’ ability to deliver dependable technical risk analyses, etc.) support. This could lead to inability to deliver ýý Reduce number of suppliers and improve supplier the required services at the right price and selection criteria quality level. ýý Create supplier default scenarios. Low equity/ ýý Changes in assumptions such as profitability, long ýý Improve profitability of the KPN Group impairment term growth and discount rate could negatively ýý Implement a solid investment policy. of assets impact the value of Cash Generating Units and trigger an impairment. Pensions ýý Specifically for the defined benefit schemes of KPN, ýý Closely monitor the development of the pension funds, (unexpected) movements in interest rates, equity including coverage ratios values, inflation rates and mortality rates could ýý Implement a project team to evaluate KPN’s pension risks, lead to volatility in KPN’s equity, cash positions and determine the strategy and investigate risk-mitigating options income statement. At the end of 2013, the coverage ýý Transfer of pension obligations to insurance companies. ratios of the largest KPN pension schemes in the Netherlands were such that no recovery payments are necessary. However, a decrease in the coverage ratios below the minimum required ratios, for example due to turbulence in the financial markets, could lead to further recovery payments. For further information about KPN’s pension schemes, including the funding requirements and a sensitivity analysis, reference is made to Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 73 Regulatory developments The regulated price caps will further decrease annually until July 2014 and include wholesale as well as retail caps for voice, SMS and data tariffs. Since July 2012, MVNOs also can benefit from the regulated wholesale rates. As of July 2014, retail roaming services must be offered separately from national services and can be obtained from alternative roaming providers. Furthermore, operators need to facilitate that data roaming services can directly be offered by foreign operators in their territories. The above-mentioned proposed regulation on the internal market for electronic communications includes exemptions from the structural measures for operators that voluntarily would offer ‘roam-like-home’ Regulatory developments retail tariffs under certain conditions and prohibits retail tariffs for incoming calls while roaming abroad. Market analysis decisions fixed markets (the Netherlands) Introduction In the Netherlands, the national regulatory authority OPTA, the national competition authority NMa and the Consumer Authority have merged Regulatory measures having the largest potential impact on KPN into the Authority Consumer and Market (ACM) as of April 1, 2013. are the regulation of international roaming, obligations relating to significant market power and the licensing regimes for the use of KPN is designated by ACM to have significant market power on some frequencies. The European Roaming Regulation is directly applicable of the national fixed telecommunications markets. The current decisions in all member states. Regulation of operators with significant market thereto came into force on January 1, 2012 (unbundled access to copper power is applied nationally, after a national market analysis, but under networks and FttH), May 1, 2012 (wholesale telephony markets) and coordination by the European Commission. In the Netherlands, this January 1, 2013 (high-quality wholesale broadband access and affects KPN in some fixed markets; in all our core markets we are wholesale leased lines). On these markets, access obligations, tariff regulated on mobile call termination services. Licensing regimes regulation (partly by safety caps based on the 2011 tariff levels) and are also of a national nature. margin squeeze tests are imposed. Tariff regulation on the wholesale telephony markets has been lifted for the market for single calls (e.g. Next generation access networks and the single market PSTN), but has been maintained for the markets for two and more for electronic communications simultaneous calls (e.g. ISDN2 and more). The joint venture Reggefiber has significant market power on the market of unbundled access to On September 11, 2013, EU Commissioner Kroes presented a reform its FttH network. Furthermore, KPN has been designated as having package for the European regulation, consisting of a Recommendation significant market power in the retail telephony markets for two and to promote investment in Next Generation Access networks (‘NGAs’) more simultaneous calls, for which markets a margin squeeze test and a proposed regulation to stimulate the internal market for is imposed. On the market for low quality wholesale, broadband electronic communications, to achieve a ‘Connected Continent’. obligations for KPN have been lifted. The Recommendation of the Commission aims at providing durable On December 18, 2013 the Trade and Industry Appeals Court (CBb) regulatory guidance to enhance the transition to the next generation annulled the decision that came into force on January 1, 2013, by of high-speed networks, by recommending balanced regulation on which KPN was designated to have significant market power in the unbundled access to copper networks and reducing regulation on market of unbundled access to KPN FttO networks, by which this NGAs if defined non-discrimination obligations are applied. market is unregulated unless ACM decides differently. Appeals, by KPN and other market parties, to the fixed telephony and high quality The proposed regulation includes directly applicable regulation wholesale broadband and leased lines decisions are still running. on a number of issues that the Commission analyzed as prohibiting a single EU market for electronic communications. The proposal On December 20, 2011, OPTA published its conclusion that the Dutch includes a new EU Authorization for European communication television markets will not be regulated. Appeals to this conclusion providers, a strengthened coordination of frequency allocation were dismissed by the CBb on November 5, 2012, thereby leaving (with veto powers for the Commission), harmonized European cable operators unregulated. wholesale access products, detailed harmonized end-user protection rules (including on international call tariffs, net neutrality, contract On August 5, 2013, ACM decided to regulate termination access tariffs, duration and switching of providers) and an amendment to the for all operators offering fixed telephony, on a ‘pure BULRIC’ cost roaming regulation. Many details of the proposal are criticized by methodology as recommended by the European Commission on a tariff stakeholders, but defended by the Commission as a package that level of 0.108 EURct/min. However, in August 2011, the CBb had decided includes ‘sour’ and ‘sweet’ for stakeholders. The proposal is aimed on an earlier decision of (at that time) OPTA that applying the pure BULRIC to entering into force on July 1, 2014 (and July 1, 2016 for the end methodology was violating Dutch law and ordered OPTA to apply a ‘plus user protection), but will probably not be adopted formally before BULRIC’ approach. On August 27, 2013, the CBb judged in an injunctive that date as it has to be accepted by Parliament and the Council procedure that ACM’s new decision seems materially not different from where it is still under discussion in a first reading. the earlier decision and decided as an interim measure that the tariffs should be set at the ‘plus BULRIC’ level of 0.302 EURct/min instead. International roaming on mobile networks Market analysis decisions mobile markets The Roaming Regulation 2012 extended the price regulation of the (mobile call termination) previous regulation, but also introduced ‘structural measures’ aimed at creating more competitive (retail) roaming markets as of July 2014. In Belgium and the Netherlands, KPN has been designated as having Thereby retail price cap control is expected to be no longer necessary significant market power in the markets for call termination on its by July 2017. individual mobile networks. Apart from various obligations in relation 74 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 to transparency and the obligation to offer direct interconnection Government was entitled to impose an additional license fee (and upon reasonable request, in all countries tariff regulation is part of the that the Act of March 15, 2010 is compliant with EU law) provided decisions of regulators. This table provides details of the latest tariffs: this fee is proportionate, non-discriminatory and is effectively intended to ensure that the 2G frequencies are used in an optimal Tariffs in EURct/min, as of the dates specified way. The Belgian Constitutional Court ruled on October 17, 2013 The Netherlands Sept. 1, 2011 Sept. 1, 2012 Sept. 1, 2013 that the Belgian Government was entitled to impose a license fee All mobile operators 2.70 2.40 1.8611 for the renewal of the 2G licenses of BASE Company, Belgacom and Mobistar. Following this judgment, BASE Company must pay Belgium2 Jan. 1, 2012 Jan. 1, 2013 approximately EUR 62 million for the renewal of its 2G license from 2.92 (3.11 after 1.08 (1.18 after July 2013 until July 2018. BASE Company indexation) Indexation) 2.46 (2.62 after 1.08 (1.18 after Proximus Indexation) Indexation On November 12, 2013, BASE Company, Belgacom and Mobistart each 2.62 (2.79 after 1.08 (1.18 after acquired a 20-year 2x10MHz 800MHz license for a total consideration Mobistar indexation) Indexation of EUR 120 million. 1) ACM decision of August 5, 2013, partially suspended by CBb and replaced by Germany (discontinued operations) the ‘plus BULRIC’ level mentioned in the table. 2) BIPT decision of June 29, 2010. Market analysis decisions mobile market In Germany, E-Plus has also been designated as having significant With its decision of 2010, the National Regulatory Authority of Belgium market power in the markets for call termination on its mobile adhered to the EU Commission’s Recommendation on the regulatory network. This table provides details of the latest tariffs: treatment of fixed and mobile termination rates of May 7, 2009, to apply a ‘pure BULRIC approach’, which no longer takes into account various Tariffs in EURct/min, as of the dates specified costs which had so far been considered when setting MTRs. On May 16, Germany1 Dec. 1, 2010 Dec. 1, 2012 Dec. 1, 2013 2012, the Court of Appeal rejected the grounds of annulment petitioned E-Plus 3.36 1.85 1.79 by BASE Company. However, a procedure before the Constitutional T-Mobile 3.38 1.85 1.79 Court on procedural issues led to the case being sent back to the Court Vodafone 3.36 1.85 1.79 of Appeal, which will have to annul the BIPT decision for procedural O2 (Germany) 3.39 1.85 1.79 reasons, but may allow BIPT to subsequently adopt a refection decision. In February 2013, BIPT started preparation for a new cost model to be 1) BNetzA decision of July 19, 2013. used as a basis for the regulation of MTR during the period 2014-2017. A new final BIPT decision is estimated not to be adopted before mid-2014. BNetzA ruled on July 19, 2013, that the earlier (November 16, 2012) announced preliminary MTA tariffs retroactively apply as of December 1, In the Netherlands, as for fixed call termination, ACM decided on 2012, notwithstanding the fact that the EC had expressed serious doubts August 5, 2013, to regulate mobile call termination tariffs on a ‘pure for not applying ‘pure BULRIC’. The decisions are based on a bottom-up BULRIC’ cost methodology at a tariff level of 1.019 EURct/min. On cost model which identifies the cost of efficient service provision instead August 27, 2013, the CBb in an injunctive procedure decided as an of the pure BULRIC recommended by the EU Commission. interim measure that the tariffs should be set at the ‘plus BULRIC’ level of 1.861 EURct/min instead. For other reasons, all market parties have nevertheless launched preliminary and main proceedings against these BnetzA decisions. Licenses for mobile communications (the Netherlands) It is unclear when respective court decisions are to be announced. In the Netherlands, KPN holds licenses for GSM900, DCS1800, UMTS, 2.6 As to the German 2010 mobile call termination markets decisions, the GHz, DVB-T (Broadcast) and a number of licenses of minor significance. court has already dismissed all preliminary proceedings by all market The majority of mobile licenses were granted after an auction in parties. It is unclear when the court will decide on the merits. Such October – December 2012, which resulted in the following spectrum: decision could apply retroactively. KPN Vodafone T-Mobile Tele-2 Licenses for mobile communications 800 MHz 2*101 2*10 – 2*10 In Germany, KPN’s subsidiary E-Plus operates a mobile network on 900 MHz 2*10 2*10 2*15 – the basis of frequency usage rights in the 900, 1800, 2100, 2600 and 1800 MHz 2*20 2*20 2*30 – 3500 MHz bands. The usage rights have expiration dates between 1900 MHz – – 14,6 – 2016 and 2025. 2100 MHz 2*5 2*5 – – 2600 MHz 30 – 25 – On June 24, 2013, BNetzA published a draft decision in the proceedings which deal with the allocation of all 900 MHz and a major part of the 1) Amounts of spectrum in MHz. 1800 MHz frequencies after 2016 for public consultation. BNetzA announced a decision to proceed two-fold: on the one hand, it would The new licenses (except for 1900 and 2100 Mhz) have a duration until prolong 2x5 MHz 900 spectrum for every incumbent MNO for about 2030, in line with the 2600 MHz licenses that were auctioned in 2010. 15 years to uphold ubiquitous voice continuity. On the other hand, it The 1900 and 2100 MHz licenses have a duration until January 1, 2017 would auction off the remaining 900, the 1800 and the new 700/1500 and are expected to be auctioned before that date. MHz frequencies (if available) also for about 15 years. In this context, BNetzA assumes that 2x30/2x40 MHz 700 MHz spectrum (Digital Licenses for mobile communications (Belgium) Dividend 2) and 1x40 MHz 1500 could become available for mobile use shortly if a consensus among all relevant stakeholders (including In Belgium, BASE Company holds licenses for GSM, UMTS and LTE broadcasters) can be reached. frequencies in the 800, 900, 1800, 2100 and 2600 spectrum bands. Under the law of March 15, 2010, the existing 2G license has been In the consultation, a number of stakeholders have pointed to the renewed. BASE Company challenged the Act of March 15, 2010 before potential impact of the Telefónica Deutschland-E-Plus merger on these the Constitutional Court. Belgacom and Mobistar started a similar court proceedings and asked BNetzA to stop the clock until the merger procedure. The Constitutional Court referred questions to the European proceedings have been finalized. Since then, no further procedural Court of Justice regarding the compatibility of the Act with EU law. The steps have been announced by BNetzA. European Court of Justice ruled on March 21, 2013 that the Belgian KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 75 Governance Shareholders Share capital The KPN authorized capital stock totals EUR 2.4 billion, divided into 5 billion ordinary shares of EUR 0.24 each and 5 billion preference shares B of EUR 0.24 each. As of December 31, 2013, a total of 4,270,254,664 ordinary shares and 4,258,098,272 preference shares B were outstanding. The Extraordinary General Meeting of Shareholder held on January 10, 2014 has adopted the resolution to cancel all outstanding preferred shares B, as well as to reduce the nominal value of the share to EUR 0.04 each, and the authorized capital to EUR 720 million, divided into 9 billion ordinary shares and 9 billion preference shares B. These amendments are expected to become effective in Corporate Governance March 2014. Dutch law prohibits KPN from casting a vote on shares it holds. The ordinary shares and the preference shares B carry the right to cast one vote each. For a description of the preference shares, please see ‘The Foundation Preference Shares B KPN’. The ordinary shares are registered or payable to bearer. Shareholders may request the Our governance is based on the ‘Large Company to convert their registered shares to bearer shares but Company Regime’, balancing the interest of not vice versa. all stakeholders. We comply with almost all The General Meeting of Shareholders best practices of the Corporate Governance The General Meeting of Shareholders has the authority to appoint members of the Supervisory Board upon binding nomination by the Code. And where we deviate, we have Supervisory Board and to dismiss the Supervisory Board. The General good grounds to do so – in the interest Meeting of Shareholders is also entitled to approve the remuneration policy and share (option) plans for the Board of Management. of our Company and its stakeholders.’ Furthermore, a number of decisions are subject to the approval of the General Meeting of Shareholders, including decisions on company Jasper Spanbroek, Chief Legal Officer & Company Secretary transforming transactions, adoption of annual accounts and dividend proposals and various corporate matters such as proposals to amend The corporate governance framework of KPN is based on the the articles of association of the Company, to (de)merge or to dissolve requirements of the Dutch Civil Code, the Dutch Corporate Governance the Company or to reduce the issued capital of the Company. Code as well as applicable securities laws. Furthermore, the Company is governed by its Articles of Association and internal procedures, such as Within six months of the end of a fiscal year, an Annual General the by-laws of the Board of Management and the Supervisory Board. Meeting of Shareholders is held, where the discussion of the Annual Report and approval of the Financial Statements are put on the agenda. Legal structure of the Company Other General Meetings of Shareholders are held as often as the Supervisory Board or Board of Management deem necessary. The Royal KPN N.V. is a public limited liability company established under Board of Management and the Supervisory Board determine the the laws of the Netherlands, with ordinary shares listed on NYSE agenda of the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders. Shareholders Euronext Amsterdam. The Articles of Association of KPN were last who individually or collectively represent at least 1% of the issued amended on April 24, 2013. capital or who, according to the Official Price List of NYSE Euronext Amsterdam represent at least a value of EUR 50 million have the right KPN has a two-tier management structure with a Board of to propose items for the agenda. Every shareholder has the right to Management and a Supervisory Board. KPN qualifies as a ‘large attend a General Meeting of Shareholders in person or through company’ (structuurvennootschap) within the meaning of the Dutch written proxy, to address the meeting and to exercise voting rights. Civil Code and applies the relevant rules of Dutch corporate law. The corporate governance system of KPN includes the General Meeting of Adoption of Financial Statements and discharge Shareholders, the Board of Management and the Supervisory Board. of responsibility The Board of Management is entrusted with the management of the Within four months from the end of every fiscal year, the Board of Company. The Supervisory Board oversees strategic and commercial Management prepares Financial Statements accompanied by an Annual policymaking by the Board of Management and the way in which it Report. The Financial Statements are submitted to the Supervisory manages and directs KPN’s operations and affiliated/associated Board for approval. The Supervisory Board submits the approved companies. In the performance of their duties the members of the Financial Statements to the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders Board of Management and the Supervisory Board are guided by the for adoption together with the Annual Report for discussion. At the interest of the Company and the enterprise connected therewith. same time, the Board of Management submits the approved Financial The Board of Management is accountable to the General Meeting Statements to the Central Works Council for information purposes. of Shareholders in accordance with Dutch legislation. Adoption of the Financial Statements does not automatically discharge the Board of Management or the Supervisory Board from liability. This Please see section ‘Composition of the Boards’ starting on page 80 requires a separate resolution by the General Meeting of Shareholders. for information on the composition of the Board of Management and the Supervisory Board. 76 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 Purchase of shares in the Company’s own capital Management The shareholders authorized the Board of Management (for a period of 18 months until October 10, 2014) to purchase shares in the The Board of Management, supervised and advised by the Supervisory Company’s own capital with the aim to support KPN’s management Board, manages KPN’s strategic, commercial, financial and organizational and or employee incentive plans and in accordance with the Articles matters and appoints senior managers. The Supervisory Board appoints of Association of the Company, at a price per share of at least EUR 0.01 and discharges members of the Board of Management and establishes and at most the highest of (i) the Quoted Share Price plus 10% and (ii), their individual remuneration within the boundaries of the remuneration if purchases are made on the basis of a program entered into with a policies approved by the General Meeting of Shareholders and the single counterparty or using a financial intermediary, the average of recommendations by the Remuneration and Organizational the Volume Weighted Average Share Price during the effective course Development Committee. of the program. The Quoted Share Price is defined as the average of the closing prices of KPN shares as reported in the official price list of Executive Committee Euronext Amsterdam over the five trading days prior to the acquisition Whereas the Board of Management is charged with the management date. The Volume Weighted Average Share Price is defined as the of the Company, the Executive Committee (ExCo) is entrusted with volume weighted average price of trades in KPN shares on Euronext providing support, expertise and recommendations to the Board Amsterdam between 9:00 am (CET) and 5:30 pm (CET) adjusted for of Management regarding: block, cross and auction trades. ýý Setting, implementing and achieving KPN’s (long term) objectives and strategy Supervisory Board ýý Ensuring that business issues and practices are shared across the Company The Supervisory Board oversees strategic and commercial policymaking ýý Discussing, sponsoring and implementing KPN policies, particularly by the Board of Management and the way in which it manages and related to risks directs KPN’s operations and affiliated/associated companies. Members ýý Preparing the annual accounts, the annual budget and important of the Supervisory Board are appointed by the Annual General Meeting capital investments of Shareholders upon binding nomination by the Supervisory Board. ýý The management of the Company’s leadership development The Central Works Council has an enhanced right to recommend persons for nomination up to one-third of the Supervisory Board. A separate ExCo for KPN Netherlands is entrusted with short term The Supervisory Board must nominate the recommended persons operational management (rolling forecast timeframe) and strategic unless it is of the opinion that any such person would be unsuitable to decisions with segment relevance. fulfill the duties of a Supervisory Board member, or such appointment would cause the Supervisory Board to be improperly constituted. Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) governance CSR is embedded in accordance with the hierarchical structure within According to the Articles of Association, the Supervisory Board must KPN. Our CEO carries final responsibility. Every CSR theme is assigned consist of at least five and not more than nine members. Members to a member of the Executive Committee, who is responsible for of the Supervisory Board resign according to a schedule set by the stakeholder dialogue, targets, progress and results. Operational Supervisory Board. A member steps down at the first Annual General activities are delegated to a theme-owner, who reports back to the Meeting of Shareholders following his four-year term in office. In line responsible ExCo member. Every six weeks, these theme-owners come with the Dutch Corporate Governance Code, members can in general together in the Steering Committee ‘KPN in Society’, in order to align be reappointed twice, leading to a maximum term in office of 12 years. initiatives and review progress against targets. This Steering Committee is chaired by KPN’s CSR manager, who is responsible for the overall The Supervisory Board has determined its ‘profile’, defining the basic reporting, approach and coherency. Twice a year, CSR-data is collected principles for the composition of the Supervisory Board. All nominees and compared to targets. The CSR-manager reports to the Director for election to the Supervisory Board must fit within this profile. Corporate Communication & CSR, who is responsible for the According to this profile, the Supervisory Board must be composed in communication to the Board of Management. such a way that members of the Supervisory Board are able to operate independently of each other and of the Board of Management. The To ensure business commitment, managers of all departments involved profile was last amended on April 22, 2013 to comply with diversity in one of the themes, take part in the steering committee for that CSR principles of Dutch law. The profile is available on KPN’s website. theme. Those departments, headed by the theme-owner coordinate activities and report the CSR data to the CSR manager and the The by-laws of the Supervisory Board contain, among other things, responsible ExCo member. rules regarding the members’ duties, powers, working methods and decision-making, what decisions by the Board of Management it must In order to obtain sufficient outside reflection, since 2011 an Advisory approve, training and conflict handling. The by-laws are available on Board consisting of external experts discusses twice a year CSR issues KPN’s website. and communications with the Steering Committee ‘KPN in Society’. Committees of the Supervisory Board Three committees assist the Supervisory Board: the Audit Committee, the Remuneration and Organizational Development Committee and the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee. The committees consist of members of the Supervisory Board. They report their findings to the Supervisory Board, which is ultimately responsible for all decision-making. The tasks of these committees are laid down in charters which are available on KPN’s website. Further information on the activities of the committees in 2013 can be found in the section ‘Composition of the Boards’ starting on page 80. KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 77 Governance Auditor The Foundation Preference Shares B KPN (‘Stichting Preferente Aandelen B KPN’) The external auditor is responsible for the audit of the financial statements. The external auditor reports to the Board of Management, According to its Articles of Association, the statutory goal of the the Audit Committee and the Supervisory Board to discuss audit Foundation Preference Shares B KPN (the Foundation) ‘is to protect findings pertaining to quarterly and annual financial results. The KPN’s interests (which includes the interests of stakeholders, such as external auditor attends the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders customers, shareholders and employees), by, amongst others, protecting to answer questions pertaining to the auditor’s report as included in KPN from influences that may threaten the continuity, independence and the Annual Report. The Audit Committee approves every engagement identity.’ Consequently, in the event of any circumstances where the of the external auditor, which requires pre-approval by the internal Company is subject to influences as described above and taking public auditor as delegated authority in order to avoid potential breaches security considerations into account, the Board of the Foundation may of the external auditor’s independence. Both the external and internal decide to exercise the call option (as described below), with a view to auditor attend (parts of) the Audit Committee meetings. The Annual enabling the Company to determine its position in relation to the General Meeting of Shareholders appoints the external auditor on a circumstances as referred to above, and seek alternatives. The Board yearly basis, upon recommendation by the Board of Management and of the Foundation is of the opinion that under normal circumstances the Supervisory Board. it should not exercise its voting rights for longer than a limited period. The Board of the Foundation considers it undesirable for the Board Compliance with the Dutch Corporate Governance Code of Management to ignore a shift in the balance of power in the AGM over an extended period of time per event. It is furthermore undesirable As a Dutch listed company, KPN applies the Dutch Corporate that the Board of Management would (be able to) use anti-takeover Governance Code. measures to further the personal interests of individuals involved with the Company. The current Dutch Corporate Governance Code entered into force on January 1, 2009. KPN fully endorses the underlying principles of the The members of the Board of the Foundation are J.H. Schraven Dutch Corporate Governance Code which is reflected in a policy that (Chairman), P. Bouw (Vice-Chairman), M.W. den Boogert, H. Zwarts complies with all best practice provisions thereof, with the exception and J.E.F. Klaassen. The Board of Management and the members of of only the following provisions: the Board of the Foundation share the view that the Foundation is independent from KPN in accordance with parts c and d of the first Best practice II.2.8: “The remuneration in the event of a dismissal may subsection of article 5:71 of the Dutch Act on financial supervision. not exceed one year’s salary (the ‘fixed’ remuneration component). If the maximum of one year’s salary would be manifestly unreasonable The views of the Board of the Foundation, summarized above, have for a management board member who is dismissed during his first term been published on the Foundation’s website (www.prefs-KPN.nl). of office, such board member shall be eligible for severance pay not exceeding twice the annual salary.” Mr. Dirks joined the Board of The Foundation has a call option, which is not limited in time, to Management of KPN on November 8, 2011. Mr. Dirks’ employment acquire a number of Class B preference shares from KPN not exceeding contract contains a non-competition clause for which he will, as the total issued amount of ordinary shares, minus one share and minus required by German law, receive compensation equal to 50% of his any shares already issued to the Foundation. German base salary and short-term incentive during a maximum period of 12 months. In case of a termination of his German contract Upon exercise of the call option, 25% of the nominal value of EUR 0.24 he will receive this compensation on top of the severance pay of one per Class B preference share needs to be paid by the Foundation. The year’s base salary that may be due under KPN’s remuneration policy. Board of Management can decide to request the Foundation to pay the remainder. Such decision is subject to the approval of the Best practice III.2.1: “All supervisory board members, with the Supervisory Board. exception of not more than one person, shall be independent within the meaning of best practice provision III.2.2.” On April 10, 2013, Mr. García Moreno Elizondo and Mr. Von Hauske Solís were appointed as members of the Supervisory Board. Both are officers of KPN’s major shareholder, América Móvil, and are therefore not independent within the meaning of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code. Mr. García Moreno Elizondo and Mr. Von Hauske Solís were appointed pursuant to the relationship agreement entered into by KPN and América Móvil on February 20, 2013 in relation to the support of KPN’s capital raise by América Móvil. Best practice II.3.5: “A person may be appointed to the supervisory board for a maximum of three 4-year terms.” On April 10, 2013, Ms. Van Lier Lels was reappointed as a member of the Supervisory Board for the term of one year, whereas she already served three 4-year terms. The appointment of Ms. Van Lier Lels was based on the enhanced right of recommendation of the Works Council and is important for the Company to ensure continuity within the Supervisory Board. Deviations from the Dutch Corporate Governance Code are explained in accordance with the “apply or explain” principle. The text of the code as well as KPN’s application thereof is available on KPN’s website. 78 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 79 Governance Supervisory Board KPN’s Supervisory Board currently consists of eight members. The composition of the Supervisory Board changed in 2013. At the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders of April 10, 2013, Mr. C.J. García Moreno Elizondo and Mr. O. Von Hauske Solis were appointed as members of the Supervisory Board upon the nomination of America Móvil, based on the relationship agreement between America Móvil and KPN. At the same time Mr. A.H.J. Risseeuw and Mr. M. Bischoff stepped down as members of the Supervisory Board. Mr. D.J. Haank (4 year term) and Ms. M.E. van Lier Lels and Mr. R.J. Routs (both 1 year term) were reappointed as members of the Supervisory Board at the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders in 2013. As of February 1, Composition of the Boards 2013 Mr. Spanbroek succeeded Mr. Van Rooij as Chief Legal Officer and Company Secretary. All members of the Supervisory Board comply with clause 2:142a Dutch Civil Code, which limits the number of positions in a supervisory or management board that a director may hold. Two vacancies will arise at the closure of the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders in 2014. Mr. R.J. Routs and Ms. M.E. van Lier Lels will step down as they have indicated upon their reappointment that they were only available for a limited period of one year. J.B.M. Streppel R.J. Routs P.A.M. van Bommel C.J. García Moreno Elizondo J.B.M. Streppel P.A.M. van Bommel Mr. Streppel was appointed as a member of the Supervisory Board on Mr. Van Bommel was appointed as a member of the Supervisory Board May 12, 2003 and has been the Chairman of the Supervisory Board since on April 12, 2012 and his term expires in 2016. He is a member of the April 13, 2010. His current (third and final) term expires in 2015. Mr. Audit Committee. Mr. Van Bommel is currently member of the board of Streppel chairs the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee management and CFO of ASM International N.V., which is a world-wide and is a member of the Remuneration and Organizational Development operating supplier of semiconductor process equipment. Mr. Van Committee. Mr. Streppel is the former Chief Financial Officer of AEGON Bommel is also non-executive director of ASM PT (Hong Kong). Before N.V. and is a member of the Supervisory Board of Van Lanschot N.V., his appointment as CFO at ASMI, Mr. Van Bommel was CFO at Odersun Chairman of the Board of Duisenberg School of Finance and non(a start-up company in the solar industry), CFO at NXP and CFO at executive Director of RSA Group Plc. Mr. Streppel is a Dutch citizen. various divisions of Phillips. Mr. Van Bommel is a Dutch citizen. R.J. Routs Mr. C.J. García Moreno Elizondo Mr. Routs was appointed as a member of the Supervisory Board on Mr. García Moreno Elizondo was appointed as a member of the April 7, 2009 and has been the Vice-Chairman of the Supervisory Supervisory Board on April 10, 2013 and his (first) term ends in 2017. Board since April 13, 2010. His current one-year term expires in 2014. He is a member of the Audit Committee. Mr. García Moreno Elizondo Mr. Routs chairs the Remuneration and Organizational Development is currently Chief Financial Officer of América Móvil. Committee and is a member of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee. From 2004 until his retirement in 2008, Mr. Mr. García Moreno Elizondo holds several supervisory and advisory Routs was an executive board member at Royal Dutch Shell PLC. Before positions, including those of Banco Inbursa and Nacional Financiera. that he held various (senior) management positions at this company Prior to joining América Móvil, Mr. García Moreno Elizondo held in the USA, Canada and the Netherlands. Mr. Routs is Chairman of amongst other positions at the Mexican Ministry of Finance as the the Supervisory Board of DSM, Chairman of the Supervisory Board Director General of Public Credit and at the Swiss bank Corporation of Aegon N.V., member of the Board of Directors of ATCO and member Warburg as executive director and managing director. Mr. García of the Board of AP Moller-Maersk Denmark and AECOM. Mr. Routs is Moreno Elizondo is a Mexican citizen. a Dutch citizen and resides in Switzerland. 80 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 Composition of the Supervisory Board Name Year of birth Start of term End of current term Committees J.B.M. Streppel (Chairman) 1949 May 12, 2003 2015 Chairman Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee; April 17, 2007* Member Remuneration and Organizational Development Committee April 6, 2011* R.J. Routs (Vice-Chairman) 1946 April 7, 2009 2014 Chairman Remuneration and Organizational Development Committee; April 10, 2013* Member Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee P.A.M. van Bommel 1957 April 12, 2012 2016 Member Audit Committee C.J. García Moreno Elizondo 1957 April 10, 2013 2017 Member Audit Committee D.J. Haank 1953 April 7, 2009 2017 Chairman Audit Committee April 10, 2013* O. Von Hauske Solis 1957 April 10, 2013 2017 Member Remuneration and Organizational Development Committee Member Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee C.M. Hooymans 1951 April 17, 2007 2015 Member Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee; April 6, 2011* Member Remuneration and Organizational Development Committee M.E. van Lier Lels 1959 May 2, 2001 2014 Member Audit Committee April 12, 2005* April 7, 2009* April 10, 2013* * Reappointment. D.J. Haank O. Von Hauske Solis C.M. Hooymans M.E. van Lier Lels D.J. Haank C.M. Hooymans Mr. Haank was appointed as a member of the Supervisory Board on Ms. Hooymans was appointed as a member of the Supervisory Board April 7, 2009 and his term (second) expires in 2017. He is the Chairman on April 17, 2007 and her current (second) term expires in 2015. She of the Audit Committee. Mr. Haank is currently CEO of Springer is a member of the Remuneration and Organizational Development Science+Business Media (Springer). Mr. Haank holds several supervisory Committee, as well as the Nominating and Corporate Governance and advisory positions, including those of member of the Supervisory Committee. Ms. Hooymans is a former member of the Management Board of NUON and MSD Netherlands B.V. and the Supervisory Council Board of TNO and a member of the Supervisory Board of Rabobank of the Dutch broadcast association TROS. Before his appointment at Vallei en Rijn. Furthermore, she is a member of the Board of the Springer, Mr. Haank was the CEO of Elsevier Science and Executive Radboud Foundation (Radboud University and Radboud University Board Member of Reed Elsevier PLC. Mr. Haank is a Dutch citizen. Medical Center). Ms. Hooymans is a Dutch citizen. Mr. O. Von Hauske Solis M.E. van Lier Lels Mr. Von Hauske Solis was appointed as a member of the Supervisory Ms. Van Lier Lels was first appointed as a member of the Supervisory Board on April 10, 2013 and his (first) term ends in 2017. He is a Board on May 2, 2001. Her current one-year term expires in 2014. She member of the Remuneration and Organizational Development is a member of the Audit Committee. Ms. Van Lier Lels held various Committee, as well as the Nominating and Corporate Governance management positions with Dutch international companies and is the Committee. Mr. Von Hauske Solis is currently Chief Operating Officer former Chief Operating Officer of Schiphol Group. She is a member of and Board Member of América Móvil. the Supervisory Boards of USG People N.V., TKH Group N.V., Eneco N.V. and Reed Elsevier N.V. She is the Chairman of the Supervisory Council Mr. Von Hauske Solis holds several supervisory and advisory positions, of The Netherlands Society for Nature and Environment, member of including those of supervisory board member of Telekom Austria, the Council for the Environmental Infrastructure and member of the Telmex, NET Servicios, Embratel Participações, Telmex Brasil, Telmex Netherlands Bureau for Economic Policy Analysis (CPB). Ms. Van Lier Argentina, Telmex Colombia, Telmex Péru, Telmex Ecuador, Telmex USA Lels is a Dutch citizen. en Hildebrando Software. Mr. Von Hauske Solis is a Mexican citizen. The business address of each of the members of the Supervisory Board is Maanplein 55, 2516 CK, The Hague, the Netherlands. KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 81 Governance Joost Farwerck, Steven van Schilfgaarde (CFO a.i.), Eelco Blok, Thorsten Dirks Board of Management Mr. Blok joined KPN in 1983 and has had various management positions, including as director of KPN’s Carrier Services, Corporate Composition of the Board of Management Networks and Fixed Net Operator, and he was responsible for Corporate Currently, the Board of Management consists of three members. In Strategy & Innovation. More recently, he was Chief Operating Officer April 2013 Mr. Farwerck was appointed as a member of the Board of of KPN’s former Fixed division. He was previously, from April until Management. In September 2013, Mr. Hageman left the Board of December 2004, a member of KPN’s Board of Management. He is a Management. Mr. van Schilfgaarde was appointed interim CFO and member of the Supervisory Board of Reggefiber Groep B.V., chairman attends meetings of the Board of Management. of the Supervisory Board of E-Plus, member of the general council of VNO-NCW and co-chairman of the Cyber Security Council. All members of the Board of Management comply with clause 2:132a Dutch Civil Code, which limits the number of positions in a supervisory T. Dirks or management board that a director may hold. Mr. Dirks was appointed to the Board of Management on November 8, 2011 and is responsible for the international mobile activities within Year Start End of the KPN Group. He is also the Chief Executive Officer of E-Plus. Name Position of birth of term current term June Mr. Dirks joined E-Plus in 1996, having previously held management E. Blok Chief Executive Officer 1957 2006/20101 2014 positions with Orbitel Mobile Communication (Vodafone/Ericsson) November T. Dirks Board member 1963 2011 2015 and Vebacom. He joined the E-Plus Board of Management in 2001. J.F.E Farwerck Board member 1965 April 2013 2017 In his time at E-Plus, Mr. Dirks has held the posts of General Manager Business Support & Innovation Management, Executive Director 1) Reappointment. Product & Process Innovation and General Manager of Innovation, IT and Operations. He has been Chief Executive Officer of E-Plus since E. Blok January 2007 and Chief Executive Officer of KPN Mobile International As of the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders in April 2011, since May 2011. Mr. Blok is the Chairman of the Board of Management and Chief Executive Officer. J.F.E. Farwerck Mr. Farwerck is a member of the Board of Management and Managing Mr. Blok was appointed as a member of the Board of Management on Director the Netherlands. June 1, 2006 and was responsible for KPN’s Fixed division until January 1, 2007. Until February 1, 2010, he was Managing Director of the Mr. Farwerck was appointed to the Board of Management of KPN on Business, Getronics and Wholesale & Operations Segments (including April 10, 2013. Since being appointed Managing Director Netherlands iBasis). As of February 1, 2010, Mr. Blok assumed responsibility for KPN’s in February 2012 he has been responsible for all KPN’s activities in the international operations, comprising Mobile International and iBasis, Netherlands. He started work at KPN in 1994 and occupied senior KPN’s wholesale international voice traffic carrier. He assumed the management positions in various divisions. Mr. Farwerck is a member additional role of Chief Operating Officer in October 2010. of the executive committee of VNO-NCW and a member of the Board of Nederland-ICT and a non-executive Board member of iBasis. 82 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 Insider transactions The following transactions – performed in earlier years by members of the Board of Management or Supervisory Board who were appointed KPN employees that have access to inside information through the in 2013 – have been notified to the Authority Financial Markets in 2013 exercise of their employment, profession or duties, including all upon their appointment: members of the Board of Management and Supervisory Board, are subject to the Subcode ‘Inside Information’. This Subcode, which is Upon appointment as member of the Supervisory Board connected to the Company Code, contains rules for possession of and on April 10, 2013: transactions in KPN securities by such employees. Members of the C.J. García Moreno Elizondo Held 101,800 ordinary KPN shares Board of Management and Supervisory Board are furthermore subject for an average price of EUR 2.96 to reporting obligations to the Authority for the Financial Markets. Upon appointment as member of the Board of Management The table below provides an overview of transactions in 2013 by (former) on April 10, 2013: members of KPN’s Board of Management and Supervisory Board. J.F.E. Farwerck Held 15,000 restricted KPN shares J.F.E. Farwerck Held 32,500 conditional KPN shares Date Name Transaction Price Award of 95,000 April 12 E. Blok conditional KPN shares EUR 0 Award of 66,000 April 12 T. Dirks conditional KPN shares EUR 0 W.T.J. Award of 66,000 April 12 Hageman conditional KPN shares EUR 0 J.F.E. Award of 66,000 April 12 Farwerck conditional KPN shares EUR 0 Cancellation of 76,053 conditional KPN shares due to non-fulfillment April 15 E. Blok of performance criteria EUR 0 Exchange of 46,843 restricted KPN shares for 46,843 unconditional KPN shares upon fulfillment of April 18 E. Blok performance criterion EUR 0 Acquired 828 ordinary April 24 E. Blok KPN shares by inheritance EUR 0 W.T.J. Bought 46,055 ordinary April 29 Hageman KPN shares EUR 1.54 Bought 333,406 ordinary KPN May 17 E. Blok shares related to the rights issue EUR 1.06 W.T.J. Bought 2,630 ordinary KPN May 17 Hageman shares related to the rights issue EUR 1.06 J.F.E. Bought 18,130 ordinary KPN May 17 Farwerck shares related to the rights issue EUR 1.06 Bought 16,234 ordinary KPN May 17 D.J. Haank shares related to the rights issue EUR 1.06 C.J. García Moreno Bought 203,600 ordinary KPN May 17 Elizondo shares related to the rights issue EUR 1.06 P.A.M. van Bought 76,000 ordinary KPN May 17 Bommel shares related to the rights issue EUR 1.06 Award of 63,966 conditional KPN shares and 9,741 restricted KPN shares due to the adjustment J.F.E. of the LTI plans awarded before October 2 Farwerck the rights issue of May 17, 2013 EUR 0 Award of 185,079 conditional KPN shares due to the adjustment of the LTI plans awarded before October 2 E. Blok the rights issue of May 17, 2013 EUR 0 Award of 85,720 conditional KPN shares due to the adjustment of the LTI plans awarded before October 2 T. Dirks the rights issue of May 17, 2013 EUR 0 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 83 Report by the Supervisory Board KPN and AMX. This relationship agreement – entered into with the support of the Supervisory Board – included the appointment of two Supervisory Board members designated by AMX. The relationship agreement was terminated by AMX in August 2013, see also ‘Intended offer AMX’ on this page and Note 32 ‘Related-party transactions’ of the Consolidated Financial Statements. Following careful strategic deliberations, the Supervisory Board supported the intended sale of E-Plus to Telefónica Deutschland for an implied valuation of EUR 8.55 billion, thereby unlocking significant value in Germany: the premium embedded in the sale price recognized the substantial synergies. KPN will also benefit from these synergies through its remaining stake in the combined entity of E-Plus and Telefónica Supervisory Board Report Deutschland. The Supervisory Board was pleased with the unanimous support of the shareholders for the E-Plus transaction received at an extraordinary shareholders’ meeting, including the support of AMX who had committed to the transaction at the time improved terms for the intended sale had been negotiated between AMX, Telefónica and KPN. KPN will use the majority of the EUR 5.0 billion cash proceeds to In 2013, we laid the operational and further increase its financial flexibility and support the execution of its financial foundations to be the best strategy in the Netherlands and Belgium. Following the sale, KPN also intends to recommence dividend payment to shareholders for 2014. KPN provider of a complete range of products post the sale of E-Plus will focus on its clear number one position across for our customers. We are pleased with all segments in the Netherlands and being a mobile-centric challenger position focused on market outperformance in Belgium. the growing confidence of our customers Intended offer AMX and the financial markets in KPN. With the The Supervisory Board was also closely involved in further interactions support of our employees we also took with AMX, when AMX terminated the above mentioned relationship further steps towards simplifying KPN.’ agreement following the announcement of the intended sale of E-Plus (which allowed AMX to make an offer for all KPN shares). Shortly before Jos Streppel, Chairman of the Supervisory Board announcing its intention to make an unsolicited public offer for all KPN shares, AMX informed the Supervisory Board of such intention. However, there was no discussion on a customary Merger Protocol prior to the Strategic developments announcement by AMX. The KPN Boards then engaged – consistent with their fiduciary duties – in negotiations with AMX on financial and Execution of strategy non-financial matters including price, governance, strategy, investments Looking back at the year 2013, the Supervisory Board was actively and the interests of (potentially remaining minority) shareholders, involved in yet another important year in the history of the Company. employees and customers, also with an eye to the Dutch society at large. Market conditions remained challenging in 2013. Nevertheless, On August 29, 2013, the Foundation Preference Shares B KPN (the the Supervisory Board was pleased with the progress made with Foundation) – on its own initiative – exercised its option to acquire Class the execution of the “strengthen-simplify-grow” strategy and B preference shares in KPN in order to safeguard the interests of KPN and the encouraging operational results: its stakeholders. Such action contributed to a more balanced negotiation position for KPN in the numerous conversations held with AMX. In the Netherlands, KPN’s customer base in broadband and TV showed good results. The Dutch mobile market, however, remained challenging, From the outset, KPN stated to AMX that, in the view of the KPN Boards, also fuelled by the increased activity of a fourth player. To address the the intended offer did not reflect sufficient value for securing a positive convergence opportunities and the difficult economic circumstances in recommendation from the Boards. However, despite the improved the Business and IT Solutions markets, KPN announced the integration terms of the intended sale of E-Plus and an agreement with the Dutch of its businesses in these markets. tax authorities reflecting material value, AMX was not willing to improve its offer price. Also, the KPN Boards were not able to obtain In a very competitive market in Germany, E-Plus continued to make good an acceptable proposal on the content, firmness, duration and progress with its strategy to return to growth (albeit with lower margins), enforceability of AMX’ commitments to KPN’s stakeholders. with a focus on postpaid and data. In Belgium, BASE Company was successful with its new mobile propositions in a market with intensified In sum, no agreement could be reached on an offer price and other competition on price, resulting in a good market share development. terms and conditions, which would reflect appropriate value, minority shareholder protection and stakeholder commitments for selling Through the year, KPN continued to invest in its networks and products, control of KPN. The Supervisory Board then took note of AMX’ decision e.g. with the (accelerated) 4G roll-out in the Netherlands and Belgium, to withdraw its intended offer. the continued upgrade of the copper network, the Fiber-to-the-Home roll-out in the Netherlands, improvements to E-Plus’ data network Throughout this process, the Supervisory Board met at numerous quality and further improvements in KPN’s TV product. To align KPN’s occasions – with and without the Board of Management – to discuss financial position with this investment strategy, the Supervisory Board the developments in the negotiations related to the offer. The Chairman extensively discussed and supported the capital raise through a EUR 3 advised the Supervisory Board members designated by AMX not to billion rights issue and EUR 2 billion hybrid bonds (with 50% equity participate in these meetings, since they were conflicted on the matter recognition). The successful execution of these financing instruments at hand (which advice was followed). The Supervisory Board also formed strengthened KPN’s balance sheet and supported KPN’s commitment a special committee to assist and support the Board of Management in to maintain an investment grade credit profile. The capital raise was the offer process, members of which committee also participated in the upfront supported by KPN’s largest shareholder América Móvil (AMX), discussions with AMX. The Supervisory Board was supported by legal which support was accompanied by a relationship agreement between and independent financial advisors. 84 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 Further activities of the Supervisory Board co-operation with the Board of Management to deal with the key projects. It also noted certain topics to which it could pay even more During its meetings and contacts with the Board of Management, the attention, such as innovation and HR related topics. Supervisory Board discussed the results achieved and plans for next financial periods, further strategic matters that required the approval Meeting information of the Supervisory Board (such as the Belgian auction mandate) and all other relevant matters brought to its attention. In reviewing specific Meetings of the Supervisory Board proposals, the Supervisory Board discussed in each case with the Board The Supervisory Board met with the Board of Management on twenty of Management the business case for the proposal, the risks involved occasions in 2013, of which eight were regularly scheduled meetings and possible alternatives to the proposal. and the remaining were ad hoc meetings. Mr. Streppel acted as Chairman of the Supervisory Board, Mr. Routs was Vice-Chairman. The The Company’s financial performance was extensively discussed at the Company’s Chief Legal Officer and Company Secretary, Mr. Spanbroek, Supervisory Board meetings preceding the publication of the quarterly acted as secretary to the Supervisory Board. Certain of these meetings and annual results and meetings at which the business plan was commenced and/or ended with closed meetings where only discussed. During the business plan review, the Supervisory Board paid Supervisory Board members were present. special attention to the assessment of KPN’s risk profile relating to its operations and financial performance. In the discussions regarding the The attendance at regular Supervisory Board meetings was 87.5%. As financial performance of KPN, the Audit Committee advised the full mentioned before, the AMX representatives in the Supervisory Board Supervisory Board on the most relevant matters. did not participate in meetings when they had conflicting interests. No members were frequently absent and all members had adequate Each quarter, the Supervisory Board was also informed on the time available to prepare themselves and give the required attention Board Report of the external auditor, discussing, e.g. KPN’s financial to the matters at hand. In the event members could not join a (ad hoc) framework, the capital raise, accounting consequences of the intended meeting, the Chairman discussed the matters at hand before and after sale of E-Plus, pension accounting matters, quality of financial reporting the meeting, in order to obtain the input and views of all Supervisory and IT security. The Supervisory Board was pleased with the progress Board members. The Chairman is grateful to the Supervisory Board made on IT matters, both on governance of IT and IT security. Also, members for all the time they made available during this year with the Supervisory Board discussed certain acquisition and divestment many ad hoc meetings and bilateral contacts between the Chairman opportunities and approved various matters relating to the financing and individual members of the Supervisory Board. of KPN. In addition, following the capital raise, the Supervisory Board agreed with the proposal of the Board of Management to adjust the Throughout the year, the Chairman of the Supervisory Board was 2013 dividend to zero. As mentioned, KPN announced its intention to in close contact with the Chief Executive Officer, and the Chairman reinstate dividends over 2014 subject to the sale of E-Plus. of the Audit Committee was in close contact with the Chief Financial Officer (a.i.). As part of the strategic discussions, the Supervisory Board was also kept informed on progress made on the Corporate Social Responsibility Independence themes of transparent and reliable service provider, best-in-class Throughout the year, six members of the Supervisory Board were networks, healthcare of the future, new way of living and working, independent from the Company within the meaning of the Dutch energy efficiency and privacy and security. The Supervisory Board was Corporate Governance Code. Two members – Mr. García Moreno pleased that again important steps had been made on, e.g., KPN’s use of Elizondo and Mr. Von Hauske Soliswere not considered independent energy. Also, KPN was again listed in the Dow Jones Sustainability World within the meaning of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code. The Index, is ranked on the third place in the Transparency Benchmark and composition of the Supervisory Board was such, however, that the is the only WNF Partner that exceeds all its targets according to the members were able to act critically and independently of one another yearly WNF report on achievements. and of the Board of Management. When conflicted interests appeared in the AMX offer process, Mr. García Moreno Elizondo and Mr. Von On important technical, societal and regulatory developments, the Hauske Solis did not participate in the related meetings. See also Note Supervisory Board received regular updates. Also, the Supervisory 32 ‘Related-Party Transactions’ in the Consolidated Financial Statements. Board kept itself abreast of the views of (major) shareholders and changes in KPN’s investor base. The Chairman of the Board was also For a description of the organization and structure of KPN’s Supervisory engaged in meetings with shareholders. Board, see ‘Composition of the Boards’ starting on page 80. Members of the Supervisory Board attended some meetings of Committees of the Supervisory Board the Central Works Council. Outside these meetings, the Chairman of the Supervisory Board also met with the Chairman of the Central As set out in section ‘Corporate Governance’ on page 76, the Supervisory Works Council. Board has three Committees; the Audit Committee, the Remuneration and Organizational Development Committee and the Nominating and The Supervisory Board decided on proposals by the Remuneration Corporate Governance Committee. All three Committees met separately and Organizational Development Committee and the Nominating and throughout the year. Their main considerations and conclusions were Corporate Governance Committee, regarding e.g. the composition of shared with the full Supervisory Board. the Board of Management and the remuneration policy (as described further below). Audit Committee The Audit Committee currently consists of four Supervisory Board Finally, the Supervisory Board conducted a self-assessment regarding members: Mr. Haank (Chairman), Ms. van Lier Lels, Mr. van Bommel and its performance in 2013, as well as on the interaction with the Board Mr. García Moreno Elizondo (as of April 2013). Mr. van Bommel and Mr. of Management. Following an assessment in 2011 on the basis of García Moreno Elizondo are considered to be financial experts within interviews conducted by independent consultants, the Supervisory the meaning of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code. The Audit Board this year opted for an internal self-evaluation based on an Committee met in six regularly scheduled meetings, all of which were extensive questionnaire. The outcome of the self-assessment was also attended by the CFO (or CFO ad interim). The attendance rate at discussed in a plenary discussion. In general, the Board felt that it the Audit Committee meetings was 83%. The Committee also met had functioned well and also flexibly throughout the turbulent year, separately with the external auditor. The Corporate Secretary of the whether in the full Board or through a committee set up for a specific Board of Management, Mrs. van Dam-Debruyne, acted as the Audit project. It felt it had sufficient knowledge and expertise, and good Committee’s secretary. KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 85 Report by the Supervisory Board The Audit Committee reviewed and discussed in particular all In 2013 the remuneration policy for the Board of Management was financially relevant matters that were presented to the Supervisory changed – with the approval of the shareholders – to correct the fixed Board. These items included the Annual Report, the quarterly results, number of performance shares (from the long-term incentive plan) for reports by the internal auditor as well as the Disclosure Committee and the rights issue described earlier. Also, Mr. Dirks was rewarded a the Company’s strategic plan. The Audit Committee also kept a close retention bonus for the event the intended E-Plus sale would not be oversight on KPN’s financing policy and profile, as well as on the completed. The Committee was involved in preparing the related business plan risks and followed carefully the capital raise process. proposals. An adjustment of the LTI plan design was discussed in the Furthermore, the Audit Committee paid specific attention to the Committee, taking into account the objectives and principles of KPN’s effectiveness and the outcome of the internal control framework pay policy and relevant market trends. and the risk management systems of the Company. The Committee furthermore discussed and recommended the terms Each quarter, the Audit Committee discussed with the external and conditions with regard to changes in the composition of the Board auditor in detail the matters included in the Board Report of the of Management. external auditor. The general meeting of shareholders appointed PricewaterhouseCoopers Accountants N.V. (“PwC”) as KPN’s Further details on the activities of the Remuneration and independent external auditor for the year 2013. The Audit Organizational Development Committee are provided in the Committee reviewed the performance evaluation of PwC (which ‘Remuneration and Organizational Development Report’ starting was conducted by senior management) and was satisfied with on page 88. the good results. The Audit Committee also closely monitored PwC’s independence for performing non-audit related services Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee (e.g. when approving the related engagements). A proposal to The composition of the Board of Management changed in 2013 following reappoint PwC as external auditor for the year 2014 will be the appointment of Mr. Farwerck in April 2013 as member of the Board of submitted to the general meeting of shareholders in April 2014. Management with the responsibility in the Board for all of KPN’s activities in the Netherlands. Prior to such appointment, Mr. Farwerck already This year, the Audit Committee was also closely involved in the process carried this responsibility in his role of Managing Director the of selecting a new external auditor for the period 2015-2018 (in line with Netherlands. The Committee also agreed to the proposed prolongation new legislation), which process was chaired by the Chairman of the Audit of the board membership of Mr. Blok for a new period of 4 years. Committee and has been finalized (subject to shareholders’ approval). Mr. Hageman left the Company as of September 9, 2013 due to The Committee also discussed other topics that were within its scope personal circumstances. Mr. van Schilfgaarde was appointed interim of attention, most notably compliance, fraud management and CFO and the Supervisory Board decided to appoint a permanent application of IT in (financial) processes. Finally, the Audit Committee successor in due course. The Committee initiated a search for the new carried out its self-assessment by means of an extensive questionnaire, CFO based on a pre-defined profile and agreed that special attention the results of which were discussed during the last meeting of the Audit should be given in the search to identify female candidates with the Committee in 2013. intention to look for a possibility to enhance the diversity of the Board of Management. Consequently the Committee adopted the principle Remuneration and Organizational Development Committee that at least one female candidate should be included on the shortlist The Committee currently consists of Mr. Routs (Chairman), Mr. Von for the search for the new CFO. Hauske Solis, Mr. Streppel and Ms. Hooymans. During 2013, the composition of the Supervisory Board changed The Committee assists the Supervisory Board in establishing and as well when the annual shareholders’ meeting approved the reviewing KPN’s pay policy to ensure that members of the Board reappointment of Ms. Van Lier Lels, Mr. Routs and Mr. Haank and the of Management are compensated consistently with that policy. In appointment of Mr. García Moreno Elizondo (CFO of América Móvil) addition, the Committee supervises and counsels the Company on and Mr. Von Hauske Solis, (COO and board member of América Móvil) organizational and management development matters and reviews as members of the Supervisory Board. Mr. Risseeuw and Mr. Bischoff the succession plans for the members of the Board of Management stepped down as members of the Supervisory Board. and other senior managers. The Committee was involved in the discussion and decision by the In performing its duties, the Committee is assisted by an external Supervisory Board to change the profile of the Supervisory Board with remuneration consultancy firm (separate from the consultant used by the aim (when possible) to ensure that the Supervisory Board consists the Company). The Committee is fully independent in the execution of of at least 30% female and at least 30% male members, thereby its assigned responsibilities and ensures that the external remuneration incorporating the Dutch law requirement and serving the interest of consultancy firm acts on the instructions of the Committee and on a a balanced composition of the Supervisory Board. In this context (and basis in which conflicts of interest are avoided. since the 30% female representatives on Supervisory Board and Board of Management level were not yet achieved), the Committee also asked The attendance of the Remuneration and Organizational Development the Board of Management to pay special attention to the recruitment Committee meetings was 75% (the Committee met five times in 2013). and retention of female leadership talent at the senior leadership level In general terms, the Committee has been involved in reviewing the in order to create a more diverse internal talent pipeline. Special overall pay policy, taking into account KPN’s risk profile, pay trends in network meetings were set up for female managers, operating in the Netherlands and abroad as well as trends in Corporate Governance. leadership roles. As mentioned above, when searching for candidates Consistent with its charter, the Committee was involved in defining the for available Board seats, special attention is given to identify female level of pay-out for individual members of the Board of Management as candidates to achieve a more even distribution between male and part of the STI plan 2012 and LTI grant 2010 and setting the financial/ female members. non-financial targets and performance criteria for the STI 2013 and LTI grant 2013. For an overview of all members of the Board of Management and Supervisory Board, see ‘Composition of the Boards’ starting on page 80. 86 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 Financial Statements The Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2013, were prepared by the Board of Management and approved by the Supervisory Board. The Report of the Independent Auditor, PricewaterhouseCoopers Accountants N.V., is included in the ‘Other Information’ starting on page 179. The Supervisory Board recommends to the AGM to adopt these Financial Statements. Finally, the Supervisory Board would like to thank all shareholders for their trust in the Company, its customers for their trust and all employees, the Central Works Council and management for their dedication and effort. The Hague, February 26, 2014 J.B.M. Streppel R.J. Routs P.A.M. van Bommel C.J. García Moreno Elizondo D.J. Haank O. Von Hauske Solis C.M. Hooymans M.E. van Lier Lels KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 87 Remuneration and Organizational Development Report The Committee’s tasks are laid down in the terms of reference of the Committee. The Committee assists the Supervisory Board with establishing and reviewing the Company’s pay policy to ensure that members of the Board of Management are compensated consistently with that policy. In addition, the Committee supervises and counsels the Company on Organizational and Management Development and reviews the succession plans for the members of the Board of Management and other senior managers. The Chairman and members of the Remuneration and Organizational Development Committee are appointed by the Supervisory Board. The Remuneration Committee currently consists of Mr. Routs (Chairman), Mr. Von Hauske Solis, Ms. Hooymans and Mr. Streppel. and Organizational We aim to fostering an action-oriented culture aimed at delivering Development Report results, and our pay programs therefore emphasize variable pay and long-term value creation. The target pay aims at 30–40% of pay in base salary, and 60–70% in variable pay in order to maintain a strong alignment with the Company’s annual financial performance goals and long-term value creation strategy. In our judgment, this relationship and ratio between base salary and performance-related pay adequately Introduction reflects the balance between the Company’s objectives and its entrepreneurial spirit. Moreover, we are confident that in general We are pleased to present to you the report of the Remuneration and the level and structure of Board of Management pay is in line with Organizational Development Committee (the Committee) and we are management development goals and pay differentials within the committed to preserving your confidence and trust by presenting an Company. This enables the Company to attract, motivate and retain accountable and transparent implementation of our pay policy. senior executives of the necessary caliber and leadership background. Part: Provides: A. Executive pay at a glance Highlights of KPN’s pay policy (through questions and answers) B. Duties and activities of the Committee Insight into the topics discussed by the Committee C. Executive pay policy – detailed overview In-depth insight into KPN’s pay policy for the Board of Management D. Details of actual remuneration Insight into actual cost levels for the Board of Management E. S upervisory Board pay Insight into KPN’s pay policy for the Supervisory Board 88 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 A. Executive pay at a glance What are the objectives and principles of KPN’s pay policy? Objectives: Principles: Attracting, motivating and retaining the necessary leadership talent Paying competitively Driving performance that generates long-term profitable growth Paying for performance Promoting behavior that reinforces the business strategy and desired culture Differentiating by experience and responsibility Encouraging customer satisfaction and teamwork across KPN Linking rewards to shareholder value creation Complying with best practice in corporate governance General acceptance by all stakeholders How are executives rewarded? The pay mix for executives consists of the following four elements: Component Form Fixed / variable Drivers Base salary Cash Experience and responsibility Benefits (primarily pensions) Funded by cash contributions Fixed Market-competitive standards Performance – assessed through annual financial Short-Term Incentive (STI) Cash and non-financial targets Performance – assessed through relative TSR (peer group consists of companies with whom we compete for investor preference) and Long-Term Incentive (LTI) Conditional shares Variable non-financial parameters What is the ratio between fixed and variable pay? How is the level of compensation established? The ratio between fixed and variable pay is influenced by the extent to KPN’s pay levels are benchmarked with other companies in order to which targets are met. The pie charts represent the pay mix for both the ensure that KPN’s total level of compensation based on the pay mix, CEO and the other Board members in case of an on-target performance. is in line with KPN’s pay policy and objectives, as described above. In order to benchmark pay levels, KPN uses an employment peer group of companies against which KPN competes for talent. The peer employment group consists of the largest Dutch AEX-listed Compensation policy and European sector-specific companies. CEO Other Executives The advice of an independent external consultant, separate from the 30% 40% consultant used by the Company, is used by the Committee to ensure Base Base an objective benchmark for KPN’s levels of pay. 42% 36% LTI LTI 28% 24% STI STI KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 89 Remuneration and Organizational Development Report Are incentives aligned with strategy? The focus of the strategy is on customer loyalty, networks and services, Strategic Goals of ‘Strengthen – Simplify – Grow’: simplification of the operation model, cost reduction, integration of KPN has set a number of key objectives: services and sustainability. The goals and objectives of the new strategy ýý Create customer loyalty are reflected in the shortto medium-term targets and long-term ýý Invest in best-in-class networks and services targets, which are used to compensate executives for their performance. ýý Simplify the operating model ýý Integrate fixed and mobile services Is the level of variable compensation aligned with the ýý Conduct business in a sustainable way Company’s risk profile? KPN aligns incentives with its long-term strategy, but it also needs to focus on short-term success in order to achieve further growth. The Company’s risk profile is embedded in the short-term and long-term incentive structure which is assured by KPN’s standards of internal control over financial reporting. What was rewarded to executives? The bar chart below shows the actual cost of remuneration. All figures are in thousands of euro. Short-term targets Long-term targets Financial: typically based Financial: peer group on, but not limited to, position, based on relative EBITDA, revenue, Free total shareholder return Cash Flow and CAPEX Non-financial: based Non-financial: typically on energy reduction based on quality measures and reputation and market shares Reward Reward Cash Conditional shares Board of Directors = Board of Management (in thousands of EUR) Eelco Blok 2013 857 215 166 183 2012 808 400 270 162 Thorsten Dirks 2013 650 131 115 67 2012 650 267 187 67 Joost Farwerck 1 2013 422 59 115 62 Base STI LTI Pension Cost 1) Remuneration of Mr. Farwerck since appointment as Board member in April 2013 90 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 B. Duties and activities of the Committee C. Executive pay policy – detailed overview Duties of the Committee Objectives of KPN’s pay policy The Committee assists the Supervisory Board with: KPN is dedicated to fostering a strongly action-oriented culture aimed ýý Establishing and reviewing the Company’s pay policy (based amongst at delivering results. KPN’s pay programs therefore emphasize variable other things on national and international benchmark standards); pay and long-term value creation. KPN’s plans are designed to achieve ýý Ensuring that members of the Board of Management are the following objectives: compensated consistently with that policy; ýý Attracting, motivating and retaining the necessary leadership ýý Reviewing and, if appropriate, recommending changes to the pay talent in order to sustain and expand KPN’s unique competencies of the Supervisory Board; and capabilities; ýý Supervising and counselling the Company on Organizational and ýý Driving performance that generates long-term profitable growth; Management Development; ýý Promoting behavior that reinforces the business strategy and ýý Holding an annual review of senior managers; and desired culture; ýý Reviewing the succession plans for the members of the Board ýý Encouraging teamwork across business units and functional areas; of Management and other senior managers. ýý Linking rewards to value creation for shareholders and other stakeholders; Members of the Supervisory Board regularly liaise with senior ýý Complying with best practice in Corporate Governance; and management below Board level. ýý General acceptance by all stakeholders. In performing its duties, the Committee is assisted by an external Principles of KPN’s pay policy remuneration consultancy firm (separate from the consultant used by KPN’s pay policy is guided by three broad principles: the Company). The Committee is fully independent in the execution of 1) Paying competitively: this is achieved through benchmarking against its assigned responsibilities and ensures that the external remuneration an employment-market peer group consisting of companies with consultancy firm acts on the instructions of the Committee and on a which KPN generally competes for talent; basis by which conflicts of interest are avoided. 2) Pay-for-performance: target pay aims at 30-40% of pay in base Activities during 2013 salary, and 60–70% in variable pay in order to maintain a strong The Committee met five times in 2013, with an attendance rate of 75%. alignment with the Company’s annual financial performance goals Consistent with its charter, the Committee has been involved in several and long-term value creation strategy; and aspects, such as: ýý Defining the level of pay-out for individual members of the Board 3) Differentiating by experience and responsibility: this is achieved of Management as part of the STI plan 2012 and LTI grant 2010 and through alignment of the pay with the responsibilities, relevant setting the financial/non-financial targets and performance criteria experience, required competence and performance of individual for the STI plan 2013 and LTI grant 2013; jobholders. Consequently, there can be substantial differentials ýý Recommending the terms and conditions agreed upon with regard in pay levels, despite employees having similar job titles. to changes in the composition of the Board of Management; ýý Reviewing the design/principles of the LTI plan taking into account These principles apply to all levels of senior management. The Company’s KPN’s risk profile, the Company’s pay policy, pay trends in the pay policy is compliant with the relevant legal requirements and the Netherlands and abroad as well as trends in Corporate Governance; principles of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code. ýý Reviewing the need for adjustments in pay levels (where applicable, and in order to ensure a consistent pay structure for the individual Composition of employment-market peer group members of the Board of Management); and market assessment ýý Recommending and adjustment in the fixed number of LTI To ensure the overall competitiveness of KPN’s pay levels, these levels performance shares for the members of the Board of Management are benchmarked against an employment market peer group. The as a result of the rights issue based on a mathematical calculated Committee uses one peer group consisting of AEX-listed companies adjustment factor to make the economic value of the LTI grant equal and European sector-specific companies. The table below shows the to its economic value immediately before such issue; current composition of KPN’s employment peer group: ýý Discussing the details of the proposed retention bonus for Mr. Dirks which is conditional upon satisfaction of certain conditions to Employment peer group ensure the continuity of the E-Plus organization in the event that AkzoNobel NV Randstad Holding NV the sale of E-Plus is not completed; DSM NV Royal Philips Electronics NV ýý Reviewing the pension entitlement and benefits of the applicable Heineken NV Unilever NV/Plc pension scheme for the CEO; Reed Elsevier NV/Plc Portugal Telecom SA ýý Preparing the Remuneration and Organizational Development Royal Ahold NV Swisscom AG Report 2013 to be included in KPN’s Annual Report; and Belgacom SA Vodafone Group Plc ýý Reviewing and ensuring the Company’s efforts and achievements BT Group Plc Cap Gemini NV in the domain of succession planning for the senior leadership roles in the organization. The Committee regularly reviews the peer group to ensure that the composition is still appropriate. The composition of the peer group might be adjusted as a result of mergers or other corporate activities. The relative size of KPN is taken into account when determining whether KPN ‘pays competitively’. KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 91 Remuneration and Organizational Development Report Base salary The STI is designed to strike a balance between the Company’s risk The Committee determines appropriate base salary levels based profile and the incentive to achieve ambitious targets. The pay-out on KPN’s relative positioning in the peer group. In line with KPN’s methodology is based on a pay-out approach for each of the financial pay-for-performance principle, base salary is targeted at the lower and non-financial targets. end of the market-competitive range. Each year the Supervisory Board considers whether circumstances justify an adjustment in base salary The Supervisory Board’s ability to apply a discretionary factor ranges within the market-competitive target range for individual members between 0.7 (i.e. cutting the cash incentive by 30%) and 1.3 (i.e. of the Board of Management. increasing the cash incentive by 30%). With this discretionary factor, the Supervisory Board is able to express the assessment of the overall Short-Term Incentives (STI) individual performance of each member of the Board of Management. General The ability to apply a discretionary factor does not increase average At the beginning of each year, the Supervisory Board sets financial achievement levels. It does, however, allow the Supervisory Board and non-financial target ranges for the Board of Management. These some discretion in differentiating on the basis of individual ranges are based on the Company’s business plan. At the end of the contributions to Company performance. year, the Supervisory Board reviews the Company’s performance against the target ranges. Members of the Board of Management are The Supervisory Board has the discretionary authority to reward eligible for an annual cash incentive only if Company performance extraordinary management achievement that outperforms the regular is at or above the predetermined ranges. business plan and has created substantial additional value for the Company and its shareholders. Other than that, discretion both upwards Objectives and downwards can be applied by the Supervisory Board if the outcome The objective of this STI scheme is to ensure that the Board of of the STI scheme would produce an unfair result or if the outcome Management is well incentivized to achieve Company performance would not be considered to reflect the basic objectives and principles targets in the shorter term. Specific details on targets cannot be of pay as outlined in this section. disclosed for all performance measures, as this would require providing commercially sensitive information. Actual pay-out levels For 2013, amongst other targets, EBITDA was above threshold, market Performance incentive zone shares were, on average, below target while Free Cash Flow and The target ranges for financial and operational performance comprise: revenues were below threshold. Market shares represent the latest ýý A ‘threshold’ below which no incentive is paid; estimate. Final market shares in 2013 will be determined in March 2014. ýý An ‘on-target’ performance level at which an ‘on-target’ incentive is paid; and ýý A ‘maximum’ at which the maximum incentive is paid. Pay-out at threshold Pay-out at or above Component Form of compensation Value determination Targets performance maximum performance1 STI Cash ‘On-target’ incentive Targets typically are 25% of the ‘on-target’ 150% of the ‘on-target’ equals 90% of base EBITDA, Free Cash Flow, incentive (i.e. 22.5% of incentive (i.e. 135% of salary for the CEO CAPEX, Revenue and base salary for the CEO base salary for the CEO and 60% of base various measures of and 15% of base salary and 90% of base salary salary for the other quality and market share. for the other members for the other members Members of the Board of the Board of of the Board of of Management. Management). Management). Pay-out below threshold performance: 0% of the ‘on-target’ incentive. 1) Maximum including the effect of the discretionary factor. Long-Term incentives (LTI) General In addition to the base salary and the short-term annual cash incentive described above, a long-term incentive based on performance shares is used to ensure that the interests of management are aligned with those of its long-term (or prospective) shareholders and to provide an incentive for members of the Board of Management to continue their employment relationship with the Company. Scenario maximum (position 1 to 3 in peer group and maximum performance on nonComponent Form of compensation Value determination1 Drivers On target financial targets) Long-term share-based Shares CEO: 156,693 shares For 75% based on Total 100% of the granted 200% of the granted compensation with deferred dividend Shareholder Return shares vest. shares vest. Other members of the (TSR) and 25% based Board of Management: on non-financial 108,860 shares with parameters (energy deferred dividend. reduction and reputation). 1) The fixed number of performance shares for the members of the Board of Management were adjusted based on a mathematically calculated adjustment factor, i.e. the cum-rights price divided by the TERP (Theoretical Ex-Rights Price). In case of the KPN rights issue the adjustment factor is set at 1.6494. The proposal to apply the adjustment factor was approved by the shareholders on October 2, 2013. 92 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 The number of shares granted under this plan is based on fixed Please note that the peer group used for relative TSR reflects the numbers as shown in the following table. The number of shares that relevant competitive market in which KPN competes for investor actually vest is conditional on KPN’s relative TSR performance (75% preference. As such, it is different from the employment-market peer weighting) and for 25% on the achievement of the assigned nongroup, which is used to determine pay levels for the CEO and members financial parameters. of the Board of Management. The peer group may be adjusted if an individual company no longer qualifies as a relevant peer company. It is considered that comparing KPN with a wider group of companies (either geographically or with other industries) is not meaningful. Performance incentive zone Variations in returns would most likely be attributed largely to The design of KPN’s LTI plan ensures that shares are rewarded for macroeconomic events and/or sector shifts rather than to variations ‘above average’ returns while no shares are rewarded for ‘below in management actions. Therefore, benchmarking TSR achievements average’ returns. Once vested, the shares will have to be held for a relative to other, similar companies emphasizes rewarding for specific minimum period of two years. An exception to this rule is made for KPN performance. shares that are sold to cover income tax obligations in relation to the vested shares (typically the value taxed as income equals the amount The non-financial parameters set for 2013 are based on energy of shares vested multiplied by the share price at the time of vesting). reduction and a reputation dashboard. Please refer to the Environmental Performance chapter of this report for detailed information about the The external remuneration consultant calculates the end-of-year energy reduction parameters. Vesting of the non-financial parameters TSR peer group position and the number of shares vested and makes will only take place if KPN’s ranking position in the TSR peer group is at certain that calculations are performed objectively and independently. least position seven. Vesting is in principle also subject to the condition that the member of the Board of Management has not resigned within The Supervisory Board has the discretionary authority to reward three years of the date of the initial grant. extraordinary management achievement that outperforms the regular business plan(s) and has created substantial additional value for the The performance period of the LTI plan is set at three years. The Company and its shareholders. Other than that, discretion both upwards Committee uses scenario analysis to estimate the possible outcomes and downwards can be applied by the Supervisory Board if the outcome of the value of the shares vesting in coming years and decides whether of the LTI incentive scheme would produce an unfair result or if the a correct risk incentive is set for the Management Board members outcome would not be considered to reflect the basic objectives and with respect to the overall level of pay and pay differentials within principles of pay as outlined in this section. the Company. It is KPN’s policy to reward management in the event of a change In addition to the information provided in the Remuneration Report, of control in a manner which encourages management to take into please refer to Note 3 of the Consolidated Financial Statements for a account the interests of all stakeholders of the enterprise as is required further description and valuation of the option and share plans. under Dutch law. Performance-measuring and peer group performance Actual pay-out levels Vesting of the shares is for 75% conditional on KPN’s relative Final TSR measurement for the 2011 share grant was conducted as shareholder return and for 25% based on non-financial parameters. per February 15, 2014. KPN’s performance resulted in the 14th position The table below provides an overview of KPN’s performance peer in the TSR performance peer group with respect to the 2011 share group to determine KPN’s relative shareholder return. award. This position does not lead to vesting of the granted shares in April 2014. Companies included in the peer group Belgacom SA Telecom Italia Spa Claw-back clause BT Group Plc Telefónica SA The Supervisory Board has the discretionary authority to recover Deutsche Telekom AG Telekom Austria AG variable pay awarded on the basis of incorrect financial or other data. Orange SA Telenor ASA Hellenic Telecom (OTE) TeliaSonera AB Portugal Telecom SA Vodafone Group Plc Swisscom AG KPN NV Position Top 8 vesting% Top 8 ranking companies Position 1 200% of the shares vest BT Group PLC Position 2 200% of the shares vest Telenor ASA Position 3 200% of the shares vest Vodafone Group PLC Position 4 175% of the shares vest Deutsche Telekom AG Position 5 150% of the shares vest Hellenic Telecom (OTE) Position 6 125% of the shares vest Swisscom AG Position 7 100% of the shares vest Teliasonera AB Position 8 and below No vesting takes place KPN NV (14th position) The table above provides an overview of the final ranking of the 2011 share plan that vests in 2014. KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 93 Remuneration and Organizational Development Report Benefits Mr. Hageman left the Company in September 2013 due to personal Pensions circumstances. His decision was not related to working relationships Members of the Board of Management are eligible for a defined or present circumstances at KPN. In the light of the 6 months’ notice contribution pension plan with a contribution based on the fiscal period for cancellation of the employment contract it was agreed with defined contribution table that corresponds to a retirement age of 65 Mr. Hageman to pay his remuneration to the end of the year and pay and an annual accrual rate of 2.25%. For 2014 this will be adjusted in the remainder in December 2013. Mr. Hageman is not entitled to any line with new pension legislation. Mr. Dirks remains eligible for pension STI or LTI, nor to a severance payment. Mr. van Schilfgaarde has been benefits (combined defined benefit and defined contribution) as part of appointed interim CFO. his current German pension arrangement with a retirement age of 65. Outlook for 2014 Additional arrangements During 2013, the Company’s remuneration policy with regard to The additional arrangements, such as life insurance coverage, expense the LTI has been re-assessed, leading to a proposal for a number of allowances, use of cell phones and Company car provisions needed for amendments thereto. With the proposed changes, the Supervisory the execution of their roles, are broadly in line with other companies Board wishes to align the LTI plan more closely with the underlying of similar size and complexity, as well as with market practice. principles of KPN’s remuneration policy (mainly the relative contribution of base salary, STI and LTI to total remuneration), KPN’s Loans business performance and common market practice. KPN operates Company policy does not allow loans or guarantees to be granted the LTI plan to secure the loyalty of participants and to promote their to members of the Board of Management. commitment to KPN’s results for the longer term. It is proposed to amend the LTI plan for 2014 onwards on the following points: Terms of employment/service ýý Amend the LTI grant policy from a fixed number of performance Members of the Board of Management have an employment contract shares to a percentage of fixed compensation whereby the for an indefinite period of time with the exception of Mr. Dirks and participant is conditionally granted a number of shares based Mr. Farwerck (service provision agreement). on a set percentage of fixed compensation and the actual share price at the date of the grant; Members of the Board are appointed for a period of four years, which ýý Adjustment of the LTI vesting methodology from an approach is in line with requirements of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code. predominantly based on relative TSR performance to a vesting approach based on the individual achievement of certain financialSeverance arrangements and non-financial targets. It is proposed to continuously align 25% Severance payments for the CEO and members of the Board of of the on-target LTI incentive opportunity to the existing Total Management are aligned with the Dutch Corporate Governance Code Shareholder Return (TSR) methodology based on a revised peer/ (one year base salary or two years’ base salary during the first initial group vesting schedule and to align the remaining 75% of the term of four years) with the exception of Mr. Dirks, as communicated on-target LTI incentive opportunity to financial targets based on as part of his appointment in November 2011 (containing a nonFree Cash Flow (weighting 25%) and Earnings per Share (weighting competition clause for which he will, as required by German law, receive 25%) and two non-financial parameters (12,5% weighting each): additional compensation equal to 50% of his German base salary and one related to sustainabilityor environmental targets, and the short-term incentive, during a maximum period of 12 months). other one related to stakeholdersor customers targets; ýý A revised vesting schedule for each other individual financial Change in composition and responsibilities and non-financial target, i.e. 25% for an achievement at threshold of the Board of Management level, 100% for an achievement at on-target level and 200% The appointment of Mr. Farwerck as a member of the Board of for an achievement at maximum level or above. Vesting on the Management came into effect as of KPN’s AGM on April 10, 2013. The non-financials targets will be subject to achieving a cumulative remuneration package of Mr. Farwerck fits within KPN’s remuneration net profit during the vesting period of 3 years (i.e. qualifier for policy as approved by the General Meeting of Shareholders. His pay-out/vesting); employment contract provides for a base salary of EUR 575,000 per ýý Adjustment of the change of control clause in the LTI plan to comply year. Mr. Farwerck is eligible to short and long term variable incentives, with new legislation in the Netherlands. The existing change of which are dependent on the performance of KPN versus the Company’s control clause is therefore replaced by a new provision, as well as financial and/or non-financial targets. The contractual severance pay is immediate vesting at 100% (irrespective of the actual performance in line with the Dutch Corporate Governance Code and amounts to two at that moment, whether higher of lower) and lifting of the blocked years’ base compensation during the first initial term of four years. If period normally applicable, to enable the participant to dispose of and after the agreement is continued after the first initial period of four his shares in the situation of a change of control. The immediate years, the contractual severance pay amounts to one year’s base salary. vesting at 100% will be pro rata for the time passed in the plan A defined contribution pension plan is part of the arrangements. during the vesting period of 3 years (i.e. 1/3 in year one, 2/3 in Mr. Farwerck remains eligible for 15,000 restricted shares that were year two, full in year three). granted to him prior to his nomination as member of the Board of Management. These shares will become unconditional if Mr. Farwerck’s service provision agreement is not terminated prior to January 1, 2015. To ensure the continuity of the E-Plus organization in the event that the sale of E-Plus is not completed, the EGM (October 2, 2013) approved a gross retention bonus to Mr. Dirks equal to his annual base salary of EUR 650,000. This amount will only be payable if Mr. Dirks is still employed one year after a formal announcement of a cancellation of the E-Plus transaction. Completion of the sale of E-Plus is mainly subject to regulatory approval. 94 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 D. Details of actual remuneration The remuneration of the current members of the Board of Management is set out below. All sections under D and E are part of the financial statements and subject to audit. Salary & Social Security STI3 LTI: Share Awards1 Pension costs2 Total Name Year (EUR) (EUR) (EUR) (EUR) (EUR) E. Blok 2013 857,171 214,500 166,095 182,500 1,420,266 2012 807,577 400,000 269,800 162,400 1,639,777 T. Dirks 2013 650,000 131,150 115,392 67,232 963,774 2012 650,000 267,150 187,440 66,904 1,171,494 J.F.E. Farwerck4 2013 422,074 59,363 115,392 62,400 659,229 Total current members5 2013 1,929,245 405,013 396,879 312,132 3,043,269 2012 1,457,577 667,150 457,240 229,304 2,811,271 1) The fair value per share of the 2013 grant was EUR 1.06 (excluding deferred dividend). Please refer to the ‘Long-term incentives’ section of this report for a further explanation. Under IFRS the fair value of the share based award is recorded as cost over the vesting period. In 2013, cost recognized for shares and share-based awards amounted to EUR 556,466 for Mr. Blok (EUR 713,000 in 2012), EUR 89,153 for Mr. Dirks (EUR -188,853 in 2012) and EUR 86,152 for Mr. Farwerck. 2) The pension costs relate to the premiums paid or service cost. Interest charges and investment yields are not allocated on an individual basis. Since 2006, Board of Management members are eligible for a defined contribution pension plan with a contribution based on the fiscal defined contribution table that corresponds to a retirement age of 65 (67 as of 2014) and an annual accrual rate of 2.25% (2.15% as of 2014). Mr. Dirks remains eligible for pension benefits as part of his current German pension arrangement. 3) Actual STI that relates to performance in the current year but paid out in the following financial year. For 2013, amongst other targets, EBITDA was above threshold, market shares were, on average, below target while Free Cash Flow and revenues were below threshold. Market shares represent the latest estimate. Final market shares in 2013 will be determined in March 2014 which could slightly alter the STI amounts for 2013 above. 4) Remuneration of Mr. Farwerck since appointment as Board member in April 2013. 5) In 2013 the temporary employer tax charge of 16% on 2013 salaries exceeding EUR 150,000 was recorded. This tax charge amounts to EUR 328,138 (EUR 281,589 in 2012) for the current Board members and is not included in the figures above. The pay of the former members of the Board of Management is provided below. Salary & Social Security STI Notice period/Exit LTI: Share Awards1 Pension costs Total Name Year (EUR) (EUR) Payment (EUR) (EUR) (EUR) W.T.J. Hageman 20133 619,671 – 236,161 – 88,200 944,032 20123 178,009 77,745 – 95,140 21,463 372,357 C.M.S. Smits-Nusteling 2012 164,395 – – – 21,733 186,128 J.B.P. Coopmans 2012 149,395 – 590,000 – 22,313 761,708 Total former members2 2013 619,671 – 236,161 – 88,200 944,032 2012 491,799 77,745 590,000 95,140 65,509 1,320,193 1) Under IFRS the fair value of the share based awards is charged to the P&L over the vesting period. In 2013, cost recognized for shares and share-based awards amounted to EUR -50,817 for (EUR -43,926 in 2012) for Mr. Hageman and no cost for Mrs. Smits-Nusteling (EUR 87,850 in 2012) and Mr. Coopmans (EUR 145,844 in 2012). At the date of termination of the employment contract, the 2010 and 2011 LTI grant of both Mrs. Smits-Nusteling and Mr. Coopmans forfeited for 13/36 and 25/36 respectively. 2) The temporary employer tax charge of 16% on 2013 salaries exceeding EUR 150,000 amounts to EUR 159,154 (EUR 131,155 in 2012) for the former Board members and is not included in the figures above. 3) Remuneration of Mr. Hageman since appointment as Board member in September 2012 until December 31, 2013. In the light of the six months’ notice period for cancellation of the employment contract, it was agreed with Mr. Hageman to pay his remuneration to the end of the year and pay the remainder in December 2013. KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 95 Remuneration and Organizational Development Report The following table summarizes the shares/share-based awards granted to current members of the Board of Management, granted (un) conditional shares/share-based awards held by them during 2013, granted shares sold during 2013, and granted (un)conditional shares/ share-based awards held by them as of December 31, 2013. Number of shares/ share-based Number of Pre-tax market awards shares/ value of shares Number of granted, share-based Total pre-tax on vesting date shares granted vested, awards as of fair value of or end of as of forfeited or December 31, shares on grant lock-up in 2013 End of lock-up Grant date Current status8 January 1, 2013 sold in 20131-2-9 2013 date (EUR)3 (EUR) period E. Blok 4/12/2013 Conditional – 156,693 156,693 166,095 – 4/12/2018 4/23/2012 Conditional 95,000 61,693 156,693 269,800 – 4/23/2017 4/6/2011 Conditional 95,000 61,693 156,693 1,085,850 – 4/6/2016 4/15/20106 – – – – – – – 4/9/20096 – – – – – – – 4/17/2008 Unconditional 46,843 -46,843 – 908,079 131,629 4/17/2013 T. Dirks 4/12/2013 Conditional – 108,860 108,860 115,392 – 4/12/2018 4/23/2012 Conditional 66,000 42,860 108,860 187,440 – 4/23/2017 4/6/20115 Conditional 27,600 17,923 45,523 315,468 – n.a. 4/15/20105-6 – – – – – – – 4/9/20095-6 – – – – – – – J.F.E. Farwerck 4/12/2013 Conditional – 108,860 108,860 115,392 – 4/12/2018 4/23/20125 Conditional 32,500 21,106 53,606 92,300 – 4/23/2017 5/1/20125-7 Conditional 15,000 9,741 24,741 76,800 – n.a. 4/6/20115 Conditional 23,650 15,358 39,008 270,317 – n.a. The following table summarizes the shares/share-based awards granted to former members of the Board of Management Number of shares/ share-based Number of Pre-tax market awards shares/ value of shares Number of granted, share-based Total pre-tax on vesting date shares granted vested, awards as of fair value of or end of as of forfeited or December 31, shares on grant lock-up in 2013 End of lock-up Grant date Current status8 January 1, 2013 sold in 20131-2-9 2013 date (EUR)3 (EUR) period W.T.J. Hageman10 9/11/2012 Conditional 33,500 -33,500 – 95,140 – 4/23/2017 4/23/20125 Conditional 32,500 -32,500 – 92,300 – 4/23/2017 5/1/20125-7 Conditional 15,000 -15,000 – 76,800 – n.a. 4/6/20115 Conditional 25,200 -25,200 – 288,036 – n.a. 4/15/20105-6 – – – – – – – 4/9/20095-6 – – – – – – – C.M.S. Smits-Nusteling4 4/6/2011 Conditional 20,167 13,0969 33,263 754,380 – 4/6/2016 4/15/20106 – – – – – – – J.B.P. Coopmans4 4/6/2011 Conditional 20,167 13,0969 33,263 754,380 – 4/6/2016 4/15/20106 – – – – – – – 4/17/20088 Unconditional 40,733 -40,733 – 789,632 114,460 4/17/2013 1) The shares granted to the Members of the Board of Management represent 9% of the total number of shares and share-based awards granted in 2013 to all employees. On the grant date (April 12, 2013) the KPN share price quoted EUR 1.81 (closing price) while the fair value of each granted share was EUR 1.06 for Members of the Board of Management. 2) The 2013 grant numbers do not include any deferred dividend during the vesting period. The deferred dividend during the vesting period will be additional granted in shares. 3) Value is calculated by multiplying number of share awards by the fair value. 4) At the date of termination of the employment contract, the 2010 and 2011 LTI grant of both Mrs. Smits-Nusteling and Mr. Coopmans forfeited for 13/36 and 25/36 respectively. 5) Not granted in capacity as Member of the Board of Management. 6) The 2009 and 2010 share awards had vesting percentages of 0%. Final TSR measurement for the 2011 share grant was conducted as per February 15, 2014. 7) Restricted share plan. On the grant date (May 1, 2013) the KPN share price quoted EUR 1.58 (closing price) while the fair value of each granted share was EUR 1.58. 8) Shares in the vesting period or lock-up period are disclosed as conditional. 9) The fixed number of performance shares for the members of the Board of Management were adjusted based on a mathematically calculated adjustment factor, i.e. the cum-rights price divided by the TERP (Theoretical Ex-Rights Price). In case of the KPN rights issue, the adjustment factor is set at 1.649. This adjustment factor is applicable for the existing (not yet vested) LTI plans, i.e. 2011, 2012 and 2013 and future plans. 10) The 2013 grant was granted and forfeited in 2013. See Note 3 of the Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of the share plan. 96 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 Stock ownership Board of Management E. Supervisory Board pay The table below shows the shares held by current Members of the Board of Management (including vested shares in lock-up period). The Committee is responsible for reviewing and, if appropriate, recommending changes to the pay of the Supervisory Board. Any Number of shares December 31, 2013 December 31, 2012 recommended changes to Supervisory Board pay must be submitted E. Blok 500,109 165,875 to the General Meeting of Shareholders for approval. In view of the T. Dirks – – competitive remuneration developments in the market combined J.F.E. Farwerck 27,195 n.a. with an increased workload and responsibility for Supervisory Board members, the remuneration policy of the Supervisory Board was The table below shows the shares held by former members of the reassessed during 2010, resulting in a proposal to adjust the Board of Management remuneration levels of the Supervisory Board. This proposal was approved by the General Meeting of Shareholders on April 6, 2011. Number of shares December 31, 2013 December 31, 2012 Please refer to the table for further details. Members receive an W.T.J. Hageman1 50,000 1,315 additional fee if a meeting is held in a country other than the C.M.S. Smits-Nusteling1 n.a. 2,376 member’s country of residence. J.B.P. Coopmans1 n.a. 72,416 1) Number of shares at the date of step down from the Board of Management. Shareholdings in the Company held by Supervisory Board members serve as a long-term investment in the Company and help to align their interest with those of KPN’s other shareholders. No Supervisory Board Share ownership relates to ordinary shares. member is granted stock options or shares as a form of pay. As a policy, the Company does not provide loans or guarantees to its Supervisory In 2011 a share ownership recommendation was introduced whereby Board members. the members of the Board of Management are encouraged to acquire Company shares equal to one time the annual fixed compensation for Mr Risseeuw was not available for reappointment, as the current members of the Board of Management (excluding CEO) and two times four-year term of office is his third and last term. Mr M. Bischoff the annual fixed compensation for the CEO. Retained vested shares as decided to step down as a member of the Supervisory Board in part of the LTI will be included in the share ownership recommendation. connection with his other commitments. The appointment of Mr. García Moreno Elizondo and Mr. Von Hauske as a member of the Supervisory Board came into effect as of KPN’s AGM on April 10, 2013. KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 97 Remuneration and Organizational Development Report The table below shows the pay-out to Supervisory Board Members in 2013 and fixed Committee fees on an annual basis. Amounts in EUR Fees 2013 Chairman Supervisory Board 100,000 Vice Chairman of the Supervisory Board 70,000 Member Supervisory Board 60,000 Chairman Audit Committee 20,000 Member Audit Committee 10,000 Chairman Remuneration and Organizational Development Committee 10,000 Member Remuneration and Organizational Development Committee 5,000 Chairman Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee 10,000 Member Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee 5,000 The table below shows the actual fee received by each Member of the Supervisory Board. Amounts in EUR Membership fees 2013 Committee fees 2013 2013 Total 2012 Total J.B.M. Streppel 100,000 15,000 115,000 115,000 R.J. Routs 70,000 15,000 85,000 85,000 M.E. van Lier Lels 60,000 10,000 70,000 70,000 C.M. Hooymans 60,000 10,000 70,000 70,000 D.J. Haank 60,000 20,000 80,000 80,000 P.A.M. van Bommel 60,000 10,000 70,000 50,361 C.J. García Moreno Elizondo 45,000 7,500 52,500 – O. Von Hauske Solis 45,000 7,500 52,500 – A.H.J. Risseeuw1 15,000 2,500 17,500 70,000 M. Bischoff1 15,000 2,500 17,500 70,000 1) Former member of the Supervisory Board. Stock ownership of the Supervisory Board The table below shows the shares held by Members of the Supervisory Board. Number of shares December 31, 2013 December 31, 2012 J.B.M. Streppel – – R.J. Routs – – M.E. van Lier Lels – – C.M. Hooymans – – D.J. Haank 24,351 8,117 P.A.M. van Bommel 114,000 38,000 C.J. García Moreno Elizondo 305,400 – O. Von Hauske Solis – – A.H.J. Risseeuw1 50,000 50,000 M. Bischoff1 9,000 9,000 Total 502,751 105,117 1) Former member of the Supervisory Board. Number of shares at the date of step down from the Supervisory Board. The Hague, February 26, 2014 R.J. Routs C.M. Hooymans J.B.M. Streppel O. Von Hauske Solis 98 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 99 Assurance Report ASSURANCE REPORT To: the Board of Management of Koninklijke KPN N.V. Report on the sustainability information Our opinion and conclusion Our engagement consisted of a combination of audit and review procedures. For a correct understanding of our opinion and conclusion you have to read this complete assurance report. Based on our audit procedures, in our opinion: ýý the energy consumption and net CO2 emissions data 2013 of own operations in the Netherlands (scope 1 and 2) as included in the 2013 Integrated Annual Report on page 40, are, in all material respects, presented reliably and adequately, in accordance with the KPN reporting criteria. Based on our audit procedures, we conclude that: ýý with respect to the other elements of the sustainability information as included in the 2013 Integrated Annual Report, nothing has come to our attention that would cause us to believe that the sustainability information, in all material respects, does not provide a reliable and adequate presentation of the policy of KPN for sustainable development, or of the activities, events and performance of the organization relating to sustainable development during the reporting year, in accordance with the KPN reporting criteria. Our responsibilities and the responsibilities of the Board of Management The Board of Management of KPN is responsible for the preparation of the sustainability information in the Integrated Annual Report in accordance with the KPN reporting criteria. We are responsible for providing an assurance report on the sustainability information included in the Integrated Annual Report, based on our audit and review procedures. The scope of our audit and review procedures We have examined the content of the ‘Introduction’, ‘Strategic Review’ and ‘Report by the Board of Management’ on pages 2 to 83 and ‘Appendices 2 and 3’, on page 188-193 as included in the accompanying 2013 Integrated Annual Report of Koninklijke KPN N.V., The Hague (‘KPN’) (in this assurance report referred to as: ‘sustainability information’) in which KPN renders account of the performance related to sustainability in 2013. The following elements have been excluded from our assurance scope: ýý Risk Management and Compliance (p. 66-73); ýý Regulatory developments (p. 74-75). Our examination consisted of the following combination of audit and review procedures: ýý Audit of the energy consumption and net emissions data 2013 of own operations in the Netherlands (scope 1 and 2), as included in the table “Energy consumption and net CO2 emissions 2013” on page 40; ýý Review of all the other elements of the sustainability information included in our assurance scope. We do not provide any assurance on the assumptions and feasibility of prospective information, such as targets, expectations and ambitions, included in the sustainability information. The KPN reporting criteria KPN developed its reporting criteria on the basis of the G4 Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) as disclosed on page 190-193 ‘Scope, Reporting Process and Materiality Determination for CSR information’. Detailed information on the reporting scope is given on page 190 ‘Scope sustainability information’. We consider the reporting criteria to be relevant and appropriate for our examination. The basis for our opinion and conclusion We planned and performed our work in accordance with Dutch law, including Standard 3410N ‘Assurance engagements relating to sustainability reports’. Audit procedures focus on obtaining reasonable assurance, substantiated by sufficient and appropriate supporting audit evidence. Review procedures focus on obtaining limited assurance which does not require exhaustive gathering of evidence, therefore providing less assurance than audit procedures. Consequently, we report our conclusions with respect to the audit and review procedures separately. We believe these combined procedures fulfil a rational objective. Audit procedures With regard to the audited data, among other things we have gathered audit evidence as follows: ýý testing the design, existence and the effectiveness of the relevant internal controls during the reporting period; ýý conducting analytical review procedures and substantive testing procedures on the relevant data. 100 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 Review procedures Our most important review procedures were: ýý performing an external environment analysis and obtaining insight into the branch, relevant social issues, relevant laws and regulations and the characteristics of the organization; ýý assessing the acceptability of the reporting policies and consistent application of this, such as assessment of the outcomes of the stakeholder dialogue and the process for determining the material subjects, the reasonableness of estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the sustainability information; ýý reviewing the systems and processes for data gathering, internal controls and processing of other information, such as the aggregation process of data to the information as presented in the sustainability information; ýý reviewing internal and external documentation to determine whether the sustainability information is substantiated adequately; ýý assessing the consistency of the sustainability information and the information in the Integrated Annual Report not in scope for this Assurance Report; ýý assessing whether the sustainability information has been prepared ‘in accordance’ with the GRI G4 Guidelines. We believe that the evidence obtained from our examination is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion and our conclusion. The Hague, February 26, 2014 PricewaterhouseCoopers Accountants N.V. Originally signed by M. de Ridder RA KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 101 102 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 Financial Statements Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss 104 Consolidated Statement of Other Comprehensive Income 105 Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 106 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 108 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Group Equity 109 General Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 110 Notes to the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss 121 Notes to the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 131 Notes to the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 155 Other Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 156 Corporate Financial Statements Corporate Statement of Profit or Loss 173 Corporate Statement of Financial Position 174 General Notes to the Corporate Financial Statements 175 Notes to the Corporate Statement of Financial Position 176 Other Information Independent Auditor’s Report 179 Proposed appropriation of result 183 Subsequent events 183 Legal structure 184 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 103 Consolidated Financial Statements CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF PROFIT OR LOSS For the year ended December 31 2012 Amounts in millions of EUR, unless otherwise stated 2013 Restated* Revenues [1] 8,443 9,308 Other income [2] 29 150 Total 8,472 9,458 Own work capitalized -78 -74 Cost of materials 574 723 Work contracted out and other expenses 3,187 3,285 Employee benefits [3] 1,297 1,531 Depreciation, amortization and impairments [4] 1,857 1,960 Other operating expenses [5] 609 647 Total operating expenses 7,446 8,072 Operating profit 1,026 1,386 Finance income 29 38 Finance costs -754 -744 Other financial results -32 -151 Financial income and expenses [6] -757 -857 Share of the loss of associates and joint ventures [12] -7 -11 Profit before income tax from continuing operations 262 518 Income taxes [7] 31 -204 Profit for the year from continuing operations 293 314 Profit (loss) for the year from discontinued operations [18] -508 451 Profit (loss) for the year -215 765 Profit attributable to non-controlling interests [20] 7 2 Profit (loss) attributable to equity holders [19] -222 763 Earnings per share after taxes attributable to equity holders for the year in EUR [8] –Basic (continuing operations) 0.07 0.14 –Fully-diluted (continuing operations) 0.07 0.13 –Basic (discontinued operations) -0.14 0.19 –Fully-diluted (discontinued operations) -0.14 0.19 –Basic (total, including discontinued operations) -0.07 0.33 –Fully-diluted (total, including discontinued operations) -0.07 0.32 * Based on KPN’s continuing operations, comparative 2012 numbers are restated and do not include the financial results of E-Plus. E-Plus is classified as held for sale and discontinued operations. Furthermore, IAS 19R is applied to the Financial Statements 2013 with restatement of comparative 2012 numbers, refer to pages 119 and 120. [..] Bracketed numbers refer to the related Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, which form an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements. 104 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME For the year ended December 31 2012 Amounts in millions of EUR, unless otherwise stated 2013 Restated* Profit (loss) for the year -215 765 Other comprehensive income: Items of other comprehensive income that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss: Remeasurement pensions and other post-employment plans: Gains or (losses) arising during the period [19] 383 -672 Income tax [19] -62 130 Net other comprehensive Income not to be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods 321 -542 Items of other comprehensive income that will be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss when specific conditions are met: Cash flow hedges: Gains or (losses) arising during the period [19] -208 -319 Income tax [19] 53 78 -155 -241 Currency translation adjustments: Gains or (losses) arising during the period [19] -1 3 Income tax [19] – – -1 3 Fair value adjustment available for sale financial assets: Unrealized gains or (losses) arising during the period [16, 19] 8 3 Impairment charge through profit and loss -8 – – 3 Net other comprehensive income to be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods -156 -235 Other comprehensive income for the year, net of income tax 165 -777 Total comprehensive income for the year, net of income tax -50 -12 Total comprehensive income attributable to: Equity holders -57 -14 Non-controlling interests 7 2 Total comprehensive income for the year, net of income tax -50 -12 Total comprehensive income attributable to equity holders arises from: Continuing operations 445 -446 Discontinued operations -502 432 * Certain amounts do not correspond to the 2012 financial statements and reflect IAS 19R adjustments made, refer to pages 119 and 120. [..] Bracketed numbers refer to the related Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, which form an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements. KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 105 Consolidated Financial Statements CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION Assets December 31, 2012 January 1, 2012 Amounts in millions of EUR December 31, 2013 Restated1 Restated1 NON-CURRENT ASSETS Goodwill 1,169 5,157 5,575 Licenses 1,729 2,191 2,495 Software 610 838 852 Other intangibles 135 272 290 Total intangible assets [10] 3,643 8,458 9,212 Land and buildings 596 671 705 Plant and equipment 4,274 6,573 5,704 Other tangible non-current assets 80 94 116 Assets under construction 390 557 1,008 Total property, plant and equipment [11] 5,340 7,895 7,533 Investments in associates and joint ventures [12] 320 326 261 Loans to associates and joint ventures [12] 453 227 127 Available-for-sale financial assets [16] 20 35 48 Derivative financial instruments [26] 117 233 169 Deferred income tax assets [7] 1,167 1,847 1,831 Trade and other receivables [13] 122 154 127 Total non-current assets 11,182 19,175 19,308 CURRENT ASSETS Inventories [14] 60 111 123 Trade and other receivables [15] 1,214 1,696 1,607 Income tax receivables [7] 1 5 1 Cash and cash equivalents [17] 3,946 1,286 990 Total current assets 5,221 3,098 2,721 Non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale [18] 9,469 28 224 TOTAL ASSETS 25,872 22,301 22,253 1) Certain amounts do not correspond to the 2012 financial statements and reflect IAS 19R adjustments made, refer to pages 119 and 120. [..] Bracketed numbers refer to the related Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements which form an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements. 106 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 Group Equity and Liabilities December 31, 2012 January 1, 2012 Amounts in millions of EUR December 31, 2013 Restated1 Restated1 GROUP EQUITY Share capital 1,025 344 344 Share premium 8,993 6,717 6,717 Perpetual capital securities 1,089 – – Other reserves -517 -361 -127 Retained earnings -5,340 -5,417 -4,661 Equity attributable to equity holders [19] 5,250 1,283 2,273 Non-controlling interests [20] 53 51 – Total Group equity 5,303 1,334 2,273 NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES Borrowings [21] 11,656 12,369 11,641 Derivative financial instruments [26] 753 458 229 Deferred income tax liabilities [7] 9 211 667 Provisions for retirement benefit obligations [22] 1,019 1,557 1,090 Provisions for other liabilities and charges [23] 163 387 397 Other payables and deferred income [24] 77 122 155 Total non-current liabilities 13,677 15,104 14,179 CURRENT LIABILITIES Trade and other payables [25] 2,927 3,858 3,804 Borrowings [21] 2,008 1,527 1,458 Derivative financial instruments [26] 10 16 – Income tax payables [7] 289 270 218 Provisions for other liabilities and charges [23] 120 186 129 Total current liabilities 5,354 5,857 5,609 Liabilities directly associated with non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale [18] 1,538 6 192 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 25,872 22,301 22,253 1) Certain amounts do not correspond to the 2012 financial statements and reflect IAS 19R adjustments made, refer to pages 119 and 120. [..] Bracketed numbers refer to the related Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements which form an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements. KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 107 Consolidated Financial Statements CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS For the year ended December 31 Amounts in millions of EUR 2013 2012 Restated1 Profit before income tax from continuing operations 262 518 Adjustments for: – Net finance cost [6] 757 857 – Share-based compensation [3] 4 -1 – Share of the profit of associates and joint ventures [12] 7 11 – Depreciation, amortization and impairments [4] 1,857 1,960 – Other income -26 -135 – Changes in provisions (excluding deferred taxes) -191 -255 Changes in working capital relating to: – Inventories 13 11 – Trade receivables 150 -34 – Prepayments and accrued income 95 37 – Other current assets 21 -6 – Trade payables 128 -109 – Accruals and deferred income -189 47 – Current liabilities (excluding short-term financing) -56 -47 Dividends received [12] 1 19 Income taxes received / paid -253 -469 Interest received / paid -654 -644 Net cash flow provided by operating activities from continuing operations 1,926 1,760 Net cash flow provided by operating activities from discontinued operations 927 1,247 Net cash flow provided by operating activities 2,853 3,007 Acquisition of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures (net of acquired cash) -5 -307 Disposal of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures 49 27 Investments in intangible assets (excluding software) -1,500 -30 Investments in software -304 -316 Investments in property, plant and equipment -1,312 -1,259 Disposals of property, plant and equipment 16 126 Loans to associates and joint ventures -287 -89 Other changes and disposals 15 4 Net cash flow used in investing activities from continuing operations -3,328 -1,844 Net cash flow used in investing activities from discontinued operations -660 -289 Net cash flow used in investing activities [27] -3,988 -2,133 Rights issue 2,939 – Issuance Preference Shares B 256 – Dividends paid -6 -979 Paid coupon perpetual hybrid bonds -34 – Proceeds from exercised options – 2 Issuance perpetual hybrid bonds 1,085 – Proceeds from borrowings [21] 915 1,640 Repayments of borrowings and settlement of derivatives [21] -1,142 -1,494 Other changes -33 -12 Net cash flow provided by/used in financing activities from continuing operations 3,980 -843 Net cash flow used in financing activities from discontinued operations -172 -33 Net cash flow provided by/used in financing activities [28] 3,808 -876 Total net cash flow from continuing operations 2,578 -927 Total net cash flow from discontinued operations 95 925 Changes in cash and cash equivalents 2,673 -2 Net cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year [17] 947 950 Exchange rate differences – -1 Changes in cash and cash equivalents 2,673 -2 Net cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year [17] 3,620 947 Cash classified as held for sale [18] – -4 Bank overdrafts 326 343 Cash and cash equivalents [17] 3,946 1,286 1) Based on KPN’s continuing operations, comparative 2012 numbers are restated and do not include the financial results of E-Plus. E-Plus is classified as held for sale and discontinued operations. Furthermore, IAS 19R is applied to the Financial Statements 2013 with restatement of comparative 2012 numbers, refer to pages 119 and 120. [..] Bracketed numbers refer to the related Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements which form an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements. 108 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN GROUP EQUITY Equity Number of Perpetual attributable NonAmounts in millions of EUR, subscribed Share Share capital Other Retained to equity controlling Total Group except number of shares shares1 capital premium securities reserves earnings holders interests equity Balance as of January 1, 2012 Restated 1,431,522,482 344 6,717 – -127 -4,661 2,273 – 2,273 Profit for the year2 – – – – – 763 763 2 765 Other comprehensive income for the year2 – – – – -235 -542 -777 – -777 Total comprehensive income for the year2 – – – – -235 221 -14 2 -12 Share-based compensation [3] – – – – – 2 2 – 2 Exercise of options [3, 19] – – – – 1 – 1 – 1 Dividends paid – – – – – -979 -979 – -979 Acquisitions – – – – – – – 49 49 Total transactions with owners, recognized directly in equity – – – – 1 -977 -976 49 -927 Balance as of December 31, 2012 Restated 1,431,522,482 344 6,717 – -361 -5,417 1,283 51 1,334 Profit for the year – – – – – -222 -222 7 -215 Other comprehensive income for the year – – – – -156 321 165 – 165 Total comprehensive income for the year – – – – -156 99 -57 7 -50 Rights issue 2,838,732,182 681 2,276 – – – 2,957 – 2,957 Issuance of perpetual hybrid bond – – – 1,089 – – 1,089 – 1,089 Share-based compensation [3] – – – – – 3 3 – 3 Dividend perpetual hybrid bond (net of tax) – – – – – -25 -25 – -25 Dividends paid – – – – – – – -5 -5 Total transactions with owners, recognized directly in equity 2,838,732,182 681 2,276 1,089 – -22 4,024 -5 4,019 Balance as of December 31, 2013 4,270,254,664 1,025 8,993 1,089 -517 -5,340 5,250 53 5,303 1) Subscribed ordinary shares (including treasury shares). Preference shares B are not included and classify as current liabilities, refer to Note 19. 2) Based on KPN’s continuing operations comparative 2012 numbers are restated and do not include the financial results of E-Plus. E-Plus is classified as held for sale and discontinued operations. Furthermore, IAS 19R is applied to the Financial Statements 2013 with restatement of comparative 2012 numbers, refer to pages 119 and 120. [..] Bracketed numbers refer to the related Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements which form an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements. The aggregate amount of deferred tax recorded directly in equity in 2013 was EUR 41 million negative (2012: EUR 334 million positive). The amount of EUR 1,089 million regarding the perpetual capital securities included EUR 4 million of deductible current income tax relating to the issuance costs of the perpetual hybrid bond. KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 109 Consolidated Financial Statements GENERAL NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS General information Comparative figures 2012 KPN is the leading telecommunications and information The comparative figures have been restated for the and communications technology (ICT) provider in the impact of IAS 19R ‘Employee benefits’. The restatements Netherlands, offering fixed and mobile telephony, fixed and affect the Statement of Financial Position as at January 1, mobile broadband internet and TV to retail consumers. KPN 2012 and at December 31, 2012 as well as the Total is also a market leader in the Netherlands in ICT services, Comprehensive Income for 2012. Refer to pages 119 infrastructure and network related ICT solutions to business and 120 for further details. customers, including other telecommunications operators. In Belgium, KPN pursues a challenger strategy and offers Following the requirements of IFRS 5 ‘Non-current assets mobile telephony products and services to retail customers held for sale and discontinued operations’, E-Plus has been through BASE Company. In Germany, E-Plus, KPN’s division recorded as ‘disposal group held for sale’ as of July 23, 2013. that has been classified as ‘disposal group held for sale’ as Given its significance to KPN Group, E-Plus classifies as a of July 23, 2013, pursues a challenger strategy and offers ‘discontinued operation’. All assets and liabilities of E-Plus mobile telephony products and services to retail customers. have been presented separately on KPN’s Statement of KPN also provides wholesale network services to third Financial Position as of July 23, 2013 as ‘non-current assets parties and operates an IP-based infrastructure for of disposal groups classified as held for sale’ and ‘liabilities international wholesale customers through iBasis. directly associated with non-current assets and disposal group held for sale’. These assets and liabilities continue to be Koninklijke KPN N.V. (KPN or the Company) was incorporated accounted for in accordance with the relevant IFRS standards in 1989 and is domiciled in the Netherlands. The address of as before July 23, 2013 except that non-current assets held by its registered office is Maanplein 55, 2516 CK, The Hague. E-Plus are no longer amortized or depreciated as of July 23, KPN’s shares are listed on NYSE Euronext Amsterdam. 2013 following guidance of IFRS 5. Results from E-Plus are Following the delisting of KPN’s shares on the New York reported as ‘profit (loss) for the period from discontinued Stock Exchange (NYSE) in 2008, KPN’s shares can be traded operations’, separate from the results from KPN’s continuing in the United States, only as American Depository Receipts operations as if E-Plus was classified as a discontinued on the over-the-counter market. operation as of January 1, 2012. Cash flows from E-Plus are reported as ‘cash flows from discontinued operations’ The Financial Statements as of and for the year ended separate from cash flows from KPN’s continuing operations December 31, 2013 of Koninklijke KPN N.V. were approved as if E-Plus was classified as a discontinued operation as of for issuance by both the Supervisory Board and the Board January 1, 2012. Refer to Note 18 for further details on the of Management on February 26, 2014. sale of E-Plus and the impact on KPN’s financial results. The Financial Statements are subject to adoption by the Following changes in 2013 to KPN’s internal structure Annual General Meeting of Shareholders on April 9, 2014. and reporting to the CEO, who is KPN’s Chief Operating Decision Maker (‘CODM’), the segment reporting has been Significant accounting policies changed, including the comparative figures as at December 31, 2012. Refer to Note 34 for further details. The significant accounting policies applied in the preparation of these Consolidated Financial Statements Changes in accounting policies and disclosures are set out below. These policies have been consistently The International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) applied to all the years presented, unless stated otherwise. continues to issue new standards and interpretations, and amendments to existing standards. KPN applies these new Basis of preparation standards when effective and endorsed by the European KPN applies International Financial Reporting Standards Union. KPN has not opted for early adoption for any of as adopted by the European Union (‘IFRS’). these standards. As the corporate financial information of KPN is included Implications of new and amended standards in the Consolidated Financial Statements, the Corporate and interpretations Statement of Profit or Loss is presented in abbreviated The following standards have been applied in the 2013 format in accordance with Article 402, Part 9, Book 2 Consolidated Financial Statements: of the Dutch Civil Code. ýý IAS 1 ‘Financial statements presentation’ has been amended regarding the ‘Other Comprehensive The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared Income’. Items in the ‘Consolidated Statement of Other under the historical cost convention, except for availableComprehensive Income’ (OCI) are now grouped on for-sale financial assets and financial assets and financial the basis of whether or not they will be reclassified liabilities (including derivative instruments) at fair value subsequently to the Consolidated Statement of Profit through profit or loss. The Consolidated and Corporate or Loss. The impact was isolated to presentation only. Financial Statements are prepared on a going concern basis. ýý IAS 19 ‘Employee benefits’ as amended in June 2011 (IAS 19R). For the impact on KPN’s financial statements, refer Consolidated financial information, including subsidiaries, to the accounting policies for provisions for retirement associates and joint ventures, has been prepared using benefit obligations and Note 22. uniform accounting policies for similar transactions and ýý IFRS 13 ‘Fair value measurement’ becomes the other events in similar circumstances. single source of guidance on IFRS for all fair value measurements. This standard did not have material impact on KPN’s financial statements. The standard provided further clarification of existing requirements. These 110 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 clarifications have been taken into account for all assets, The following standards have an effective date of January liabilities and transactions recorded at the fair value. 1, 2013 and will be implemented as of January 1, 2014 ýý IFRS 7 ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosures’ has been (retrospectively) due to the timing of their endorsement amended on the topic of offsetting of assets and liabilities. by the European Union: This resulted in additional disclosures to Note 29. ýý IFRS 10 ‘Consolidated financial statement’ establishes a ýý The Annual Improvements 2009-2011 cover single control model that applies to all entities including amendments to several standards. The amendments did special purpose entities. The introduction of this new not have an impact on KPN’s financial reporting. standard will not change KPN’s financial position. ýý IFRS 11 ‘Joint arrangements’ classifies joint Future implications of new and amended standards and arrangements either as joint operation or joint venture interpretations by focusing on the rights and obligations of the parties The following new standards and interpretations and to the arrangement rather than its legal form. The amendments to existing standards will become effective introduction of this new standard will not change on or after January 1, 2014. These standards have not KPN’s financial position. been applied in preparing these 2013 Consolidated ýý IFRS 12 ‘Disclosures of interests in other entities’ Financial Statements. includes the disclosure requirements for all forms of ýý IFRS 9 ‘Financial instruments’. This standard is the first interests in other entities, including joint arrangements, step in the process taken by the IASB to replace IAS 39 associates, special purpose vehicles and other off ‘Financial instruments: recognition and measurement’. balance sheet vehicles. It is the complement of the two Since the standard has not yet been endorsed by the new standards discussed in preceding paragraphs and European Union, it is uncertain when it needs to be will become effective at the same time. applied by KPN. The remaining uncertainty with respect to subsequent phases of the project makes it impossible In 2013 these standards, as well as IAS 27 ’Separate to quantify the impact of the new standard on KPN’s financial statements’ have been amended. KPN will financial statements. apply these amendments as of January 1, 2014. ýý IAS 36 ‘Impairment of assets’ has been amended regarding disclosure requirements for the recoverable Basis of consolidation amount of non-financial assets. Certain disclosure KPN’s Consolidated Financial Statements include the requirements of the recoverable amount of the CGU financial results of its subsidiaries and incorporate KPN’s have been removed from IAS 36 since these are now share of the results from associates and joint ventures. covered by IFRS 13. This amendment is effective January 1, 2014 and has been endorsed by the European Union Subsidiaries (December 2013). Therefore, KPN will apply this Subsidiaries are all entities over which KPN has the power to amendment as of January 1, 2014 (retrospectively). govern the financial and operating policies, generally by KPN The impact is expected to be limited to disclosures having more than half of the voting rights (‘control’). Potential in KPN’s financial reporting. voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are ýý IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and taken into consideration when assessing whether KPN Measurement’ has been amended to ensure that controls another entity. Subsidiaries are fully consolidated novation of derivatives, designated as hedge from the date on which control is obtained by KPN and are instruments, from one counterparty to a central deconsolidated from the date on which KPN’s control ceases. counterparty as a consequence of law or regulation All intercompany transactions, balances and unrealized would not result in discontinuance of the hedge results on transactions with subsidiaries are eliminated. relationship. This amendment is effective as of January 1, 2014 and has been endorsed by the European Union Associates and joint ventures (December 2013). Therefore, KPN will apply this Associates and joint ventures are investments in entities amendment as of January 1, 2014 (retrospectively). in which KPN can exert significant influence but which KPN No impact on KPN’s financial position is expected. does not control, generally by KPN having between 20% ýý IAS 19 ‘Employee benefits’ has been amended regarding and 50% of the voting rights. These entities are accounted treatment of employee contributions in defined benefit for using the equity method and are initially recognized at plans. The amendment aims to simplify the calculation of cost. Their carrying value includes goodwill identified employee contributions and will not affect KPN’s financial upon acquisition, net of any accumulated impairment. position. This amendment is effective as of July 1, 2014 and will be applied after endorsement (expected in 2014). KPN’s share of post-acquisition profits or losses is ýý The Annual Improvements 2010-2012 and the Annual recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss, Improvements 2011-2013 cover amendments to several and its share of post-acquisition movements in reserves is standards, none of which are expected to have a material recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Other impact on KPN’s financial position. The amendments are Comprehensive Income. The cumulative post-acquisition effective as of July 1, 2014. Endorsement is pending. movements are adjusted against the carrying amount of ýý IFRIC 21 ‘Levies’ provides guidance in addition to IAS 37 the investment. When KPN’s share of losses in an associate ‘Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent equals or exceeds its interest in the associate, including any Assets’ on how to account for levies posed by other receivables for which settlement is neither planned governments other than income taxes, specifically on nor likely to occur in the foreseeable future, KPN does not when to account for the liability. This IFRIC is effective recognize further losses, unless KPN has obligations to or as of January 1, 2014 and will be applied by KPN when made payments on behalf of the associate. Unrealized endorsed. No material impact is expected. results on transactions with associates are eliminated to the extent of KPN’s share in associates and joint ventures. KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 111 Consolidated Financial Statements General Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Business combinations or Loss except when deferred in the Consolidated KPN uses the acquisition method of accounting to Statement of Other Comprehensive Income as qualifying account for business combinations. The consideration cash flow hedges and qualifying net investment hedges. paid is measured at the fair value of the assets transferred, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or Exchange rate differences on non-monetary assets and assumed at the date of exchange. The consideration paid liabilities are reported as part of the fair value gain or loss includes the fair value of any contingent assets or liabilities from that asset or liability. resulting from the arrangement. Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed Exchange rate differences arising from the translation of are measured at their fair values at the acquisition date. the net investment in foreign entities, of borrowings and When a business combination is achieved in stages, any other currency instruments designated as hedges of such previously held equity interests are re-measured at its investments, are recognized in the Consolidated Statement acquisition date fair value and any resulting gain or loss of Other Comprehensive Income. is recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss and the equity interests are then considered Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the in the determination of goodwill. acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing Contingent considerations are recognized at fair value rate at the Financial Position date. at acquisition date. Subsequent changes to the fair value of contingent considerations deemed to be an asset or Subsidiaries liability are recognized in accordance with IAS 39 ‘Financial The results and Financial Position of subsidiaries that have Instruments: Recognition and Measurement’ either in the a functional currency other than KPN’s presentation Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss or as a change currency (Euro) are translated as follows: to the Consolidated Statement of Other Comprehensive ýý assets and liabilities for each Financial Position Income. Contingent considerations classified as equity are presented are translated at the closing rate at the date not re-measured and subsequent settlement is accounted of that Financial Position; for within equity. ýý income and expenses for each statement of profit or loss are translated at average exchange rates; and For each business combination, KPN elects to recognize ýý all resulting exchange differences are recognized any non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at fair in the Consolidated Statement of Other Comprehensive value or at the proportionate share in the acquiree’s net Income (in the currency translation reserve, a separate assets. Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred. component within equity). The excess of the consideration paid, non-controlling Significant accounting estimates, judgments interests recognized and the acquisition date fair value of and assumptions any previous equity interests in the acquiree over the fair The preparation of these financial statements requires value of KPN’s share of the net assets acquired is recorded management to make estimates, judgments and as goodwill. If negative goodwill occurs in case of a assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and bargain purchase, the difference is recognized directly liabilities, the reported amounts of revenue and expenses in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss. during the period as well as the information disclosed and the contingent liabilities. For KPN’s significant accounting Segment reporting estimates, judgments and assumptions, reference is made Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent to the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. with the internal reporting provided to the Chief Executive The accounting estimates, judgments and assumptions Officer (CEO), who is the Chief Operating Decision Maker deemed significant to KPN’s financial statements relate to: according to IFRS 8 ‘Operating Segments’. ýý the determination of deferred tax assets for losses carry forward and provisions for tax contingencies (see Note 7); Foreign currency translation ýý the determination of fair value less costs to sell and Functional and presentation currency value in use of cash-generating units for goodwill These financial statements are presented in Euro (EUR), impairment testing (see Note 10); which is KPN’s presentation currency and functional ýý the depreciation rates for the copper and fiber currency. Each entity within KPN Group has its own network included within property, plant and functional currency which is determined based on the equipment (see Note 11); primary economic environment in which the entity ýý the assumptions used to determine the value of the call/ operates. All values are rounded to millions unless put arrangements of Reggefiber Group BV (see Note 29); stated otherwise. ýý the assumptions used to determine the provision for retirement benefit obligations and periodic pension Transactions and balances costs, such as discount rate, return on plan assets and Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into benefit increases (see Note 22); the functional currency of the recording entity using the ýý the more likely than not assessment required to exchange rates applicable at the dates of the transactions. determine whether or not to recognize a provision Monetary assets and liabilities resulting from such for idle cables, which are part of a public electronic transactions are translated at the applicable rates at communications network (see Notes 23 and 31); reporting date. These exchange rate differences are ýý the assumptions used to determine the fair value recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Profit less costs to sell of assets and liabilities held for sale, including disposal groups (see Note 18); 112 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 ýý the assumptions on the outcome of regulatory KPN presents revenue gross of costs when the Group acts approval and timing of the transfer of disposal as the principal in the arrangement and net of costs when groups (see Note 18); and the Group acts as agent. ýý the assessments of exposure to credit risk and financial market risks (see Note 29). Revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables Arrangements with multiple deliverables are divided into Actual results in the future may differ from the estimates separate units of accounting if the deliverables in the applied. Estimates and judgments are being evaluated arrangement meet recognition criteria of IFRS. Revenues continuously and based on historic experience and other from multiple deliverables arrangements are allocated to factors, including expectations of future events thought the identified separate units of accounting based on their to be reasonable under the circumstances. relative fair values. If the fair value of the delivered item exceeds the cash received at the time of delivery, revenue Statement of Profit or Loss is recognized up to the non-contingent cash received. Revenue recognition Any connection fee proceeds not allocated to the delivered Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration equipment are deferred upon connection and recognized received or receivable for the sale of goods and services. as service revenue over the customer contract period Revenue is recognized when it is probable that the unless KPN has the obligation to continue providing economic benefits associated with a transaction will flow services beyond that period in which case the expected to KPN and the amount of revenue and the associated customer service period is used. costs can be measured reliably. Revenues are presented net of value-added tax, rebates and discounts and after For wireless services, any consideration allocated to the eliminating sales within the Group. sale of peripheral and other equipment, up to the amount of non-contingent cash received, is recognized as revenue Traffic fees are charged at an agreed tariff for a fixed when all significant risks and rewards of ownership of the duration of time or capacity and are recognized as revenue equipment are transferred to the buyer. based upon usage of KPN’s network and facilities. For multiple deliverable arrangements that comprise Recognition of deferred revenue related to airtime is based only one unit of accounting and include an upfront on the expected usage of airtime per proposition. connection fee, amounts representing connection fees are deferred and recognized pro-rata. Deferred connection Subscription fees and fees received for handset leases fees are amortized over the customer contract period. generally consist of periodic charges and are recognized Costs associated with these arrangements are expensed as revenue over the associated subscription period. as incurred. One-off connection fees and other initial fees are not a Other income separate unit of accounting and their accounting treatment Other income includes gains on the sale of property, plant is therefore dependent on the other deliverables in the and equipment and gains on the disposal of subsidiaries, sales arrangements (see revenue arrangements with associates and joint ventures. multiple deliverables). Leases Sales of peripheral and other equipment are recognized Leases where KPN as lessor retains a significant portion when all significant risks and rewards of ownership of the of the risks and rewards of ownership of the leased asset goods are transferred to the buyer, which is normally at are classified as operating leases. The assets remain on the date the equipment is delivered to and accepted by the Financial Position and are depreciated over the asset’s the customer. Services regarding designing, building, useful life. The lease payments received from the lessee deploying and managing ICT solutions are provided on are recognized as revenue on a straight-line basis over a time and material basis or as a fixed-price contract with the lease period. contract terms generally ranging from less than one year to three years. Revenue from time and material contracts Payments made by KPN as lessee under operating leases is recognized at the contractual rates as labor hours are are charged to the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss delivered and direct expenses are incurred. Revenue from on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease (net of contracts involving design, build and deploy services is any incentives received from the lessor). If a sale-andrecognized under the percentage-of-completion (POC) leaseback transaction results in an operating lease, the method unless the outcome of the contract cannot be profit or loss is calculated using the fair value of the assets estimated reliably. Under the POC method, revenue is sold and recognized in the Consolidated Statement of recognized based on the costs incurred to date as a Profit or Loss immediately. percentage of the total estimated costs to fulfill the contract. Revenue from fixed-price contracts involving Leases where KPN as lessee has assumed substantially all managed services is recognized in the period the services risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance are provided using a straight-line basis over the term of leases. KPN then recognizes the leased assets on the the contract. When the outcome of the contract cannot be Financial Position at the lower of the fair value and the estimated reliably, revenue is recognized only to the extent present value of the minimum lease payments. The of contract costs incurred. corresponding rental obligations, net of finance charges, KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 113 Consolidated Financial Statements General Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued are included in other long-term payables in the Financial property, plant and equipment) as well as operating Position. Property, plant and equipment acquired under licenses (included under intangible fixed assets) which are finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the dependent on a related network. Borrowing costs related asset’s useful life and the lease term. If a sale-andto licenses are capitalized during the construction phase of leaseback transaction results in a finance lease, any excess the related network up to the time that services can be first of sale proceeds over the carrying amount is deferred and rendered on a commercial basis. recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss over the lease term. All other borrowing costs are recognized in profit or loss in the period in which they are incurred. In case KPN acts as lessor in a finance lease, the transaction is accounted for as a normal sale and the present value of Taxation the lease payments is recognized as a receivable. The Current income tax difference between the gross receivable and the present The current corporate income tax charge recognized in value of the receivable is deferred and recognized as the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss is calculated interest over the lease term. in accordance with the prevailing tax regulations and rates taking into account non-taxable income and nonShare-based compensation deductible expenses. The current income tax expense KPN operates a number of share-based compensation reflects the amount for the current reporting period that plans, both equity and cash-settled. For equity-settled KPN expects to recover from or pay to the tax authorities. plans, the fair value of options or shares granted to Current income tax related to items recognized directly employees is measured at grant date. For cash-settled in equity is recorded in equity and not in the Consolidated plans, the fair value of the liability for the awards granted Statement of Profit or Loss. KPN’s management periodically is re-measured at each reporting date and at settlement. evaluates positions taken in the tax returns regarding The costs of share-based compensation plans are situations in which applicable tax regulations are subject determined based on the fair value of the options and to interpretation and establishes provisions when shares and the number of options or shares expected deemed appropriate. to vest. On each Financial Position date, KPN determines whether it is necessary to revise the expectation of the Deferred income taxes number of options or shares that will vest. The fair value is Deferred income tax positions are recognized for temporary recognized as costs in the Consolidated Statement of Profit differences between the tax basis of assets and liabilities or Loss over the vesting period of the options or shares and their carrying values in KPN’s Consolidated Statement against an increase in equity in case of equity-settled of Financial Position. share-based compensation plans and against recognition of a liability in case of cash-settled share-based Deferred tax assets are recognized for all deductible compensation plans. For details on KPN’s share-based temporary differences, the carry forward of unused tax compensation plans, see Note 3. credits and any unused tax losses. Deferred tax assets are recognized only to the extent that it is probable that Operating expenses future taxable profits will be available against which the Operating expenses are measured and recognized based temporary differences can be utilized. Both the recognized on the accounting principles that are applied to related and unrecognized deferred tax assets are reassessed at assets or liabilities and are allocated to the year in which each reporting date. No deferred tax assets are recognized they are incurred. for deductible temporary differences that arise from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that Subscriber acquisition and retention costs are expensed as is not a business combination and, at the time of the incurred. The most common subscriber acquisition costs transaction, affects neither the profit or loss reported are handsets and dealer fees. The cost of a handset is in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss nor the expensed when the handset is sold. The sale can be an taxable profit or loss. Deferred tax assets are recorded individual sale or a component of a multiple deliverable for deductible temporary differences associated with arrangement containing for example the sale of a handset investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in combined with a subscription. In both cases, the handset is joint ventures and are recorded only to the extent that expensed when the costs are incurred. When a handset is it is probable that the temporary differences will reverse leased out, it depends on the type of lease (operating or in the foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available finance) whether the costs are expensed as incurred or against which the temporary differences can be utilized. capitalized and depreciated over the expected lifetime (see ‘leases’ above). Deferred tax liabilities are recognized for all taxable temporary differences except when they arise from the Borrowing costs initial recognition of goodwill or an asset or liability in a Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, transaction that is not a business combination and, at the construction or production of qualifying assets are added time of the transaction, affects neither the profit or loss to the cost of those assets, until such time as the assets are reported in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss substantially ready for intended use or sale. Qualifying nor the taxable profit or loss. Also, no deferred tax assets are assets that necessarily take a substantial period liabilities are recorded for taxable temporary differences of time to get ready for their intended use or sale. KPN’s associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and qualifying assets mainly are its network (included in interests in joint ventures when the timing of the reversal 114 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is the expiration date of the licenses ranging from 5 to 20 probable that the temporary differences will not reverse years. Licenses are reviewed for impairment whenever in the foreseeable future. events or changes in circumstances indicate that the book value of the asset concerned may not be recoverable. An Deferred tax positions are stated at nominal value and are impairment loss is recognized for the amount by which the measured at the corporate income tax rates KPN expects book value of the licenses exceeds its recoverable amount. to be applicable in the year when the asset is realized or The recoverable amount is defined as the higher of an liability is settled based on enacted or substantially asset’s fair value less cost to sell and its value in use. enacted tax laws. Impairments are reversed if and to the extent that the impairment no longer exists. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are netted if there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets Licenses not yet available for use are tested annually for against current tax liabilities, deferred income tax assets impairment or whenever KPN has an indication that the and deferred income tax liabilities relate to income taxes licenses may be impaired. Licenses are tested as part of a levied by the same taxation authority on the same taxable cash-generating unit as licenses do not generate entity and there is an intention to settle on a net basis. independent cash flows. Statement of Financial Position Software Internally developed and acquired software, not being Intangible assets an integral part of property, plant and equipment, is Goodwill capitalized on the basis of the costs incurred, which The excess of the consideration transferred over the fair include direct costs and directly attributable overhead value of the identifiable net assets acquired in a business costs incurred. During the development phase, interest combination is recorded as goodwill. Goodwill on expenses incurred are capitalized as part of qualifying acquisitions of subsidiaries is included in intangible assets. assets if material. Software is amortized over the estimated Goodwill on acquisition of associates and joint ventures is useful life of three to five years. Amortization commences included in investments in associates and joint ventures. when software is available for use. Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units for the Software is reviewed for impairment whenever events or purpose of impairment testing. The allocation is made to changes in circumstances indicate that the book value may those cash-generating units or groups of cash-generating no longer be recoverable. An impairment loss is recognized units that are expected to benefit from the synergies of for the amount by which the asset’s book value exceeds its the business combination in which the goodwill arose, recoverable amount. Impairments are reversed if and to irrespective of whether other assets or liabilities of the the extent that the impairment no longer exists. The acquiree are assigned to those cash-generating units. recoverable amount is defined as the higher of an asset’s fair value less cost to sell and its value in use. Goodwill is carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses and tested for impairment annually or whenever Other intangibles KPN has an indication that the goodwill may be impaired. Other intangible fixed assets such as customer Goodwill is impaired if the recoverable amount of the relationships and trade names acquired in business cash-generating unit or groups of cash-generating units combinations are capitalized at their fair values at to which it is allocated is lower than the book value of the acquisition date and are amortized using the straight-line cash-generating unit or groups of cash-generating units method over an estimated useful life of 4 to 20 years. concerned. The recoverable amount is defined as the higher of the fair value less cost to sell and the value in Other intangible fixed assets are reviewed for impairment use of the cash-generating units concerned. Following whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the restrictions of IFRS, impairment losses on goodwill that the book value may no longer be recoverable. An are not reversed. impairment loss is recognized for the amount by which the asset’s book value exceeds its recoverable amount. In case of disposal of a business which was part of a cashImpairments are reversed if and to the extent that the generating unit, goodwill is allocated to that business impairment no longer exists. The recoverable amount on a relative fair value basis and included in the carrying is defined as the higher of an asset’s fair value less cost amount of the business when determining the result on to sell and its value in use. the sale. Property, plant and equipment Licenses Property, plant and equipment are valued at cost less Licenses are valued at cost less amortization and depreciation and impairment. The cost includes direct costs impairment. The cost value of a qualifying asset may (materials, direct labor and work contracted out), directly include capitalized borrowing costs related to qualifying attributable overhead costs and may include capitalized assets incurred during the construction phase of the borrowing costs recorded during the construction phase related asset. Amortization is calculated using the of property, plant and equipment components. straight-line method and is commenced at the date that services can be offered (available for use). The amortization Asset retirement obligations are capitalized as part of period for licenses equals the useful life, but is limited to the cost of tangible fixed assets and expensed as either KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 115 Consolidated Financial Statements General Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued depreciation over the asset’s estimated useful life or as derivatives, are classified as held for trading except impairment charges. The estimated useful lives of the when they are designated as effective hedge instruments principal property, plant and equipment categories under IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and are as follows: Measurement’. Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Land No depreciation Financial Position at their fair value with net changes in the Buildings 14 to 33 years fair value presented as finance costs (in case of negative net Network equipment 3 to 7 years changes to the fair value) or finance income (in case of Network infrastructure 10 to 30 years positive net changes to the fair value) in the Consolidated Vehicles 10 years Statement of Profit or Loss. Office equipment 4 to 10 years Loans and receivables Property, plant and equipment is depreciated using the Loans and receivables are financial assets with fixed or straight-line method, based on estimated useful life, taking determinable payments that are not quoted in an active into account residual value. Land is not depreciated. market and created by KPN by providing money, goods Property, plant and equipment is reviewed for impairment or services directly to a debtor, other than: whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that ýý Those KPN intends to sell immediately or in the short the book value of the assets concerned may not be term, which are classified as held for trading; and recoverable. An impairment loss is recognized for the ýý Those for which KPN may not recover substantially all amount by which the asset’s book value exceeds its of its initial investment, other than because of credit recoverable amount. Impairments are reversed if and deterioration, which are classified as available-for-sale. to the extent that the impairment no longer exists. The recoverable amount is defined as the higher of an asset’s After initial measurement, loans and receivables are carried fair value less cost to sell and its value in use. at amortized cost using the effective interest rate, which may equal cost if there is no maturity, less an allowance for Subsequent costs such as costs for replacement of network uncollectibility. The amortized cost is calculated by taking components are included in the asset’s carrying amount or into account any discounts or premiums on acquisition and recognized as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it transactions costs. The effective interest rate amortization is probable that KPN will receive future economic benefits is recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or associated with the item and the cost can be measured Loss under finance income or finance costs. reliably. The carrying amounts of replaced assets are derecognized. All other repairs and maintenance costs Loans and receivables are included in current assets, except are recognized in profit or loss when incurred. for maturities greater than 12 months after the Financial Position date. Loans and receivables are included in Trade The assets’ residual values and useful lives are reviewed and other receivables in the Consolidated Statement of at least annually and adjusted if appropriate. Financial Position. See also Notes 15 and 29. Financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets KPN’s financial assets include investments in companies KPN’s available-for-sale financial assets include equity other than subsidiaries and associates, financial receivables investments. KPN intends to hold these assets for an held for investment purposes and other securities. At initial indefinite (undefined) period of time and has therefore not recognition, KPN classifies its financial assets in one of the classified the assets as held for trading nor has designated following categories: the assets at fair value through profit or loss. Available-forýý Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss; sale financial assets are carried at fair value with unrealized ýý Loans and receivables; gains and losses (except for impairment losses) recognized ýý Held-to-maturity investments (not applicable in 2012 in the Consolidated Statement of Other Comprehensive and 2013); and Income until the financial asset is derecognized, at which ýý Available-for-sale financial assets. time the cumulative gain or loss previously recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Other Comprehensive The classification depends on the purpose for which the Income is taken to the Consolidated Statement of Profit financial assets were acquired. Management determines or Loss for the period. Impairment losses occurred are the classification of the financial assets at initial recognition recognized directly in the Consolidated Statement of Profit and assesses the designation at every reporting date. All or Loss for the period. financial assets are initially recognized at fair value plus transaction costs attributable to the acquisition of the asset The fair values of quoted investments are based on current if a financial asset is not recorded at fair value through bid prices. If the market for a financial asset is not active profit or loss. Subsequent measurement depends on the and for unlisted securities, KPN establishes the fair value classification of the financial asset. by using valuation techniques. These include the use of recent at arm’s length transactions, reference to other Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss instruments that are substantially the same and discounted This category has two subcategories: financial assets held cash flow analysis. for trading and those designated at fair value through profit or loss at inception. Financial assets held for trading are Derivative financial instruments classified in this category when acquired principally for the and hedging activities purpose of selling in the short term or if so designated by Derivative financial instruments are initially recognized management. Derivatives, including separated embedded at fair value. Subsequently, KPN measures all derivative 116 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 financial instruments based on fair values derived from Inventories market prices of the instruments or valuation techniques Inventories of resources, parts, tools and measuring such as discounted cash flows. Gains and losses arising instruments, and finished goods are valued at the lower from changes in the fair value of the instruments are of cost or net realizable value. The cost of inventories is recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss determined using the weighted average cost. Net realizable as finance cost (in case of negative net changes to the fair value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course value) or finance income (in case of positive net changes to of business less applicable variable selling expenses. the fair value) during the period in which they arise to the extent that the derivatives have no hedging designation or Losses on the sale of handsets which are sold for less than they are ineffective. cost is only recorded when the sale occurs if the normal resale value is higher than the cost of the handset. If the In general, KPN designates derivatives related to loans as normal resale value is lower than costs, the difference is either cash flow hedges or fair value hedges. KPN applies recognized as impairment immediately. hedge accounting as this recognizes the offsetting effects on profit or loss of changes in the fair values of the Transition costs relating to fixed-price contracts involving hedging instrument and the hedged item (borrowings) managed ICT services are capitalized and subsequently and/or forecasted transactions. recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss on a straight-line basis during the period the services are At the inception of transactions, KPN documents the provided, taking into account the number of office seats relationship between the derivative and hedged item included in the service contract during the term of the (such as the underlying loan), as well as the objective contract. Transition costs consist primarily of the labor of the risk management and the strategy for undertaking and other cost of personnel directly engaged in performing transactions. In the documentation it is also stated the transition, third-party services, products and other cost whether the hedge relationship is expected to be effective which will be charged to the customer. Transition costs are – at inception and on an ongoing basis – and how the capitalized if it is probable that they will be recovered and effectiveness is tested. are classified under inventories. Changes in the fair value of an effective derivative, which Trade and other receivables is designated as a fair value hedge and qualifies as such, Receivables are initially recognized at fair value, and along with the gain or loss on the hedged item that is subsequently measured at amortized cost using the attributable to the hedged risk, are recorded in the effective interest rate method less provision for impairment. Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss as finance cost A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established (in case of negative changes to the fair value) or finance when there is objective evidence that KPN will not be able income (in case of positive net changes to the fair value). to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables. The amount of the provision is the Changes in the fair value of an effective derivative, which difference between the carrying amount and the present is designated as a cash flow hedge and qualifies as such, value of the estimated future cash flows, discounted at the are recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Other original effective interest rate. The provision is set up Comprehensive Income for the effective part, until the through the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss (as profit or loss are affected by the variability in cash flows other operating expenses). When a trade receivable is of the designated hedged item. The ineffective part uncollectible, it is written off against the allowance account of the cash flow hedge is recognized in the Consolidated for trade receivables. Subsequent recoveries of amounts Statement of Profit or Loss as finance cost (in case of previously written off are credited against other operating negative changes to the fair value) or finance income expenses in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss. (in case of positive net changes to the fair value). See Notes 13 and 15 on further information on KPN’s trade and other receivables. If an underlying transaction has ceased to be an effective hedge or in case of early redemption of the hedged item, Cash and cash equivalents KPN discontinues hedge accounting prospectively which Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand, means that subsequent changes in the fair value are deposits held at call with banks, and other short-term recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss, highly liquid investments with original maturities of three under ‘finance income’ or ‘finance costs’. The cumulative months or less. Bank overdrafts are included within amount recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Other borrowings in current liabilities on the Consolidated Comprehensive Income is amortized over the remaining Statement of Financial Position and are not deducted from duration of the derivative in case of a cash flow hedge. cash and cash equivalents. The full fair value of the derivatives is classified as a Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale non-current asset or liability if the remaining maturity Non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held of the hedged item is more than 12 months and as a for sale as well as liabilities directly associated herewith current asset or liability if the remaining maturity is are stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less than 12 months. less costs to sell if their carrying amount is recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than through Refer to Note 26 on KPN’s derivative financial instruments continuing use. If fixed assets are transferred to held for and Note 29 on KPN’s financial risks. sale, depreciation and amortization ceases. A disposal group classifies as a ‘discontinued operation’ based on its significance to the KPN Group. KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 117 Consolidated Financial Statements General Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued See Note 18 for further information on KPN’s non-current Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss assets and disposal groups held for sale. This category has two subcategories: financial liabilities held for trading and those designated at fair value through Equity profit or loss at inception. Financial liabilities held for KPN’s share capital consists of ordinary shares which are trading are classified in this category when incurred for the classified as equity and preference shares B which are purpose of repurchasing in the near future. This includes classified as short-term liabilities (Note 19). The surplus derivatives, including separated embedded derivatives, paid by shareholders above the nominal value of shares that are designated as hedging instruments in a hedging is recognized as share premium. Incremental costs directly relationship as defined by IAS 39. Financial liabilities at attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown fair value through profit or loss are recognized in the in the Consolidated Statement of Other Comprehensive Consolidated Statement of Financial Position at their fair Income as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds. value with net changes in the fair value presented as finance costs or income in the Consolidated Statement of Equity instruments and other financial instruments with Profit or Loss. KPN has not designated financial liabilities long-term nature are classified based on their specific at fair value through profit or loss. nature, terms and characteristics. Refer to Note 21 for disclosures on KPN’s accounting of the perpetual hybrid Loans and borrowings bonds issued. The consideration paid by KPN for the After initial recognition, loans and borrowings are acquisition of its own equity instruments (treasury shares) subsequently carried at amortized cost; any difference is deducted from other reserves at trade date until those between the proceeds (net of transaction costs) and the shares are cancelled, reissued or disposed of. Upon redemption value is recognized in the Consolidated subsequent sale or reissue of such shares, any Statement of Profit or Loss over the period of the consideration received is included in other reserves. borrowings using the effective interest method. The amortized cost is calculated by taking into account any KPN’s Group equity is divided into two categories: equity discounts or premiums on acquisition or issuance and attributable to equity holders and to non-controlling transaction costs. The effective interest rate amortization interests. The first category refers to KPN’s owners, whereas is recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or non-controlling interests represent shares issued by a Loss under finance costs. subsidiary of KPN to the shareholders outside the group. Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless KPN has Transactions with non-controlling interests are treated an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for as transactions with equity holders of KPN. For purchases at least 12 months after the Financial Position date. of equity instruments from non-controlling interests, the difference between any consideration paid and the carrying When bonds are repurchased with the issue of new bonds, amount of the non-controlling interest of the subsidiary the expenses related to the old bonds, including tender acquired is recorded in equity. Since KPN already controls premiums, are expensed as incurred unless the new bonds the acquired entity, no additional purchase price allocation are placed with the same holders and the change in the is performed. Gains or losses on disposal of a nonnet present value of the cash flows is less than 10%. In the controlling interest in a subsidiary are also recorded in the latter case, these expenses are capitalized and amortized Consolidated Statement of Other Comprehensive Income. over the term of the new bonds. Dividends to be distributed to the equity holders are This category applies to KPN’s borrowings (Note 21), other recognized as a liability in the period in which the payables (Note 24) and trade and other payables (Note 25). dividends are approved by the shareholders. Offsetting financial assets and liabilities Financial liabilities Financial assets and liabilities are offset and reported on a KPN’s financial liabilities include loans and borrowings, net basis on KPN’s Consolidated Statement of Financial derivative financial instruments, other payables and Position only when there is a legally enforceable right to deferred income and trade and other payables. At initial offset the recognized amounts and there is an intention recognition, KPN classifies its financial liabilities in one either to settle on a net basis or to realize the asset and of the following categories: settle the liability simultaneously. ýý Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss; ýý Loans and borrowings; and Provisions for retirement benefit obligations ýý Derivatives. Pension obligations The liability recognized in the Consolidated Statement All financial liabilities are initially recognized at fair value of Financial Position in respect of all pension and early net of directly attributable transaction costs in case of retirement plans that qualify as defined benefit obligation loans and borrowings. Subsequent measurement depends is the present value of the defined benefit obligation at on the classification of the financial liability. Management the Financial Position date less the fair value of plan assets. determines the classification of the financial liabilities at KPN uses actuarial calculations (projected unit credit initial recognition and assesses the designation at every method) to measure the obligations and the costs. For reporting date. the calculation, actuarial assumptions are made about 118 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 demographic variables (such as employee turnover and IAS 19R is applied in the Consolidated and Corporate mortality) and financial variables (such as future indexation Financial Statements 2013 with restatement of comparative and the discount rate). The discount rate is determined 2012 numbers. At January 1, 2013, all unrecognized by reference to market rates. These are interest rates cumulative actuarial losses and past service costs have been of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated recognized at once reducing equity attributable to equity in the currency in which the benefit will be paid and that holders by EUR 1,127 million (net of tax). The net pension have terms to maturity, approximating the terms of the provision in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position related liability. increased by EUR 1,380 million and the deferred tax assets increased by EUR 253 million. Under IAS 19R, the pension A net defined benefit asset may arise where a defined provision in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position benefit plan has been overfunded. KPN recognizes a net is equal to the defined benefit obligation less the fair value of defined benefit asset in such a case only when future plan assets of the defined benefit pension plans. The impact economic benefits are available to KPN in the form of of IAS 19R on equity at January 1, 2012 is a reduction of EUR a reduction in future contributions or a cash refund. 657 million (net of tax). Actuarial gains and losses are recognized immediately in the Pension costs (excluding net interest costs) in 2012 are EUR Consolidated Statement of Other Comprehensive Income. 111 million lower as a result of the application of IAS 19R, mainly due to the elimination of amortization of actuarial Past service costs, curtailments and settlements are gains and losses through the Consolidated Statement of recognized immediately in the Consolidated Statement Profit or Loss (EUR 91 million) and the replacement of of Profit or Loss. interest cost and expected return on plan assets (EUR 20 million expense under IAS 19) with a net interest amount The amount of pension costs included in operating presented as finance costs. The net interest cost under IAS expenses with respect to defined benefit plans consist 19R relating to the pension provision amounts to EUR 36 of service cost, past service costs, curtailments and million in 2012. settlements and administration costs. Interest cost and expected return on plan assets are presented as part In 2012, actuarial losses of EUR 672 million were of finance costs. incurred (EUR 542 million net of tax) which under IAS 19R have been recognized immediately in the Consolidated For pension plans that qualify as a defined contribution Statement of Other Comprehensive Income. plan, KPN recognizes contributions as an expense when an employee has rendered service in exchange for The impact of IAS 19R on equity attributable to equity those contributions. holders can be summarized as follows (in millions of EUR): IAS 19R December January 1, 31, 2012 2012 In June 2011, IAS 19 ‘Employee benefits’ was amended (IAS Equity attributable to equity 19R) and became effective at January 1, 2013. The impact holders as per Consolidated on KPN’s financial statements is as follows: Financial Statements 2,410 2,930 ýý Elimination of the corridor approach and recognition IAS 19R impact -1,127 -657 of all actuarial gains and losses in the Consolidated Adjusted equity attributable Statement of Other Comprehensive Income as they occur; to equity holders 1,283 2,273 ýý Immediate recognition of all past service costs; and ýý Replacement of interest cost and expected return on The movement in the IAS 19R impact in 2012 can be plan assets with a net interest amount that is calculated summarized as follows (in millions of EUR): by applying the discount rate to the net defined benefit liability (asset). Unrecognized actuarial losses/past IAS 19R specifically addresses the incorporation in the service cost Tax Net valuation of the defined benefit obligation of risk sharing Balance as at and shared funding between employer and employees December 31, 2011 783 -126 657 (e.g. employee contributions) which are typical for Dutch Reversal amortization -91 – -91 pension arrangements and which reduce the defined Adjustment expected return plan assets 16 – 16 benefit obligation. Higher tax expense – 3 3 Actuarial losses in 2012 672 -130 542 In addition, KPN has decided to present net interest cost as Balance as at part of finance costs as of January 1, 2013 because this will December 31, 2012 1,380 -253 1,127 give a better view of the operating expenses related to KPN’s pension plans. KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 119 Consolidated Financial Statements General Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued The above-mentioned changes in accounting for Termination benefits pensions are not expected to have an impact on the Termination benefits are payable when employment amount of cash contributions to be paid to the pension is terminated before the normal retirement date, or funds nor the investment policies of these funds as these whenever an employee accepts voluntary redundancy in are determined independently from KPN. KPN has no exchange for these benefits. KPN recognizes termination bank covenants impacted by these new accounting benefits when KPN is demonstrably committed to either policies nor will they have an impact on KPN’s ability terminating the employment of current employees to meet its financial obligations. according to a detailed formal plan without possibility of withdrawal, or providing termination benefits as a result The impact of IAS 19R on the Consolidated Statement of an offer made to encourage voluntary redundancy. of Profit or Loss in 2012 is as follows (in millions of EUR): Benefits falling due more than 12 months after the Financial Position date are discounted to present value. As reported (after restatement for discontinued IAS 19R Other long-term employee obligations operations) impact Adjusted These employee benefits include jubilee or other Employee benefits 1,641 -110 1,531 long-service benefits, long-term disability benefits and, Total operating if they are not fully payable within 12 months after the expenses 8,182 -110 8,072 end of the period, bonuses and deferred compensation. Operating profit 1,276 110 1,386 The expected costs of these benefits are accrued over Finance income and the period of employment using an accounting method expense -822 -35 -857 similar to that for defined benefit pension plans, except Profit before income tax from continuing that actuarial gains and losses and past-service costs are operations 443 75 518 recognized immediately. Income taxes -201 -3 -204 Profit for the year from Provisions for other liabilities and charges continuing operations 242 72 314 Provisions for items such as asset retirement obligations, Profit for the year from restructuring costs and legal claims are recognized when discontinued operations 451 – 451 KPN has a present legal or constructive obligation as a Profit for the year 693 72 765 result of past events; and it is more likely than not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the The impact of IAS 19R on earnings per share after taxes obligation and the amount can be reliably estimated. attributable to equity holders in 2012 is as follows (in millions of EUR): Provisions are measured at the present value of management’s best estimate of the expenditure required As reported (after restatement to settle the present obligation at the Financial Position for discontinued IAS 19R date. The discount rate used to determine the present operations) impact Adjusted value reflects current market assessments of the time value –Basic (continuing of money and the risks specific to the liability. See Notes 22 operations) 0.11 0.03 0.14 and 23 on KPN’s provisions. –Fully-diluted (continuing operations) 0.10 0.03 0.13 Statement of Cash Flows –Basic (discontinued operations) 0.19 – 0.19 The Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows is prepared –Fully-diluted using the indirect method. Cash flows denominated in (discontinued operations) 0.19 – 0.19 currencies other than the euro are translated at average exchange rates. Cash flows relating to interest and taxes –Basic (total, including on profits are included in the cash flow from operating discontinued operations) 0.30 0.03 0.33 activities. The consideration paid in cash for newly –Fully-diluted (total, acquired KPN group companies and associated companies including discontinued is included in the cash flow from investing activities net of operations) 0.29 0.03 0.32 cash acquired. Cash flows resulting from the acquisition or disposal of KPN group companies are disclosed separately. The impact of IAS 19R on the Other Comprehensive Income Investments in property, plant and equipment, which are in 2012 is a decrease of EUR 470 million (consisting of net financed by financial leases, are not included in the cash actuarial losses of EUR 542 million and profit for the period flow used in investing activities. of EUR 72 million). Cash flows from arising from disposal groups held for sale (E-Plus) are presented separated from cash flows arising from KPN’s continuing operations. Comparative financial information has been restated. 120 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF PROFIT OR LOSS [1] Revenues Amounts in millions of EUR 2013 2012 Restated Rendering of services 7,829 8,835 Sale of goods 575 408 Royalties and other revenues 39 65 Total revenues 8,443 9,308 Rendering of services included traffic and subscription fees for the usage of KPN’s networks, handset leasing fees, one-off connection and other initial fees and revenues from designing, building, deploying and managing ICT solutions which are provided on a time and material basis or as a fixed-price contract. The sale of goods included peripheral and other equipment. Reference is made to Note 34 for more information on KPN’s revenues per segment. [2] Other income Amounts in millions of EUR 2013 2012 Restated Gains on the sale of property, plant and equipment 5 103 Other gains 24 47 Total other income 29 150 Gains on the sale of property, plant and equipment decreased due to the sale and lease back transactions of mobile towers in 2012. In 2013, other gains mainly included a positive result of the sale of Infrastructure Services & Partners B.V. (EUR 23 million), the sale of Utility Connect B.V. (EUR 5 million) and a negative result of the sale of Compucom (EUR -3 million). In 2012, other gains included, among others, gains from the sale of Getronics International (EUR 8 million) and the sale of KPN Spain (EUR 36 million). [3] Employee benefits Amounts in millions of EUR 2013 2012 Restated Salaries and wages 1,064 1,252 Pension charges [22] 101 108 Social security contributions 132 171 Total employee benefits 1,297 1,531 [..] Bracketed number refers to the related Note. Reference is made to Note 34 ‘Segment Reporting’ for further information on the number of employees and to Note 23 ‘Provisions for other liabilities and charges’ for further information on employee redundancy costs. In the other operating expenses, an amount of EUR 100 million is recorded related to restructuring of the personnel (2012: EUR 120 million). Board of Management and Supervisory Board The Remuneration and Organizational Development Report included in this Annual Report contains required information comprising ‘D: Details of actual pay-out for 2013’ and ‘E: Supervisory Board Pay 2013’, which are deemed part of these financial statements. Share option plans KPN has granted stock options on its shares to members of the Board of Management, Senior Management and employees in the Netherlands with a collective labor agreement. As all remaining share option plans vested in 2010, no cost is recorded in 2013 and 2012. All options are granted with an exercise price equal to market share price at grant date, are equity-settled and are forfeited when employees leave KPN for reasons other than retirement, disability or death (except for some personnel plans). The other main features of the option plans are: Exercise price Exercisable (years Vesting Profits in escrow if Performance (in EUR) Maximum term after grant date) period exercised within 3 years1 related2 2004 Management 6.45 8 years 3 years 3 years – yes Management 6.45 8 years 3 years 3 years – no Management Belgium 6.45 8 years 3.7 years 3 years – no 2005 Management 6.73-7.18 8 years 3 years 3 years – yes Management 6.73 8 years 3 years 3 years – no Management Belgium 6.73 8 years 3.7 years 3 years – no 2007 CEO (former) 12.09 5 years immediate 3 years yes no 1) If options are exercisable immediately, the profits from any exercise prior to the third anniversary of the date of issue will be held in escrow until the third anniversary of the issue, at which time such profits will be released to the relevant option holder, provided that the option holder remains employed by KPN. 2) The number of options that vested after the three-year vesting period and were performance-related, depended on KPN’s Total Shareholder Return (stock appreciation plus dividend pay-out; TSR) relative to a peer group of European telecommunication companies. KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 121 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss continued Summary of the changes in outstanding options 2013 2012 Weighted average Weighted average exercise price per exercise price per Number of options option in EUR Number of options option in EUR Outstanding at the beginning of the year 405,282 6.75 908,226 7.62 Options granted – – – – Options exercised [19] – – -243,433 6.48 Options expired -405,282 6.75 -259,511 10.04 Options forfeited – – – – Outstanding at the end of the year – – 405,282 6.75 – of which: exercisable – – 405,282 6.75 [..] Bracketed number refers to the related Note. The average KPN stock price in 2013 was EUR 2.02 (2012: EUR 6.83). The fair value of each option was estimated at the date of grant using a binomial model. Share plans Since 2006, KPN has granted shares and share-based awards on its shares to members of the Board of Management and Senior Management: The Performance Share Plan (PSP). The conditionally granted PSP award will vest after three years if the employee is still employed with KPN. The number of share-based awards which vest depends on KPN’s Total Shareholder Return (TSR) position ranking relative to its peer group of European telecommunications companies (including KPN). Since 2011, vesting is based for 75% on relative TSR and for 25% on non-financial performance measures i.e. energy reduction targets and a reputation dashboard. The list of companies included in the peer group and the vesting schedule can be found under ‘Long-term incentives’ in the ‘Remuneration and Organizational Development Report’ section. In May 2012 and May 2013, an additional equity settled plan was granted to Senior Management: the KPN Restricted Share Plan. Shares under this plan will vest on January 1, 2015 and on January 1, 2016 respectively if the employee is still employed with KPN. For this plan, no other performance measures are applicable. The share plan rules provide the possibility to adjust granted rights under the incentive plans to maintain its economic value if, subsequent to the date of grant, an issue of shares occurs. This approach is exclusively aimed at reflecting the increased number of shares following the rights issue and is in line with market practice. Therefore, the granted shares were adjusted based on a mathematically calculated adjustment factor, i.e. the cum-rights price divided by the TERP (Theoretical Ex-Rights Price) which, in case of the KPN rights issue, set the adjustment factor at 1.6494. This adjustment factor will be applicable for the existing (not yet vested) LTI plans, i.e. 2011, 2012 and 2013 and future plans. The main features of the awards granted under the PSP and Restricted Share Plan to KPN management are summarized below: Holding period after Maximum term Settlement type1 Vesting period vesting of/until 2008 Board of Management 5 years Equity 3 years 2 years Senior Management 3 years Cash 3 years – 2009 Board of Management 5 years Equity2 3 years 2 years Senior Management 3 years Cash 3 years – 2010 Board of Management 5 years Equity 3 years 2 years Senior Management 3 years Cash 3 years – 2011 Board of Management 5 years Equity2 3 years 2 years Senior Management 3 years Cash 3 years – 2012 Board of Management and Senior Management 5 years Equity2 3 years 2 years Senior Management 3 years Cash 3 years – Senior Management Restricted Share Plan 2.7 years Equity 2.7 years – 2013 Board of Management and Senior Management 5 years Equity2 3 years 2 years Senior Management 3 years Cash 3 years – Senior Management Restricted Share Plan 2.7 years Equity 2.7 years – 1) The cash-based share awards will be settled in cash and no holding restrictions apply. An exception to the holding period for equity-settled plans is made with respect to shares that were sold upon vesting to cover the tax obligation on the vested shares. After vesting, the holder is able to sell a number of unconditional granted shares only up to the amount necessary to settle the wage taxes liability relating to the profit made on the stock compensation plan. 2) Including deferred dividend. 122 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 The total compensation expense associated with the share plans was EUR 4 million in 2013 (2012: EUR 3 million benefit) and the related liability (for cash-settled shares) at December 31, 2013 was EUR 1 million (2012: EUR 105,000). This liability is included under Other payables and deferred income. During 2013, KPN granted 6,511,905 shares and share-based awards (2012: 2,240,959) to members of the Board of Management and Senior Management, including the adjustment for the rights issue. The following table presents the number of shares and share-based awards under the share plans for the year ended December 31, 2013. Total at Granted/ Total at Granted/ Total at Number of shares and December additional Exercised/ December additional Exercised/ December – of which: share based awards 31, 2011 vesting2 Vested Forfeited 31, 2012 vesting2-5 Vested Forfeited 31, 20133-5 Non-Vested 2008 Shares Board of Management 87,576 – – – 87,576 – -87,576 – – – 2010 Share-based awards Senior Management 1,667,142 – – -1,667,1424 – – – – – – 2010 Shares Board of Management 194,813 – – -194,8134 – – – – – – 2011 Share-based awards Senior Management 1,603,402 – – -208,187 1,395,215 810,747 – -137,266 4 2,068,696 2,068,696 2011 Shares Board of Management 227,000 – – -91,666 135,334 87,885 – –4 223,219 223,219 2012 Share-based awards Senior Management – 1,166,4591 – -49,901 1,116,558 704,672 – -132,449 1,688,781 1,688,781 2012 Shares Board of Management/Senior Management – 459,5001 – -20,833 438,667 188,317 – -25,311 601,673 601,673 2012 Restricted Shares Senior Management – 615,000 – -7,500 607,500 375,200 – -42,359 940,341 940,341 2013 Share-based awards Senior Management – – – – – 1,776,2931 – – 1,776,293 1,776,293 2013 Shares Board of Management/Senior Management – – – – – 634,1131 – – 634,113 634,113 2013 Restricted Shares Senior Management – – – – – 1,934,678 – -20,600 1,914,078 1,914,078 1) On the basis of 100% grant. The equity-settled share numbers do not include any deferred dividend during the vesting period. The deferred dividend during the vesting period will be granted in additional shares. 2) At grant date, the fair value is calculated using a Monte Carlo Simulation model except for the restricted shares. At April 12, 2013 the fair value was EUR 1.06 (2012 grant: EUR 2.84) for the 2013 share-based award (cash-settled) and EUR 1.06 (2012 grant: EUR 2.84) for the 2013 equity-settled share grant for Members of the Board of Management and Senior Management (excluding deferred dividend). At May 1, 2013 the fair value was EUR 1.58 for the 2013 Restricted share award for Senior Management. 3) At December 31, 2013 the fair value of each cash-settled share-based award was measured, using a Monte Carlo Simulation model, based on the most recent available share price of KPN and its performance compared to peer companies at the moment of valuation (i.e. closing share prices as at December 31, 2013). At December 31, 2013 the fair value was EUR 0 (2012: EUR 0.06) for the 2011 share-based award, EUR 0.06 (2012: EUR 0.22) for the 2012 share-based award and EUR 1.96 for the 2013 share-based award. 4) At the end of 2013, KPN held the 14th position with respect to the 2011 share grant and at the end of 2012 KPN held the 13th position with respect to the 2010 share grant. Final TSR measurement for the 2011 share grant was conducted as per February 15, 2014. 5) Granted shares were adjusted based on a mathematically calculated adjustment factor, i.e. the cum-rights price divided by the TERP (Theoretical Ex-Rights Price) which, in case of the KPN rights issue, is set at 1.6494. The fair value of each share at the grant date is determined using the following assumptions: 2013 2012 Restricted Restricted 2013 PSP Shares 2012 PSP Shares Risk-free interest rate based on euro governments bonds for remaining time to maturity of 2.7 years 0.6% 0.6% 1.2% 1.1% Expected dividend for KPN (based on one year’s historical daily data preceding the date of award) 0.0% – 10.2% – Expected volatility (PSP grant based on 2.7 years daily historical daily data) 32.9% – 20.0% – Share price at date of award (closing at grant date) EUR 1.06 EUR 1.58 EUR 6.66 EUR 6.78 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 123 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss continued [4] Depreciation, amortization and impairments Amounts in millions of EUR 2013 2012 Restated Impairment of goodwill – 314 Amortization of other intangible assets 585 558 Impairment of other intangible assets 14 9 Total amortization and impairments of goodwill and other intangible assets 599 881 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 1,232 1,049 Impairments and retirements of property, plant and equipment 26 30 Total depreciation and impairments of property, plant and equipment 1,258 1,079 Total 1,857 1,960 Impairment of Goodwill During 2012, continued adverse market trends and price pressure negatively impacted the performance and outlook of Corporate Market (in 2013 partly renamed to IT Solutions). As a result, the annual impairment testing led to an impairment of goodwill of Corporate Market of EUR 314 million over 2012. Reference is made to Note 10. Other impairments and depreciation Depreciation and impairments on property, plant and equipment are detailed as follows: Amounts in millions of EUR 2013 2012 Restated By classification: Land and buildings 79 71 Plant and equipment 1,127 949 Other tangible fixed assets 41 53 Assets under construction 11 6 Total 1,258 1,079 [5] Other operating expenses In 2013, Other operating expenses comprised, among others, an addition to the restructuring provision of EUR 122 million (2012: EUR 135 million). For more details reference is made to Note 23. Auditor’s fees The fees listed below relate to the services provided to KPN and its consolidated group entities by PwC Accountants N.V., the Netherlands, KPN’s external auditor as referred to in Section 1(1) of the Dutch Accounting Firms Oversight Act (‘Wet toezicht accountantsorganisaties’ or ‘Wta’), as well as by other Dutch and foreign-based PwC individual partnerships and legal entities, including their tax services and advisory groups: Amounts in millions of EUR 2013 2012 Financial statements audit fees 6.8 7.9 Other assurance fees 4.5 3.5 Tax fees 3.2 1.2 All other fees 0.3 0.5 Total 14.8 13.1 Above fees include EUR 753,000 (2012: EUR 1.3 million) of fees charged to E-Plus. The total fees of PwC Accountants N.V., the Netherlands, charged to KPN and its consolidated group entities amounted to EUR 13.9 million in 2013 (2012: EUR 10.1 million). The financial statements audit fees include the aggregate fees billed in each of 2013 and 2012 for professional services rendered for the audit of KPN’s annual financial statements and annual statutory financial statements of subsidiaries or services that are normally provided by the auditor in connection with the audits. The other assurance fees include the aggregate fees billed for assurance and related services that are reasonably related to the performance of the audit or review of KPN’s financial statements and are not reported under audit services. This includes revenue and IT related assurance services and regulatory related assurance services. In 2013 this also included EUR 2.0 million fees related to the rights and bonds issues. From the total other assurance fees billed in 2013 some EUR 2.5 million related to services that are still regarded as permitted services under the ‘Wta’. The remainder of some EUR 2.0 million in fees billed in 2013 related to services that are no longer permitted but were carried out based on contracts that were in existence prior to January 1, 2013. Tax fees in 2013 mainly related to tax services in relation to the sale of E-Plus and the rights and bonds issues. All tax fees billed in 2013 as well as all other fees billed in 2013 related to services based on contracts that were in existence prior to January 1, 2013. 124 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 [6] Financial income and expenses Amounts in millions of EUR 2013 2012 Restated Finance income 29 38 Interest on borrowings -688 -693 Interest on provisions for retirement benefit obligations -41 -34 Interest on other provisions -1 -2 Other -24 -15 Finance costs -754 -744 Amortizable part of hedge reserve [19] -6 -6 Financial instruments not qualified for hedge accounting 17 -40 Exchange rate differences 3 -5 Reggefiber call/put arrangements -56 -100 Other 10 – Other financial results -32 -151 Total -757 -857 [..] Bracketed numbers refer to the related Notes. In 2013, interest on borrowings included a non-cash amount of EUR 19 million (2012: EUR 21 million) relating to debt issue costs and similar costs which are amortized over the remaining life of the respective bonds. Interest on provisions for retirement benefit obligations is the net amount of interest cost on the defined benefit obligation and expected return on plan assets (see Note 22). Changes in the carrying value of Reggefiber call/put arrangements to acquire the remaining shares resulted in a loss for the period of EUR 56 million (2012: EUR 100 million loss). Refer to Notes 12 and 29 for further information on the call/put arrangements. In 2013, line item ‘Other’ in Other financial results include the net result of the sale of available-for-sale financial assets (11% stake in Compucom) for the amount of EUR 21 million. This was largely offset by the amortizable part of discontinued fair value hedges, CVA/DVA adjustments on derivatives and several one-off items. KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 125 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss continued [7] Taxation The Netherlands In 2006, KPN signed a horizontal monitoring covenant (Handhavingsconvenant) with the Dutch tax authorities to self-assess and transparently discuss KPN’s current and potential future tax issues. A few issues were outstanding at December 31, 2013, of which the timing of the deductibility of costs regarding the tender of outstanding bonds in 2010 of approximately EUR 90 million and the deductibility of the loss of EUR 119 million relating to the liquidation of a foreign entity in 2011 are the most significant. The German activities (E-Plus) of KPN form a German partnership transparent for German tax purposes and a permanent establishment for Dutch tax purposes. An agreement in 2004 with the Dutch tax authorities allowed KPN to offset in 2002 a EUR 11.5 billion tax loss related to E-Plus against its Dutch taxable result. This loss had to be recaptured in later years by adding EBITDA of E-Plus to the taxable income of KPN. For the tax payments on this recapture, a deferred tax liability had been recognized. As per December 31, 2013 this recapture is fully realized. After the agreement in principle KPN and the Dutch tax authorities reached a final agreement in December 2013 on the Dutch tax consequences of the tax book loss which is expected to be recognized as a result of the expected sale of E-Plus to Telefónica Deutschland. This tax book loss amounts to approximately EUR 3.7 billion and, to the extent it cannot be carried back to earlier years, is expected to offset KPN’s taxable income in the Netherlands in the coming years, starting in 2014. Dividends received and/or capital gains (up to amount of loss deducted) realized on KPN’s 20.5% shareholding in Telefónica Deutschland will be subject to Dutch corporate income tax. Following this agreement, KPN recognized a deferred tax asset of EUR 932 million in the Netherlands. Due to its close relationship with the expected sale of E-Plus, this tax benefit is reported as ‘profit for the period from discontinued operations’. The deferred tax asset associated with this benefit is not included in the disposal group held for sale. In 2011, KPN reached an agreement with the Dutch tax authorities with regard to the application of the so-called innovation tax facilities. Innovation tax facilities are facilities under Dutch corporate income tax law whereby profits attributable to innovation are taxed at an effective rate of 5%. The agreement has retroactive effect from January 1, 2007. The application of the innovation tax facilities resulted in a benefit of EUR 53 million in 2013 (partly reflecting a reassessment of prior years). As a result of the application of the innovation tax facilities KPN’s effective tax rate in the Netherlands is reduced from the statutory tax rate of 25% to approximately 20%. Germany/E-Plus discontinued operations In Germany, income tax consists of trade tax (‘Gewerbesteuer’) and corporate tax (Körperschaftssteuer). E-Plus has considerable loss carry forward for both trade tax and corporate tax. For tax purposes, certain past impairments of goodwill and licenses were not recognized and therefore are amortized over the remaining useful lives (deductible temporary differences). In Germany, taxable income in a certain year, exceeding EUR 1 million, can only be offset for 60% against tax loss carry forward. Trade tax and corporate tax is payable over the remaining 40% of taxable income. E-Plus is classified as ‘disposal group held for sale’ and upon that classification an impairment of deferred tax assets for tax losses carry forward EUR 747 million was recorded (as ‘loss for the period from discontinued operations’) resulting from changes in expectations of future taxable income in the German legal entities remaining within KPN Group. On August 29, 2013 The Foundation Preference Shares B KPN exercised its call option and obtained an interest in KPN’s issued share capital equal to 50% minus 1 share. This event resulted in a change of control from a German tax perspective and expiration of 50% of the available losses carry forward in Germany. This triggered a permanent partial release of recognized deferred tax assets for tax losses carry forward of EUR 99 million as loss for the period from discontinued operations. At December 31, 2013, a deferred tax asset (DTA) of EUR 471 million remains as part of the disposal group held for sale of which EUR 127 million relates to estimated future tax savings due to available tax loss carry forward and EUR 344 million for estimated future tax savings due to the realization of temporary differences. E-Plus determines the DTA by estimating future taxable income taking into account various uncertainties in future cash flows which are also used in impairment testing. Other entities There are several other entities in the Netherlands which are separately liable for income taxes. In most other countries in which KPN operates, tax loss carry forward are available and therefore no income tax is payable except when minimum taxation rules are applicable. In 2013, iBasis recognized a deferred tax asset to an amount of EUR 23 million based on tax loss carry forward to offset positive taxable income in the coming years. 126 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 Income tax expense Amounts in millions of EUR 2013 2012 Restated7 Current tax -53 -112 Changes in deferred taxes 84 -92 Income tax benefit/(charge) from continuing operations 31 -204 The reconciliation from the Dutch statutory tax to the effective tax rate is explained in the table below. Amounts in millions of EUR 2013 2012 Restated7 Profit before income tax from continuing operations1 269 529 Taxes at Dutch statutory tax rates2 -67 -132 Tax rate differences of foreign operations3 -4 -13 Non-taxable income and non-deductible expenses4 -16 -81 Notional interest deduction Belgium 13 14 Innovation tax facilities current year 37 40 Innovation tax facilities prior years5 16 -14 (De)recognition of deferred tax positions6: – related to prior years 45 4 – related to the current year 4 -18 Other 3 -4 Income tax benefit/(charge) from continuing operations 31 -204 Effective tax rate continuing operations -11.5% 38.6% 1) Excluding the share in profits or losses of associates and joint ventures. 2) Taxes at Dutch statutory tax rates are calculated on the basis of profit before income tax (excluding the share of profits of associates and joint ventures) and the applicable Dutch corporate income tax rate of 25% in 2013 and 2012. 3) Tax rate differences of foreign operations reflect the impact of different tax rates in the fiscal jurisdictions in which KPN operates. In 2013 and 2012, the corporate tax rates amounted to 34% in Belgium and 40% in the United States. 4) Non-taxable income and non-deductible expenses represent adjustments for income not subject to taxation. 5) In 2011, KPN reached an agreement with the Dutch tax authorities with regard to the application of the so-called innovation tax facilities which was reassessed in 2012 and 2013. 6) (De)recognition of deferred tax positions reflects the effects of valuation or non-valuation of tax loss carry forward and deductible temporary differences. In 2013 iBasis recognized a deferred tax asset to an amount of EUR 23 million based on tax loss carry forward to offset positive taxable income in the coming years. The deferred tax asset of EUR 932 million in the Netherlands in relationship with the expected sale of E-Plus and the impairment of deferred tax assets for tax losses carry forward in Germany is reported as ‘profit for the period from discontinued operations’. 7) Restated for IAS 19R and the reclassification of E-Plus as held for sale and discontinued operations. Deferred tax assets and liabilities Amounts in millions of EUR December 31, 2013 December 31, 2012 Restated Deferred tax assets 1,167 1,847 – of which: to be recovered after 12 months 1,103 1,918 – of which: to be recovered within 12 months 64 -71 Deferred tax liabilities 9 211 – of which: to be realized after 12 months 9 6 – of which: to be realized within 12 months – 205 Deferred tax assets and liabilities 1,158 1,636 Depending on future taxable results, a part of deferred tax assets relating to tax loss carry forward now considered to be recoverable after 12 months may be recoverable in the short term, whereas tax loss carry forward now considered to be recoverable within 12 months may be recoverable in the long term. KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 127 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss continued Deferred tax assets Deductible temporary differences Offset against Tax loss carry Other Pension deferred tax forward3 Goodwill intangibles2 provisions Other 1 liabilities Total Balance as of January 1, 2012 Restated 924 254 446 183 579 -555 1,831 Income statement benefit/(charge) 181 -56 -8 -13 -154 – -50 Tax charged to equity – – – 131 78 – 209 Reclassification – – – – 12 -159 -147 Changes in consolidation 4 – – – – – 4 Transferred to held for sale – – – 8 -8 – – Balance as of December 31, 2012 Restated1 1,109 198 438 309 507 -714 1,847 Exchange differences – – – -2 2 – – Income statement benefit/(charge) -628 -29 – -27 838 – 154 Tax charged to equity – – – -62 53 – -9 Reclassification 5 – – -40 36 156 157 Transferred to held for sale -388 -83 -438 – -73 – -982 Balance as of December 31, 20131 98 86 – 178 1,363 -558 1,167 1) Other deductible temporary differences at December 31, 2013 include property, plant and equipment of EUR 231 million (2012: EUR 272 million), cash flow hedge reserves of EUR 130 million (charged to equity, 2012: EUR 77 million) and revenue recognition of EUR 19 million (2012: EUR 22 million). Furthermore, it includes the deferred tax asset of EUR 932 million in the Netherlands in relationship with the expected sale of E-Plus. The tax benefit relating to this DTA is reported as ‘profit for the period from discontinued operations’. 2) Mainly related to UMTS licenses in Germany. 3) The impairment of EUR 747 million of deferred tax assets for tax losses carry forward in Germany in 2013 is reported as ‘loss for the period from discontinued operations’. Deferred tax charged to equity relates mainly to movements in the hedge reserve and pensions. Deferred tax liabilities Taxable temporary differences Deferred liability due to losses German Offset against permanent Software Accelerated deferred tax establishment development depreciation1 Other 2-3 assets Total Balance as of January 1, 2012 Restated 519 253 285 165 -555 667 Income statement charge – -15 19 11 – 15 Tax payable due to E-Plus loss recapture -314 – – – – -314 Changes in consolidation – – – 7 – 7 Tax charged to equity – – – 1 – 1 Reclassification (Restated) – – – 12 -159 -147 Transfer to current tax – -10 1 -10 – -19 Transferred to held for sale – – – 1 – 1 Balance as of December 31, 2012 Restated 205 228 305 187 -714 211 Income statement charge – – – -113 – -113 Tax payable due to E-Plus loss recapture -205 – – – – -205 Changes in consolidation – – – 5 – 5 Reclassification – – – -9 156 147 Transfer to current tax – -45 -61 88 – -18 Tax charged to equity – – – -15 – -15 Transferred to held for sale – – – -3 – -3 Balance as of December 31, 2013 – 183 244 140 -558 9 1) Relates to property, plant and equipment in the Netherlands. 2) Balance at January 1, 2012 was adjusted relating to the IAS 19R impact on retirement benefit obligations. 3) Other taxable temporary differences at December 31, 2013 include intangible fixed assets of EUR 65 million (2012: EUR 80 million), property plant and equipment of EUR 40 million (2012: EUR 58 million) and provisions for early retirement of EUR 19 million (2012: EUR 27 million). 128 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 Tax loss carry forward December 31, 2013 December 31, 2012 Recognized deferred Recognized deferred Tax loss carry forward tax assets Tax loss carry forward tax assets Koninklijke KPN – corporate tax1 84 9 133 11 BASE Company – corporate tax 173 63 179 67 Other 275 26 215 11 Total continuing operations 532 98 527 89 E-Plus – trade tax2 794 82 1,428 202 E-Plus – corporate tax2 6,883 45 10,167 818 Total KPN Group 8,209 225 12,122 1,109 1) The tax loss carry forward are pre-consolidation losses (‘voorvoegingsverliezen’) limited in their use as such losses may only be compensated by taxable income generated by the specific company itself. 2) The loss carry forward of trade tax and corporate tax can be used to offset future taxable income without any time limit. However, taxable income exceeding EUR 1 million in a certain year can only be offset for 60% against tax loss carry forward. Trade tax and corporate tax have to be paid over the remaining 40% of taxable income. E-Plus has been classified as ‘disposal group held for sale’ as of July 23, 2013 and upon that classification an impairment of deferred tax assets for tax losses carry forward of EUR 747 million was recorded (as ‘loss for the period from discontinued operations’) resulting from changes in expectations of future taxable income in the German legal entities remaining within KPN Group. On August 29, 2013 the Foundation Preference Shares B KPN obtained an interest in KPN’s issued share capital equal to 50% minus 1 share which resulted in a change of control from a German tax perspective and expiration of 50% of the available losses carry forward in Germany. This triggered a permanent partial release of recognized deferred tax assets for tax loss carry forward of EUR 99 million as loss for the period from discontinued operations. Recognized deferred tax assets reflect management’s estimate of realizable amounts. The amounts of tax loss carry forward are subject to assessment by local tax authorities. The expiration of the available tax loss carry forward and recognized tax assets at December 31, 2013 is as follows: Maximum deferred Recognized deferred Tax loss carry forward tax asset tax asset1 2014 4 1 – 2015 10 2 1 2016 11 2 2 2017 20 5 4 2018 29 7 1 Later 117 38 25 Unlimited 341 105 65 Total continuing operations 532 160 98 Discontinued operations unlimited2 7,677 1,212 127 Total Group 8,209 1,372 225 1) Deferred tax assets are recognized to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the tax loss carry forward can be utilized. 2) The amount of tax loss carry forward contains EUR 6,657 million which relate to the abovementioned impairment of deferred tax assets of EUR 747 million. Maximum deferred Recognized deferred Tax loss carry forward tax asset tax asset1 2013 20 5 1 2014 5 1 – 2015 10 3 – 2016 18 4 2 2017 18 5 4 Later 121 33 8 Unlimited 335 99 74 Total continuing operations 527 150 89 Discontinued operations unlimited 11,595 1,832 1,020 Total Group 12,122 1,982 1,109 1) Deferred tax assets are recognized to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the tax loss carry forward can be utilized. KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 129 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss continued [8] Earnings per share The following table shows the calculation of the basic and fully-diluted earnings per share attributable to equity holders based on the profit attributable to equity holders, the average number of subscribed ordinary shares and the calculated weighted average number of subscribed ordinary shares/weighted average number of subscribed ordinary shares taking into account the dilution effects: 2013 2012 Restated Profit for the year from continuing operations in millions of EUR 293 314 Profit (loss) for the year from discontinued operations in millions of EUR -508 451 Profit (loss) for the year in millions of EUR -215 765 Profit attributable to non-controlling interests [20] 7 2 Profit (loss) attributable to equity holders [19] -222 763 Weighted average number of subscribed ordinary shares outstanding 3,536,302,579 2,348,443,311 Dilution effects: – options and non-vested shares 4,090,205 2,136,157 Weighted average number of subscribed ordinary shares outstanding including dilution effects 3,540,392,784 2,350,579,468 Earnings per share after taxes attributable to equity holders for the year in EUR – basic continuing operations1 0.07 0.14 – fully-diluted continuing operations1 0.07 0.13 – basic discontinued operations1 -0.14 0.19 – fully-diluted discontinued operations1 -0.14 0.19 – basic total, including discontinued1 -0.07 0.33 – fully-diluted total, including discontinued1 -0.07 0.32 1) Historic EPS and number of weighted average number of shares (non-diluted and fully diluted) restated following the rights issue based on the adjustment of the historical share price (adjustment factor of 0.60628) [..] Bracketed numbers refer to the related Notes. Diluted earnings per share is calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding to assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares. Share options and non-vested shares are regarded to have potential dilutive effects on the ordinary shares. For the share options and share plans, a calculation is made in order to determine the number of shares that could have been acquired at fair value (determined as the average annual market share price over 2013, being EUR 2.02) based on the monetary value of the subscription rights attached to outstanding share options. The profit attributable to equity holders used for calculations on a diluted basis is equal to the profit attributable to equity holders used for calculations on a non-diluted basis. Dividend on the perpetual hybrid bonds is deducted from the profit attributable to equity holders since the perpetual hybrid bonds represent equity but do not constitute profit attributable to equity holders. [9] Dividend per share KPN will not pay a dividend over 2013. Subject to closing of the sale of E-Plus, KPN intends to recommence dividend payment in respect of 2014. 130 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION [10] Intangible fixed assets Amounts in millions of EUR December 31, 2013 December 31, 2012 Goodwill 1,169 5,157 Licenses 1,729 2,191 Software 610 838 Other intangibles 135 272 Total intangible assets 3,643 8,458 Statement of changes in goodwill Amounts in millions of EUR 2013 2012 Cost 5,914 6,020 Accumulated impairments -757 -445 Balance as of January 1 5,157 5,575 Investments – 93 Impairment – -314 Disposals -5 -202 Exchange rate differences -2 -1 Subsequent purchase price adjustments 5 – Transferred to held for sale -3,986 6 Closing net book value 1,169 5,157 Cost 1,921 5,914 Accumulated impairments -752 -757 Balance as of December 31 1,169 5,157 For goodwill impairment testing, KPN’s cash-generating units are deemed equal to KPN’s operating segments. The allocation of goodwill is made to those cash-generating units or groups of cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the business combination in which the goodwill arose. The allocation of goodwill to cash-generating units is made in accordance with KPN’s internal structure, and is shown below (refer also to Note 34 ‘Segment reporting’): December 31, 2012 Amounts in millions of EUR December 31, 2013 Restated Consumer Mobile 262 262 Consumer Residential1 167 162 Business2 343 345 NetCo 211 211 Germany3 – 3,956 Belgium 96 96 iBasis4 82 83 Rest of World5 8 42 Total 1,169 5,157 1) Increase due to subsequent purchase price adjustment of Edutel, XMS, KickXL and Concepts ICT from Reggeborgh. 2) Parts of Corporate Market have been integrated into Business Segment. The remaining part of Corporate Market has been renamed as IT Solutions to which no goodwill has been allocated. 3) E-Plus is excluded in December 31, 2013 figures since KPN classified E-Plus as held for sale. 4) Change in goodwill relates to exchange rate differences. 5) Rest of World, consisting mainly of Ortel Mobile, ceased to report separately. Part of the Ortel Mobile activities have been integrated into Germany, Belgium and Consumer Mobile. Due to the integration, EUR 33 million goodwill has been allocated to Germany. The remaining goodwill of Rest of World consists of goodwill of Ortel Mobile. In 2013, no investments related to acquisitions were made. In 2012, the acquisition of Lijbrandt Telecom Holding B.V., Glashart Media B.V. and Reggefiber Wholesale B.V. resulted in a goodwill of EUR 23 million. The acquisition of strategic partner GroupIT B.V. (RoutIT) led to a goodwill amount of EUR 42 million. The investments related to the acquisition of Edutel, XMS, KickXL and Concepts ICT from Reggeborgh resulted in recognition of EUR 33 million in goodwill (including purchase price adjustment of EUR 5 million in 2013). Refer to Note 30 for further information on business combinations. The disposal of EUR 5 million in 2013 relates to the sale of Multiconnect. In 2012, the disposals of goodwill related to the EUR 202 million goodwill allocated to the sold and leased back mobile towers and related business in Germany and at NetCo based on the relative fair value of the disposed business versus the total operating segment. In 2013, no goodwill impairment charges were made. In 2012, the goodwill impairment charges amounted to EUR 314 million and related to impaired goodwill allocated to IT Solutions (part of Corporate Market has been renamed as IT Solutions). KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 131 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position continued Goodwill impairment test Goodwill is impaired if the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which it is allocated is lower than the book value of the cashgenerating unit concerned including goodwill. A detailed review has been performed of the recoverable amount of each cash-generating unit. For all cash-generating units the recoverable amount is based on their value-in-use. Significant cash-generating units For Consumer Mobile, Consumer Residential, Business and NetCo, the recoverable amount is based on their value-in-use. The value-in-use was determined by using the discounted cash flow method. Key assumptions used in the cash flow projections are estimated EBITDA and estimated capital expenditures, the estimated change in working capital and the pre-tax weighted average cost of capital (WACC) used for discounting the cash flow projections. The cash flow projections for the first three years are management’s best estimate based on the most recent business plans and historical growth rates and EBITDA margins. KPN believes the period used in the projections to be a suitable timescale for reviewing and considering the annual performance before applying a fixed terminal value multiple to the final year cash flows of the detailed projection. The key long-term assumptions used in the impairment test are summarized in the table below: Sales growth Capex intensity EBITDA margin Discount rate 2013 0% 16%-19% 38%-42% 8.5%-9.0% 2012 0% 20%-22% 40%-45% 6.5%-7.0% Other cash-generating units For Belgium and iBasis the recoverable amount is also based on their value-in-use. The value-in-use was determined by using the discounted cash flow method. Key assumptions used in the cash flow projections are estimated EBITDA and estimated capital expenditures, the estimated change in working capital and the pre-tax weighted average cost of capital (WACC) used for discounting the cash flow projections. The cash flow projections for the first three years are management’s best estimate based on the most recent business plans and historical growth rates and EBITDA margins. KPN believes the period used in the projections to be a suitable timescale for reviewing and considering the annual performance before applying a fixed terminal value multiple to the final year cash flows of the detailed projection. For both cash-generating unites the impairment test in 2013 resulted in relatively small headroom as per December 31, 2013, which is mainly driven by the adjusted discount rate. The key long-term assumptions used in the impairment test are summarized in the table below: Sales growth Capex intensity EBITDA margin Discount rate Belgium 2013 0% 15%-25% 25%-27% 9.5%-10% Belgium 2012 0% 14%-28% 26%-28% 6.5%-7.5% iBasis 2013 0% 0%-1% 1%-3% 16%-17% iBasis 2012 0% 0%-1% 2%-3% 13%-14% Sensitivity to changes in key assumptions The expected future cash flows used in the impairment analysis are based on management’s estimates. Events amongst others in technology and telecommunications markets as well as the financial markets and the overall economy may have an adverse impact on the estimated future cash flows of KPN’s businesses. The following table gives an indication of value change of Belgium and iBasis as per year end 2013, if key assumptions had changed adversely and would have been used in the impairment testing. Amounts in millions of EUR Sales growth Capex intensity EBITDA margin Discount rate -0.5pps +0.5pps -0.5pps +0.5pps -0.5pps +0.5pps -0.5pps +0.5pps Value change Belgium -36 40 -27 26 -35 34 45 -41 Value change iBasis -2 2 -16 16 -16 16 3 -3 Considering the relatively small margin between the recoverable and carrying amount of Belgium and iBasis, negative sensitivities above may result in an impairment. 132 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 Statement of changes in intangible fixed assets with finite lives Computer Software in Customer Amounts in millions of EUR Licenses software development relationships Trade names Other Total Balance as of January 1, 2012 2,495 728 124 156 56 78 3,637 Investments 15 388 41 – – 8 452 Disposals – -2 – – – – -2 Changes in consolidation 28 4 – 48 8 – 88 Reclassification – 3 -1 – – – 2 Amortization -346 -437 – -56 -9 -15 -863 Impairment – -3 -4 – – -2 -9 Transferred to held for sale (net) -1 -2 -1 – – – -4 Closing net book value 2,191 679 159 148 55 69 3,301 Cost 9,425 2,190 159 476 118 149 12,517 Accumulated amortization/ impairments -7,234 -1,511 – -328 -63 -80 -9,216 Balance as of December 31, 2012 2,191 679 159 148 55 69 3,301 Investments 1,558 373 -20 – – 3 1,914 Disposals – -4 – – – – -4 Changes in consolidation – – – 2 -4 – -2 Reclassification 44 6 – 1 1 -44 8 Amortization -295 -396 – -49 -8 -6 -754 Impairment – -2 -56 – – – -58 Transferred to held for sale (net) -1,769 -122 -7 -4 -18 -11 -1,931 Closing net book value 1,729 534 76 98 26 11 2,474 Cost 1,779 1,359 76 377 81 72 3,744 Accumulated amortization/ impairments -50 -825 – -279 -55 -61 -1,270 Balance as of December 31, 2013 1,729 534 76 98 26 11 2,474 Licenses Amounts in millions of EUR December 31, 2013 December 31, 2012 Germany – 1,853 NetCo 1,465 250 Belgium 264 87 Other – 1 Total 1,729 2,191 As E-Plus is classified as a disposal group held for sale, licenses in Germany no longer include E-Plus as of December 31, 2013. The increase at NetCo relates to the acquired licenses of spectrum 2G, 3G and 4G in the Netherlands. The increase in Belgium is mainly due to the acquired 4G licenses and the 2G license renewal. At the end of 2013, the book value of Computer software and Software in development comprised internally generated software for EUR 167 million (2012: EUR 214 million). KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 133 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position continued [11] Property, plant and equipment Statement of changes in property, plant and equipment Other tangible Assets under Amounts in millions of EUR Land and buildings Plant and equipment non-current assets construction Total Balance as of January 1, 2012 705 5,704 116 1,008 7,533 Investments 57 2,254 49 -432 1,928 Disposals -16 -105 -1 -2 -124 Depreciation -80 -1,336 -56 – -1,472 Impairments and retirements -1 -29 -2 -15 -47 Exchange rate differences – – – – – Reclassifications 2 12 -15 -1 -2 Change in consolidation – 76 4 1 81 Transferred to held for sale (net) 4 -3 -1 -2 -2 Closing net book value 671 6,573 94 557 7,895 Cost 1,972 16,822 327 582 19,703 Accumulated depreciation/ impairments -1,301 -10,249 -233 -25 -11,808 Balance as of December 31, 2012 671 6,573 94 557 7,895 Investments 48 1,621 38 17 1,724 Disposals -2 -5 – – -7 Depreciation -83 -1,426 -42 -7 -1,558 Impairments and retirements -1 -24 -1 -9 -35 Reclassifications – -14 -3 9 -8 Change in consolidation – -3 – – -3 Transferred to held for sale (net) -37 -2,448 -6 -177 -2,668 Closing net book value 596 4,274 80 390 5,340 Cost 1,914 9,553 241 397 12,105 Accumulated depreciation/ impairments -1,318 -5,279 -161 -7 -6,765 Balance as of December 31, 2013 596 4,274 80 390 5,340 Property, plant and equipment primarily concerns assets located in the Netherlands (2013: approximately 90%; 2012: approximately 61%) and Belgium (2013: approximately 10%; 2012: approximately 6%). The increase in the relative shares is caused mainly by the classification of E-Plus as disposal group held for sale. Assets under construction mainly relate to the construction of mobile networks. The book value of property, plant and equipment of which KPN as the lessee is the beneficial owner under financial lease programs amounted to EUR 102 million (2012: EUR 256 million, excluding E-Plus: EUR 127 million). The book value of property, plant and equipment of which KPN is the lessor under operating lease programs amounted to EUR 319 million (2012: EUR 326 million, excluding E-Plus: EUR 129 million). The decrease in the book value of property, plant and equipment of which KPN is the lessor under operating lease programs is caused by higher depreciation charges of plant and equipment. The future minimum lease payments receivable related to these operating leases are EUR 117 million (2012: EUR 148 million) in total, of which EUR 97 million (2012: EUR 94 million) matures within one year and the remaining EUR 20 million (2012: EUR 54 million) matures within one to five years. Sensitivity analysis At the end 2013, the book value for copper and fiber cables is EUR 2,026 million, which is included in plant and equipment. The current depreciation rates for these investments are based on estimates and judgment about the useful lives of these assets. For copper cables, KPN estimates that the current useful life is 10 years. If the useful life was set at 20 years, the depreciation charge for 2014 would be EUR 81 million lower. For fiber cables, KPN estimates that the current useful life is 30 years. If the useful life was set at 40 years, the depreciation charge for 2014 would be EUR 15 million lower. 134 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 [12] Investments in associates and joint ventures Amounts in millions of EUR 2013 2012 Balance as of January 1 326 261 Additions 7 88 Income from associates and joint ventures -7 -13 Dividend received -1 -1 Transferred to held for sale -3 – Other changes -2 -9 Total changes -6 65 Balance as of December 31 320 326 Other changes includes an impairment of EUR 8 million (2012: nil), which is recorded as results from discontinued operations. Reggefiber KPN has a stake of 51% (December 31, 2012: 51%) in Reggefiber Group B.V. (Reggefiber), a strategic partnership with Reggeborgh B.V. for the roll-out of the Fiber-to-the-Home network. Reggeborgh owns 49% of Reggefiber. Under the arrangements in the joint venture agreement with Reggeborgh, KPN will only obtain control over Reggefiber as from 60% ownership of the shares in the company. In October 2012, the first call/put option under the amended arrangements vested upon reaching the milestone of 1.0 million Homes Connected. As a result of exercising this option, KPN acquired an additional 10% of the shares in Reggefiber, increasing its share to 51%, for an amount of EUR 99 million on November 8, 2012. The details of the remaining call/put arrangement between KPN and Reggeborgh as at December 31, 2013 are as follows: Ownership stake Option trigger Exercise price Conditions for exercise Option 2 Additional 9% Call/put vest earliest of: EUR 116 – 161 million, i) Exercise of option 1 Leading to 60% ýý 1.5 million Homes depending on Capex required ownership Connected efficiency at Reggefiber ii) ACM approval ýý January 1, 2014 required Furthermore, Reggeborgh holds an option to sell the remaining 40% of its shares to KPN. This option can be exercised three and a half years after the second option has been settled over a period of one and a half years, for an amount of EUR 647 million. Alternatively, this option can also be exercised at fair value for a period of seven years after the second option has been settled. Book value The book value of KPN’s 51% share in Reggefiber as at December 31, 2013 amounted to EUR 293 million (2012: EUR 293 million), including EUR 131 million of goodwill. The movement of the book value of the investment in Reggefiber is presented in the table below: Amounts in millions of EUR Balance as of December 31, 2011 234 Acquisition 74 Share in the 2012 results -7 Other changes -8 Balance as of December 31, 2012 293 Share in the 2013 results -3 Other changes 3 Balance as of December 31, 2013 293 In addition to the 51% share in Reggefiber, KPN provided shareholder loans to Reggefiber. These shareholder loans are recorded under loans to associates and joint ventures for EUR 534 million (2012: EUR 227 million). The shareholder loans bear interest of 6.00% – 6.75% per December 31, 2013 and have a final maturity date of January 1, 2019. On October 1, 2013, KPN took over EUR 222 million of shareholder loans to Reggefiber from Reggeborgh, KPN’s joint venture partner. This transaction did not affect the joint venture agreement or the control over the joint venture. The call/put arrangements are valued at fair value and recorded as a derivative financial instrument of EUR 334 million (2012: EUR 278 million), which is recorded as a liability. The change in the fair value of the call/put arrangements during the year of EUR 56 million (2012: EUR 100 million) is recorded in the consolidated statement of profit or loss as a loss under other financial results. Refer to Note 29 for further details on the call/put arrangements. At the end of 2013, Reggefiber had capital commitments (100%) for EUR 158 million (2014: EUR 146 million). The total capital commitments as at December 31, 2012 amounted to EUR 285 million. For rental and operational lease contracts, Reggefiber had commitments for EUR 14 million as at December 31, 2013 (less than 1 year: EUR 3 million, 1 to 5 years EUR 4 million, more than 5 years: EUR 7 million). At the end of 2012, Reggefiber’s commitments under rental and operational lease contracts were EUR 15 million. KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 135 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position continued Other As of December 31, 2013 investments in associates and joint ventures also include NTT Data Getronics (30%) for an amount of EUR 17 million (2012: EUR 16 million). In the table below, the amounts of certain financial data with respect to Reggefiber and the other joint ventures and associates are summarized, based on KPN’s share. Amounts in millions of EUR Reggefiber Other December 31, 2013 December 31, 2012 Current assets 32 59 91 141 Non-current assets1 879 15 894 725 Current liabilities 22 43 65 138 Non-current liabilities 681 6 687 498 Total revenues 56 148 204 164 Total operating expenses -14 -150 -164 -137 Profit or loss after taxes -2 -4 -6 -13 1) Including EUR 47 million goodwill at Reggefiber. The difference in value between the assets and liabilities of the table above and the investment value is the goodwill paid by KPN which is included in the book value of the associates and joint ventures. [13] Trade and other receivables (non-current) Amounts in millions of EUR 2013 2012 Restated Balance as of January 1 154 127 Current portion of non-current receivables 84 4 Gross 238 131 Additions 46 124 Redemptions -31 -16 Impairment – -1 Transferred to held for sale -43 – Total gross at December 31 210 238 Current portion of non-current receivables 88 84 Balance as of December 31 122 154 The balance as of December 31 included the following: Amounts in millions of EUR 2013 2012 Restated Accrued income and prepayments 112 130 Receivables from financial leases 3 2 Other loans 7 22 Total 122 154 Accrued income and prepayments mainly consist of prepaid rent recognized at net present value. The gross amount with respect to receivables from financial leases amounts to EUR 4 million (2012: EUR 3 million), which fully matures within five years. The short-term portion of the financial leases amounting to EUR 1 million (2012: EUR 1 million) is classified as current trade and other receivables. 136 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 [14] Inventories Amounts in millions of EUR December 31, 2013 December 31, 2012 Resources, parts, tools and measuring instruments 50 65 Finished goods 21 70 Total inventories, gross 71 135 Provision for obsolescence -11 -24 Total inventories, net 60 111 During 2013, a net amount of EUR 8 million (2012: EUR 6 million) was recorded as an expense for inventories carried at net realizable value. The expense is included in the line ‘cost of materials’ in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss. The transition expenses relating to fixed-price contracts involving managed ICT services are included under finished goods and amount to EUR 4 million at the end of 2013 (2012: EUR 10 million). [15] Trade and other receivables Amounts in millions of EUR December 31, 2013 December 31, 2012 Trade receivables 690 1,045 Social security and other taxes 3 36 Other receivables 181 157 Accrued income 244 318 Prepayments 96 140 Total 1,214 1,696 Amounts in millions of EUR December 31, 2013 December 31, 2012 Trade receivables – gross 802 1,195 Provision for doubtful trade receivables -112 -150 Total 690 1,045 The carrying amounts of trade and other receivables approximate to their fair value. Trade and other receivables are non-interest bearing. The movements in the provision for doubtful trade receivables are as follows: Amounts in millions of EUR 2013 2012 Balance as of January 1 150 161 Addition through statement of profit or loss 36 48 Usage -6 -49 Other movements 4 -3 Transferred to held for sale -72 -7 Balance as of December 31 112 150 The maximum exposure to credit risk on trade receivables is limited to their gross amount. The concentration of KPN’s trade receivables over the different segments as at December 31 can be summarized as follows: December 31, 2013 December 31, 2012 Amounts in millions of EUR Gross Provision Gross Provision Consumer Mobile 56 14 47 11 Consumer Residential 50 12 49 11 Business Segment 271 18 183 12 IT Solutions 61 1 175 8 NetCo Segment 118 44 123 18 iBasis Segment 133 5 212 4 Germany Segment – – 285 64 Belgium Segment 96 12 101 16 Other 17 6 20 6 Total 802 112 1,195 150 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 137 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position continued For a discussion of KPN’s policies to reduce credit risk on trade receivables as well as concentration of the credit risk, reference is made to Note 29 ‘Capital and Financial Risk Management’. Postpaid mobile services are considered to have the highest credit risks within the business of KPN (Belgium, part of Business and Consumer Mobile Segments). Overall, concentrations of credit risk with respect to trade receivables are limited due to the Group’s large and unrelated customer base. The provision for doubtful trade receivables is predominantly collectively determined based on ageing and is reviewed periodically. The concentration of credit risk in the integrated, outsourced and managed ICT solutions businesses is somewhat larger. The gross amount due from trade receivables in these businesses at December 31, 2013 was EUR 61 million (2012: EUR 175 million) for which a provision of EUR 1 million (2012: EUR 8 million) was recorded. The provision for doubtful receivables in these businesses has been determined on an individual basis. The ageing of the gross trade receivables at the reporting date was as follows: December 31, 2013 December 31, 2012 Amounts in millions of EUR Gross Provision Gross Provision Amounts undue 332 10 646 2 Past due 0-30 days 152 6 161 5 Past due 31-60 days 52 8 48 6 Past due 61-90 days 33 6 33 3 Past due 91-180 days 108 17 138 13 Past due 181-270 days 17 11 21 13 Past due 271-360 days 16 6 18 10 More than one year 92 48 130 98 Total 802 112 1,195 150 [16] Available-for-sale financial assets Amounts in millions of EUR 2013 2012 Balance as of January 1 35 48 Decrease due to sale -23 – Impairment recorded in the Statement of Profit or Loss – -16 Fair value adjustment recorded in other comprehensive income 8 3 Balance as of December 31 20 35 In the second quarter of 2013, the equity stake in Compucom, a privately held IT outsourcing company in North America, was sold which caused a decline of EUR 23 million. KPN holds a 5% equity share in Jasper Wireless amounting to EUR 10 million (2012: EUR 10 million), a privately held company that provides a global Machine-to-Machine platform. In addition, KPN holds an equity stake of approximately 11% in Tecnocom, a listed Spanish ICT services company, amounting to EUR 10 million (2012: EUR 9 million). 138 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 [17] Cash and cash equivalents At December 31, 2013, cash and cash equivalents amounted to EUR 3,946 million (EUR 1,286 million at December 31, 2012. The increase in cash and cash equivalents mainly relates to the concluded capital raise consisting of EUR 2 billion hybrid bonds and a EUR 3 billion rights issue. Part of the proceeds were used for the frequency licenses obtained in the Dutch spectrum auction that ended in December 2012 (EUR 1,352 million) and to repay drawings under the credit facility and to finance bond redemptions in March and September 2013 (EUR 1,085 million). The remaining proceeds of the capital raise have been used to strengthen KPN’s capital structure and to continue to invest in KPN’s operations. Net cash and cash equivalents, including EUR 326 million bank overdrafts related to cash pooling arrangements, amounted to EUR 3,620 million at December 31, 2013 as shown in the Cash Flow Statement. Cash and cash equivalents consist of highly liquid instruments, mainly deposits, interest-bearing bank accounts and money market funds. All cash and cash equivalents are at free disposal to KPN within three months. Cash and cash equivalents as at December 31, 2013 were for more than 99% (2012: 98%) denominated in the functional currency of the related entities. The effective interest rate on the outstanding bank deposits and money market funds as at December 31, 2013 was approximately 0.08%. On December 31, 2013, KPN’s total outstanding bank guarantees amounted to EUR 52 million (2012: EUR 161 million), which were issued in the ordinary course of business. The decrease in 2013 was mainly related to a bank guarantee for the Dutch State for the Dutch spectrum auction. This bank guarantee was terminated following the payment of the frequency licenses on January 9, 2013. Amounts in millions of EUR December 31, 2013 December 31, 2012 Cash 821 883 Short-term bank deposits and money market funds 3,125 403 Total cash and cash equivalents 3,946 1,286 Net cash and cash equivalents As of December 31, 2013 KPN’s net cash and cash equivalents position amounted to EUR 3,620 million (including EUR 326 million of bank overdrafts) as presented in the Cash Flow Statement: Amounts in millions of EUR December 31, 2013 December 31, 2012 Cash and cash equivalents 3,946 1,286 Cash classified as held for sale [18] – 4 Bank overdraft -326 -343 Net cash and cash equivalents 3,620 947 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 139 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position continued [18] Non-current assets, liabilities and disposal groups held for sale Amounts in millions of EUR December 31, 2013 December 31, 2012 Intangible assets (including goodwill) 5,976 4 Property, plant and equipment 3,132 9 Other non-current assets 515 – Current assets 401 15 Fair value adjustment of disposal group -555 – Total assets held for sale 9,469 28 Non-current liabilities 318 – Current liabilities 1,220 6 Total liabilities directly associated with the non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale 1,538 6 On July 23, 2013, KPN announced it had entered into a transaction to sell and transfer 100% of its interest in E-Plus to Telefónica Deutschland. Given the significance of E-Plus to KPN Group, IFRS 5 also classifies E-Plus as a ‘discontinued operation’. In March 2013, KPN classified its division Infrastructure Services & Projects B.V. with a negative book value of EUR 0.2 million as held for sale. The disposal group was sold in March 2013 (refer to Note 2). In September 2012, KPN classified its investment in the Multiconnect business in Germany with a net book value of EUR 9 million as held for sale. The disposal group was sold in January 2013. E-Plus The initially agreed consideration on a cash and debt free basis consisted of EUR 3.7 billion in cash and newly issued shares in Telefónica Deutschland representing 24.9% of the share capital in the combination of E-Plus and Telefónica Deutschland (‘the combined entity’). Simultaneously with the transfer of E-Plus to Telefónica Deutschland by KPN, Telefónica will acquire a 7.3% interest in Telefónica Deutschland from KPN for a cash consideration of EUR 1.3 billion. Therefore, on deal close, KPN will receive EUR 5.0 billion in cash and a net stake of 17.6% in the combined entity, in total representing an implied transaction value of EUR 8.1 billion. On August 26, 2013, improved terms of the transaction were agreed upon. The stake which KPN will retain in the combined entity after completion increased from 17.6% to 20.5%. In addition, KPN will receive a total cash consideration of EUR 5.0 billion as originally agreed. Furthermore, KPN provides a call option to Telefónica to acquire a 2.9% stake in Telefónica Deutschland from KPN, exercisable one year after transfer of E-Plus, either partial or in full. The exercise price for the 2.9% stake amounts to EUR 510 million, plus interest at 2.27% from the time of completion of the sale of E-Plus and reduced by any dividend payments on the 2.9% stake. Based on these improved terms, the total implied transaction value for E-Plus is EUR 8.55 billion. On October 2, 2013, the shareholders of KPN approved the transaction. The transaction remains mainly subject to regulatory approval. E-Plus has been classified as ‘disposal group held for sale’ as of July 23, 2013. Some small operations in Germany are not included in the disposal group held for sale. Upon classification as ‘disposal group held for sale’, an impairment of EUR 529 million was recorded (as ‘profit for the period from discontinued operations’) due to the fair value less costs to sell of the disposal group being lower than its carrying value. At December 31, 2013, an additional impairment of EUR 26 million was recorded in connection herewith. Furthermore, an impairment of deferred tax assets for tax losses carry forward (EUR 747 million) was recorded (as ‘profit for the period from discontinued operations’) resulting from changes in expectations of future taxable income in the German legal entities remaining within KPN Group upon classification of E-Plus as ‘disposal group held for sale’. As mentioned in KPN’s Annual Reports from 2004 onwards and the tax papers regarding KPN’s Dutch tax position issued on January 27, 2005 and February 6, 2007, the German partnership structure of E-Plus is transparent for Dutch tax purposes and, as a consequence, KPN Mobile is deemed to carry on business in Germany through a permanent establishment. In accordance with KPN’s horizontal monitoring convenant (‘Handhavingsconvenant’) with the Dutch tax authorities, KPN discussed the tax consequences of the envisaged sale of E-Plus with the Dutch tax authorities. After the agreement in principle (September 2013), KPN and the Dutch tax authorities reached a final agreement in December 2013 on the Dutch tax consequences of the tax book loss which is expected to be recognized upon completion of the sale of E-Plus to Telefónica Deutschland. This book loss amounts to approximately EUR 3.7 billion and is expected to offset KPN’s taxable income in the Netherlands in the coming years, starting in 2014. Dividends received and/or capital gains (up to amount of loss deducted) realized on KPN’s 20.5% stake in Telefónica Deutschland will be subject to Dutch corporate income tax. Following this agreement, KPN recognized a deferred tax asset of EUR 932 million in the Netherlands per December 31, 2013. Due to its close relationship with the expected sale of E-Plus, this tax benefit has been reported as ‘profit for the period from discontinued operations’. On August 29, 2013, the Foundation Preference Shares B KPN exercised its call option and obtained an interest in KPN’s outstanding share capital equal to 50% minus 1 share. This event resulted in a change of control from a German tax perspective and expiration of 50% of the available losses carry forward in Germany. This triggered a permanent partial release of recognized deferred tax assets for tax losses carry forward of EUR 99 million in E-Plus. For further details on the Foundation reference is made to Note 19. The fair value of the E-Plus disposal group held for sale at year end 2013 is based on the total implied transaction value for E-Plus amounting to EUR 8.55 billion. Besides the consideration in cash of EUR 5.0 billion, the fair value of the E-Plus disposal group held for sale includes the estimated 140 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 fair value of the stake of 20.5%, which KPN will obtain in the combined entity at deal close. KPN management’s estimate of the fair value of this stake is based on the stand-alone value of Telefónica Deutschland and of E-Plus and the combined managements’ best estimate of the expected synergies to be achieved by the combination. This estimate of the fair value of the 20.5% stake has been supported by an external independent valuator. At completion of the sale of E-Plus, the fair value of the 20.5% stake will be based on the listed share price of Telefónica Deutschland. KPN is of the opinion that the listed share price of Telefónica Deutschland per December 31, 2013 does not fully reflect the expected synergies and expects the share price to increase in the period until deal close. The share price could also be impacted by regulatory approval, potential remedies to be imposed by the regulator and other factors like for instance market sentiment. At completion of the sale, the fair value of the 20.5% stake in the combined entity could be lower or higher than estimated at December 31, 2013 which could lead to an additional impairment or a bookgain. As a reference, KPN calculated at year-end 2013, for sensitivity purposes only, that if the listed share price of Telefónica Deutschland would not increase in the period between December 31, 2013 and deal close, an impairment of approximately EUR 580 million net after tax would have to be recognized at completion of the sale of E-Plus ceteris paribus. The following table summarizes the results of E-Plus included in the consolidated statement of profit or loss as ‘profit from the period from discontinued operations’. Amounts in millions of EUR 2013 2012 Restated Revenues and other income 3,096 3,250 Operating expenses -2,686 -2,706 Finance income and expenses -28 -23 Share of the loss of associates and joint ventures -10 -2 Income taxes -411 -68 Result for the period from discontinued operations before impairment and tax effects resulting from the transaction -39 451 Impairment disposal group -555 – Impairment German deferred tax assets -747 – Income tax benefit Dutch fiscal unity 932 – Tax effect resulting from the change of control -99 – Total profit (loss) for the period from discontinued operations -508 451 The net cash flows of the disposal group ‘E-Plus’ are as follows: Amounts in millions of EUR 2013 2012 Restated Cash flow from operating activities 927 1,247 Cash flow from investing activities -660 -289 Cash flow from financing activities -172 -33 Total net cash (outflow)/inflow from discontinued operations 95 925 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 141 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position continued [19] Equity attributable to equity holders For a breakdown of equity attributable to equity holders, reference is made to the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Group Equity. The total distributable reserves at December 31, 2013 amounted to EUR 3,970 million (2012: EUR 1,762 million). For further details of the non-distributable reserves, reference is made to the Corporate Financial Statements. Share capital After an amendment to the Articles of Association on April 24, 2013 KPN’s authorized capital stock totals EUR 2.4 billion divided into 5 billion ordinary shares of EUR 0.24 each and 5 billion Class B preference shares of EUR 0.24 each. As of December 31, 2013, a total of 4,270,254,664 ordinary shares were outstanding and fully paid-in. Dutch laws prohibit KPN from casting a vote on shares KPN holds (Treasury shares). The ordinary shares and Class B preferred shares carry the right to cast one vote each. For a description of the preferred shares, please see ‘Foundation Preference Shares B KPN’ hereafter. The ordinary shares are registered or payable to bearer. Shareholders may request the Company to convert their registered shares to bearer shares but not vice versa. On January 10, 2014, KPN’s Extraordinary General Meeting of Shareholders (EGM) approved a proposal to reduce the nominal value of KPN’s shares from EUR 0.24 to EUR 0.04. In addition, the authorized capital stock has been decreased to EUR 720 million, divided into 9 billion ordinary shares and 9 billion Class B preference shares. On April 25, 2013, KPN set the terms of its EUR 3 billion rights issue, which was announced on February 20, 2013 and approved by the Annual General Meeting on April 10, 2013. KPN announced a 2 for 1 rights issue of 2,838,732,182 new ordinary shares with a nominal value of EUR 0.24 at an issue price of EUR 1.06 through the granting of transferable subscription entitlements to holders of ordinary shares in KPN’s issued and outstanding share capital pro rata to their shareholdings. The issue price represented a discount of 35.1% to the theoretical ex-rights price (TERP), based on the closing price of EUR 2.78 per ordinary share on April 24, 2013. At the end of the subscription period, the take-up amounted to 97.4% of the Offer Shares. The remaining Offer Shares were placed with institutional investors through a rump placement. Payment, delivery and start of trading of the Offer Shares occurred on May 17, 2013. The net proceeds from the rights issue amounted to EUR 2,957 million. Share premium The additional paid-in capital is exempt from Dutch tax up to an amount of EUR 9,744 million (2012: EUR 7,416 million). Other reserves Below is a detailed overview of the movements in the number of treasury shares and other reserves: Fair value reserve Currency Amounts in millions of EUR, Number of Treasury shares available for sale translation Total other unless indicated otherwise treasury shares1 reserve Hedge reserve financial assets reserve reserves Balance as of January 1, 2012 12,401,139 -139 2 – 10 -127 Sold (exercise options/shares) [3] -244,748 1 – – – 1 Addition (net) – – -246 3 – -243 Transfer to Statement of Profit or Loss [6] – – 5 – – 5 Exchange differences – – – – 3 3 Balance as of December 31, 2012 12,156,391 -138 -239 3 13 -361 Addition (net) – – -155 – – -155 Exchange differences – – – – -1 -1 Balance as of December 31, 2013 12,156,391 -138 -394 3 12 -517 – of which: to be cancelled – Total treasury shares 12,156,391 1) Adjusted numbers due to elimination of shares in lock-up period related to share-based compensation. [..] Bracketed numbers refer to the related Notes. Hedge reserve Amounts in millions of EUR December 31, 2013 December 31, 2012 Effective portion cash flow hedges -437 -253 Amortizable part [6] -87 -63 Hedge reserve -524 -316 Tax effect 130 77 Hedge reserve, net of tax -394 -239 [..] Bracketed number refers to the related Note. 142 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 Treasury shares and treasury shares reserve Until 2011, KPN purchased shares in its own capital under a share repurchase program and also for delivery upon exercise of share options by management and personnel under the share option and performance share plans (see Note 3). Votes on purchased shares may not be cast and they do not count towards determining the number of votes required at a General Meeting of Shareholders. In 2013 and 2012, no shares were purchased under the share repurchase program. Treasury shares are accounted for at cost, representing the market price on the acquisition date. The proceeds at delivery of the treasury shares are recognized directly in the other reserves. In the event that more options are exercised than available as treasury shares for option plans, KPN anticipates providing shares for equity-settled plans through the purchase of shares in the market. All rights with respect to repurchased treasury shares are suspended until those shares are delivered. Foundation Preference Shares B KPN KPN had renewed option arrangements regarding the issuance of Class B preference shares to the Foundation Preference Shares B KPN (the Foundation). KPN has a put option to sell to the Foundation a number of its Class B preference shares, which have the same voting rights as ordinary shares, not exceeding the total issued share capital before such issue or, subject to prior approval by the General Meeting of Shareholders, such larger number as the parties may agree. In addition, the Foundation has a call option, which is not limited in time, to acquire a number of Class B preference shares from KPN not exceeding the total issued amount of ordinary shares, minus one share and minus any shares already issued to the Foundation. Since October 12, 2006, the authority of the Board of Management to issue Class B preference shares under the put option has expired. This expiration does not affect the obligation to issue Class B preference shares upon exercise of the call option by the Foundation. Upon exercise of the call option, 25% of the nominal value per Class B preference share needs to be paid by the Foundation. KPN’s Board of Management can decide to request the Foundation to pay the remainder. Such decision is subject to the approval of the Supervisory Board. On August 29, 2013, the Foundation Preference Shares B KPN exercised its call option and obtained 4,258,098,272 newly issued preference shares B. These shares reflect an interest in KPN’s outstanding shares of 50% minus 1 share. In compliance with the statutory arrangement, 25% of the nominal value of these shares (EUR 255 million) was paid to KPN in cash. On November 11, 2013, KPN announced that it had received a request from the Foundation to convene an EGM to cancel all of the 4,258,098,272 outstanding Preference Shares B. On January 10, 2014, the EGM approved the proposal to cancel the outstanding Preference Shares B. For more information, see Note 33 ‘Subsequent events’. The right granted to the Foundation to acquire preference shares is unconditional and continuous, and the Foundation is therefore entitled to acquire Preference Shares B in the future. Under IFRS, the Preference Shares B do not meet the definition of equity and therefore the paid up amount is presented as a current liability (EUR 255 million) and dividends due are recorded as financial expenses. KPN is of the opinion that neither the put option nor the call option represent a significant fair value as mentioned in IAS 1, paragraph 31 due to the fact that the put option can no longer be exercised by KPN and the fact that the Preference Shares B, issued after exercise of the call option, bear interest linked to EURIBOR. The options are therefore not accounted for in the annual accounts nor is any additional information disclosed as meant in IFRS 7. [20] Non-controlling interests In 2013, no new non-controlling interests were acquired by KPN. In 2012, KPN acquired a stake in GroupIT B.V. of 12.5% at fair value with a right to acquire the remaining stake and thus obtained the control over GroupIT B.V. The amount of non-controlling interests at December 31, 2013 of EUR 53 million represents the 87.5% stake of other shareholders in GroupIT B.V. (2012: EUR 51 million). KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 143 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position continued [21] Borrowings The carrying amounts and fair value of the borrowings at December 31 are as follows: December 31, 2013 December 31, 2012 Amounts in millions of EUR Carrying amount Fair value Carrying amount Fair value Eurobonds EUR 8,835 9,481 10,007 10,742 Eurobonds GBP 2,107 2,263 2,151 2,407 Global Bonds USD 1,037 937 1,089 996 Hybrid Bonds (GBP and USD) 905 947 – – Financial lease obligations 105 99 256 233 Bank overdraft 326 326 343 343 Credit facility – – – – Preference Shares B 255 255 – – Other loans 93 96 50 52 Total borrowings 13,663 14,404 13,896 14,773 – of which: current 2,008 2,022 1,527 1,553 – of which: non-current 11,655 12,382 12,369 13,220 The fair value for Euro and Global Bonds is based on the listed price of the bonds. KPN’s weighted average interest yield on the borrowings outstanding before swaps at December 31, 2013 was 5.6% (2012: 5.3%). The weighted average interest yield on borrowings outstanding after swaps was 5.2% (2012: 5.1%). The EUR hybrid bonds, classified as equity, have been included in this calculation. Excluding the hybrid bonds, the average interest rate on the senior bond portfolio after swaps at December 31, 2013 was 5.0%. For further details on borrowings, including a redemption schedule, reference is made to Note 29 ‘Financing Risk Management – Liquidity Risk’. Bonds On September 16, 2013, KPN redeemed EUR 545 million of the Eurobond 2008-2013, in accordance with the regular redemption schedule. On March 18, 2013, KPN redeemed EUR 540 million of the Eurobond 2006-2013, in accordance with the regular redemption schedule. On November 13, 2012, KPN redeemed EUR 957 million of the Eurobond 2007-2012, in accordance with the regular redemption schedule. On August 1, 2012, KPN issued a EUR 750 million Eurobond with a 8.5-year maturity and a fixed coupon of 3.25%. On March 1, 2012, KPN issued a EUR 750 million Eurobond with a ten-year maturity and a fixed coupon of 4.25%. Hybrid bonds On March 14, 2013 KPN issued a EUR 1.1 billion hybrid bond with a 6.125% coupon and a GBP 400 million hybrid bond with a 6.875% coupon (swapped to EUR 460 million and a 6.78% coupon for a period of 7 years). On March 28, 2013 KPN issued a USD 600 million hybrid bond with a 7% coupon (swapped to EUR 465 million and a 6.34% coupon for a period of 10 years). The EUR 1.1 billion hybrid bond is a subordinated bond with a perpetual maturity, while the GBP 400 million and USD 600 million hybrid bonds are subordinated bonds with 60-year maturities. The EUR, GBP and USD hybrid bonds can, at KPN’s discretion, first be redeemed in September 2018, March 2020 and March 2023 respectively. KPN may, at its discretion and subject to certain conditions, elect to defer payments of interest on these hybrid bonds. The ratings for the hybrid bonds are BB by S&P, Ba1 by Moody’s and BB by Fitch Ratings. The rating agencies recognize 50% of the hybrid bonds as equity. The hybrid bonds are for 50% treated as equity and 50% as debt in KPN’s gross and net debt definitions. The EUR hybrid bond is classified as equity in the consolidated statement of financial position (classified as Perpetual hybrid bonds), while the GBP and USD hybrid bonds are classified as liabilities in the consolidated statement of financial position (classified as Borrowings). The hybrid bonds issued in 2013 and all bonds issued in 2012 (issued under KPN’s Global Medium Term Note program) have been listed on Euronext Amsterdam. Preference Shares B On August 29, 2013, the Foundation Preference Shares B exercised its call option to subscribe for preference shares B in KPN for a total consideration of EUR 255 million. According to IFRS, the paid-up value is classified as current liability on KPN’s balance sheet. 144 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 Financial lease obligations As of December 31, 2013, the financial lease obligations amounted to EUR 105 million. Refer to Note 29 for more information. Other loans On September 13, 2012, KPN issued a EUR 50 million private placement (EUR Fixed Registered Note) with a maturity of 20 years. Credit rating KPN maintains credit ratings from Standard & Poors, Moody’s and Fitch. Per December 31, 2013, KPN has a credit rating of Baa2 with a negative outlook by Moody’s, BBBwith a stable outlook by Standard & Poor’s and BBBwith a stable outlook by Fitch. The table below shows the adjustments to the credit ratings during 2013 and 2012. Rating as at December 31, Credit rating agency 2013 Current outlook Adjustments 2013 Adjustments 2012 Standard & Poor’s BBBStable ýý February 8: rating changed to ýý February 21: rating changed from BBBwith stable outlook from BBB+ with stable outlook to BBB BBB with credit watch negative with stable outlook ýý July 26: outlook changed to ýý November 21: outlook changed positive from stable to negative from stable ýý August 15: rating on credit ýý December 18: rating on credit watch positive watch negative ýý November 6: rating changed to BBBwith stable outlook from BBBwith credit watch positive Moody’s Baa2 Negative ýý February 6: Baa2 rating confirmed ýý January 26: outlook on Baa2 rating with negative outlook following changed to negative from stable review for downgrade ýý December 18: rating under review for downgrade Fitch BBBStable ýý None ýý January 31: rating changed from BBB+ with stable outlook to BBB with negative outlook ýý December 17: rating changed from BBB with negative outlook to BBBwith stable outlook [22] Provisions for retirement benefit obligations Provisions for retirement benefit obligations consist mainly of pension provisions. December 31, 2012 Amounts in millions of EUR December 31, 2013 Restated Pensions 1,018 1,555 Other 1 2 Total 1,019 1,557 Pensions The majority of KPN’s employees in the Netherlands and Belgium is covered by defined benefit plans. The measurement date for all defined benefit plans is December 31. KPN is required to make contributions to provide sufficient assets to fund the benefits payable to participants of most defined benefit plans. The table on the next page gives an overview of KPN’s main defined benefit plans based on size and risk profile as at December 31, 2013. These defined benefit plans are administered by trusts which are legally separated from KPN. In the Netherlands, the boards of the pension funds comprise employee, employer and retiree representatives and an independent chair. The boards of the pension funds are required by law to act in the best interests of all stakeholders and are responsible for setting certain policies (e.g. investment and indexation policies). The defined benefit plans expose KPN to a number of risks. The most significant risks are summarized below: ýý Asset volatility: the pension plans’ assets include significant investments in equity securities and therefore KPN is exposed to equity market risks. ýý Interest rate risk: the plans’ liabilities are calculated for IFRS purposes using a discount rate set with reference to corporate bond yields; a decrease in corporate bond yields will increase the plans’ liabilities, although this will be partially offset by an increase in the value of the plans’ bond holdings. ýý Inflation risk: pension liabilities are to a certain extent adjusted to consumer price indices and therefore KPN’s pension plans are exposed to inflation risk. ýý Life expectancy: KPN’s pension plans provide benefits for the life of the members, so increases in life expectancy will result in an increase in the plans’ liabilities. There are no unusual or plan-specific risks to which KPN is exposed. For a description of the policies to mitigate the above-mentioned risks, reference is made to paragraph ‘Strategic investment policies’ in this Note. KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 145 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position continued Pension Plan Characteristics Funding Minimum funding requirement KPN PF KPN’s main Dutch pension plan covers most This plan is externally funded through (main plan) employees who are subject to KPN’s ‘Stichting Pensioenfonds KPN’. Premiums collective labor agreement. are paid to this fund based on a long-term These plans are mandated by Dutch law horizon regarding the desired coverage ratio. (‘Pensioenwet’) which requires minimum The benefits provided are based on the coverage ratios. The coverage ratio is The employee contribution is fixed and based employee’s years of service and compensation on KPN’s collective labor agreement. calculated based on this law and differs from level and consist of a defined benefit average the defined benefit obligation as calculated pay plan for the salary up to EUR 45,378 per For the defined contribution part, under IFRS, among others due to different annum and a defined contribution part for KPN guarantees a 0% return on the discount rates. When the coverage ratio is the salary exceeding EUR 45,378 per annum. contributions made. below approximately 105%, the Dutch funds Furthermore, employees can opt to participate are required to recover to this ratio by For the individual pension saving scheme, in an individual pension saving scheme. additional contributions and reduction of all contributions are made entirely by For accruals as of January 1, 2014, the the employees. indexation (short-term recovery plan). Next to retirement age is increased from 65 to 67. that, the Dutch funds are required to recover to a coverage ratio of approximately 115% Indexation of the pension benefits is over a 15-year period either by additional conditional and depends on the fund’s contributions or a decrease in indexation financial position. (long-term recovery plan). At the end of 2013, the short-term recovery KPN OPF KPN’s OPF plan covers Senior Management This plan is externally funded through plan which started in 2009, ended. The with an individual labor agreement in the ‘Stichting Ondernemingspensioenfonds KPN’. coverage ratio of KPN PF was 109.1% and Netherlands. of KPN OPF 112.3% at December 31, 2013. Premiums are paid to this fund based on Should the coverage ratio again drop below The benefits provided are based on the the expected accrual of pension benefits the required 105%, a new short-term recovery employee’s years of service and compensation for the year. The employee contribution period will start, depending on new pension level and consist of a defined benefit average is fixed. For the individual pension saving legislation. For KPN PF and KPN OPF, the pay plan for the salary up to EUR 45,378 per scheme, all contributions are made entirely amount of additional contributions in the annum and a defined contribution plan for by the employees. short term recovery plan is limited to EUR the salary exceeding EUR 45,378 per annum. 390 million (subject to indexation since 2009) Furthermore, employees can opt to participate within this short-term recovery period. in an individual pension saving scheme. SVG has agreed with KPN that during the For accruals as of January 1, 2014, the period 2010 to 2013, KPN can be required to retirement age is increased from 65 to 67. provide additional lump sum payments of in Indexation of the pension benefits is total up to EUR 50 million for additional conditional and depends on the fund’s reserves, financing of guaranteed return on financial position. investments or to prevent a cut of benefits. Based on the coverage ratio at December 31, 2013 of 101.1%, the outstanding amount of IT Solutions Plan participants accrue retirement benefits The individual savings accounts are externally EUR 37 million under this guarantee will be (NL) SVG by means of an individual savings account. funded through ‘Stichting Voorzieningsfonds paid in 2014. KPN is not required to make For accruals as of January 1, 2013, the Getronics’ (SVG). any other lump-sum payments. However, as retirement age is increased from 65 to 67. KPN will remain exposed to certain (limited) For this scheme, contributions are made both negative and positive risks, the SVG plan Indexation of the pension benefits is by KPN and employees. The annual accrual of will continue to be accounted for as a conditional and depends on the fund’s the individual savings account is based on a defined benefit plan. financial position. defined contribution scheme. Getronics The Getronics UK operations were divested in This defined benefit plan is externally funded In line with the requirements of the UK pension UK 2012. The closed and frozen defined benefit through a trust. regulator, any deficit in the defined benefit plan remained with KPN. Indexation is plan must be recovered by means of monthly unconditional and is based on a combination contributions determined every 3 years. of consumer and retail price indices. As at December 31, 2013, the defined benefit plan was in deficit. Getronics The Getronics US operations were divested in These defined benefit plans are externally Until the plans are fully funded to 100% of US 2008. The closed and frozen defined benefit funded through a trust. liabilities, US funding rules require quarterly plans remained with KPN. contributions to recover to a fully funded position over a seven year period based on a roll-over system. As at December 31, 2013, the defined benefit plan was in deficit. 146 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 Net defined benefit liability (asset) The balance sheet position of the defined pension plans can be broken down as follows: Defined benefit obligation Fair value of plan assets Net defined benefit liability (asset) Amounts in millions of EUR 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 Balance as of January 1 9,771 8,299 -8,216 -7,224 1,555 1,075 Included in profit or loss1 – Operating expense: current service costs 117 95 – – 117 95 past service cost (gain)2 23 – -49 – -26 – administration cost – – 9 9 9 9 – Interest costs (income) 276 312 -235 -278 41 34 Total 416 407 -275 -269 141 138 Included in OCI Remeasurements loss (gain): – Actuarial loss (gain) arising from: demographic assumptions -64 103 – – -64 103 financial assumptions -294 1,182 – – -294 1,182 experience adjustment -91 -10 – – -91 -10 – Return on plan assets excluding interest income – – 72 -603 72 -603 Effect of movements in exchange rates -16 – 10 -1 -6 -1 Total -465 1,275 82 -604 -383 671 Other Employer’s contribution – – -244 -329 -244 -329 Employees’ contribution 32 37 -32 -37 – – Benefits paid -241 -247 241 247 – – Transferred to held for sale -60 – 9 – -51 – Balance as of December 31 9,453 9,771 -8,435 -8,216 1,018 1,555 The defined benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets per pension fund are as follows: KPN PF 6,690 6,731 -6,045 -5,891 645 840 KPN OPF 772 767 -733 -722 39 45 IT Solutions (NL) SVG 1,155 1,185 -1,130 -1,085 25 100 Getronics UK 296 333 -226 -210 70 123 Getronics US 223 250 -159 -154 64 96 Other3 317 505 -142 -154 175 351 Total 9,453 9,771 -8,435 -8,216 1,018 1,555 1) Includes E-Plus until ‘held for sale’ classification as of July 23, 2013. 2) In 2013, KPN and the trade unions agreed to amend the pension arrangements of KPN PF and KPN OPF to reflect new fiscal legislation. The retirement age for new benefit accruals as of January 1, 2014, has been increased to 67 and the annual accrual rate has been decreased from 2.25% to 2.15%. As a result of these amendments, KPN’s net defined benefit liability decreased by EUR 28 million. A corresponding gain has been recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss in 2013. Past service cost (gain) also includes the effects of the merger in 2013 of the SNT pension fund with KPN PF. As a result of the merger, the SNT plan is accounted for as a defined benefit plan leading to a past service cost of EUR 2 million. 3) Other includes a number of funded schemes which are closed to new entrants and which are insured at external parties, and a number of early retirement schemes, all in the Netherlands, which are unfunded. There was no impact in 2013 or 2012 on the net defined benefit liability of minimum funding requirements or asset ceiling. The pension plan in Belgium has been accounted for as a defined contribution plan. However, due to the requirement by Belgian law to guarantee a minimum return of 3.25% on the contributions and the fact that this risk in the course of 2013 could no longer be fully insured, the plan in Belgium must be accounted for as a defined benefit plan per December 31, 2013. However, no liability has been recognized as the impact is estimated not to be significant. Defined benefit obligations Actuarial assumptions The key actuarial assumptions of KPN PF and the weighted average of the key actuarial assumptions of the other plans used in the calculation of the defined benefit obligations are as follows: December 31, 2013 December 31, 2012 KPN PF Other KPN PF Other Discount rate (%) 3.2 3.4 2.8 3.0 Expected salary increases (%) 2.0 1.6 2.0 1.6 Expected benefit increases/indexation (%) 1.6 1.1 1.3 0.8 Life expectancy for pensioners at the age of 65 (years): – Male 21.9 22.1 21.8 22.0 – Female 23.6 23.7 23.5 23.6 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 147 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position continued At December 31, 2013, the (weighted) average duration of the defined benefit obligation was 16 years for KPN PF and 18 years for the other pension plans. The mortality used in the Netherlands is the projected table 2012-2062 which includes projected improvement rates varying by year of birth, corrected for fund specific circumstances. For example in the Netherlands, the life expectancy at the age of 65 is expected to increase in the next 20 years with approximately 2 years. The discount rate is based on yield curves of AA corporate bonds with maturities equal to the duration of the benefit obligations and in the applicable currency. Sensitivity analysis The table below shows the approximate impact on the defined benefit obligation as at December 31, 2013 of a change in the key actuarial assumptions of 0.5% and in the case of life expectancy of a change of 1 year. Amounts in millions of EUR Increase Decrease Discount rate -761 880 Expected salary increases 3 -4 Expected benefit increases 685 -674 Life expectancy 285 -247 The sensitivities in the table above were estimated by actuaries based on the defined benefit obligations per December 31, 2013. If more than one of the assumptions change, the impact would not necessarily be equal to the total impact of changes in those assumptions in isolation. Plan assets The pension funds actively manage their investment portfolio. In most cases, the investment strategy is determined based on an asset-liability management (ALM) study in consultation with investment advisers and within the boundaries given by regulatory bodies for pension funds (in the Netherlands, the regulatory body is ‘De Nederlandsche Bank’). The ALM study is an important tool in setting the strategic investment policy, because it provides insight into the return and risk characteristics of policy choices. The pension funds mainly invest in the global equity and debt markets. As the pension funds invest in market indices like MSCI, a minor part of these investments is related to KPN equities. The assets of all defined benefit pension plans at December 31, 2013 and 2012 consisted of the following (in millions of EUR): December 31, 2013 December 31, 2012 Quoted Unquoted Total Quoted Unquoted Total Equity securities – Europe 1,301 – 1,067 – – North America 1,556 – 1,347 – – Asia 669 – 515 – – South America 88 – 93 – – Other 165 – 158 – – Total 3,779 – 3,779 45% 3,180 – 3,180 39% Fixed Income securities including inflation linked bonds (per Standard & Poor’s rating) – AAA 772 – 1,112 – – AA 292 – 180 – –A 549 – 993 – – BBB 742 – 492 – – < BBB 314 – 168 – – no rating 136 217 111 – – Total 2,805 217 3,022 36% 3,056 – 3,056 37% Real estate1 127 397 524 6% 135 437 572 7% Commodities2 299 – 299 3% 316 – 316 4% Derivatives3 – 476 476 6% – 775 775 9% Other (including insurance contracts) 193 142 335 4% 170 147 317 4% Total 7,203 1,232 8,435 100% 6,857 1,359 8,216 100% 1) Around 90% of the investments in real estate is located in Europe. 2) Includes investment funds which invest in financial instruments related to commodities such as energy, agricultural products and precious metals. 3) Includes interest rate swaps, interest rate swaptions and put options on equity securities. Reference is made to the description of the strategic investment policies for an explanation of the use of these financial derivatives. 148 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 Strategic investment policies The strategic investment portfolios at the end of 2013 of the pension funds (before hedging) were as follows: Other plans KPN PF (weighted average) Equity securities 41% 38% Fixed income securities (including inflation linked bonds) 39% 43% Real estate 10% 5% Other 10% 14% Total 100% 100% KPN PF (main plan) The strategic investment policy is in principle for the long term but the board of the KPN PF annually reviews the policy. The board of the KPN PF opted for an investment whereby the risk of a decline in the coverage ratio (calculated on local funding basis) is reduced. This is done by mitigating the two main risks: a decline in interest rates and a decline in equity prices. Interest rate risk is hedged through a combination of investments in fixed income securities, interest rate swaps and options on interest rate swaps (swaptions). The hedging policy is dynamic and based on market circumstances. At the end of 2013, 57% of the interest rate risk was effectively hedged. The risk of falling equity prices is partially hedged through the use of put options on equity securities in developed markets. At the end of 2013, 16 % of the risk of a decline in equity prices was effectively hedged. Currency risks are for the major part hedged. Other plans For a description of the strategic investment policy of KPN OPF, reference is made to KPN PF (main plan). At the end of 2013, 55% of the interest rate risk and 16% of the investments in equity securities were effectively hedged at KPN OPF. The IT Solutions (NL) SVG uses interest rate swaps to mitigate the interest rate risk on the obligations (on local funding basis). At the end of 2013, 59% of the interest rate risk was effectively hedged. Currency risks on the main foreign currencies are fully hedged for the total portfolio. The risks of a decline in equity prices are not hedged. At the end of 2013, the Getronics UK and US pension funds invest predominantly in equity securities. Interest rate risks, currency risks and equity risks are not hedged. In the UK, a roadmap is in place to shift from investments in equity securities to fixed income securities, when the coverage ratio reaches certain thresholds. Expected contributions and benefits In 2013, the total employer contributions and benefit payments for all defined benefit plans (excluding discontinued operations) amounted to EUR 244 million, consisting of EUR 96 million for defined benefit premiums (an amount of EUR 27 million was prepaid in 2012), EUR 55 million for recovery payments for KPN PF (an amount of EUR 19 million was prepaid in 2012) and EUR 93 million benefit payments for unfunded plans. The contributions for defined contribution plans amounted to EUR 3 million (excluding discontinued operations). KPN’s main pension plans are funded plans for which KPN makes annual contributions. Therefore, future benefit payments to pensioners do not immediately have an impact on KPN’s cash flows. For 2014, total employer contributions of EUR 155 million are expected, excluding recovery payments. This includes the outstanding amount of EUR 37 million under the guarantee given to the IT Solutions (NL) SVG plan. Based on the coverage ratio at December 31, 2013, no recovery payments are required in 2014 for KPN PF and KPN OPF. Whether or not further recovery payments are required, depends on the development of the coverage ratios. Should the coverage ratio again drop below approximately 105%, a new short-term recovery period will start, depending on new pension legislation. For KPN PF and KPN OPF, the amount of additional contributions in the short term recovery plan is limited to EUR 390 million (subject to indexation since 2009) within this short-term recovery period. KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 149 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position continued [23] Provisions for other liabilities and charges Amounts in millions of EUR December 31, 2013 December 31, 2012 Restructuring provision 95 162 Asset retirement obligations 66 303 Other provisions 122 108 Balance 283 573 – of which: non-current 163 387 – of which: current 120 186 Restructuring provision The restructuring provision consists of the following components: Amounts in millions of EUR 2013 2012 Personnel (redundancy obligations) 50 111 Contractual obligations 45 51 Restructuring provision 95 162 Of the restructuring provision, an amount of EUR 60 million has a term of less than one year (2012: EUR 131 million) and EUR 35 million of provisions has a term of between one and five years (2012: EUR 31 million). The movements in the restructuring provision are as follows: Contractual Personnel obligations Total Balance as of January 1, 2012 98 4 102 – of which: current portion 98 2 100 Additions / Releases 123 50 173 Usage -110 -3 -113 Balance as of December 31, 2012 111 51 162 – of which: current portion 111 20 131 Additions / Releases 98 18 116 Usage -151 -17 -168 Transferred to held for sale -8 -7 -15 Balance as of December 31, 2013 50 45 95 – of which: current portion 50 10 60 Personnel (redundancy obligations) During 2013 and 2012, KPN continued to substantially reduce its staff. The restructuring provision relating to FTE reduction amounted to EUR 50 million as at December 31, 2013. A total amount of EUR 116 million is added to the restructuring provision including a EUR 6 million release at E-Plus till July 23, 2013. As at December 31, 2013, the restructuring provision set up for Business Segment amounted to EUR 15 million and for IT Solutions amounted to EUR 22 million. 150 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 Asset retirement obligations Amounts in millions of EUR 2013 2012 Balance as of January 1 303 352 Additions – 1 Usage -2 -23 Changes in assumptions -29 -17 Release -54 -13 Interest 4 6 Transferred to held for sale -156 – Other movements – -3 Balance as of December 31 66 303 – of which: current 2 3 The asset retirement obligations at December 31, 2013 amounted to EUR 66 million (2012: EUR 303 million), of which EUR 31 million (2012: EUR 53 million) has a term of less than five years. The main assumptions of calculation for the asset retirement obligations relate to the estimated costs of removal, discount rate and estimated period of removal, which vary per type of asset. The discount rate for 2013 is 2.5% (2012: 2.1%). As defined in the Telecommunications Act, the obligation for landlords to tolerate cables which are part of a public electronic communications network, terminates as soon as those cables have been idle for a continuous period of 10 years. In that situation, a public electronic communications network supplier is required to remove cables on request by a landlord. Due to the fact that the date when the cables will become idle is uncertain and KPN is not able to predict whether and when a landlord will place a request for removal, KPN is not able to make a reliable estimate of the impact and no provision was recognized at December 31, 2013. Other provisions The movements in other provisions are as follows: Amounts in millions of EUR 2013 2012 Balance as of January 1 108 72 Additions 87 53 Usage -53 -17 Transferred to held for sale -20 – Balance as of December 31 122 108 – of which: current 57 52 Other provisions relate to various risks and commitments, claims and litigations (refer to Note 31) and onerous contracts. Of the Other provisions, approximately EUR 57 million had a term of less than one year (2012: EUR 52 million), EUR 34 million had a term of between one and five years (2012: EUR 27 million) and EUR 31 million had a term of more than five years (2012: EUR 29 million). [24] Other payables and deferred income (non-current) Amounts in millions of EUR December 31, 2013 December 31, 2012 Non-interest bearing accruals 26 32 Deferred income 31 60 Cash settled share plans 1 – Other payables 19 30 Total 77 122 Deferred income concerns amounts received in advance for deferred connections fees and other revenues that will be recognized in the future. [25] Trade and other payables (current) Amounts in millions of EUR December 31, 2013 December 31, 2012 Trade payables 1,091 1,402 Deferred income 351 598 Accrued interest 395 380 Accrued expenses 748 1,151 Social security and other taxes payable 230 286 Other payables 112 41 Total 2,927 3,858 Deferred income (current) mainly concerns amounts billed in advance for fixed fees and subscriptions that will be recognized in the future. KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 151 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position continued [26] Derivative financial instruments Derivative financial instruments (valued at fair value) can be broken down as follows: Amounts in millions of EUR December 31, 2013 December 31, 2012 Assets 117 233 Non-current 117 233 Current – – Liabilities -763 -474 Non-current -753 -458 Current -10 -16 Total derivative financial instruments -646 -241 – of which: call/put arrangements Reggefiber Group B.V. (net) -334 -278 – of which: designated in a hedge relationship -310 62 – of which: forward exchange contracts -1 – – of which: other derivative financial instruments not designated in a hedge relationship -1 -25 In 2013, a EUR 5 million gain from ineffectiveness of the cash flow hedges was recognized in the hedge reserve (2012: nil). The ineffective portion of the fair value hedges during 2013 recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss resulted in a gain of EUR 3 million (2012: nil). In 2013, the call/put arrangements regarding Reggefiber Group B.V. are included in derivative financial instruments for a net liability of EUR 334 million (2012: EUR 278 million net liability). Refer to Notes 12 and 29 for more information. KPN reports its derivatives positions on the balance sheet on a gross basis. Part of the derivatives portfolio is subject to master netting agreements that allow netting under certain circumstances. If netting was applied, the total derivatives asset position would be EUR 20 million and the total derivatives liability position would be EUR 666 million at December 31, 2013 (asset position of EUR 117 million and liability position of EUR 358 million at 31 December 2012). Bonds denominated in foreign currency All bonds denominated in foreign currencies are hedged with cross-currency swaps. The swaps are used to mitigate the exposure on currency risk and interest rate risk. For these hedge relations, KPN meets the criteria of, and also applies, hedge accounting. KPN determines the effectiveness of the hedges at inception and on a quarterly basis. KPN uses the dollar offset method for its cash flow hedges and a regression method for its fair value hedges. An overview of the cross-currency swaps at December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012 is presented below (in millions): Nominal Currency Maturity date Pay Receive Hedge accounting Fair value in EUR1 2013 275 GBP March 18, 2016 Fixed Fixed Cash Flow 3 250 GBP May 29, 2019 Fixed Fixed Cash Flow 8 400 GBP March 14, 2020 Fixed Fixed Cash Flow -5 600 USD March 28, 2023 Fixed Fixed Cash Flow -65 400 GBP November 11, 2026 Fixed Fixed Cash Flow -36 850 GBP September 17, 2029 Fixed Fixed Cash Flow -63 1,000 USD October 1, 2030 Fixed Fixed Cash Flow -244 Total -402 2012 275 GBP March 18, 2016 Fixed Fixed Cash Flow 13 250 GBP May 29, 2019 Fixed Fixed Cash Flow 29 400 GBP November 11, 2026 Fixed Fixed Cash Flow -1 850 GBP September 17, 2029 Fixed Fixed Cash Flow -19 1,000 USD October 1, 2030 Fixed Fixed Cash Flow -146 Total -124 1) Negative amounts are liabilities. 152 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 For the GBP 275 million bond, maturing in March 2016 with annual interest payments, KPN hedged the currency exposure by effectively fixing the counter value in GBP to EUR 328 million. KPN also hedged the interest rate exposure by swapping the interest rates from GBP fixed to Euro fixed on an annual basis (approximately 4.89% per annum). For the GBP 250 million bond, maturing in May 2019 with annual interest payments, KPN hedged the currency exposure by effectively fixing the counter value in GBP to EUR 290 million. KPN also hedged the interest rate exposure by swapping the interest rate from GBP fixed to Euro fixed on an annual basis (approximately 5.12% per annum). For the GBP 400 million Hybrid bond, with a first call date in March 2020 and annual interest payments, KPN hedged the currency exposure by effectively fixing the counter value in GBP to EUR 460 million. KPN also hedged the interest rate exposure by swapping the interest rate from GBP fixed to Euro fixed on an annual basis (approximately 6.78% per annum). For the USD 600 million Hybrid bond, with a first call date in March 2023 and semi-annual interest payments, KPN hedged the currency exposure by effectively fixing the counter value in USD to EUR 465 million. KPN also hedged the interest rate exposure by swapping the interest rate from USD fixed to Euro fixed on a semi-annual basis (approximately 6.34% per annum). For the GBP 400 million bond, maturing in November 2026 with annual interest payments, KPN hedged the currency exposure by effectively fixing the counter value in GBP to EUR 467 million. KPN also hedged the interest rate exposure by swapping the interest rate from GBP fixed to Euro fixed on an annual basis (approximately 5.02% per annum). For the GBP 850 million bond, maturing in September 2029 with annual interest payments, KPN hedged the currency exposure by effectively fixing the counter value in GBP to EUR 971 million. KPN also hedged the interest rate exposure by swapping the interest rate from GBP fixed to Euro fixed on an annual basis (approximately 5.80% per annum). For the USD 1,000 million bond, maturing in October 2030 with semi-annual interest payments, KPN hedged the currency exposure by effectively fixing the counter value in USD to EUR 756 million. KPN also hedged the interest rate exposure by swapping the interest rate from USD fixed to Euro fixed on a semi-annual basis (approximately 8.56% per annum). Part of KPN’s derivatives portfolio contains reset clauses or collateral postings at pre-agreed dates, in order to mitigate counterparty exposure during the life of the swap. These reset clauses may result in early Euro settlement obligations in cash with the swap counterparty for part of the outstanding notional amount of the swap. This could lead to additional cash inflows or outflows before maturity. In order to reduce liquidity risks, the reset clauses or collateral postings of these derivatives are spread over different points in time and are not more frequent than every two years per swap. Bonds denominated in EURO In 2011, KPN changed its interest rate profile by swapping the fixed coupons on three Eurobonds. The bonds have been swapped to a two-year duration, which is expected to result in lower interest costs, while maintaining visibility on interest paid for the next two years. The Eurobonds with maturities on September 21, 2020 (notional EUR 1.0 billion), October 4, 2021 (notional EUR 500 million) and September 30, 2024 (notional EUR 700 million) have been swapped to a floating rate based on 3-month Euribor using fixed-to-floating interest swaps. At inception, the first two years have been fixed with a floating-to-fixed interest rate swap. In subsequent quarters, KPN entered into additional forward starting swaps to maintain a 2-year horizon of fixed interest rates. For the fixed-to-floating interest rate swaps, KPN meets the criteria of, and also applies, hedge accounting. KPN determines the effectiveness of these fair value hedges at inception and on a quarterly basis, based on a regression method. Based on the current hedge accounting rules, KPN is not allowed to apply hedge accounting for above-mentioned floating-to-fixed swaps. These swaps are held at fair value through profit and loss, designated upon initial recognition. Until December 31, 2013, KPN booked a gain in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss of EUR 17 million (2012: EUR 40 million loss). KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 153 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position continued An overview of the interest rate swaps at December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012 is presented below (in millions). Nominal Currency Maturity date Pay Receive Hedge accounting Fair value in EUR 2013 1,000 EUR September 21, 2020 Floating Fixed Fair Value 43 500 EUR October 4, 2021 Floating Fixed Fair Value 26 700 EUR September 30, 2024 Floating Fixed Fair Value 23 Total 92 Nominal Currency Maturity date Pay Receive Hedge accounting Fair value in EUR 2012 1,000 EUR September 21, 2020 Floating Fixed Fair Value 79 500 EUR October 4, 2021 Floating Fixed Fair Value 47 700 EUR September 30, 2024 Floating Fixed Fair Value 60 Total 186 Nominal Currency Maturity date Pay Receive Hedge accounting Fair value in EUR 2013 1,000 EUR September 21, 2016 Fixed Floating None -5 700 EUR September 30, 2015 Fixed Floating None -4 500 EUR October 4, 2016 Fixed Floating None -3 Total -12 Nominal Currency Maturity date Pay Receive Hedge accounting Fair value in EUR 2012 1,000 EUR September 21, 2015 Fixed Floating None -14 700 EUR September 30, 2015 Fixed Floating None -9 500 EUR October 4, 2015 Fixed Floating None -7 Total -30 Foreign exchange contracts The fair value of foreign exchange exposure hedge contracts is determined using market forward exchange rates at the balance sheet date. Amounts in millions of EUR Contract volume 2013 Fair value 2013 Contract volume 2012 Fair value 2012 Term shorter than 1 year 104 -1 72 – Term longer than 1 year – – – – Total 104 -1 72 – In 2013, the liability position of the cash flow hedge reserve increased by EUR 188 million before tax (2012: increase of EUR 310 million) resulting from changes in the valuation of the USD and GBP cross-currency swaps. As KPN applies hedge accounting, any change in swap value will result in an opposite movement in the cash flow hedge reserve, such that there is minimal impact on the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss. For further details on derivative financial instruments, reference is made to Note 29. 154 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS [27] Net cash flow used in investing activities In 2012, the amount of acquisitions of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows mainly consisted of the acquisition of an additional 10% of the shares in Reggefiber for EUR 99 million (see also Note 12), the acquisition of Reggefiber Wholesale and various ISPs from Reggefiber and Reggeborgh for EUR 166 million and earn out payments (see also Note 30). In 2013, disposals of subsidiaries, associates and available for sale financial assets mainly related to the sale of Infrastructure Services & Partners B.V. (EUR 26 million) and Compucom (EUR 27 million). In 2012, disposals of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures mainly related to the net proceeds from the sale of Ortel Germany to E-Plus (EUR 41 million) and the sale of KPN Spain (EUR 24 million) less the net negative proceeds from the sale of Getronics International (EUR 26 million) and various other disposals (EUR 12 million). In 2013 and 2012, investments in intangible assets (excluding software) related to the acquisition of licenses for additional spectrum. The amount in 2013 includes a payment of EUR 1,352 million relating to obtained frequency licenses in the Dutch spectrum auction, which took place at the end of 2012. Loans to associates and joint ventures in 2013 and 2012 mainly concerned shareholder loans provided to Reggefiber (see also Note 12). [28] Net cash flow used in financing activities On September 16, 2013, KPN redeemed EUR 545 million of the Eurobond 2008-2013, in accordance with the regular redemption schedule. On March 28, 2013, KPN issued a USD 600 million Hybrid bond with a fixed coupon of 7%, swapped to EUR 465m and a 6.34% coupon for a period of 10 years. On March 18, 2013, KPN redeemed EUR 540 million of the Eurobond 2006-2013, in accordance with the regular redemption schedule. On March 14, 2013, KPN issued a EUR 1,100 million Hybrid bond with a fixed coupon of 6.125%. On March 14, 2013, KPN issued a GBP 400 million Hybrid bond with a fixed coupon of 6.875%, swapped to EUR 460 million and a 6.78% coupon for a period of 7 years. On November 13, 2012, KPN redeemed EUR 957 million of the Eurobond 2007-2012, in accordance with the regular redemption schedule. On September 13, 2012, KPN issued a EUR 50 million private placement (EUR Fixed Registered Note) with a maturity of 20 years. On August 1, 2012, KPN issued a EUR 750 million Eurobond with an 8.5-year maturity and a fixed coupon of 3.25%. On March 1, 2012, KPN issued a EUR 750 million Eurobond with a ten-year maturity and a fixed coupon of 4.25%. KPN had no drawings on the Credit Facility as of December 31, 2013 (December 31, 2012: no drawings). KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 155 Consolidated Financial Statements OTHER NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS [29] Capital and Financial Risk Management Capital management Financing policy KPN is committed to strive for the right balance between a prudent financing policy, investments in the business and shareholder remuneration. KPN seeks to ensure a strong financial position and is committed to an investment grade credit profile. On February 5, 2013, KPN announced a EUR 4 billion equity equivalent capital raise, in order to align its financial position with its strategy. The capital raise was intended to strengthen KPN’s financial position and to provide a stable financial position in the coming years. The capital raise was supported by América Móvil and consisted of a EUR 3 billion rights issue and, in addition, issuance of EUR 2 billion hybrid bonds with 50% equity recognition. Through this combination, KPN achieved the targeted EUR 4 billion equity equivalent capital raise. The proceeds increased KPN’s financial and strategic flexibility and were used to continue to invest in KPN’s operations and reduce KPN’s net debt level. The table below shows the calculation of KPN’s Net Debt / EBITDA ratio, which is based on numbers including E-Plus. Therefore, a number of corrections were made to the borrowings excluding E-Plus from Note 21, in order to arrive at the Net Debt for the Net Debt / EBITDA calculation. Amounts in millions of EUR 2013 2012 Total borrowings (carrying values, excluding derivatives, excluding E-Plus) [21] 13,663 13,763 Financial leases E-Plus 352 133 Bank overdraft (included in net cash and cash equivalents) [17] -326 -343 Perpetual hybrid bonds (issued in EUR) 1,100 – 50% equity credit for hybrid bonds -1,013 – Cash collateral on derivatives -6 -6 Difference between carrying value and nominal value -367 -573 Adjusted gross debt 13,403 12,974 Cash and cash equivalents (including held for sale) 3,946 1,290 Bank overdraft -326 -343 Net cash and cash equivalents 3,620 947 Net Debt 9,783 12,027 Normalized EBITDA 3,994 4,403 Net Debt / EBITDA 2.4x 2.7x [..] Bracketed numbers refer to the related Notes. KPN defines EBITDA as operating result before depreciation and impairments of Property, Plant and Equipment (PPE) and amortization and impairments of intangible assets. Note that KPN’s definition of EBITDA deviates from the literal definition of earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for analyses of the results as reported under IFRS. In the Net Debt / EBITDA ratio, KPN defines Net Debt as the nominal value of interest-bearing financial liabilities excluding derivatives and related collateral, representing the net repayment obligations in EUR, taking into account 50% of the nominal value of the hybrid capital instruments, less net cash and short-term investments, and defines normalized EBITDA as a 12-month rolling total excluding restructuring costs, incidentals and major changes in the composition of the Group (acquisitions and disposals). The Net Debt and Net Debt / EBITDA definitions were amended and aligned with other definitions in Q4 2013. The Net Debt position and Net Debt / EBITDA ratio did not materially differ according to the old and new definition. Shareholder remuneration policy KPN is committed to strive for the right balance between a prudent financing policy, investments in the business and shareholder remuneration. Following an adjustment to its dividend outlook in July and December 2012, KPN paid no dividend in 2013. During 2013, KPN did not execute a share repurchase program, nor did it return excess cash to shareholders in another way. KPN intends to recommence dividend payments for 2014, subject to the closing of the E-Plus sale. This policy may change and is based on a number of assumptions concerning future events and is subject to uncertainties and risks that are outside KPN’s control. Financial risk management KPN is exposed to a variety of financial risks. The overall risk management program focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimize potential adverse effects on KPN’s financial position and performance. KPN uses derivative financial instruments to hedge certain risk exposures. The financial risks are managed by KPN’s Treasury department under policies approved by the Board of Management. These policies are established to identify and analyze financial risks faced by KPN, to set appropriate risk limits and controls, and to monitor adherence to those limits. Treasury manages these risks in close cooperation with the Group companies, business operations and other corporate departments. During 2012 and 2013, several Treasury policies have been reviewed and approved by the Board of Management. KPN’s key Treasury polices are the following: ýý Credit risk and counterparty risk; ýý Liquidity risk; and ýý Market risk (currency risk and interest rate risk). 156 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 In addition, KPN’s Treasury department provides cash management and funding services to the Group companies and business operations. This Note presents information about the Group’s exposure to each of the above-mentioned risks, the Group’s objectives, policies and processes for measuring and managing risks. Further quantitative disclosures are included throughout these Consolidated Financial Statements. The table below summarizes the Group’s financial assets and liabilities: December 31, 2013 December 31, 2012 Amounts in millions of EUR Carrying amount Fair value Carrying amount Fair value Financial assets Fair value through profit and loss: Derivatives – non-current [26] 117 117 233 233 Derivatives – current [26] – – – – Loans and receivables: Non-current receivables from financial leases [13] 3 3 2 2 Loans to associates and joint ventures [12] 453 453 227 227 Trade receivable [15] 690 690 1,045 1,045 Other receivables [15] 181 181 157 157 Cash and cash equivalents [17] 3,946 3,946 1,286 1,286 Subtotal 5,390 5,390 2,950 2,950 Available-for-sale financial assets [16] 20 20 35 35 Total 5,410 5,410 2,985 2,985 Financial liabilities Fair value through profit and loss: Derivatives – non-current [26] 753 753 458 458 Derivatives – current [26] 10 10 16 16 Subtotal 763 763 474 474 Financial liabilities measured at amortized costs: Borrowings [21] 13,663 14,404 13,896 14,773 Trade payables [25] 1,091 1,091 1,402 1,402 Other payables and accrued expenses and interest [25] 1,255 1,255 1,572 1,571 Subtotal 16,009 16,750 16,870 17,746 Total 16,772 17,513 17,344 18,220 [..] Bracketed numbers refer to the related Notes. The following table presents the Group’s financial assets and liabilities that were measured at fair value at December 31, 2013. Total Amounts in million of EUR Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Balance Assets Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss: Derivatives (cross-currency interest rate swap) – 13 – 13 Derivatives (interest rate swap) – 93 – 93 Other derivatives – – 11 11 Available-for-sale financial assets: Listed securities 10 – – 10 Unlisted securities – – 10 10 Total assets 10 106 21 137 Liabilities Financial liabilities at fair value through profit and loss: Derivatives (cross-currency interest rate swap) – 415 – 415 Derivatives (interest rate swap) – 13 – 13 Other derivatives [12] – 1 334 335 Total liabilities – 429 334 763 [..] Bracketed number refers to the related Note. KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 157 Consolidated Financial Statements Other Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued The following table presents the Group’s financial assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value at December 31, 2012. Total Amounts in million of EUR Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Balance Assets Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss: Derivatives (cross-currency interest rate swap) – 42 – 42 Derivatives (interest rate swap) – 186 – 186 Other derivatives – – 5 5 Available-for-sale financial assets: Listed securities 9 – – 9 Unlisted securities – – 26 26 Total assets 9 228 31 268 Liabilities Financial liabilities at fair value through profit and loss: Derivatives (cross-currency interest rate swap) – 166 – 166 Derivatives (interest rate swap) – 30 – 30 Other derivatives [12] – – 278 278 Total liabilities – 196 278 474 [..] Bracketed number refers to the related Note. The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets is based on quoted market prices. If applicable, these instruments are included in Level 1. An instrument is included in Level 2 if the financial instrument is not traded in an active market and if the fair value is determined by using valuation techniques based on maximum use of observable market data for all significant inputs. For the derivatives used for hedging purposes, KPN uses the estimated fair value of financial instruments determined by using available market information and appropriate valuation methods, including relevant credit risks. The estimated fair value approximates to the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. KPN has its derivative instruments outstanding with financial institutions that had a credit rating equivalent to A3 or higher with Moody’s at December 31, 2013. If one or more of the significant inputs is not based on observable market data, the instrument is included in Level 3 and the fair value is estimated using models and other valuation methods. To the extent possible, the assumptions and inputs used take into account market pricing information and expectations. However, such information is by its nature subject to uncertainty. Changes arising as new information becomes available could impact income or other comprehensive income. The valuation of available-for-sale unlisted securities is based upon a discounted cash flow model. Other derivatives under financial liabilities at fair value through profit and loss are the call/put arrangements of Reggefiber Group B.V. These options are valued using a binominal tree approach and depend on the business performance of Reggefiber under various scenarios with different probabilities (combination of penetration rates, price structure and estimated chance of approval by Dutch competition authority ACM), discount rates and the conditions of the call/put arrangement itself. Based on current business performance and management’s best estimate of the likelihood of possible scenarios and expected business performance, the value of the call/put arrangements was EUR 334 million (liability) at December 31, 2013, EUR 278 million (liability) at December 31, 2012. During 2013, the change in the value of the call/put arrangements resulted in a loss of EUR 56 million on the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss (2012: loss of EUR 100 million). In case of a 5%-point lower expected penetration rate, ceteris paribus, the liability position related to the call/put arrangement would have been approximately EUR 17 million higher as at December 31, 2013. In case of approval by ACM, ceteris paribus, the value of the call/put arrangements would increase to EUR 477 million, which would result in an additional loss of EUR 143 million. The decrease in the value of the unlisted securities during 2013, included in available-for-sale financial assets, was due to the sale of assets (predominantly shares in Compucom). The increase in value during 2012 was EUR 3 million and was also recognized in Other Comprehensive Income. The following table presents the net changes in ‘other derivatives’ in Level 3: Amounts in million of EUR 2013 2012 Balance as of January 1 278 203 Losses recognized in profit or loss [12] 56 100 Redemption – -25 Balance as of December 31 334 278 [..] Bracketed number refers to the related Note. 158 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 For other financial assets and liabilities, the following methods and assumptions were used to determine fair value: ýý Borrowings: based on the listed price of the bonds ýý Cash, cash equivalents, accounts receivable and payable, Preference Shares B: as the maturity of these financial instruments is short, the carrying value approximates to the fair value. Credit and counterparty risk KPN’s financial assets are subject to credit risk and counterparty risk. Credit risk arises from the possibility of asset impairment occurring when counterparties are unable to meet their obligations in transactions involving financial instruments. KPN sets limits for the maximum exposure per counterparty and investment periods, which are primarily based on minimum credit ratings. These policies have been reviewed and updated in 2013. It is KPN’s policy to invest cash balances with counterparties with a minimum credit rating equivalent to A2 at Moody’s. Cash balances used for working capital purposes can also reside at (local) banks with lower credit ratings. It is KPN’s policy only to engage into new derivative transactions with counterparties with a minimum credit rating equivalent to A2 at Moody’s. KPN spreads its cash and cash equivalents balances and derivatives over several counterparties. Separate limits are set for some strong counterparties without credit ratings or counterparties with limited credit risk such as the Dutch State. Furthermore, KPN only invests in money market funds and deposits with short maturities. The majority part of the cash balances at year end 2013 was invested in institutions with a credit rating equivalent to A2 at Moody’s or stronger. In addition, KPN invested its cash balances in instruments with high liquidity. During 2013 and 2012, KPN monitored counterparty risk on a regular basis, based on the counterparty’s credit ratings and other metrics. These other metrics include Credit Default Swap (CDS) levels of the counterparties, levels of government ownership and the level of systemic importance to the banking system. Credit risk on trade receivables is controlled based on restrictive policies for customer acceptance. Credit management is focused on mobile services as the credit risk is considered to be the highest within this part of KPN’s business. Before accepting certain new customers in this segment, KPN requests credit watchers to provide credit management reports. In addition, KPN keeps track of the payment performance of customers. In case customers fail to meet set criteria, payment issues have to be solved before a new transaction with this customer will be entered into. Concentrations of credit risk with respect to trade receivables are limited due to the Group’s large and unrelated customer base. The Board of Management believes there is no additional credit risk provision required in excess of the allowance for doubtful receivables (see Note 15). Receivables relating to integrated, outsourced and managed ICT solutions are monitored on an individual basis. Reference is made to ‘Significant Accounting Policies – trade and other receivables’. KPN takes into account credit risk for the valuations of its derivatives portfolio, based on IFRS 13. As at December 31, 2013, KPN recorded a gain of EUR 3 million in the Comprehensive Statement of Income, related to interest rate swaps recorded as fair value hedges (2012: no gains or losses). As at December 31, 2013, KPN recorded a gain of EUR 5 million in Other Comprehensive Income, related to cross-currency swaps recorded as cash flow hedges (2012: no gains or losses). Guarantees The Group’s policy is to provide financial guarantees only to wholly-owned subsidiaries. As at December 31, 2013, KPN has parent guarantees (based on Article 403, Part 9, Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code) and bank guarantees outstanding to third parties for its Dutch wholly-owned subsidiaries. Maximum exposure to credit risk As KPN does not provide financial guarantees other than to wholly-owned subsidiaries, the carrying amount of financial assets represents the maximum credit exposure. The maximum exposure to credit risk at reporting date amounts to the total of the financial assets including cash (EUR 5,410 million at December 31, 2013 and EUR 2,985 million at December 31, 2012). Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations associated with financial instruments as they fall due. The Group’s approach to managing liquidity is to ensure sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, under both normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Group. This means that KPN secures its bond redemptions well ahead. KPN has a EUR 2 billion syndicated credit facility maturing in 2018, with 14 banks, all of which have a rating of Baa2 or higher with Moody’s as at December 31, 2013. KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 159 Consolidated Financial Statements Other Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued The table below provides a maturity analysis of the financial liabilities based on the remaining contractual maturities as of December 31, 2013. Borrowings Derivatives Derivatives Derivatives Trade and Interest on inflow outflow other payables Bonds and Bonds and Financial lease (including (including and accrued Amounts in millions of EUR Loans1 Loans2 obligations Other Debt3 interest) interest) expenses Total 2014 1,400 619 14 595 -300 261 1,951 4,540 2015 1,000 542 12 13 -299 256 – 1,524 2016 1,255 502 9 13 -625 574 – 1,728 2017 1,000 423 8 6 -275 226 – 1,388 2018 – 375 7 647 -275 226 – 980 2019 and subsequent years 7,939 2,246 55 – -5,406 5,224 – 10,058 Contractual cash flows 12,594 4,707 105 1,274 -7,180 6,767 1,951 20,218 1) The GBP and USD hybrid bonds are included with final maturities in 2073 (redemption of EUR 915 million). Please see Note 21 for more information on the hybrid bonds. 2) Interest payments on the GBP and USD hybrid bonds (EUR 63 million per year until the first call date in 2018) are not included. KPN may, at its discretion and subject to certain conditions, elect to defer payments of interest on these hybrid bonds. Any arrears of interest must be paid at redemption at the latest, the amount of which cannot be reliably measured because of the duration of the hybrid bonds. 3) Including the redemptions on the bank overdraft facilities, Preference Shares B, spectrum payments and the Reggefiber call/put arrangements for the maximum cash out. The timing of the cash out regarding the Reggefiber call/put options as shown above is indicative as the timing of the exercise of these options is uncertain. See Note 12 for an explanation of the Reggefiber option triggers and the related cash flows. At December 31, 2013, the Reggefiber call/put arrangements were valued at a negative amount of EUR 334 million and included in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position under derivative financial instruments (see Note 26). The present value of the financial lease obligations amounts to EUR 105 million at December 31, 2013 (2012: EUR 256 million). The financial lease obligations primarily include lease obligations for buildings leased by KPN (see also Note 11) and handsets. In some of these lease arrangements for buildings, an option is included to extend the lease term. The table below provides a maturity analysis of the financial liabilities based on the remaining contractual maturities as of December 31, 2012. Borrowings Derivatives1 Derivatives Derivatives Trade and Interest on inflow outflow other payables Bonds and Bonds and Financial lease (including (including and accrued Amounts in millions of EUR Loans1 Loans obligations Other Debt1 interest) interest) expenses Total 2013 1,085 671 99 345 -240 207 2,594 4,761 2014 1,400 625 65 161 -240 200 – 2,211 2015 1,000 547 12 – -237 184 – 1,506 2016 1,262 507 11 – -573 510 – 1,717 2017 1,000 428 9 – -217 165 – 1,385 2018 and subsequent years 7,096 2,677 60 647 -4,628 4,281 – 10,133 Contractual cash flows 12,843 5,455 256 1,153 -6,135 5,547 2,594 21,713 1) Including the redemptions on the bank overdraft facilities and the Reggefiber call/put arrangements for the maximum cash out. The timing of the cash out regarding the Reggefiber call/put options as shown above is indicative as the timing of the exercise of these options is uncertain. See Note 12 for an explanation of the Reggefiber option triggers and the related cash flows. At December 31, 2012, the Reggefiber call/put arrangements were valued at a negative amount of EUR 278 million and included in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position under derivative financial instruments (see Note 26). Part of KPN’s derivatives portfolio contains reset clauses or collateral postings at pre-agreed dates, in order to mitigate counterparty exposure during the life of the swap. These reset clauses will result in early Euro settlement obligations in cash with the swap counterparty for part of the outstanding notional amount of the swap. This could lead to additional cash inflows or outflows before maturity. In order to reduce liquidity risks, the reset clauses or collateral postings of these derivatives are spread over different points in time and are not more frequent than every two years per swap. With regard to other purchase and capital commitments, reference is made to Note 31 ‘Commitments, contingencies and legal commitments’. Available financing sources 2013 As of December 31, 2013, KPN’s net cash and cash equivalents position amounted to EUR 3,946 million (including EUR 326 million in non-netted notional cash pools). Due to German capital maintenance rules, KPN is committed to keep certain funds available at E-Plus. In principle, net cash and cash equivalents are at disposal to KPN on a group level, except for limited amounts of cash held at local subsidiaries. In addition to the available cash and cash equivalents, cash flows from operations and cash flows from any further sales of non-core assets, KPN has the following financing resources available: EUR 2.0 billion multi-currency revolving credit facility In July 2011, KPN signed a new EUR 2.0 billion Revolving Credit Facility with a tenor of five years with two one-year extension options. The facility replaced the previous EUR 1.5 billion revolving credit facility, while obtaining competitive conditions. The credit facility does not contain any financial covenants. In June 2012 and June 2013, KPN used the extension options for its EUR 2 billion revolving credit facility. All 14 relationship banks agreed to the extensions, which brings the final maturity of the revolving credit facility to July 2018. 160 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 As of December 31, 2013 and December 31 2012, KPN had no drawings on its credit facility. In December 2012, KPN signed a EUR 500 million standby credit facility, which was available for drawdown until March 31, 2013 and which had a final maturity date 364 days after drawdown. This facility was undrawn at December 31, 2012 and was cancelled after the issuance of hybrid bonds in March 2013. Overdraft facilities During 2013, KPN had four uncommitted overdraft facilities with four banks of EUR 50 million each. The overdraft facilities may be cancelled at any time and do not have a specified maturity date. In 2013 and 2012, KPN drew on these facilities from time to time. As of December 31, 2013 and 2012, there were no amounts drawn under any of the overdraft facilities, except for bank overdrafts under cash pool agreements. Global Medium Term Note Program KPN updated its GMTN program in June 2013. The program does not contain any commitment from investors to provide funding to KPN. Funding will be available subject to market conditions and other factors at the relevant time. Capital Resources Covenants KPN’s existing capital resources contain the following covenants as at December 31, 2013, which could trigger additional financial obligations or early redemption of the outstanding indebtedness. All of KPN’s senior bonds issued after January 1, 2006 (EUR 9.8 billion at December 31, 2013) and the EUR 50 million private placement issued in 2012 contain a change of control clause by means of which KPN may be required to redeem such outstanding bonds early, in the event that (i) certain changes of control occur and (ii) within the change of control period a rating downgrade to sub-investment grade occurs in respect of that change of control. The change of control period ends 90 days after the change of control event occurs. In addition, many of KPN’s capital resources contain a covenant prohibiting KPN from entering into any amalgamation, demerger, merger, corporate restructuring or reorganization, unless prior written consent has been given by a majority of the lenders or bondholders or the resulting company assumes all of the rights and obligations with respect to the loans or bonds. Market risk KPN is exposed to various kinds of market risks in the ordinary course of business. These risks include: ýý Foreign currency exchange rate risks ýý Interest rate risks ýý Other market price risk KPN has established policies that deal with the use of derivative financial instruments in order to reduce foreign currency exposure and to manage the interest rate profile. KPN’s centralized Treasury department matches and manages intercompany and external foreign currency exposures reported by the various business operations and Group companies. Hedges are applied on a full coverage basis, if economically feasible. In line with these policies, derivative financial instruments are used solely for the purpose of hedging underlying exposures to foreign currency exchange rate risk and interest rate risk. KPN does not enter into derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. Contracts related to derivative financial instruments are entered into for periods consistent with the underlying exposures (if economically feasible) and do not constitute positions independent of these exposures. None of these financial instruments are used for trading purposes or taken as speculative positions. KPN’s policy is to apply hedge accounting to the extent possible for derivative financial instruments related to interest-bearing debt and foreign exchange risk for bonds that are not denominated in Euro. Management has set up a policy to apply hedge accounting only when certain criteria are met regarding formal designation and documentation of the hedge relationship, the risk management objective, the strategy for undertaking the hedge and the effectiveness of the hedge. As a consequence, KPN tests effectiveness of the hedge relationship at inception and every quarter. Reference is made to Note 26. Foreign currency exchange rate risks The group’s primary activities are denominated in Euro. Accordingly, the Euro is the company’s functional currency, which is also the Group’s presentation currency. Items included in the financial information of individual entities in the group are measured using the individual entity’s functional currency, which is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates. Currency exchange risk is the risk that the future cash flows will fluctuate because of changes in foreign exchange rates. The risk mainly results from settlement of international telecommunications traffic and purchase of goods and equipment and primarily consist of pound sterling and US dollar exposure. Foreign currency exchange rate risks related to bonds that are not denominated in Euro are hedged into Euro in line with KPN’s hedging policies. As a result of currency fluctuations, the value of subsidiaries operating outside the Eurozone markets could fluctuate and affect KPN’s financial position and equity positions from year to year. These translation exposures are not hedged. Group companies and business operations are obliged to hedge their firm commitments and highly predictable anticipated transactions in non-functional currencies by forward contracts transacted with KPN’s Treasury department. Accordingly, Treasury matches and manages the intercompany and external exposures using forward exchange contracts. KPN does not apply hedge accounting for these hedge instruments. KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 161 Consolidated Financial Statements Other Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing on the dates of the transactions. At each balance sheet date, monetary items denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing at the balance sheet date. Non-monetary items carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined. Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated. Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at year-end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss. As of December 31, 2013 more than 99% of cash and cash equivalents was denominated in the functional currency of the related entities. At December 31, 2013 more than 95% of the net amount of trade receivables and more than 94% of the amount of trade payables was outstanding in the functional currency of the related entities. Reference is made to Note 6 for the recognized exchange rate differences in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss. Foreign exchange As of December 31, 2013 KPN carried out a sensitivity analysis with regard to changes in foreign exchange rates for entities with a functional currency different from Euro. All changes in foreign exchange rates and resulting sensitivities have impact on the profit and loss statement and equity, but do not have an impact on the cash flow statement. The results of the analyses are shown in the table below, indicating the hypothetical impact on equity: Total Amounts in millions of EUR Change 2013 2012 Change in FX rate +20%-point 8 2 +10%-point 5 1 -10%-point -3 -1 -20%-point -8 -3 Interest rate risk and interest rate profile Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate as a result of changes in market interest rates. Borrowings, derivatives, cash and cash equivalents are subject to interest rate risk. As KPN has a mix of financial instruments bearing a floating or a fixed interest rate, KPN is subject to risk from movements in interest rates. An unfavorable interest rate movement would result in additional financial expenses. In 2011, KPN changed its interest rate profile by swapping the fixed coupons on three Eurobonds. The bonds have been swapped to a 2-year duration, which is expected to result in lower interest costs, while maintaining visibility on interest paid for the next two years. The Eurobonds with maturities on September 21, 2020 (notional EUR 1.0 billion), October 4, 2021 (notional EUR 500 million) and September 30, 2024 (notional EUR 700 million) have been swapped to a floating rate based on 3-month Euribor using fixed-to-floating interest swaps. The first two years have been fixed with a floating-to-fixed interest rate swap. In subsequent quarters, KPN entered into additional forward starting swaps to maintain a 2-year horizon of fixed interest rates. With regard to interest rate risk exposure, KPN periodically evaluates the desired mix of fixed and floating interest rate liabilities. Any interest exposure longer than one year is considered to be fixed. As of December 31, 2013, all of KPN’s interest-bearing gross debt excluding bank overdraft was at fixed interest rates (2012: 100%). With a view to existing and forecasted debt structure, KPN’s Treasury department could enter into additional future derivative instruments to adjust the mix of fixed and floating interest rate liabilities. Other market price risk KPN does not enter into commodity contracts other than for its own use to meet the Group’s expected usage. KPN has entered into energy contracts for own use with a nominal amount of approximately EUR 30 million at December 31, 2013 (2012: EUR 58 million) (see Note 31). Sensitivity analysis As of December 31, 2013 KPN carried out a sensitivity analysis with regard to interest rate risk on interest-bearing assets and liabilities. With all other variables held constant, each adverse change of 100 basis points in 6 month Euribor would hypothetically on balance not result in higher interest costs per annum (2012: none) because all interest-bearing liabilities carried a fixed interest rate while only the outstanding net cash and cash equivalents carried a floating interest. 162 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 Cash flow hedges As of December 31, 2013, KPN carried out a sensitivity analysis with regard to interest rate risk and currency on the cash flow hedges. KPN applies cash flow hedges on all bonds not denominated in Euro. With all other variables held constant, KPN calculated the hypothetical impact of changes in interest rates based on various scenarios. This would hypothetically result in a higher or lower value on the balance of the hedge reserve, which is included in equity attributable to equity holders. In a similar way, KPN calculated the hypothetical impact of changes in the EUR/USD rate and the EUR/GBP rate, holding all other variables constant. The results of the analyses are shown in the table below, indicating the hypothetical impact on the balance of the hedge reserve as at December 31, 2013: GBP USD Total Amounts in millions of EUR Change 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 Change in interest rate +2%-point -33 -13 -52 -23 -85 -36 +1%-point -18 -8 -28 -12 -45 -20 -1%-point 21 10 31 13 52 23 GBP USD Total Amounts in millions of EUR Change 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 Change in FX rate +20%-point 108 143 98 111 206 254 +10%-point 59 78 54 60 112 138 -10%-point -72 -95 -65 -74 -137 -169 -20%-point -162 -214 -147 -166 -309 -380 Prospective effectiveness testing indicates that all cash flow hedges are expected to be highly effective. As a consequence, the expected impact on the statement of profit or loss is immaterial. Fair value hedges As of December 31, 2013, KPN carried out a sensitivity analysis with regard to interest rate risk on the fair value hedges. KPN applies fair value hedge accounting on Euro-denominated bonds that are swapped from fixed rate to a floating rate. With all other variables held constant, KPN calculated the hypothetical impact of changes in interest rates based on various scenarios. The expected impact on the cash flow statement and the statement of profit or loss is immaterial, since the hedges are expected to be highly effective. This results in minimal hedge ineffectiveness and volatility of KPN’s financial result. Derivatives held at fair value As of December 31, 2013, KPN carried out a sensitivity analysis with regard to the interest rate swaps for which no hedge accounting is applied. All changes in interest rates and resulting sensitivities have only profit & loss impact and no cash flow impact. Impact Profit & loss amounts in millions of EUR Change 2013 2012 Interest rate swaps (2-year floating-fixed) Changes in EUR interest rates +2%-point 78 81 +1%-point 39 41 -1%-point -42 -42 For a sensitivity analysis on interest rate risk with regard to pensions, reference is made to Note 22. KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 163 Consolidated Financial Statements Other Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities (a) Financial assets The following financial assets are subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting arrangements and similar agreements: Related amounts not set off in the balance sheet Gross amounts of recognized Net amounts of Gross amount financial liabilities financial assets As at 31 December 2013 of recognized set off in the presented in the Financial Cash collateral Amounts in millions of EUR financial assets balance sheet balance sheet instruments received Net amount Derivative financial instruments 117 – 117 -97 – 20 Trade receivables 753 -63 690 -14 – 676 Total 870 -63 807 -111 – 696 Related amounts not set off in the balance sheet Gross amounts of recognized Net amounts of Gross amount financial liabilities financial assets As at 31 December 2012 of recognized set off in the presented in the Financial Cash collateral Amounts in millions of EUR financial assets balance sheet balance sheet instruments received Net amount Derivative financial instruments 233 – 233 -116 – 117 Trade receivables 1,061 -16 1,045 -14 – 1,031 Total 1,294 -16 1,278 -130 – 1,148 (b) Financial liabilities The following financial liabilities are subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting arrangements and similar agreements: Related amounts not set off in the balance sheet Gross amounts of recognized Net amounts of Gross amount financial assets financial liabilities As at 31 December 2013 of recognized set off in the presented in the Financial Cash collateral Amounts in millions of EUR financial liabilities balance sheet balance sheet instruments received Net amount Derivative financial instruments 763 – 763 -97 – 666 Trade payables 1,131 -40 1,091 -14 – 1,077 Accrued expenses 770 -22 748 – – 748 Total 2,664 -62 2,602 -111 – 2,491 Related amounts not set off in the balance sheet Gross amounts of recognized Net amounts of Gross amount financial assets financial liabilities As at 31 December 2012 of recognized set off in the presented in the Financial Cash collateral Amounts in millions of EUR financial liabilities balance sheet balance sheet instruments received Net amount Derivative financial instruments 474 – 474 -116 – 358 Trade payables 1,418 -16 1,402 -14 – 1,388 Accrued expenses 1,151 – 1,151 – – 1,151 Total 3,043 -16 3,027 -130 – 2,897 For the financial assets and liabilities summarized above, each agreement between KPN and the counterparty allows for net settlement of the relevant financial assets and liabilities when both parties elect to settle on a net basis. If parties chose not to settle on a net basis, the financial assets and liabilities will be settled on a gross basis. [30] Business combinations and other changes in consolidation Changes in consolidation 2013 In 2013, no new businesses were acquired by KPN. In March 2013, Infrastructure Services & Partners (IS&P) was sold by KPN. IS&P was deconsolidated from that date, with no significant impact. As of July 23, 2013, E-Plus is presented as disposal group held for sale and discontinued operation (refer to Note 18). Significant changes in consolidation 2012 In April 2012, KPN acquired 100% of the shares of Lijbrandt Telecom Holding B.V., Glashart Media B.V., ISP Fabriek and Reggefiber Wholesale from Reggefiber for EUR 123 million. The acquisitions strengthen KPN’s commitment to a national roll-out of a fibre to the home (“FttH”) network and allow Reggefiber to focus solely on the roll-out of FttH and to operate an open access passive FttH network. 164 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 The purchase price and fair value allocation was finalized in April 2013 with minor adjustments. The following table summarizes the final consideration paid for aforementioned entities, the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed at acquisition date. Recognized amounts of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed Tangible fixed assets [11] 73 Customer relationships (included in intangibles) [10] 18 Trade name (included in intangibles) [10] 3 Net tangible non-operating assets 4 Net working capital 2 Deferred tax liabilities [7] -4 Total identifiable net assets 96 Goodwill 23 Consideration paid 119 Net cash and cash equivalents acquired 4 Net cash outflow 123 [..] Bracketed numbers refer to the related Notes. Reggefiber is a passive operator that implements a national roll-out of a FttH network. In the past, it also started active operations in the areas that could not yet be serviced by KPN’s ISPs. Management of KPN indicated that the main reasons for acquiring Reggefiber Wholesale were to increase its homes activated base and to expand its service area. Other changes in consolidation 2012 In September 2012, KPN entered into a strategic partnership with GroupIT B.V. (RoutIT) and acquired a stake of 12.5% with a potential right to acquire the remaining stake and thus obtain control over GroupIT B.V. The acquisition did not have a significant impact on the financial position, income and cash flows of KPN. In October 2012, KPN acquired 100% of the shares of FttH service providers Edutel, XMS, KickXL and Concepts ICT from Reggeborgh. The acquisition did not have a significant impact on the financial position, income and cash flows of KPN. The purchase price and the allocated fair values of all acquisitions in 2012 have been finalized in 2013 without adjustments. If the acquisitions had occurred on January 1, 2012, KPN’s estimated consolidated revenues would have been approximately EUR 45 million higher. Profit for the year would have been approximately EUR 5 million lower. [31] Commitments, contingencies and legal proceedings Commitments Amounts due by Amounts in millions of EUR period Total Total Less than 1 year 1-5 years More than 5 years December 31, 2013 December 31, 2012 Capital and purchase commitments 1,113 556 37 1,706 3,557 Rental and operational lease contracts 203 462 272 937 2,484 Guarantees 114 76 128 318 351 Other 10 3 – 13 14 Total commitments 1,440 1,097 437 2,974 6,406 The amounts as at December 31, 2013 are excluding E-Plus. Total commitments of E-Plus as at December 31, 2013 are EUR 1,808 million (2012: EUR 1,936 million). The total commitments of E-Plus as at December 31, 2012 (EUR 1,936 million) are included in the total amount of EUR 6,406 million. Capital and purchase commitments The decrease in capital and purchase commitments mainly relate to capitalized licenses of spectrum 2G, 3G and 4G in 2013. KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 165 Consolidated Financial Statements Other Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Rental and operational lease contracts For buildings, the majority of contracts included rental fees that are subject to a yearly indexation. Some contracts give KPN an option to buy the property when the landlord wants to sell that property. For site rentals and mobile towers, the majority of agreements included an option for renewal of the contract and rental fees that are subject to a yearly indexation percentage. In addition, the majority of contracts can be cancelled by KPN only, with a notice period of 12 months. The minimum non-cancellable sublease amounts expected to be received amount to EUR 8 million (2012: EUR 4 million), both amounts excluding E-Plus. The amounts related to E-Plus in 2013 are EUR 138 million and EUR 132 million in 2012. These amounts mainly relate to subleases of buildings, site sharing arrangements and lease handsets. The total net costs of operating leases and rental contracts amounted to EUR 354 million in 2013 (2012: EUR 549 million, excluding E-Plus) and is included in ‘cost of work contracted out and other expenses’ and ‘other operating expenses’ in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss. The amount related to E-Plus in 2013 is EUR 105 million (2012: EUR 266 million). The operating lease and rental commitments mainly relate to property, plant and equipment. Guarantees These commitments mainly consist of financial obligations of Group companies under certain contracts guaranteed by KPN. As a customer of Reggefiber, KPN has agreed to guarantee ODF fees for homes connected in 15 projects up to a certain minimum penetration level in a project. The ODF fees paid accrue interest for a period of five years. The ODF fees paid and the accrued interest will be settled with Reggefiber when the minimum penetration level is reached against the ODF fees incurred above that minimum level. KPN and Reggeborgh jointly have a similar agreement with Reggefiber regarding 72 other projects. However, an additional condition regarding the repayment compared to the other 15 projects is that repayment is only due when free cash flow is available. The guarantees under the KPN and the KPN/Reggeborgh contracts terminate upon reaching specified penetration targets, but ultimately after 20 years. At the end of 2013, the prepaid fees and accrued interest amounted to EUR 44 million (2012: EUR 31 million). Contingent assets In 2003, BASE Company launched a damages claim against Belgacom Mobile (Proximus), claiming that the latter had abused its dominant position by applying very low on-net-rates. In 2004, Mobistar launched a similar claim. In 2007, the Commercial Court determined Belgacom Mobile’s dominant position on the retail market until the end of 2004, and ordered an expertise. In a preliminary report of October 2, 2009, the court experts concluded that Proximus had indeed abused its dominance and that, for the period 1999-2004, this abuse had resulted in damages of EUR 824 million for BASE Company and of EUR 357 million for Mobistar. In a second preliminary report of December 9, 2010, the damages for BASE Company were increased to EUR 1,329 million and for Mobistar to EUR 510 million. These amounts were exclusive of interest. Following the publication of the second preliminary report, Proximus requested the court to remove the experts from the case arguing that the experts are biased and/or incompetent. In first instance, the court denied said request, but in appeal it decided to remove the experts from the case. As a result hereof, a new expertise will have to be started. On January 2, 2012, Proximus has also appealed the original decision of the Commercial Court of 2007. New experts were appointed in the course of 2012, but they rejected their appointment, following which BASE Company initiated a new procedure before the commercial court in order to get new experts on board. New experts were appointed on January 21, 2014. Contingent liabilities In KPN’s Articles of Association and in a further decision by the Board of Management, which was approved by the Supervisory Board, KPN has indemnified the members and former members of KPN’s Board of Management and Supervisory management, as well as a number of KPN’s officers and directors and former officers and directors against liabilities, claims, judgments, fines and penalties incurred by such officer or director as a result of any threatened, pending or completed action, investigation or proceeding (whether civil, criminal or administrative) brought by a third party in relation to acts or omissions in or related to his capacity as officer or director. The indemnification does not apply to claims and expenses reimbursed by insurers, nor to an officer or a director adjudged to be liable for wilful misconduct (‘opzet’) or intentional recklessness (‘bewuste roekeloosheid’). As defined in the Telecommunications Act, the obligation for landlords to tolerate cables which are part of a public electronic communications network terminates as soon as those cables have been idle for a continuous period of ten years. In that situation, a public electronic communications network supplier is required to remove cables at the request of a landlord. Although KPN currently records a provision for its future obligations to dismantle and remove certain other elements of its network, such as technical buildings, towers, and rooftop equipment, KPN has determined no such provision is appropriate for installed fiber cables, given that the date when such cables may be deemed idle is uncertain. In KPN’s judgment, it has not been able to make a reliable estimate of the impact of such obligations, and no provisions have been made. Legal proceedings KPN is involved in a number of legal proceedings that have arisen in the ordinary course of its business. Save as discussed below, there are no governmental, legal or arbitration proceedings which may have a significant effect on the financial position or profitability of KPN. The outcome of legal proceedings, however, can be extremely difficult to predict with certainty, and KPN can offer no assurances in this regard. Below is a description of legal proceedings that KPN considers material. 166 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 KPNQwest KPN is involved in several legal proceedings related to the bankruptcy of KPNQwest. On September 13, 2006, KPN was served with a writ of summons by Citibank N.A. and Cargill Financial Markets Plc. claiming EUR 219 million, excluding interest and costs, from various former officers and former shareholders, including KPN, of KPNQwest. Citibank and Cargill claim compensation for damages on a EUR 525 million syndicated loan provided to KPNQwest in 2002 on the basis of misrepresentation and concealment by former management and former shareholders when the loan was provided to KPNQwest. Citibank acted as agent of the syndicate and as a 14.7% principal lender of the syndicated loan. Cargill claims that it acquired 85.3% of the claim by assignments of their part in the syndicated loan by other original lenders. The District Court of Amsterdam dismissed all the claims of Citibank and Cargill on April 25, 2012. Citibank and Cargill have appealed the decision. Reggefiber In 2009, cable operators Ziggo and UPC, as well as other telecommunications providers in the Netherlands, filed a suit in the administrative District Court of Rotterdam, seeking to challenge the ACM’s 2008 approval of KPN’s entry into the Reggefiber joint venture. Plaintiffs claimed that by allowing the joint venture, competition in various fixed-line services, including fiber, cable and copper, would be restricted. In an interim court ruling by the administrative District Court of Rotterdam on November 18, 2010, the court held that the ACM had provided insufficient evidence for a part of its competition analyses. In particular, the ACM had not adequately demonstrated the potential effects on competition regarding non-price effects (such as the quality and roll-out of fiber) in its assessment or remedies. The District Court then allowed the ACM to submit additional evidence and, after further consideration, it held on May 10, 2012 that the Reggefiber joint venture could continue despite its annulment of the ACM decision. Ziggo appealed the District Court’s decision on June 15, 2012 to the Trade and Industry Appeals Tribunal (College van Beroep voor het bedrijfsleven (CBb)), claiming, among other things, that the Reggefiber joint venture should have been assessed in a second phase enquiry by the ACM to take into account the effects on the market as well as the effectiveness of the remedies. As a hearing will take place in Q2 2014 a decision in response to Ziggo’s appeal is expected sometime in 2014. If the appeal is successful, the CBb could annul the ACM or court decision or remand the matter to the court or the ACM for further consideration, which in turn could lead to the confirmation, dissolution or amendment of the Reggefiber joint venture. Regarding the settlement of the bankruptcy trustees claim, reference is made to Note 33 ‘Subsequent events’. [32] Related-party transactions In the normal course of business activities, KPN enters into agreements and transactions with shareholders, joint ventures and associated undertakings, for various business purposes, including the furnishing of services or financing of operating activities. KPN also enters into such transactions in the ordinary course of business with certain companies or organizations over which KPN, members of the Supervisory Board or Board of Management may have a significant influence. The related-party transactions are described below. KPN considers none of these transactions to be material on an individual basis, except for the transactions with shareholders. Transactions within the KPN Group are not included in the description as these are eliminated in the Consolidated Financial Statements. Transactions with shareholders On April 25, 2013, KPN set the terms of its EUR 3 billion rights issue, which was announced on February 20, 2013 and approved by the Annual General Meeting on April 10, 2013. KPN announced a 2 for 1 rights issue of 2,838,732,182 new ordinary shares with a nominal value of EUR 0.24 at an issue price of EUR 1.06 through the granting of transferable subscription entitlements to holders of ordinary shares in KPN’s issued and outstanding share capital pro rata to their shareholdings. For further information about the rights issue, see Note 19. On August 29, 2013, the Foundation Preference Shares B KPN exercised its call option and obtained 4,258,098,272 newly issued preference shares B. These shares reflect an interest in KPN’s outstanding shares of 50% minus 1 share. In compliance with the current statutory arrangement, 25% of the nominal value of these shares (EUR 255 million) was paid to KPN in cash. For more information about the issue of the Preference Shares B, see Note 19. América Móvil published on February 12, 2014 that they owned 13.6% of KPN’s ordinary share capital (taking into account the issuance of the preference shares B) at December 31, 2013. The total value of sales transactions by the continuing operations of KPN in 2013 with AMX, its subsidiaries, joint ventures and associated companies amounted to approximately EUR 6 million and the total value of purchase transactions amounted to approximately EUR 21 million. The total trade receivables and payables per December 31, 2013 amounted to approximately EUR 3 million and EUR 6 million respectively. Pursuant to the Dutch Financial Supervision Act (‘Wet op het financieeltoezicht’ or ‘Wft’), legal entities as well as natural persons must immediately notify the Dutch Authority for the Financial Markets (AFM) when a shareholding equals or exceeds 3% of the issued capital. To KPN’s knowledge, no other shareholder owned 3% or more of KPN’s issued share capital as at December 31, 2013. KPN did not enter into agreements with AMX or other shareholders which could have a material impact on KPN’s Financial Statements. On February 20, 2013, KPN and AMX entered into a relationship agreement, governing the long-term relationship between both parties. In accordance with best practice provision III 6.4 of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code, the relationship agreement was approved by KPN’s Supervisory Board. On July 29, 2013, the relationship agreement was terminated by AMX. KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 167 Consolidated Financial Statements Other Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Transactions with joint ventures and associated companies Associated, non-consolidated companies and joint ventures of KPN sell goods and provide services to consolidated KPN companies. In addition, consolidated KPN companies sell goods or provide services to these associated companies and joint ventures (see Notes 12 and 16). The total value of sales transactions by the continuing operations of KPN in 2013 with joint ventures and associated companies amounted to approximately EUR 63 million (2012: EUR 64 million) and the total value of purchase transactions amounted to approximately EUR 138 million (2012: EUR 77 million). The total trade receivables and payables per December 31, 2013 amounted to approximately EUR 17 million and EUR 36 million respectively. In addition, KPN acquired in 2012 100% of the shares in Lijbrandt Telecom Holding B.V., Glashart Media B.V. and Reggefiber Wholesale B.V. from Reggefiber Group B.V., in which KPN held 41% of the shares. Furthermore, in 2012 KPN acquired a further 10% share in Reggefiber Group B.V. Transactions with Directors and related parties For details of the relation between directors and the Company, reference is made to the ‘Remuneration and Organizational Development Report’ on pages 88 to 98 of this Annual Report. Directors in this respect are defined as key management and relate to those having authority and responsibility for planning, directing, and controlling the activities of an entity, either directly or indirectly. At KPN, key management consists of the members of the Board of Management. The Company has not been, and is not now, a party to any material transactions, or proposed transactions, in which members of the Supervisory Board or Board of Management or close members of their families had a direct or indirect material interest in 2013. The total value of sales transactions by the continuing operations of KPN in 2013 with parties in which members of the Supervisory Board or Board of Management or close members of their families had a direct or indirect material interest amounted to approximately EUR 24 million (2012: EUR 5 million) and the total value of purchase transactions amounted to approximately EUR 9 million (2012: EUR 14 million), all in the ordinary course of business. The total trade receivables and payables per December 31, 2013 amounted to approximately EUR 5 million and EUR 5 million respectively. [33] Subsequent events On January 2, 2014, the second option of the Reggefiber joint venture agreement was exercised. Completion is subject to approval by the Dutch Competition Authority (ACM). The option represents an additional 9% equity stake in the Reggefiber joint-venture (‘Reggefiber’) and will bring KPN’s ownership to 60% following completion. At 60% ownership, KPN will obtain full control and Reggefiber will be consolidated in the financial statements of KPN. This will only take place once the ACM has approved the increase of KPN’s ownership. The exercise price of the option will be between EUR 116 million and EUR 161 million, depending on the level of Capex efficiencies reached at Reggefiber. On January 10, 2014, KPN’s Extraordinary General Meeting of Shareholders (EGM) approved the proposal to cancel the outstanding preference shares B. The cancellation is expected to occur in March 2014, taking into account the statutory objection period of two months. Following the cancellation, KPN must repay the paid up amount received on the preference shares B (EUR 255 million) plus accrued dividend. The EGM, as well as the majority of the ordinary shares present, also approved a proposal to reduce the nominal value of KPN shares from EUR 0.24 to EUR 0.04 to lower the costs related to the preference shares B. This will be implemented following the cancellation of the preference shares B. On September 28, 2010, the bankruptcy trustees KPNQwest served a writ of summons against Qwest, Koninklijke KPN N.V., the former CEO of KPNQwest and nearly all former members of the Supervisory Board of KPNQwest. The bankruptcy trustees claim that all defendants are liable for the full amount of damages caused by the bankruptcy of KPNQwest. On February 21, 2014, KPN announced it had reached final agreement on the terms of a settlement in these proceedings. Under this agreement, KPN would contribute an amount of EUR 50 million to a total settlement amount of EUR 260 million. 168 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 [34] Segment reporting KPN’s segments reporting is driven by the internal structure and reporting to KPN’s Chief Executive Officer (CEO), who is KPN’s chief operating decision maker according to IFRS 8. KPN’s operating segments are summarized below. As from January 1, 2013, KPN made the following organizational changes: ýý Certain parts of KPN Corporate Market have been integrated into Business. The remaining part of KPN Corporate Market has been renamed as IT Solutions and will continue to focus on data centers, consulting services and workspace solutions. The internal reporting structure was changed and comparative segment information has been restated accordingly. ýý Rest of World, consisting mainly of Ortel Mobile, ceased to report separately. The Ortel Mobile activities have been integrated into Germany, Belgium and Consumer Mobile, depending on geography. The remaining activities are included in other Mobile International. The comparative segment information has not been restated for this organizational change as the revenue of Ortel Mobile was already largely incorporated in the respective segments as intercompany revenues. As of July 23, 2013, part of KPN’s operating segment Germany is classified as ‘disposal group held for sale’ (E-Plus). The internal reporting of KPN’s operating segment Germany continues to include E-Plus. Therefore, E-Plus is still included in KPN’s segment reporting. The Netherlands The Netherlands consists of the following: ýý Consumer Mobile Segment – providing mobile telephony and mobile data. KPN offers retail customers a broad package of services in the areas of communication, information, entertainment and commercial services; ýý Consumer Residential Segment – providing internet and TV, fixed telephony. KPN offers retail customers a broad package of services in the areas of communication, information, entertainment and commercial services; ýý Business Segment – KPN offers its business customers (small, medium-sized, large and corporate) a complete portfolio of service from fixed and mobile telephony and internet to a range of data network services, workspace management and data center services; ýý IT Solutions Segment operates an ICT services company with a market-leading position in the Netherlands, offering end-to-end solutions in infrastructure and network-related IT to KPN’s largest, corporate customers; ýý NetCo Segment is responsible for KPN’s operational activities for the Dutch networks (both fixed and mobile), IT services and for KPN’s wholesale customers; and ýý The Netherlands’ Other Segment. Mobile International Mobile International comprises: ýý Germany Segment (including ‘discontinued operations’), including E-Plus, Blau Mobilfunk and Magnum – is a challenger network operator with own brands and partners in Germany; ýý Belgium Segment, consists of BASE Company, a challenger network operator with own brands and partners in Belgium; and ýý Rest of World Segment, ceased to report separately as of January 1, 2013 and therefore only 2012 information is available ýý Mobile International Other Segment, reported separately as of January 1, 2013 and therefore only 2013 information is available. iBasis Group Through iBasis, KPN is a leading player in the international wholesale voice market. iBasis carries international phone calls worldwide. Other activities Segment Other activities comprise the results of KPN’s Corporate Center (support) and the call center activities of SNT Germany. Due to the fact that KPN neither allocates interest expenses to all segments nor accounts for taxes in the segments, the disclosure is limited to operating profit for the year. The basis for inter-segment pricing for wireless services is as follows: 1) KPN’s mobile terminating services are regulated in some aspects. The price level of the mobile terminating services to external wholesale operators has been set in consultation with and approved by the Dutch competition and telecommunications regulators. The mobile terminating tariffs are applied on a non-discriminatory basis within the segment Consumer, Business and NetCo and to other (external) operators; and 2) Roaming tariffs between KPN’s Mobile operators are based on bilateral agreements and contain generally similar terms as bilateral agreements with third parties. 3) The basis for inter-segment pricing within the Netherlands, other than mentioned in categories 1) and 2) above can be described as follows: ýý For identical products which are also sold to external parties, KPN uses wholesale prices; ýý For non-regulated retail products which do not fall within the scope of category 3, KPN uses cost-based prices; and ýý For regulated retail products which do not fall within the scope of category 3, KPN uses external purchase costs and an additional charge which is equal to a pre-determined percentage of the difference between the gross external retail revenues and external purchase costs; this method is also referred to as ‘retail-minus’. KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 169 Consolidated Financial Statements Other Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued The Netherlands Other Total Consumer (including the Amounts in millions of EUR, Mobile Residential Business NetCo IT Solutions eliminations) Netherlands unless otherwise stated 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 Statement of Profit or Loss External revenues1 1,440 1,611 1,839 1,730 2,559 2,799 482 582 413 638 3 1 6,736 7,361 Other income – – – – 29 – 4 102 -3 10 – – 30 112 Inter-division revenues 70 96 123 122 128 157 1,857 1,937 211 214 -2,353 -2,467 36 59 Total revenues 1,510 1,707 1,962 1,852 2,716 2,956 2,343 2,621 621 862 -2,350 -2,466 6,802 7,532 Total operating expenses excluding depreciation, amortization and impairments -1,100 -1,197 -1,587 -1,485 -2,040 -2,209 -1,046 -1,160 -591 -793 2,317 2,447 -4,047 -4,397 EBITDA2 410 510 375 367 676 747 1,297 1,461 30 69 -33 -19 2,755 3,135 Depreciation, amortization and impairments -242 -120 -297 -256 -145 -274 -907 -835 -76 -272 -12 1 -1,679 -1,756 Operating profit 168 390 78 111 531 473 390 626 -46 -203 -45 -18 1,076 1,379 Total assets 1,805 1,646 2,003 1,817 3,177 3,108 10,081 9,069 1,223 1,253 -567 -609 17,722 16,284 Total liabilities 1,485 1,381 1,929 1,746 3,113 2,764 10,083 9,071 1,386 1,355 -567 -608 17,436 15,709 Other Investments in intangible assets 60 64 54 116 70 102 1,439 82 14 15 – – 1,637 379 Investments in property, plant and equipment 170 199 221 223 51 48 673 603 29 59 – – 1,144 1,132 Investments in associates and joint ventures – – – – – – 294 293 21 21 – – 315 314 Results associates and joint ventures – – – – – – -3 -7 1 -1 – – -2 -8 Employees end of period (FTEs) 1,296 1,344 3,167 3,517 3,987 5,098 2,113 3,010 3,272 3,684 612 412 14,447 17,065 Employees average (FTEs) 1,320 1,378 3,342 3,431 4,543 5,368 2,562 3,035 3,478 6,011 511 434 15,756 19,657 1) External revenues mainly consist of rendering of services. 2) Earnings before interest, tax and depreciation, amortization and impairments. Mobile International Germany (including Other Rest of World discontinued (including (including Total Mobile Amounts in millions of EUR, operations) Belgium eliminations) eliminations) International iBasis unless otherwise stated 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 Statement of Profit or Loss External revenues1 3,160 3,173 720 768 50 214 3,930 4,155 777 820 Other income 17 149 – – -1 36 16 185 – – Inter-division revenues 20 82 8 36 -8 -87 20 31 192 215 Total revenues 3,197 3,404 728 804 41 163 3,966 4,371 969 1,035 Total operating expenses excluding depreciation, amortization and impairments -2,234 -2,114 -536 -532 -37 -189 -2,807 -2,835 -940 -1,005 EBITDA2 963 1,290 192 272 4 -26 1,159 1,536 29 30 Depreciation, amortization and impairments -982 -757 -151 -161 – -9 -1,133 -927 -12 -18 Operating profit -19 533 41 111 4 -35 26 609 17 12 Total assets 11,189 10,520 2,047 1,934 21 64 13,257 12,518 389 458 Total liabilities 26,328 26,398 410 335 26 104 26,764 26,837 253 358 Other Investments in intangible assets 113 125 226 42 – -2 339 165 – – Investments in property, plant and equipment 871 674 160 110 – – 1,031 784 7 9 Investments in associates and joint ventures 1 6 2 3 – – 3 9 – – Results associates and joint ventures -10 -2 -2 -1 -1 – -13 -3 – – Employees end of period (FTEs) 4,529 4,691 889 895 38 147 5,456 5,730 332 329 Employees average (FTEs) 4,609 4,689 892 853 92 194 5,593 5,738 331 346 1) External revenues mainly consist of rendering of services. 2) Earnings before interest, tax and depreciation, amortization and impairments. 170 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 KPN Total Amounts in millions of EUR, Other activities Segment Total segments Eliminations Consolidated unless otherwise stated 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 Statement of Profit or Loss External revenues1 79 73 11,522 12,409 – – 11,522 12,409 Other income – 2 46 299 – – 46 299 Inter-division revenues -1 1 247 306 -247 -306 – – Total revenues 78 76 11,815 13,014 -247 -306 11,568 12,708 Total operating expenses excluding depreciation, amortization and impairments -179 -139 -7,973 -8,376 247 306 -7,726 -8,070 EBITDA2 -101 -63 3,842 4,638 – – 3,842 4,638 Depreciation, amortization and impairments -5 -7 -2,829 -2,708 – – -2,829 -2,708 Operating profit -106 -70 1,013 1,930 – – 1,013 1,930 Balance sheet Total assets 30,203 25,421 61,571 54,681 -35,426 -32,380 26,145 22,301 Total liabilities 24,557 24,971 69,010 67,875 -48,456 -46,908 20,554 20,967 Other Investments in intangible assets 1 1 1,977 545 – – 1,977 545 Investments in property, plant and equipment 3 3 2,185 1,928 – – 2,185 1,928 Investments in associates and joint ventures 3 3 321 326 – – 321 326 Result associates and joint ventures 8 -2 -7 -13 – – -7 -13 Employees end of period (FTEs) 3,216 3,032 23,451 26,156 – – 23,451 26,156 Employees average (FTEs) 3,124 2,879 24,804 28,620 – – 24,804 28,620 1) External revenues mainly consist of rendering of services. 2) Earnings before interest, tax and depreciation, amortization and impairments. Reconciliation KPN Segment Information KPN Continuing Amounts in millions of EUR, KPN Total Consolidated Discontinued Operations Operations unless otherwise stated 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 Statement of Profit or Loss External revenues1 11,522 12,409 3,079 3,101 8,443 9,308 Other income 46 299 17 149 29 150 Inter-division revenues – – – – – – Total revenues 11,568 12,708 3,096 3,250 8,472 9,458 Total operating expenses excluding depreciation, amortization and impairments -7,726 -8,070 -2,137 -1,958 -5,589 -6,112 EBITDA2 3,842 4,638 959 1,292 2,883 3,346 Depreciation, amortization and impairments -2,829 -2,708 -972 -748 -1,857 -1,960 Operating profit 1,013 1,930 -13 544 1,026 1,386 Balance sheet Total assets 26,145 22,301 -273 – 25,872 22,301 Total liabilities 20,554 20,967 15 – 20,569 20,967 Other Investments in intangible assets 1,977 545 63 – 1,914 545 Investments in property, plant and equipment 2,185 1,928 462 – 1,723 1,928 Investments in associates and joint ventures 321 326 1 – 320 326 Result associates and joint ventures -7 -13 – 2 -7 -11 Employees end of period (FTEs) 23,451 26,156 4,502 – 18,949 26,156 Employees average (FTEs) 24,804 28,620 4,582 – 20,222 28,620 1) External revenues mainly consist of rendering of services. 2) Earnings before interest, tax and depreciation, amortization and impairments. KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 171 Consolidated Financial Statements Other Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Geographical information Total non-current Total intangible Total property, plant Revenues and Amounts in millions of EUR Financial year assets1 assets and equipment other income Regions The Netherlands 2013 9,146 3,056 4,809 6,765 2012 8,056 1,955 4,825 7,355 Germany 2013 7,921 5,852 2,854 3,251 2012 7,925 6,101 2,603 3,425 Belgium 2013 876 403 511 726 2012 642 231 448 812 The Americas 2013 60 94 17 777 2012 85 99 20 820 Other 2013 6 72 – 49 2012 6 72 -1 296 Consolidated 2013 18,009 9,477 8,191 11,568 2012 16,714 8,458 7,895 12,708 1) Excluding deferred tax assets, pensions and financial instruments. 172 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 CORPORATE STATEMENT OF PROFIT OR LOSS For the year ended December 31 Amounts in millions of EUR 2013 2012 Restated* Income from subsidiaries after taxes 403 1,435 Other income and expense after taxes -625 -672 Profit (loss) attributable to equity holders -222 763 * Certain amounts do not correspond to the 2012 financial statements and reflect IAS 19R adjustments made. KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 173 Corporate Financial Statements CORPORATE STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION Before appropriation of results Assets December 31, 2012 Amounts in millions of EUR December 31, 2013 Restated* NON-CURRENT ASSETS Financial fixed assets Investments in subsidiaries 25,968 25,433 Loans to subsidiaries 5,748 5,622 Other financial fixed assets 426 569 Total non-current assets [A] 32,142 31,624 CURRENT ASSETS Accounts receivable from subsidiaries 623 451 Other receivables and accrued income [B] 13 14 Cash and cash equivalents 3,175 423 Total current assets 3,811 888 TOTAL 35,953 32,512 * Certain amounts do not correspond to the 2012 financial statements and reflect IAS 19R adjustments made. [..] Bracketed letters refer to the Notes to the Corporate Statement of Financial Position. Equity and Liabilities December 31, 2012 Amounts in millions of EUR December 31, 2013 Restated* Subscribed capital stock 1,025 344 Additional paid-in capital 8,993 6,717 Treasury shares reserve -138 -138 Perpetual hybrid bonds 1,089 – Hedge reserve -394 -239 Legal reserves 255 304 Retained earnings -5,358 -6.468 Profit (loss) current year -222 763 Total equity attributable to equity holders [C] 5,250 1,283 PROVISIONS Provisions for retirement benefit obligations 847 1,181 Other provisions 109 27 Total provisions [D] 956 1,208 NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES Loans [E] 12,348 12,995 Derivative financial instruments 419 179 Other long-term liabilities 50 50 Total non-current liabilities 12,817 13,224 CURRENT LIABILITIES Accounts payable to subsidiaries 14,339 14,803 Other current liabilities [F] 2,176 1,604 Accruals and deferred income 415 390 Total current liabilities 16,930 16,797 TOTAL 35,953 32,512 * Certain amounts do not correspond to the 2012 financial statements and reflect IAS 19R adjustments made. [..] Bracketed letters refer to the Notes to the Corporate Statement of Financial Position. 174 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 GENERAL NOTES TO THE CORPORATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS With reference to the Corporate Statement of Profit or Loss of Koninklijke KPN N.V., use has been made of the exemption pursuant to Article 402, Part 9, Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. For the principles for the recognition and measurement of assets and liabilities and determination of the result for its Corporate Financial Statements, Koninklijke KPN N.V. applies the option provided in Article 362 sub 8, Part 9, Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. This means that the principles for the recognition and measurement of assets and liabilities and determination of the result (hereinafter referred to as ‘Accounting policies’) of the Corporate Financial Statements of Koninklijke KPN N.V. are the same as those applied for the Consolidated Financial Statements under IFRS. The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union (IFRS). Reference is made to the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Investments in consolidated subsidiaries are measured at net asset value. Net asset value is based on the measurement of assets, provisions and liabilities and determination of profit based on the principles applied in the consolidated financial statements. Investments in which the company has significant influence on the financial and operational policies, but not control (associates), are accounted for using the equity method. Under the equity method, the investment is initially recognized at cost and the carrying amount is increased or decreased to recognize the company’s share of profit or loss of the investment after the date of acquisition. The company’s investments in associates include goodwill identified on acquisition. KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 175 Corporate Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CORPORATE STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION [A] Financial fixed assets Group Loans to Other financial Amounts in millions of EUR companies Group companies fixed assets Total Balance as of January 1, 2012 Restated 24,278 5,440 344 30,062 Exchange rate differences 4 – – 4 Income from Group companies after taxes 1,435 – – 1,435 Capital contributions 2 – – 2 Received dividends -6 – – -6 New loans – 182 53 235 Withdrawals/redemptions – – -1 -1 Change in derivative financial instruments – – 59 59 Other (including IAS 19R) -280 – 114 -166 Total changes 1,155 182 225 1,562 Balance as of December 31, 2012 Restated 25,433 5,622 569 31,624 Exchange rate differences -1 – – -1 Income from Group companies after taxes 384 – – 384 Capital contributions 1 – – 1 Received/paid dividends -4 – – -4 New loans – 126 – 126 Withdrawals/redemptions – – -2 -2 Change in derivative financial instruments – – -122 -122 Other 155 – -19 136 Total changes 535 126 -143 518 Balance as of December 31, 2013 25,968 5,748 426 32,142 Other financial fixed assets is restated as a result of the introduction of IAS 19R. The loans to Group companies have maturity dates between 2014 and 2016 and a mixture of floating, fixed and profit-depending interest rates. [B] Other receivables Amounts in millions of EUR December 31, 2013 December 31, 2012 Accrued income 11 10 Other receivables 2 4 Total 13 14 [C] Equity attributable to equity holders For a breakdown of Equity attributable to equity holders, reference is made to the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Group Equity and the Notes thereto. Legal reserves Legal reserves (net of tax) are presented below: Fair value Revaluation Capitalized reserve Other reserve Cumulative software available-fornonproperty, plant translation development sale financial distributable Amounts in millions of EUR and equipment adjustments costs Hedge reserve assets reserves Total Balance as of January 1, 2012 90 10 208 2 – 48 358 Exchange rate differences – 3 – – – – 3 Addition/(release) retained earnings -21 – -37 -2 3 – -57 Balance as of December 31, 2012 69 13 171 – 3 48 304 Exchange rate differences – -1 – – – – -1 Addition/(release) retained earnings -16 – -37 – – 5 -48 Balance as of December 31, 2013 53 12 134 – 3 53 255 The legal reserves presented above and the subscribed capital stock are restricted for distribution. By their nature, losses relating to available-forsale financial assets and cash flow hedges, reduce equity attributable to equity holders, and thereby distributable amounts as they form part of the legal reserves protected under Dutch Law. The total distributable reserves at December 31, 2013 amounted to EUR 3,970 million (2012: EUR 635 million, restated for IAS 19R). 176 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 Retained earnings Movements in retained earnings were as follows: Amounts in millions of EUR Balance as of December 31, 2011 (not restated) -5,899 Profit for the year 2011 (not restated) 1,549 Balance as of January 1, 2012 (not restated) -4,350 Restatement for IAS 19R -657 Balance as of January 1, 2012 Restated -5,007 Dividend -979 Actuarial gain/(loss) pensions and other post-employment plans -542 Release/(addition) legal reserves 57 Other 3 Balance as of December 31, 2012 Restated -6,468 Profit for the year 2012 (restated) 763 Dividend perpetual hybrid bond (net of tax) -25 Actuarial gain/(loss) pensions and other post-employment plans 321 Release/(addition) legal reserves 48 Other 3 Balance as of December 31, 2013 -5,358 In June 2011, IAS 19 ‘Employee benefits’ was amended (IAS 19R) and became effective at January 1, 2013. For details about the impact on KPN’s financial statements reference is made to pages 119 and 120 of this Integrated Annual Report. Retained earnings can be reconciled with the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position as follows: December 31, 2012 Amounts in millions of EUR December 31, 2013 Restated Retained earnings as per Consolidated Statement of Financial Position -5,340 -5,417 Revaluation reserve -53 -69 Capitalized software development costs -134 -171 Other non-distributable reserves -53 -48 Current year profit 222 -763 Retained earnings as per Corporate Statement of Financial Position -5,358 -6,468 [D] Provisions Movements in provisions were as follows: Retirement benefit obligations Other provisions Total Balance as of January 1, 2012 806 26 832 Additions / Releases to income 108 2 110 Additions / Releases directly to equity 525 – 525 Usage -258 -1 -259 Balance as of December 31, 2012 1,181 27 1,208 Additions / Releases to income 110 84 194 Additions / Releases directly to equity -227 – -227 Usage -217 -2 -219 Balance as of December 31, 2013 847 109 956 – of which: current portion – 50 50 The provisions for retirement benefit obligations mainly include the KPN PF and KPN OPF pension plans. For details reference is made to Note 22 of the Consolidated Financial Statements. The other provisions mainly relate to claims and litigations. The increase in other provisions mainly relates to an addition regarding the KPNQwest legal proceeding (EUR 50 million). KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 177 Corporate Financial Statements Notes to the Corporate Statement of Financial Position continued Non-current liabilities [E] Loans Loans include bonds outstanding for EUR 10,579 million (2012: EUR 12,163 million), hybrid bonds outstanding for EUR 905 million, and loans from subsidiaries for EUR 863 million (2012: EUR 832 million). Loans from subsidiaries have maturity dates in 2014 and bear fixed interest rates. For more information on the bonds outstanding, refer to Note 21 of the Consolidated Financial Statements. [F] Other current liabilities Amounts in millions of EUR December 31, 2013 December 31, 2012 Current portion of loans 1,399 1,085 Income tax payable 81 59 Social security and other taxes payable 124 121 Bank overdrafts 306 324 Other debt 256 – Derivative financial instruments 10 15 Total 2,176 1,604 [G] Commitments and contingencies Amounts in millions of EUR December 31, 2013 December 31, 2012 Commitments by virtue of guarantees 254 270 KPN has issued several declarations of joint and several liabilities for various Group companies in compliance with Section 403, Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. These declarations of joint and several liabilities for Group companies are included in a complete list of subsidiaries and participating interests, which is available at the offices of the Chamber of Commerce in The Hague. Directors’ remuneration Reference is made to Note 3 of the Consolidated Financial Statements on employee benefits. The Hague, February 26, 2014 Supervisory Board Board of Management J.B.M. Streppel E. Blok R.J. Routs T. Dirks P.A.M. van Bommel J.F.E. Farwerck C.J. García Moreno Elizondo D.J. Haank O. Von Hauske Solis C.M. Hooymans M.E. van Lier Lels 178 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT To: the General Meeting of Shareholders of Koninklijke KPN N.V. Report on the audit of the financial statements Our opinion In our opinion ýý the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of Koninklijke KPN N.V. as at December 31, 2013, and of its result and its cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union (EU-IFRS) and with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. ýý the corporate financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of Koninklijke KPN N.V. as at December 31, 2013, and of its result for the year then ended in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. What we have audited We have audited the 2013 financial statements of Koninklijke KPN N.V. (the Company), The Hague, as set out on pages 104 to 178. The financial statements include ýý the consolidated financial statements which comprise the consolidated statement of financial position as at December 31, 2013, the consolidated statements of profit or loss, other comprehensive income, changes in group equity and cash flows for the year then ended, and the notes, including a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information. ýý the corporate financial statements which comprise the statement of financial position as at December 31, 2013, and the statement of profit or loss and the notes, including a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information. The basis for our opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with Dutch law, including the Dutch Standards on Auditing. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the section ‘Our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements’ as included in the appendix to our report. We are independent of the Company within the meaning of the relevant Dutch ethical requirements as included in the ‘Verordening op de gedragsen beroepsregels accountants’ (VGBA) and the ‘Verordening inzake de onafhankelijkheid van accountants bij assurance-opdrachten’ (ViO) and have fulfilled our other responsibilities under those ethical requirements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. Materiality We set certain thresholds for materiality to determine the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole. For the purposes of determining whether the financial statements are free from material misstatement we defined materiality as the magnitude of misstatement that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person, relying on the financial statements, would be changed or influenced. Based on our professional judgement the materiality for the consolidated financial statements as a whole was set at EUR 50 million. The materiality is based on an average of 5% profit before tax and 0.5% of total revenues including the revenues and result of E-Plus and adjusted for one-off items primarily related to the impairment loss on the E-Plus disposal group classified as held for sale. We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above EUR 2.5 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons. Overview of the scope of our audit Our audit scope covered the entities in the Netherlands and Germany with a full scope audit and for the entities in Belgium and the United States detailed audit procedures on specified financial line items were executed. We determined the type of work that needed to be performed at reporting units and identified those reporting units which, in our view, required a full audit of their complete financial information, either due to their size or their risk characteristics. This, together with additional procedures performed on consolidated level, gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the Company’s consolidated financial statements as a whole. KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 179 Other Information Independent Auditor’s Report continued The key audit matters from our audit Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements. Key audit matters are selected from the matters communicated with the Board of Management and the Supervisory Board, but are not intended to represent all matters that were discussed with them. Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole. Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the key audit matters described below, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters. Sensitivity in valuation of disposal group held for sale remains until closing date At December 31, 2013, the total assets held for sale amount to EUR 9.5 billion and the total liabilities directly associated with the non-current assets and disposal group classified as held for sale amount to EUR 1.5 billion. The valuation is based on management’s best estimate of the expected sale proceeds including EUR 5 billion in cash and a 20.5% stake in Telefónica Deutschland. The valuation of this stake is based on the stand-alone value of Telefónica Deutschland and of E-Plus and managements’ best estimate of the expected synergies to be achieved by the combination of the two companies. Our audit procedures included, amongst others, using our valuation specialists to assist us in evaluating the assumptions and methodologies used by the Company supported by its own external valuator. Sensitivities regarding the value at closing date remain due to potential remedies imposed by the regulator, the realization of synergies (and their reflection in the share price of Telefónica Deutschland), and the impact of the rights offering. The disclosures about disposal group held for sale are included in the summary of significant accounting policies and in the notes to the consolidated statement of financial position in Note 18. Valuation of deferred income tax assets At December 31, 2013, the deferred income tax assets are valued at EUR 1.2 billion. Under EU-IFRS, the Company is required to annually determine the valuation of deferred tax positions. This was significant to our audit because the assessment process is complex and judgmental and is based on assumptions that are affected by expected future market or economic conditions. The main element in the deferred tax assets is related to the discontinuance of the German activities based on an agreement with the Dutch tax authorities, as the sale of E-Plus is expected to result in a tax loss (‘stakingsverlies’) which can be off-set against future taxable profits in the Netherlands. As a result, our audit procedures included, amongst others, using an internal tax specialist to assist us in evaluating the assumptions and methodologies used by the Company. The disclosures concerning income taxes are included in the summary of significant accounting policies and in the notes to the consolidated statement of financial position in Note 7. Valuation of call/put arrangements Reggefiber At December 31, 2013, the derivative financial instruments are valued at EUR 646 million (negative) including EUR 334 million (negative) based on a level 3 valuation of the options related to Reggefiber. The Company used an external valuator to assist in their level 3 valuation of these options. Our audit included consideration of the level 3 valuation report, assisted by our own internal valuation specialists, and focussed on the judgmental elements in the valuation like the roll out/penetration rate of the Reggefiber network and the likelihood of ACM approval relating to the Reggefiber acquisition. The disclosures about the Reggefiber options are included in the summary of significant accounting policies and in the notes to the consolidated statement of financial position in Notes 12, 26 and 29. Our findings with respect to going concern As included in the significant accounting policies to the financial statements, the Company’s financial statements have been prepared using the going concern basis of accounting. The use of this basis of accounting is appropriate unless management either intends to liquidate the Company or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. As part of our audit of the financial statements, we concur with management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the Company’s financial statements. Management has not identified a material uncertainty that may cast significant doubt on the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern, and accordingly none is disclosed in the financial statements. Based on our audit of the financial statements, we also have not identified such a material uncertainty. However, neither management nor the auditor can guarantee the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. 180 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 Our responsibilities and the responsibilities of the Board of Management and the Supervisory Board The respective responsibilities are set out in the Appendix to this report. We have communicated with the Board of Management and the Supervisory Board regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit. We have provided the Supervisory Board with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence, and we have communicated with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards. Report on the management board report and the other information Pursuant to the legal requirements under Part 9 Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code with respect to our responsibilities to report on the management board report and the other information: ýý we have no deficiencies to report as a result of our examination whether the management board report, to the extent we can assess, has been prepared in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code, and whether the other information has been annexed as required by Part 9 Book 2 of this Code. ýý we report that the management board report, to the extent we can assess, is consistent with the financial statements. The Hague, February 26, 2014 PricewaterhouseCoopers Accountants N.V. Originally signed by M. de Ridder RA KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 181 Other Information APPENDIX TO THE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT Responsibilities of Management and the Supervisory Board for the financial statements Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these financial statements in accordance with EU-IFRS and with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code and for the preparation of the management board report in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. Furthermore management is responsible for such internal control as management determines is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free of material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. The Supervisory Board is responsible for overseeing the Company’s financial reporting process. Our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements The objectives of our audit are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with Dutch Standards on Auditing will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements. As part of an audit in accordance with Dutch Standards on Auditing, we exercise professional judgement and maintain professional scepticism throughout the planning and performance of the audit. We also: ýý Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. ýý Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal control. ýý Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by management. ýý Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements, including the disclosures, and whether the financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation. ýý Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the Company and the entities and business activities within the group to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the group audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion. 182 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 PROPOSED APPROPRIATION OF RESULT On outstanding Class B preferred shares, a dividend is paid out equal to the average of the 12-month Euribor increased by 1%. If the 12-month Euribor is no longer determined, the dividend on preference shares will be calculated based on the yield on State loans (article 35 sub 1, Articles of Association). Subsequently, subject to the approval of the Supervisory Board, the Board of Management will determine what proportion of net income remaining after payment of the dividend on any Class B preferred shares will be appropriated to the reserves (article 35 sub 2, Articles of Association). The part of the profit remaining after the appropriation to the reserves shall be at the disposal of the general meeting (article 35 sub 3 Articles of Association). The Board of Management, with the approval of the Supervisory Board, may also appropriate the complete profit to the reserves. On February 25, 2014, the Board of Management, with approval of the Supervisory Board, has allocated the loss of EUR 222 million to the Other reserves. On December 14, 2012, KPN announced an adjustment of its dividend outlook in order to accommodate the vital strategic investment into the frequency licenses obtained in the Dutch spectrum auction. In 2013 no interim dividend was paid to holders of ordinary shares. The Board of Management, with the approval of the Supervisory Board, will propose to the AGM not to pay a dividend over 2013 to holders of ordinary shares. SUBSEQUENT EVENTS Reference is made to Note 33 Subsequent events in the Consolidated Financial Statements. KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 183 Other Information LEGAL STRUCTURE The following table sets forth the name and jurisdiction of incorporation of, and our direct ownership and voting interest (if different) in, our principal operating subsidiaries and other principal interests as of December 31, 2013. Percentage ownership/ Name of subsidiaries and other principal interests Country of incorporation voting interest KPN B.V.: The Netherlands 100.0 – KPN EuroRings B.V. The Netherlands 100.0 – XS4ALL Internet B.V. The Netherlands 100.0 – iBasis Inc. USA 100.0 – Telfort Zakelijk B.V. The Netherlands 100.0 – E-Plus Nederland B.V. The Netherlands 100.0 – Reggefiber Group B.V. The Netherlands 51.0 KPN Telecommerce B.V.: The Netherlands 100.0 – SNT Deutschland A.G. Germany 100.0 KPN Mobile Holding B.V.: The Netherlands 100.0 – E-Plus Mobilfunk Gesch GmbH Germany 100.0 – E-Plus Mobilfunk GmbH & Co.KG Germany 22.5 KPN Mobile N.V.: The Netherlands 100.0 – KPN Mobile International B.V. The Netherlands 100.0 – BASE Company N.V. Belgium 100.0 – Ortel Mobile Holding B.V. The Netherlands 100.0 – E-Plus Mobilfunk GmbH & Co.KG (indirect) Germany 77.5 Getronics N.V.: The Netherlands 100.0 – KPN Corporate Market B.V. The Netherlands 100.0 – Getronics Finance Holdings B.V. The Netherlands 100.0 184 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 185 Appendix 1 Analysis of underlying results 2013 The following table shows the key items between reporting and underlying revenues. E-Plus continues to be included in KPN’s segment reporting until the sale is completed.1 Underlying revenues and other income is derived from revenues and other income and is adjusted for the impact of MTA and roaming (regulation), changes in the composition of the group (acquisitions and disposals) and incidentals. Incidentals are non-recurring transactions over EUR 5 million which are not directly related to day to day operational activities. Revenues and other FY 2013 FY 2013 FY 2012 FY 2012 Δ y-on-y Δ y-on-y income (in EUR m) reported M&A Incidentals underlying reported Regulation1 M&A Incidentals underlying reported underlying Germany (incl. discontinued operations) 3,197 29 3,168 3,404 -142 119 3,143 -6.1% 0.8% Belgium 728 728 804 -45 759 -9,5% -4.1% Rest of World – – 247 247 -100% -100% Other 41 41 -84 36 -120 n.m. n.m. Mobile International 3,966 – 29 3,937 4,371 -187 – 155 4,029 -9.3% -2.3% Consumer Mobile 1,510 7 1,503 1,707 -23 7 1,677 -12% -10% Consumer Residential 1,962 59 13 1,890 1,852 1,852 5.9% 2.1% Business 2,716 34 23 2,659 2,956 -20 55 2,881 -8.1% -7.7% NetCo 2,343 14 -13 2,342 2,621 -6 96 2,519 -11% -7.0% Other -2,086 -2,086 -2,133 -2,133 2.2% 2,2% Dutch Telco 6,445 107 30 6,308 7,003 -49 55 103 6,796 -8.0% -7.2% IT Solutions 621 621 862 174 2 686 -28% -9.5% Other -264 -264 -333 -333 21% 21% The Netherlands 6,802 107 30 6,665 7,532 -49 229 105 7,149 -9.7% -6.8% iBasis 969 969 1,035 1,035 -6.4% -6.4% Other activities 78 78 76 76 2.6% 2.6% Intercompany revenues -247 -247 -306 -306 19% 19% KPN Group 11,568 107 59 11,402 12,708 -236 229 260 11,983 -9.0% -4.8% Of which discontinued operations 3,096 – 29 3,067 3,250 -142 – 119 2,989 -4.7% 2.6% KPN continuing operations 8,472 107 30 8,335 9,458 -94 229 141 8,994 -10% -7.3% 1) To calculate regulatory impact the revenues for the same period last year are adjusted using last year’s volumes and this year’s tariffs. The following table specifies the revenue incidentals in more detail. Revenue incidentals (in EUR m) Segment FY 2013 FY 2012 Change in provisions NetCo, IT Solutions -13 -6 Adjustment deferred revenue Germany, Consumer Mobile, Residential 49 7 Bookgain on tower sales Germany, NetCo – 199 Impact disposal of subsidiaries Germany, Business, IT Solutions, Other 23 60 1) Reference is made to Note 18 of the financial statements for further information on the sale of E-Plus and the impact on KPN’s financial information. 186 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 The following table shows the key items between reporting and underlying EBITDA. E-Plus continues to be included in KPN’s segment reporting until the sale is completed.1 Underlying EBITDA is derived from EBITDA and is adjusted for the impact of MTA and roaming (regulation), changes in the composition of the group (acquisitions and disposals), restructuring costs and incidentals. Incidentals are non-recurring transactions over EUR 5 million which are not directly related to day to day operational activities. FY 2013 RestructFY 2013 FY 2012 RestructFY 2012 Δ y-on-y Δ y-on-y EBITDA (in EUR m) reported M&A Incidentals uring underlying reported Regulation1 M&A Incidentals uring underlying reported underlying Germany (incl. discontinued operations) 963 66 897 1,290 -79 119 -39 1,131 -25% -21% Belgium 192 6 186 272 -29 243 -29% -23% Rest of World – – -25 -2 -23 -100% -100% Other 4 12 -8 -1 -2 1 n.m. n.m. Mobile International 1,159 – 84 – 1,075 1,536 -108 – 117 -41 1,352 -25% -20% Consumer Mobile 410 7 -7 410 510 -10 7 -2 495 -20% -17% Consumer Residential 375 -3 13 -17 382 367 -27 394 2.2% -3.0% Business 676 11 13 -10 662 747 -14 11 -9 -30 761 -9.5% -13% NetCo 1,297 1 9 -10 1,297 1,461 110 -42 1,393 -11% -6.9% Other -32 -32 – -19 -3 -16 -68% -100% Dutch Telco 2,726 9 42 -76 2,751 3,066 -24 11 108 -104 3,027 -11% -9.1% IT Solutions 30 -37 67 69 2 12 -10 65 -57% 3.1% Other -1 -1 – – n.m. n.m. The Netherlands 2,755 9 42 -113 2,817 3,135 -24 13 120 -114 3,092 -12% -8.9% iBasis 29 29 30 30 -3.3% -3.3% Other activities -101 -77 -9 -15 -63 -18 -45 -60% 67% KPN Group 3,842 9 49 -122 3,906 4,638 -132 13 237 -173 4,429 -17% -12% Of which discontinued operations 959 – 66 893 1,292 -79 – 119 -39 1,133 -26% -21% KPN Group continuing operations 2,883 9 -17 -122 3,013 3,346 -53 13 118 -134 3,296 -14% -8.6% 1) To calculate regulatory impact the revenues for the same period last year are adjusted using last year’s volumes and this year’s tariffs. The following table specifies the EBITDA incidentals in more detail. EBITDA incidentals (in EUR m) Segment FY 2013 FY 2012 Change in provisions NetCo, Business, IT Solutions, Other -78 -27 Adjustment deferred revenue Germany, Consumer Mobile, Residential 49 7 Bookgain on tower sales Germany, NetCo – 199 Impact disposal of subsidiaries Germany, Business, IT Solutions, Other 23 49 Release of accruals NetCo 7 – Release of asset retirement obligations Germany, Belgium, NetCo 48 9 1) Reference is made to Note 18 of the financial statements for further information on the sale of E-Plus and the impact on KPN’s financial information. KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 187 Appendix 2 Overview of main CSR targets and achievements Description Target 2013 Result 2013 Result 2012 Transparent and reliable service provider Net Promoter Score -6 -101 -111 Consumer Mobile: -4 Consumer Mobile: -6 Consumer Mobile: -6 Consumer Residential: -5 Consumer Residential: -5 Consumer Residential: -10 Business: -10 Business: -181 Business: -171 Percentage of mobile network availability N/a 99.55% N/a Best-in-class networks Percentage of the Netherlands that agree that KPN has the best – Consumers: 46% best fixed network, Consumers: 51% best ICT infrastructure 52% best mobile network2 fixed network, 51% best mobile network Business: 64% best fixed network, 58% best mobile network3 Drop call rate nationwide (2G and 3G) N/a 0.6% N/a Healthcare of the future Number of healthcare locations connected 4,500 4,3194 4,038 Number of healthcare consumers supplied with personal 27,000 ~40,000 ~21,000 comfort services Number of chronically ill children provided with a KPN Classmate 500 192 216 The New Way of Living & Working Growth in the Netherlands of the use of services that make The 20% compared with 2012 5% compared with 20126 17% compared with 2011 New Way of Living & Working possible compared to 2012 Percentage of KPN employees in the Netherlands who feel they 90% 74% 76% can work in line with The New Way of Living & Working7 Energy efficient (continuing operations) Percentage reduction of CO2 emissions KPN Group compared 93% 94% 93% with 2005 CO2 reduction effect of KPN products/services for customers Improve KPN CO2 saving calculated for 8 services KPN Bespaarmeter Bespaarmeter and in NL (approximately twice KPN NL implemented, no prepare tool for footprint (scope 1 and 2) results measured measuring effects of KPN products CO2 in the value chain (scope 3 in GHG Protocol) N/a First calculation in the Netherlands N/a based on all categories of the GHG Protocol Percentage reduction of energy consumption KPN Group 8.6% 12.0% 8.8%8 compared with 2010 Privacy & Security Percentage of Dutch people who feel that their data is safe 70% 69% 66%9 with KPN Number of customers that choose opt-in for sharing personal N/a N/a N/a data on traffic and roaming with KPN Percentage of customers helped who were unintentionally N/a N/a N/a infected by malware Number of new and innovative security products and services N/a N/a N/a that enable a secure working and living environment Employees Percentage of women in top management at KPN 21% 18.7%10 18.9%10 the Netherlands Percentage of women in middle management at KPN 17% 16.5%10 16.3%10 the Netherlands Overall percentage of women at KPN the Netherlands 24% 24%10 23.4%10 Employee survey score (%) on Engagement and Vitality N/a Engagement: 63% N/a Vitality: 56% Suppliers Percentage of high-risk suppliers audited on site 35% 39% 26% Number of substantial sustainable solutions implemented 5 5 N/a at suppliers resulting in cost savings at KPN 1) The NPS measurement method for the Business segment was adjusted in 2013, the 2012 NPS has been adjusted according to this new method. The 2014 target for the Business segment has been restated. Due to a recalculation of the appropriate weight of each of the segments in the overall score, following the integration of IT Solutions in the Business segment, an overall NPS target will become available during 2014. 2) A substantial number of people has no opinion about who has the best network. We have not included this group of respondents in the scores. 3) Idem, and the results of this first survey did not yet allow us to draw conclusions about our IT services in the business market. 4) The continuing increase of number of mergers in the healthcare sector reduces the number of locations connected. In a response, the target was adjusted. 5) As the initial 2014 target was already achieved in 2013, this target was adjusted. 6) Our NWLW products and services portfolio is in development, explaining the low 2013 performance. The 2014 target will be determined in 2014. 7) Employees who, by virtue of the nature of their work, cannot work in line with The New Way of Living & Working are not yet excluded. This will be done from 2014. 8) Energy saving accounted for a part of the reduction in comparison with 2010. The remaining reduction was the result of the sale of Getronics International in 2012. 9) The percentage for 2012 has been restated from 67% to 66% due to a rounding inconsistency. 10) Results are based on the employee population of KPN the Netherlands in line with the population for the public commitment “Talent to the Top” (over 95% of the KPN the Netherlands population). Figures for the whole of KPN the Netherlands are shown in the appendix ‘social figures’. 188 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 Result 2011 target 2014 targets 2015 and beyond Sections -14 N/a1 +1 in 2015 Social performance and reputation, customer loyalty, Consumer Mobile: -3 Consumer Mobile: +1 p. 34-35. Consumer Residential: -1 Consumer Residential: +3 Business: -121 Business: 0 N/a 99.35% N/a Reputation, p. 35. N/a 50% 60% in 2015 NetCo, social and environmental review, p. 56-57. N/a 0.6% 0.6% N/a 4,5004 5,0004 in 2015 Business, social and environmental review, p. 50. N/a 42,0005 48,000 in 2015 Business, social and environmental review, p. 50. 282 550 1,250 in 2015 Social performance and reputation, sponsoring: connecting people, p. 39. 71% compared N/a6 N/a Business, social and environmental review, p. 50-51. with 2010 N/a 90% N/a Social performance and reputation, employees, p. 36-38. 91% 96% 100% before 2020 Environmental performance, energy efficient, p. 40-43. KPN Bespaarmeter Improve calculations current In 2020, save as much CO2 as our Environmental performance, energy efficient, p. 40-43. developed products/services in scope own energy consumption Extend savings calculation to more products/services N/a Improve calculations and extend to In 2015: targets both on upstream Environmental performance, energy efficient, p. 40-43. KPN Group and downstream emission reduction where possible Define targets for 2015 on upstream and downstream emission reduction 4.0% 11% 11% in 2015 Environmental performance, energy efficient, p. 40-43. 13% in 2016 N/a 70% N/a Privacy & Security, p. 64-65. N/a 250,000 N/a Privacy & Security, p. 64-65. N/a 98% within 8 hours 98% within 8 hours Privacy & Security, p. 64-65. N/a 30% compared to 2013 N/a Privacy & Security, p. 64-65. 17.2% 22% or higher 25% in 2015 Social performance and reputation, employees, p. 36-38. 16.5% 18% or higher 20% in 2015 Social performance and reputation, employees, p. 36-38. 23.4% 25% or higher 26% in 2015 Social performance and reputation, employees, p. 36-38. N/a Engagement: > 63% N/a Social performance and reputation, employees, p. 36-38. Vitality: > 56% 15 on-site audits 35% 35% annually Social performance and reputation, suppliers, p. 38-39. N/a 5 N/a Social performance and reputation, suppliers, p. 38-39. KPN defined 40 CRS targets of which the main 25 targets are disclosed in this overview. For the other targets, please see http://corporate.kpn.com/csrtargets KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 189 Appendix 3 Scope, reporting process and materiality indicators are set out in the Integrated Report and which indicators determination for CSR information are featured only on our website or in our GRI index. The overview can be found in the GRI index. In addition to these GRI G4 guidelines, KPN has taken as its point of orientation the pilot version of the Telecommunications Sector Supplement in determining material topics. Scope sustainability information The GRI Index specifies the aspect boundaries and omitted indicators The purpose of the sustainability information in our Integrated Report where relevant (including clarifications). In the Integrated Report there (including the GRI index and social and environmental appendices), are no departures of any significance from the GRI standard disclosures. covering the calendar year 2013, is to inform our stakeholders about This report shows the performance indicators applicable to the KPN our role in society, in connection to our main strategic objectives and Group. Where relevant, the appendices contain specified data per targets. We regard as stakeholders all people and organizations KPN business unit: KPN the Netherlands, BASE Company, and other affected by our operations or with whom we maintain a relationship, subsidiaries of the KPN Group. Where relevant and material, data such as customers, employees, shareholders, banks, suppliers, for discontinued German operations is reported separately. Where journalists, partners and social organizations. available and relevant, the report includes data for 2011 and 2012. Adjustments to the data set out in the 2012 Sustainability Report The scope of the sustainability information in this report, GRI index have been made regarding the intended sale of E-Plus. The report and social and environmental figures (appendices) covers the KPN Group specifically points out whether data reflects continuing operations including subsidiaries in which KPN has a majority shareholding. Unless (excluding E-Plus) or includes discontinued operations (including stated otherwise, references to KPN should be read as referring to the E-Plus), also for previous years. Quantitative data concerning the KPN Group. In this report, KPN Group refers to all continuing operations. workforce and financial results set out in this report have been In 2013, KPN intended to sell E-Plus Gruppe. As a result, activities of collected using our financial data management system. The remaining E-Plus are regarded as discontinued operations and are reported data set out in this report have been collected using a standardized separately in the business segment Germany. The performance of KPN questionnaire that was completed by the responsible KPN business Group excludes E-Plus unless stated otherwise, also in the appendices units. The Internal Audit and Corporate Control departments used and GRI index. In this report (including the GRI index and social and consistency and availability of supporting evidence as the basis for environmental appendices) KPN the Netherlands refers to all the their assessment of the data reported at group level. Validation activities of the KPN Group in the Netherlands. Outside the Netherlands, criteria set out in advance were also used to assess the data. our principal divisions are BASE Company, iBasis, Ortel Mobile and SNT. The data in this report refer to KPN’s performance and not to that of our KPN has engaged PricewaterhouseCoopers Accountants N.V. (PwC) to subcontractors, unless stated otherwise. The full scope of the financial provide reasonable assurance on KPN’s Dutch CO2 emissions (excluding information is reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements. scope 3 emissions) and the underlying energy consumption. Limited assurance is provided on all other metrics in the scope of PwC, This report specifically reviews developments and performance in 2013 including the information in the appendix to the Integrated Annual and is based on topics identified as highly material for KPN. Aspects of Report on http://corporate.kpn.com/annualreportdownloads (see also a more static nature (such as our management approaches to our CSR page 100-101). Reasonable assurance is obtained through audit work, themes and our stakeholders) or with less reporting priority (such as while other elements of the report have been reviewed. Review work our impact on biodiversity and the list of external memberships) are provides only limited assurance because exhaustive gathering of included in the GRI index on www.kpn.com/csrreport or reported on evidence is not required. The assurance work is performed in http://corporate.kpn.com/dutch-society.htm. accordance with the Assurance Standard 3410N ‘Assurance Engagements Relating to Sustainability Reports’ as drawn Reporting process sustainability information up by the professional body of Dutch Accountants (NBA). The Integrated Report is published on February 26, 2014. The The key social and environmental figures, which are available in the sustainability information in this report is presented in accordance appendices on http://corporate.kpn.com/annualreportdownloads, are with the comprehensive option of GRI G4. This means that KPN reports also part of this report. Partly, they provide more detailed numbers on on all general standard disclosures and all specific standard disclosures key figures that reflect on highly material topics within the report (such related to identified material topics. The process for defining the as CO2 emissions and electricity consumption). Partly, they provide material topics and report content, as well as the list of material topics quantitative information (multiple years) on medium material topics are described in the materiality assessment (see ‘materiality assessment’ which are represented qualitatively within the report or information in this appendix). The results of this assessment (list of material topics requested by some external benchmarks. All information in the for KPN, including their reporting priority) determine which GRI sustainability appendices is covered by the external assurance. 190 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 Calculation and determination of reported emissions Methodology The energy targets for KPN are related to different base years. The base In the Integrated Report KPN reports the CO2 emissions in year 2005 (for targets on improving energy-efficiency and reducing accordance with the method of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol absolute electricity consumption) were determined at the start of the and the ISO 14064-1 standard. energy-efficiency program in 2008. Most of the targets that were introduced after 2010, have 2010 as a reference year (due to data KPN uses the operational control approach when reporting the availability). Exception are the German an Belgium targets (base CO2 emissions. Two of the six greenhouses gases are most relevant year 2009). to KPN, carbon dioxide (CO2) and hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs). Where available, we have taken CH4 , N2O into consideration in our greenhouse 1. Activities gas emissions information. We use the term ‘CO2 emissions’ to refer Emissions (CO2 and HFCs) are calculated on the basis of all the activities to the greenhouse gas emissions reported on. These are stated in of the KPN Group. Most of the emissions relate to activities that use CO2 equivalents. energy, such as the electricity consumption of the networks, transport, and heating and/or cooling buildings. As virtually all the emissions are The KPN emissions report is subdivided as follows: of CO2, details of this are given below. KPN reports on a number of ratio’s, which are included in the figures in the chapter ‘Environmental Scope 1 – Direct emissions due to: Performance’ as footnotes. The footnotes show the denominator used. ýý Fuel consumption of the lease vehicle fleet (employees’ passenger vehicles and commercial vehicles) 2. Emission factors ýý Heating of buildings (gas) The CO2 emissions are calculated by multiplying the consumption ýý Consumption of hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs) for air conditioning data for each activity by the CO2 emission factors for each unit of and/or cooling consumption. These emission factors are updated annually. KPN uses ýý Fuel consumption of emergency power generators a monitoring protocol for the Carbon footprint reporting. In this protocol all sources for used emission factors are specified. The Scope 2 – Indirect emissions due to: emissions factors are checked and updated annually when necessary. ýý Electricity consumption of sites of the fixed and mobile networks, The most important sources for our emissions factors are IEA data centers, offices and shops (International Energy Agency) and DEFRA. ýý District heating ýý District cooling 3. Accuracy The accuracy of the consumption data is a key factor in the reliability Scope 3 – Other indirect emissions due to: of the CO2 emissions calculations. In the data collection process a ýý Emissions in our upstream value chain (during the production phase number of factors affect the accuracy of the collected data. In general, of our products, services and equipment at our suppliers) and our the data originating from direct measurements and recordings, such downstream value chain (during the use phase including recycling as summaries from energy and other suppliers and direct invoices, and disposal of the products, services and equipment). In 2013 we is the most accurate. Data may also be estimated or calculated, using started calculating all 15 GHG scope 3 categories for our operations assumptions and expert opinions. The materiality of all KPN units and in the Netherlands. The calculations are based on the Greenhouse subsidiaries is determined every year on the basis of sales and number Gas Protocol scope 3 standard (Corporate Value Chain Accounting of FTEs (>=1% of the total). and Reporting Standard). The results of the calculation of the upstream and downstream emissions show and confirm the impact For the data collection and auditing KPN employees use several internal KPN has in its value chain and gives us information on which hot audit measures to minimize the risk of incomplete and incorrect spots to focus on in reducing our impacts where possible. Due to the reporting of consumption data. impacts of several assumptions and estimations the calculated scope 2013 scope 3 emissions will not be reported. In 2014, we intend to improve the calculation of our upstream and downstream footprint and define targets for 2015 om upstream and downstream emission reduction. See for further explanation and clarification of our scope 3 carbon impact assessment the chapter Environmental Performance. For details of the individual headings we refer you to the environmental indicators (EN3 to EN7, E16 and E17) in the 2013 GRI index on www.kpn.com/csrreport. KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 191 Appendix 3 (continued) Materiality determination Comprehensive list of subjects The annual materiality assessment is the basis for determining the (incl. GRI, topics report content and is performed before the Integrated Report is identified otherwise) compiled. The assessment is approved by the Board of Management. The process consists of three steps: Step 1: Identification of relevant aspects and other topics The goal of the first step is to create a gross overview of relevant Step 1: CSR topics. In this process KPN annually updates a comprehensive Determine impact list of topics based on GRI guidelines and the pilot version of the Relevant topics Telecommunication Sector Supplement. Where relevant, missing topics are added, including topics identified during media scans Step 2: and stakeholder dialogues. Following the update of the list, KPN Material topics Determine priority assesses the relevance of each of the topics. Relevant topics are those on which KPN has or can have an impact (inside the organization and in the value chain or society). This is determined based on stakeholder input and KPN’s own experience. The outcome is an overview of all relevant topics. In 2013 the following topics are (highly) material to each of the six CSR themes and two additional themes on which we want to have a leading Step 2: Determining reporting priority role. These topics are covered by our integrated report. Other material The second step aims to assess the reporting priority of all relevant (and not material) topics are covered by our GRI index and website. topics, which is presented graphically and used not only to determine the contents of the integrated report but also as input to determine our For more information on material topics and KPN’s performance, (CSR) strategy, policies and approach. please refer to our GRI Index. KPN determines the reporting priority by reviewing all relevant topics on: (1) significance of the topic for KPN and (2) significance of the topic for key stakeholders. This review is performed using nine criteria, which are relevant to KPN and based on GRI G4. The priority determination Financial review, p. 26-29. Energy-efficient, p. 40-43. is performed twice a year; a preliminary review and a final review ýý Economic impact ýý Impact of ICT applications including all inputs from stakeholder dialogues and stakeholder ýý Energy and emissions surveys performed throughout the year in order to validate the Transparent reliable service ýý Sustainable products outcomes. The result of this second step is an overview of all provider (customer loyalty, and services material topics for KPN, which is supported by current stakeholder reputation), p. 34-35. ýý Transport expectations. The materiality chart combines the two aspects ýý Product and service labelling schematically. The combination of the horizontal axis (significance (customer satisfaction) Privacy & Security, p. 64-65. to KPN) and the vertical axis (stakeholders’ expectations) determines ýý Customer privacy the degree of influence that the topic has on our reputation and Best-in-class networks, ýý ICT security therefore the reporting priority. Within the results, KPN divides p. 56-57. three categories: ýý Indirect economic impact Employees, p. 36-38. ýý Highly material topics: We aim to fulfill a leading role on ýý ICT infrastructure ýý Employment these topics and translated them into our six CSR themes investments ýý Diversity and two additional themes. We report on these topics in ýý Occupational health our Integrated Report. Healthcare of the future, p. 50. & safety ýý Medium material topics: we want to demonstrate our social ýý Impact of ICT applications ýý Training & education responsibility regarding these topics. We report on them in our GRI index, additional policy document and/or on our website. The New Way of Living Suppliers, p. 38-39. ýý Low material topics: these are topics we monitor, but do not report on. & Working, p. 37, 50-51. ýý Supplier assessment ýý Impact of ICT applications ýý Human rights ýý Sustainable products and services Risk management and compliance, p. 66-73. ýý Ethical behavior and compliance 192 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 Materiality assessment Highly material topics Medium material topics 6 1. Economic Performance 12. ICT security 2. Indirect Economic Impacts 13. Transport 3. Energy and emissions 14. Materials 7 4. Sustainable products 15. Occupational health and services and safety 5. Supplier assessment 16. Training and education 3 6. Employment 17. Digital divide 5 4 7. Diversity 18. Product and service labeling 8. Ethical behaviour 19. Environmental compliance Significance to stakeholders and compliance 20. Grievance Mechanisms 23 1 9. Customer Privacy 21. Labor/Management relations 26 25 10. ICT infrastructure 22. Equal Remuneration 8 investments 23. Customer health and safety 10 11. Impact of ICT applications 24. Marketing communications 24 25. Products and services 21 17 11 compliance 19 26. Electromagnetic ﬁelds 9 and radiation 14 2 Low material topics 27. Security Practices 15 22 28. Indigenous Rights 36 29. Human rights assessment 35 12 30. Community engagement 34 20 31. Public policy 16 18 32. Market presence 32 30 31 33. Procurement practices 34. Water 28 13 35. Biodiversity 37 29 36. Efﬂuents and waste 27 33 37. Environmental investment Low material topics Medium material topics Highly material topics Significance to KPN Step 3: Implementation Based on the priority outcomes of the materiality determination (approved by the BoM), we determine the topics to be addressed in the report, including the scope and aspect boundaries of all material topics. Business units are informed on new and altered topics to be acted and reported on, to prepare reporting systems, enhance internal mechanisms, develop reporting definitions and, where relevant, targets. Timelines are developed and new/altered topics are included in the relevant reporting process mechanisms (financial/HR data management systems or CSR questionnaires). KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 193 Appendix 4 Glossary of terms BYOD (Bring Your Own Device) The technology of Bring Your Own Device (BYOD) enables employees to use their own devices (laptops, tablets and smartphones) at the office. 2G Second Generation Mobile System, which is based on the GSM CBb (College van Beroep voor het bedrijfsleven) universal standard. The Trade and Industry Appeals Tribunal in the Netherlands. 3G CDP Third Generation Mobile System, which is based on the UMTS The CDP (formerly Carbon Disclosure Project) is a joint initiative of universal standard. investors worldwide that questions and benchmarks listed companies on their approach to climate change. 4G Fourth Generation Mobile System, a standard for wireless Churn communication delivering high-speed data for mobile phones The number of mobile customers no longer connected to a mobile and data terminals. operator’s network divided by the operator’s customer base. Access lines CISO (Chief Information Security Office) Access lines are the total number of traditional voice and VoIP CISO is responsible within KPN for the security of the IT and TI connections provided to customers of KPN’s Business segment as architecture. Part of this office are the CISO REDteam, KPN’s ethical of the end of the specified period. hacking team and the CERT (Computer Emergency Response Team) that acts in case of a (potential) cyber attack. ACM The Dutch Competition Authority (Autoriteit Consument en Markt Climate neutral or ‘ACM’) acts as a regulator in the Netherlands and is responsible For KPN, climate neutral means operating with zero net CO2 emissions. for monitoring compliance with anti-trust rules. The ACM is the authority body that arose on April 1, 2013 following the merger Cloud services of the Consumentenautoriteit (‘CA’, government body charged Cloud services are standardized IT capability (services, software or with handling consumer rights), the Dutch Anti-trust Authority infrastructure) delivered via internet technologies in a pay-per-use, (Nederlandse Mededingingsautoriteit or ‘NMa’) with the self-service way. Independent Post and Telecommunications Authority (Onafhankelijke Post en Telecommunicatie Autoriteit or ‘OPTA’). CO2 Carbon dioxide is a gas that is created when fossil fuels such as oil and ADR coal are burned. Carbon dioxide is a greenhouse gas. American Depository Receipt. Committed ARPU ADSL (Asymmetric Digital Subscriber Line) Committed ARPU is the monthly fixed fees KPN receives per user, which With ADSL, transmissions from provider to user take place at a higher are included in the customer’s bundle. speed than from user to provider. ADSL allows high-speed digital communication, including video signals, across an ordinary twisted-pair Conflict minerals copper phone line. An ADSL modem is required. Conflict minerals are minerals mined under conditions of armed conflicts and human rights issues. These minerals are used in a ARPU (Average Revenue Per User) variety of products, including consumer electronic devices such ARPU is the sum of connection fees, monthly fixed subscription as mobile phones. revenues, traffic revenues and gross service provider revenues less related discounts during a one-month period, divided by the average CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) number of customers during that month. Gross service provider Corporate Social Responsibility, to KPN, is the integrated vision of revenues represent revenues generated by third-party providers. KPN entrepreneurship, in which the company takes responsibility and creates accounts for the net part as gross service provider revenues. Gross value in economic (Profit), ecological (Planet) and social (People) terms. service provider revenue is mainly generated by E-Plus. We incorporate CSR into our business and by doing so, take our social responsibility and contribute to societal challenges. BCF (Business Control Framework) The Business Control Framework contains all corporate policies and Customer base guidelines that are mandatory for KPN segments and entities. It forms Customer base is the total number of subscribers. the cornerstone of the governance of the KPN Group. DEFRA BiPT (Belgisch instituut voor Postdiensten en Telecommunicatie) UK Department for Environment Food & Rural Affairs. DEFRA published The Belgian Institute for Postal Services and Telecommunications conversion factors to calculate greenhouse gas emissions. operates as the telecommunications regulator in Belgium. DJSI (Dow Jones Sustainability Index) BNetzA (Bundesnetzagentur, former RegTP) The Dow Jones Sustainability Index is a collection of indices that track The Federal Network Agency is active as the telecommunications the performance of companies that are frontrunners in terms of CSR. regulator in Germany. The DJSI is based on an analysis of corporate economic, environmental and social performance. There are several sub-indices based on Broadband geographical parameters. Broadband refers to telecommunication that provides multiple channels of data over a single communications medium, typically using Drop call rate some form of frequency or wave division multiplexing. The drop call rate is the fraction of telephone calls which are cut off unexpectedly as a result of technical issues, measured as a percentage of all calls. 194 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 DSL (Digital Subscriber Line) GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) DSL is a technology for bringing high bandwidth information to homes The Global Reporting Initiative is an organization that publishes and small businesses over ordinary copper PSTN lines. The widely used international guidelines for CSR reporting. term xDSL refers to different variations of DSL, such as ADSL, HDSL, VDSL and SDSL. GRIP GRIP is the integrated risk management system of KPN. It is an DTA (Telecommunicatiewet) acronym for Governance & Compliance, Risk management, Internal The Dutch Telecommunications Act. control and Processes. EEIO (Environmentally-extended input output data) GPRS Environmentally-extended input output (EEIO) models estimate energy GPRS is an application that enables data packet switching via GSM use and/or GHG emissions resulting from the production and upstream networks as well as via existing voice communication. GPRS is based supply chain activities of different sectors and products. The resulting on and complements GSM. EEIO emissions factors can be used to estimate cradle-to-gate GHG emissions for a given industry or product category. EEIO models are Hertz derived by allocating national GHG emissions to groups of finished Hertz is a unit of frequency of one cycle per second. products based on economic flows between industry sectors. HSDPA (High-Speed Downlink Packet Access)/HSPA+ (Evolved E-TASC High-Speed Packet Access) E-TASC is a worldwide self-audit system for suppliers in the ICT-sector. HSDPA and HSPA+ are mobile telephony protocols that, as an evolution of UMTS, are designed to increase the available data rate by a factor 5 E-VPN (Ethernet Virtual Private Network) or more. E-VPN is a VPN that connects two or more offices using IP-VPN and extends the benefits of ethernet technology that has traditionally been i change confined to the LAN. The interactive coaching program for companies and their employees, that supports people in changing their behavior in health-related areas. Fiber-optic cable Fiber-optic cable is a transmission medium composed of extremely ICT pure and uniform glass. Digital signals are transmitted across fiberInformation and Communication Technology. optic cable as pulses of light. While signals transmitted over fiber-optic cable travel at the same speed as those transmitted over traditional IPTV copper cable, fiber-optic cable benefits from greater transmission IPTV is a system through which television services are delivered capacity and lower distortion of signals transmitted. using the internet protocol suite over a packet-switched network such as the internet. iTV (‘Interactieve TV’) is KPN’s IPTV offering FTE (full-time equivalent) in the Netherlands. The equivalent of the number of employees with a full-time contract. IP-VPN (Internet Protocol – Virtual Private Network) FttH (Fiber-to-the-Home) Offers a secured and private network using IP-based infrastructure. FttH is defined as an access network architecture in which the final part of the connection to the home consists of optical fiber. ISDN (Integrated Services Digital Network) A worldwide digital communications network evolving from existing FttO (Fiber-to-the-Office) telephone services. A standard ISDN connection consists of three FttO is fiber connection for business customers to the channels, i.e. two B channels to carry data and voice at a speed customers’ offices. of 64 Kbps and one D channel to carry control information at a speed of 16 Kbps. FttHA (Fiber-to-the-Home activated) Homes activated is the number of homes that are connected to fiber ISO (International Organization for Standardization) and have a subscriber with a service provider. This organization is responsible for international management standards such as ISO 14001, ISO 140064-1, ISO 27001 and ISO 22301 FttHP (Fiber-to-the-Home passed) (mentioned in this report). Homes passed is the number of homes that a service provider has capability to connect through fiber in a service area. ISP (Internet Service Provider) A company that provides individuals and companies access GHG (Greenhouse Gas) Protocol to the internet. The Greenhouse Gas Protocol Initiative is a multi-stakeholder partnership of business, non-governmental organizations (NGOs), governments, and JAC (Joint Audit Cooperation) others that develop internationally accepted greenhouse gas (GHG) The JAC is a cooperation of nine European Telecommunication accounting and reporting standards for organizations. Operators (including KPN) focusing on the social, ethical, and environmental conditions across their supply chains. GHz GHz is one billion hertz (a unit of frequency). KPN Classmate Through the KlasseContact project of the KPN Mooiste Contact Fonds, Green electricity chronically-ill children can use an ICT-set (a KPN Classmate) to take a Green electricity is electricity from renewable sources. KPN only uses ‘virtual seat’ in the classroom. wind energy and electricity from biomass that does not compete with food production. KPN Mooiste Contact Fonds This KPN foundation supports societal initiatives aimed a stimulating social contact, by combining people and technological resources to the best advantage. KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 195 Appendix 4 (continued) Lean & Green Awards PUE (power usage effectiveness) Lean & Green is a Dutch initiative aimed at stimulating companies An international standard for the calculation of energy efficiency and government towards sustainability. Products and services that of data centers, which compares the total data center electricity contribute to reducing CO2 -emissions and costs can be awarded consumption with the electricity consumption of equipment used a Lean & Green Solution Award. for customer purposes. Machine to Machine (M2M) PSTN (Public Switched Telephone Network) M2M refers to technologies that allow both wireless and wired systems Traditional telephone system that runs through copper cables (voice up to communicate between devices of the same ability. to 64 Kbps, data up to 56 Kbps). Market share RepTrak Market share is the percentage or proportion of the total available RepTrak, developed by the Reputation Institute, is a method to calculate market that is being serviced by KPN. These figures are based on a reputation score of companies. externally available market data, which may not be completely accurate. RGU (Revenue Generating Unit) Mbps (Megabits per second) RGU is the total of all subscribers receiving standard cable, broadband Mbps is a unit of data transfer rate equal to 1 million bits per second. internet or telephony services over KPN’s network at a given date. Thus, The bandwidths of broadband networks are often indicated in Mbps. one subscriber who receives a bundle of KPN’s services (telephony, internet and TV) would be counted as three RGUs. MDF (Main Distribution Frame) access Allows other telecommunication companies to access the local Roaming network, enabling them to connect with their customers through Transfer of mobile traffic from one network to another, referring to the our main distribution frame. exchange of international mobile traffic. MHz (Megahertz) SAC/SRC MHz is one million hertz (a unit of frequency). Subscriber acquisition/retention costs is the amount that is spent to acquire or retain subscribers. MNO (Mobile Network Operator) An MNO is a company that has frequency allocations and all the Scope 1 required infrastructure to run an independent mobile network, Direct greenhouse gas emissions occurring from sources that are as opposed to an MVNO. owned or controlled by an organization. MTA/MTR tariff (Mobile Terminating Access tariff) Scope 2 The tariff charged by mobile operators for the termination of incoming Indirect greenhouse gas emissions from the generation of purchased telephone traffic (originating from either a fixed or a mobile network) electricity, heating or cooling consumed by an organization. on their network. Scope 3 Multi-play Other direct greenhouse gas emissions as a consequence of the Propositions combining more than one product and / or type of service activities of the company, but occurring from sources not owned is considered a mutli-play proposition. Triple-play and quad-play or controlled by an organization. propositions are types of multi-play propositions. Service revenues MVNO (Mobile Virtual Network Operator) Service revenues are defined as the aggregate of connection fees, A mobile operator that does not have its own spectrum or its own monthly subscription fees and traffic fees. The term service revenues network infrastructure. Instead, MVNOs have business arrangements refers to wireless service revenues. with ‘traditional’ mobile operators to buy minutes of use to sell to their own customers. SIM card (Subscriber Identity Module card) A chip card inserted into a mobile phone, which contains information Net line gain/loss such as telephone numbers and memory for storing a directory. Net line gain/loss figures are defined as the difference from one period to the other period in PSTN/ISDN lines plus consumer VoIP plus ADSL Smartphone only and plus Fiber. A smartphone is a mobile phone built on a mobile computing platform and features high-resolution (touch) screens, web browsers that can Net adds access and properly display standard web pages and that has highNet adds is defined as the difference between the total number of speed data access via Wi-Fi and mobile broadband. contracts for a specific type of service from one period compare to the previous period. SOC (Security Operations Center) The SOC monitors the high-risk systems of KPN in order to quickly act NPS (Net Promoter Score) in case of security risks or incidents. NPS is a tool for measuring customer satisfaction. The key question asked is whether customers would recommend KPN to friends or family. SoHo/SME SoHo refers to Small Office/Home Office companies. SME refers to NWLW (New Way of Living & Working) Small and Medium Enterprises. The New Way of Living & Working means being able to work without the constraints of time and place with the use of modern technology. Spectrum Auction A spectrum auction is a process whereby a government uses an auction Open access system to sell rights (licenses) to transmit signals over specific brands of Open access is a model where an operator is required by regulation to the electromagnetic spectrum and to assign scarce spectrum resources. provide access to its network to wholesale customers at capped prices. 196 KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 Stakeholder WhatsApp Stakeholders are the people or organizations with an interest in the WhatsApp Messenger is a cross-platform instant messaging application company, such as employees, shareholders, suppliers, customers, for smartphones with internet access. governments and media. Wholesale broadband access Startover TV Wholesale broadband access is the rental by broadband internet Startover TV allows the viewer to replay the current TV show being service providers of access to KPN’s networks to supply broadband watched from its beginning. internet access to their end customers. The broadband internet service provider charges its end customer for the combined wholesale Subscriber broadband access it purchases from KPN along with its service fees. A subscriber is defined as an end-user with a connection to the mobile or fixed networks and/or service platforms of KPN. The subscriber is Wi-Fi included in the subscriber base if there is a direct or indirect (business, Wi-Fi is a technology that allows an electronic device to exchange data wholesale) billing relation, either prepaid or postpaid, with the wirelessly over a computer network, including broadband internet following exceptions: connections. Wi-Fi is a trademark of the Wi-Fi Alliance. ýý if the connection is owned through wholesale by full MVNOs or fixed line access parties or WLR (Wholesale Line Rental) ýý if the connection has been inactive for a specific time period This system enables telecommunications providers to invoice (prepaid or postpaid without contract). customers for line rental and phone charges on the same bill, as opposed to having to pay for calls and line rental separately. With Triple-play WLR, providers can rationalize their organization’s invoicing with Term used to describe the provision of telephony, internet and one bill for line rental and call charges. television services to a household by a single provider. WWF Climate Saver UMTS (Universal Mobile Telecommunications System) The Climate Savers program is WWF’s global platform to engage Third generation mobile communications systems. UMTS is suited to business and industry in climate and energy. Member companies deliver voice, text, music and animated images. Data can be sent via commit to becoming best in class in reducing GHG emissions and to UMTS at approximately six times the speed of ISDN. influencing market or policy developments by promoting their vision and solutions. Underlying revenues and underlying EBITDA Underlying revenues and other income and underlying EBITDA are derived from revenues and other income and EBITDA, respectively, and are adjusted for the impact of MTA and roaming (regulation), changes in the composition of the group (acquisitions and disposals), restructuring costs and incidentals. Incidentals are non-recurring transactions over EUR 5 million which are not directly related to day to day operational activities. VDSL (Very-high-bitrate Digital Subscriber Line) A new DSL technology providing faster data transmission over a single flat untwisted or twisted pair of copper wires. These fast speeds mean that VDSL is capable of supporting high bandwidth applications such as HDTV, as well as telephony services (Voice over IP) and general internet access, over a single connection. VDSL-CO refers to VDSL from the Central Office. VoIP (Voice over IP) Voice traffic is transported over an IP-based data network. It enables new ways of communicating, such as combinations of telephony, messaging and videoconferencing. VPN (Virtual Private Network) A virtual network constructed from logic connections that are separated from other users. KPN | Integrated Annual Report 2013 197 For additional Information please contact Forward-looking statements KPN Investor Relations and management estimates Tel: +31 (0) 704460986 Certain of the statements we have made in this Fax: +31 (0) 704460593 Integrated Annual Report are ‘forward-looking statements’. www.kpn.com/ir These statements are based on our beliefs and ir@kpn.com assumptions and on information currently available to us. They include information concerning our possible Published by or assumed future results of operations, business Koninklijke KPN N.V. strategies, financing plans, competitive position, P.O. Box 30000 potential growth opportunities, potential operating 2500 GA The Hague performance or expense improvements and the The Netherlands effects of future legislation or regulation. Chamber of Commerce The Hague, Forward-looking statements include all statements that registration number 02045200 are not historical facts and can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as the words ‘believe’, Content and organisation ‘expect’, ‘plan’, ‘intend’, ‘anticipate’, ‘estimate’, ‘predict’, Koninklijke KPN N.V. ‘potential’, ‘continue’, ‘may’, ‘will’, ‘should’, ‘could’, ‘shall’, or the negative of these terms or similar expressions. Helder! tekstwerk www.helder-tekstwerk.nl Forward-looking statements involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Actual results may differ materially Royal HaskoningDHV from those expressed in these forward-looking statements. www.royalhaskoningdhv.com No undue reliance should be put on any forward-looking statements. Unless required by applicable law or applicable RRED Communications rules of the stock exchange on which our securities are www.rred.nl listed, we have neither the intention nor an obligation to update forward-looking statements after distribution Stampa Communications of this Annual Report. www.stampacommunications.com All market share information in this financial report is Design and Production based on management estimates based on externally Addison Group available information, unless indicated otherwise. www.addison-group.net The terms “we”, “our” and “us” are used to describe the Print company; where they are used in the chapter “Segment Veenman+ performance”, they refer to the business concerned. Print Coordination PostNL Photography ANP/Marcel Antonisse ANP/Martijn Beekman ANP/Evert-Jan Daniels ANP/Federico Gambarini Hollandse Hoogte Lars van den Brink Lukkien Michel Porro Sjaak Ramakers Hans Ringnalda Paper Maxi offset Maxi offset is produced by an ISO 14001 accredited manufactorer as an FSC mixed sources product. It is produced with fibre sourced from controlled wood. Koninklijke KPN N.V. Maanplein 55 2516 CK Den Haag Nederland Postbus 30000 2500 GA Den Haag Nederland T: +31 (0)70 343 43 43 www.kpn.com
