United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress CKR Global November 13, 2014 1 Human Rights Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of human rights for the company (i.e. human rights risk-assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on Human Rights. CKR Global actively supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights both in principle and practice, in addition to related human rights standards and norms. As such we evaluate and respond to human rights issues within our business operations on a periodic and as-needed basis. Given our international work, CKR Global does not and will not carry out business with any countries or regimes where flagrant human rights abuses are known or reported, including torture, politically motivated disappearances etc. except where such work is done on behalf of non-governmental organizations, such as the United Nations, directly in support of human rights-based development projects. Our international work includes, in part, consultations with and support of UNICEF and UNODC on justice system capacity development in low income and post-conflict States in regard to enhancing human rights protections. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement Human Rights policies, address Human Rights risks and respond to Human Rights violations. CKR Global is a signatory to the International Code of Conduct for Private Security Service Providers, and has enshrined the principles of this Code as well as those of the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights in our national and overseas human safety and security related work and operations including operations on behalf of clients operating overseas. This includes conducting human rights risk assessments in overseas operations as one part of project initiation. We encourage our major clients and suppliers to become signatories to the United Nations Global Compact. CKR Global has enacted and continues to communicate written workplace policies and procedures that address and support human rights, including a respectful workplace free from harassment, discrimination and violence. Policies further support a safe and healthy workplace. These are national and designed to comply with provincial legislation in each geographic area of operations within Canada. 2 Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. Through our internal corporate Senior Leadership Team, which includes the human resources team, national and locally compliant policies and procedures were enacted in 2012 to support our approach to human rights and a safe, respectful workplace. These are further included within the company wide Code of Conduct, which is also posted publicly on our web site. The Code requires all employees to report breaches of the Code and provides a formal process for leadership responses to all reports and breaches. To help monitor for compliance and respond to potential incidents of noncompliance, CKR Global has retained an external third party reporting line for instances of concern to staff. Additionally, informal feedback networks have been established to help monitor and support a positive, ethical work environment for all employees. CKR Global has not been the subject of any human rights related complaints or investigations in the past calendar year. Labour Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of labour rights for the company (i.e. labour rightsrelated risks and opportunities). Description of written policies, public commitments and company goals on labour rights. Consistent with our formalized human resources related policies and procedures, CKR Global has enacted a Code of Conduct that applies to all employees and contractors as one approach to ensuring a safe and respectful workplace. This includes workplace policies, procedures and systems relating to employment that are compliant with provincial and federal legislation. CKR Global supports the ILO Core Conventions and will not knowingly do business with any organization that uses forced, prison or child labour. Implementation Description of concrete actions taken by the company to implement labour policies, address labour risks and respond to labour violations. CKR Global has a range of human resource policies which support best practice in terms of labour and employment including an absence of bias in recruiting and hiring, equal opportunities, leaves of absence, wage and hours of work requirements. This includes systems to ensure all staff are properly trained, equipped and licensed where required to conduct work within their realm of expertise or government regulated field of work. These policies, procedures and systems are subject to periodic review and update. 3 All CKR Global employees are issued with an offer of employment which clearly states their terms and conditions including job title, employment status, pay rates, benefits, roles and responsibilities, vacation entitlement, and overtime pay arrangements. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. CKR Global has formalized an employee handbook which provides staff with access to standardized information on standard terms and conditions of employment, company benefits, company rules, grievance and disciplinary procedures. The handbook and workplace human resources policies are posted on an internal web site for ease of access. The handbook, policies and related procedures are periodically reviewed and amended as required. In support of the unique needs of employees, CKR Global launched in 2014 an enhanced and customizable health benefits coverage plan to better meet the differing needs of our workers and their families. To help monitor for compliance, provide for confidential filing of grievances and respond to potential incidents of non-compliance, CKR Global has retained an external third party reporting line for instances of concern to staff. CKR Global ensures compliance with employment standards legislation in accordance with employee work location. CKR Global has not been involved in any investigations, legal cases or other relevant events related to the contravention of the Global Compact Labour principles in the past year. Environment Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of environmental protection for the company (i.e. environmental risks and opportunities). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on environmental protection. A CKR Global focus of 2014 and the coming year is working towards an environmental sustainability policy, with enabling practices. In support of this CKR Global became a participant in the UN Climate Neutral Network in 2011 and is actively seeking new ways to reduce its carbon footprint. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement environmental policies, address environmental risks and respond to environmental incidents. CKR Global has enacted practices within its most carbon intensive divisions to reduce emissions and enhance recycling efforts. 4 Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates environmental performance. Observable progress has been made in many, not all, offices in regards to waste reduction, recycling, utilization of energy saving measures and utilization of “green” products such as recycled paper products. As one approach to reducing our impact on the environment, CKR Global has begun using hybrid vehicles where possible. An office recycling program was begun in 2011 in many offices, with the goal being to have a program in place across all national offices by end of 2015. More energy efficient lighting is being installed in offices along with other measures to reduce the use of electricity. To reduce the use of paper and creation of waste, new project files are now created and stored electronically. Sensitive files are shredded and the paper sent for recycling. To reduce greenhouse gas emissions associated with travel, regional and national meetings are being conducted virtually where possible. Plans are underway to create corporate measures and targets for 2015 relating to energy use, waste and carbon emissions with periodic reviews of progress and results by senior management. Anti-Corruption Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of anti-corruption for the company (i.e. anticorruption risk-assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on anti-corruption. CKR Global does not support any form of corrupt practice by its staff, contractors or clients. This includes a refusal to participate in any corruption, bribery or extortion – within Canada or in any overseas project. Through the corporate Code of Conduct a zero tolerance policy for corruption, bribery and extortion has been enacted and communicated to all staff. CKR Global actively monitors and assesses the threat of potential corruption in all projects – domestic and international. Corporate policies and procedures are transparent to all involved and are compliant with Canadian legislation, which in turn is consistent with the United Nations Convention Against Corruption. Our corporate stance on corruption is widely distributed to all staff and contractors. 5 Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement anti-corruption policies, address anti-corruption risks and respond to incidents. Through its parent company, CKR Global adopted a Code of Ethics and Business Conduct for all employees and company directors in 2013. This policy specifically addresses corrupt practices, amongst other practices in the workplace such as harassment, environmental protection, discrimination, health and safety. The policy is linked to internal governance and accounting oversight mechanisms to monitor for corrupt practices and further supported by a company-wide Code of Conduct. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates anti-corruption performance. CKR Global has attended and spoken at public seminars, conferences and learning events with Transparency International and the Government of Canada on corruption issues, including national and international compliance, threat risk assessments and measures to mitigate the threat of corruption and corrupt practices. In 2013 CKR Global joined and is an active participant in the UN Global Compact Working Group on the 10th Principle. CKR Global regularly speaks at client industry events on the issue of corruption, related laws, norms and standards and how companies can both comply with laws and mitigate the risk of failing to comply. Internal mechanisms re in place to monitor financial systems for possible breaches of company policies relating to ethical practices. CKR Global has retained an independent third party reporting mechanism to provide a vehicle for both internal and external anonymous reporting of issues and events of concern, including corruption. We actively encourage our clients to do the same. CKR Global has not been involved in any legal cases, investigations, rulings or other events related to corruption and bribery. 6
