ABRIL GROUP CONTENTS Abril Group 2013 Perfomance and Sustainability Report A new perspective Abril Group 2013 Perfomance and Sustainability Report 1 ABRIL GROUP CONTENTS Contents Mission, Vision, Values and Principles 05 Core Relationships 40 Group Conduct 42 2013 Highlights 07 Valuing Diversity 44 Human Resource Management 49 Professional Development 51 Message from Management 09 Compensation and Benefits 53 About the Report 11 Socio-Environmental Management 54 Representativity 11 Policies and Principles 56 Scope 11 Management and Practices 58 Evolution 11 Abril Mídia 58 DGB 62 Corporate Profile 12 Abril Educação 62 Abril Group 14 Sustainability in the Group 63 Abril Mídia 15 DGB 18 GRI Index 68 Abril Educação 19 Fundação Victor Civita 20 Acknowledgments 75 Timeline 22 Market Scenario 24 Abril Mídia 24 DGB 25 Abril Educação 25 Strategies and Competitive Advantages 28 Abril Mídia 29 DGB 30 Abril Educação 31 Governance and Performance 32 Corporate Governance 34 Abrilpar 34 Abril Mídia 34 DGB 35 Abril Educação 36 Fundação Victor Civita 37 Company Performance 38 Value Added 39 Government Incentives 39 2 Abril Group 2013 Perfomance and Sustainability Report 3 ABRIL GROUP MISSION, VISION, VALUES AND PRINCIPLES Mission, Vision, Values and Principles Mission Abril is committed to the dissemination of information, culture and entertainment, to advance education, improve quality of life, develop free enterprise and strengthen the country’s democratic institutions. (May, 1980) Vision Be the leader in integrated multimedia, serving the most profitable and fast growing segments in the communication and education markets. Values Excellence, integrity, innovation and valuing people. Principles Competitiveness, customer focus, profitability and teamwork. 4 2013 Annual Report 5 ABRIL GROUP 2013 HIGHLIGHTS 2013 HIGHLIGHTS 1. Partnership development between by DGB in 2013, obtaining Editora Abril and The Huffington efficiency gains and preparing for Post, one of the largest and most a scenario of continued expansion respected digital newspapers in in the sector. the world, to launch the BRASIL 10. S i n c e 2 0 0 9 , t h e y e a r i t w a s POST in early 2014. created, DGB has increased its 2. Acquisition of 51% of the site capacity five times. Among the “Meu Espelho”, the Group’s equipments purchased, there first purchase of an e-commerce is a sorter – similar to conveyor business, seeking synergy belts used in airports – capable between the site and its feminine of separating up to 250 thousand titles, leveraging sales and access packages per day, according to to information. the ZIP code. 3. Launch of the weekly smartphone 11. Expansion of the five education version of CAPRICHO magazine, system brands of Abril Educação. with 5.5 million unique website 12. C o n t i n u e d l e a d e r s h i p i n t h e visitors, worlds biggest in the teen textbooks and supplementary segment; and 4.2 million fans on educational materials public facebook, also a world leader. market by Abril Educação. 4. Growth of 103% in total of unique 13. Expansion of Abril Educação’s own users of EXAME during the year, school network – with the entry in reaching 6.6 million. Brasília and Recife’s market. 5. More than 500 thousand digital 14. Strenghening of the position of subscriptions during the year, an Abril Educação in the growing increase of 275% compared to market of language education. 2012. Being 97% of them combo 15. Growth in Abril Educação results, subscriptions (print+digital). with net revenue of R$ 1,036.5 6. In 2013, Abril reached 4.9 milion million in the year, 17% higher subscriptions, following an than 2012; and net income average growth rate of 3% per year, before minority interests of over the last six years. R$ 78.9 million. 7. Production of 3.6 billion m 2 16. Development of Abril Group´s in printouts by Abril Gráfica, with 85% Sustainability Policy in late utilization of productive capacity. 2013 to guide the sustainable 8. Growth of 7% in advertising for management of the businesses out-of-home digital media in 2013 and support decision-making through Elemidia. that values innovation, 9. Integration of the logistics and considering products, services distribution companies acquired and relationships. 6 2013 Annual Report 7 ABRIL GROUP MESSAGE FROM MANAGEMENT Message from Management T he year of 2013 was tough for the communication market and a transformation and reinforcement activities in a promising scenario, with strong demand for distribution and logistics of small orders, which are period for Abril Group. We worked on finding the the company´s focus. right balance between our 60 years of experience and In Abril Educação, the year was characterized by tradition with the innovation and readiness required consolidation, with growth in the educational systems to continue performing our role in society with segment, continued leadership in textbooks and excellence: the dissemination of information, culture supplementary material for public schools, expansion and entertainment, to advance education, improve of its school network and solidification of its position in quality of life, develop free enterprise and strengthen the growing language education market. Thus, through the country´s democratic institutions. the acquisitions made in recent years, the Company has Supported by a strong foundation, all of the built a portfolio of assets that complement one another, Group´s business units (Abril Mídia, DGB and Abril with significant potential for synergies in both reducing Educação) looked to the future and during the year, costs and cross-selling to its large client base. In 2014, they constructed partnerships, acquisitions and new Abrilpar announced the partnership with Tarpon Investimentos, controlled by Fundos Tarpon, becoming opportunities. The Company sought to increase a minority shareholder of Abril Educação, the Civita efficiency and expand the activities of each of its three family remaining as the controlling shareholder. With operating segments media, logistics and distribution, the completion of the transaction, the shareholders and education in order to ensure the sustainability of have announced plans to enter the New Market the Group. (Novo Mercado). Abril Mídia announced changes to its editorial The hard work and effort performed in each of the structure, aiming to optimize efforts and investments business units throughout 2013 have guided the Group in the various segments of publication, targeting the towards management for sustainable development; growth of own titles. On the commercial front, the main positioning it to capitalize on a range of opportunities, change was the decentralization of Advertising, which is minimizing the risks of possible adverse scenarios now distributed among the business units. through the development of complementary activities This phase is taken as part of the natural and the diversity of the different areas and markets in business evolution and the Group continues with which it participates. the mission of disseminating information, with Another important aspect managed throughout editorial excellence, innovation and integrity. Thus, in the year, as usual in the performance of Abril Group, line with the reorganization process, Abril Mídia, by was the quest for sustainable management through means of its Digital Business Units established two minimization of the impact in its operations on the important initiatives in the online communication environment and and the exercise of its responsibility area, in 2013. Together with one of the largest and as a communication and education Group: stimulating most respected digital newspapers in the world, The social development. Continued support to Fundação Huffington Post, the BRASIL POST was created and Victor Civita (Foundation) has been and important part launched in early 2014. It provides users with a new of this activity. model for online communications and allows Abril to This Report presents the initiatives carried out with continue developing expertise in this area, supported this goal, comprising the activities referred to herein, by the ongoing investments in adapting to the new executed throughout the year, and the operations media landscape. The other important event was and performance of our business units. We invite our the acquisition of its first e-commerce business, the customers, employees, suppliers and society at large “Meu Espelho” website, creating synergy between its to get to know more about us over the following pages. magazines and online commerce. DGB underwent a restructuring during the year, integrating the companies acquired in recent years Enjoy the Report! to be able to respond more quickly and efficiently to Giancarlo Francesco Civita customers throughout the country. This prepared it Chairman of the Board of to maximize its potential and continue expanding its Directors of Abril Group 8 2013 Annual Report 9 ABRIL GROUP ABOUT THE REPORT About the Report G rupo Abril presents its 2013 Annual Report for the purpose of communicating to all of Scope its stakeholders the principles and commitments that guide its business, the management activities The information presented in this Report, except developed and results achieved during the year. where otherwise indicated, considers all of the Group´s business units (Media, Graphics, Logistics Once again, the Group has adopted the Global and Distribution, and Education), and the companies Reporting Initiative (GRI) framework, a global, that formed part of the corporate structure during the multi-sector and voluntary standard, which guides period from January 1 to December 31, 2013. companies in reporting information about indicators important to sustainable business development. The compilation of the information is the responsibility of Abril Group´s Annual Report Work Group, which consists of employees from different Representativity areas of the Company. They were responsible for monitoring and compiling the information related Among the Generation 4 (G4) indicators (GRI´s to the GRI indicators that have been reported. The most current reporting tool), Abril selected those of group was formed based on indications by the the greatest importance to the Group’s business and project leaders and they participated in a workshop monitored and collected information about those in order to understand the report better, its purpose, topics, as presented in this Report. objectives and the information needs required to prepare the report. These choices were based on engagement of the Group´s internal and external stakeholders, who identified the themes with the greatest potential Evolution to create impacts and opportunities regarding the sustainability of the Company, considering In addition to providing information to the feedback provided by each participant. The stakeholders on topics of interest and encouraging results of these consultations, performed with 164 engagement, Abril Group can expand the reliability representatives from the various stakeholder groups, and transparency of its operations through the provided the basis for the materiality matrix presented Report, especially since it adopted the G4 GRI below. model. It can also encourage even more involvement In order to enhance the Report´s representativity, by the internal stakeholders, promoting additional Abril continually engages with its external and internal progress in the sustainability of the business, by stakeholders on these matters, so it can continuously building awareness and implementing best practices refine the materiality matrix. in monitoring and management. 5 External stakeholders 1 Economic performance 6 Community 1 2 Employment generation 7 Market presence 4 1 3 Major impacts on 8 Indirect economic 2 3 3 4 the environment impacts 5 7 8 9 6 4 Training and education 9 Marketing communications 2 10 5 Material consumption 10 Corruption 1 1 2 3 4 5 High Medium Low 0 Internal stakeholders 10 2013 Annual Report 11 ABRIL GROUP CORPORATE PROFILE CORPORATE PROFILE 12 2013 Annual Report 13 ABRIL GROUP CORPORATE PROFILE F ounded in 1950 by Victor Civita, Abril Group began with the creation of Editora Abril, through Media and Graphics businesses; DGB, a holding company in the Logistics and Distribution segment; Editora Abril has been operating for more than 60 years in the communication and production of the introduction of DONALD DUCK magazine and Abril Educação, a publicly-traded company content and is leader in 21 out of 25 of its operating in partnership with Disney. Today, after having comprised of companies operating in the segments. Currently, it publishes 49 flagship diversified its activities and expanding its operations, education segment. magazines, read by 26 million people per year it maintains a position as one of Latin America´s The Group also has a strategic partnership with through the sale of approximately 171 million copies largest communication and education groups. CARAS magazine and maintains the Fundação Victor and four million subscriptions. The operations of the Its operating structure, which underwent a Civita, an organization that contributes in a variety Editora are organized among three business units: corporate reorganization in 2010, is based on of ways to improving the quality of the country´s VEJA, EXAME and Abril SEGMENTADAS. three pillars: Abril Mídia, which includes the primary education. Digital Businesses Unit Offering more than 90 apps for tablets and Post, one of the world’s largest and most respected smartphones, and 24 magazines for tablets, this digital newspapers. The benefit of the portal is how unit is responsible for research, development it groups and selects the main information sources and support of the Group´s digital platforms. It made available and delivers them to the reader with provides digital engineering and development, independence and speed, aligned with how the transmedia, e-commerce, infrastructure, operations internet is actually used. and digital media support. The BRASIL POST works with its own content, YouFind Solutions (formerly Alphabase), is content from other Huffington Post offerings, and Abril´s big data business. Responsible for interactive material from news agencies, other Abril vehicles and marketing solutions, it develops new experiences the publishing market. between businesses and consumers through its market intelligence, directing campaigns toward The BRASIL POST, launched in early the target audiences. Elemidia, Latin America´s 2014, resulted from the partnership largest operator of out-of-home digital media, between Abril and The Huffington provides real-time content through monitors located in malls, bars and universities, among others. Iba, Post, one of the largest and most a digital newsstand offering a virtual store for respected digital newspapers in digital content, also joined the Group. It maintains the world. the country´s largest collection of ebooks, digital magazines and newspapers. In 2013, Abril acquired a 51% stake in the e-commerce website “Meu Espelho”, specialized in beauty products. Its operations are part of the Digital Businesses Unit. This was Abril Group´s first acquisition of an e-commerce business, seeking synergy between the website and its feminine titles, leveraging sales and the access to information. Another highlight from the period was the launch of the BRASIL POST, included in the New Digital Businesses Unit, result of the partnership between Living space at Group’s head office. Abril and the American website The Huffington 14 2013 Annual Report 15 ABRIL GROUP CORPORATE PROFILE Highlights of Abril Mídia’s Performance + 1 million + 10 million copies sold unique visitors per week to the website With operations in Brazil and experience in Argentina and the United States, Abril Gráfica is the 2nd largest + 45 largest magazine printer in Latin America considering year VEJA weekly news production volume. Its structure includes a graphic In 2013, Abril Gráfica produced magazine in Provides research, history park with an area of 52.5 thousand m2, more than a 3.6 billion m2 in print, of which the world development and support for thousand employees and production of nearly 600 the Group´s digital platforms million printed copies per year. Abril Gráfica is the 55.6% represent materials from first in Brazil to have the quality of its reproduction Abril Group, which promotes Apps for tablets process certified by the Brazilian Association and smartphones Expertise in digital of Graphic Technology (ABTG), to inventory its synergy of its business to ensure Digital engineering and greenhouse gas emissions in accordance with the speed, quality and operational Businesses development, transmedia, GHG Protocol´s global methodology and to use e-commerce, infrastructure, materials that cause less impact to the environment and financial efficiency. operations and digital media as certified by the FSC (Forest Stewardship Council) Commercial and and PEFC (Program for the Endorsement of Forest publishing operations for More than 90 Apps for Certification Schemes). over 40 of Abril´s titles tablets and smartphones, and 29 magazines produced Topics cover for tablets the interests of ABRIL Abril Mídia’s almost every SEGMENTED type of reader Magazines, sites and Apps targeted to specific More than 4 million customer groups subscriptions 97% of digital subscriptions More than Most widely are combos, 500 thousand read business which also Subscriptions digital subscriptions, and economics include the with 275% growth publication in Brazil Created printed copy last year in 1967 Growth in the Around 700 subscriber base thousand readers EXAME of 14% over the bi-weekly last 6 years, around 3% per year Pedro Rubens Read by 91% of presidents of the 500 country´s largest companies (according to a survey by the Group’s Graphic Park. Ipsos-Marplan Institute) 16 2013 Annual Report 17 ABRIL GROUP CORPORATE PROFILE With a distribution and logistics structure that Treelog, through 133 regional distributors and One of the largest education companies in Constellation Fund, a Brazilian Private Fund. can reach 100% of the country, DGB is a Abril Group five branches that reach 2,200 municipalities, is Brazil focused on primary and secondary education, In 2014, Abrilpar announced the partnership with holding company. It has a vast portfolio of products one of the largest door-to-door magazine deliverers Abril Educação is one of Abril Group´s flagship Tarpon Investimentos, controlled by Fundos Tarpon, and services, ranging from point-of-sale commercial in the world. It has delivered around 520 million businesses. It has independent management and becoming a minority shareholder of Abril Educação, activities to trade marketing support. publications serving the publishing, industry and is the only publicly-traded company in the Group, the Civita family remaining as the controlling retail sectors, among others. Total Express delivers with shares listed on the São Paulo Stock Exchange shareholder. With the completion of the transaction, To ensure the competitiveness of the business, (BM&FBovespa). The Company serves public and the shareholders have announced plans to enter the 42 thousand small and medium-sized packages per which is the second largest provider of distribution private schools, offering products, content, services New Market (Novo Mercado). day in 900 municipalities throughout the country and logistics solutions in the country in its category, and technology in different segments, through (with 11 million deliveries of small packages in 2013 DGB is comprised of six companies: three of them recognized brands, in the main business segments: are dedicated to the distribution of magazines alone), supported by 38 agents and 12 branches. publishers (Ática e Scipione), primary education In recent years, Abril Educação Finally, Entrega Fácil focuses on the e-commerce (Dinap, FC Comercial and Magazine Express); one is segment, which is growing at a rate of about 25% per systems (Anglo, pH, SER, GEO and Maxi), technical has invested in acquiring different focused on distributing publications and small loads education and preparatory courses for admissions year, developing logistics, distribution and express exams (ETB – Escola Técnica do Brasil and Alfacon), types of assets, allowing its (Treelog) and the others are involved in the delivery delivery solutions. of small packages and e-commerce (Entrega Fácil schools and preparatory courses (Anglo, pH, Motivo diversified businesses to operate and Total Express). With fast growth in 2013, DGB and Sigma), and languages (Red Balloon and Grupo cohesively. It has become the Ometz, which is owner of the brands Wise Up, Wise Among the advantages of DGB´s companies, it is integrated the businesses it Up Teens and You Move). largest primary education company worth highlighting that Dinap alone serves more than acquired in order to gain Regarding the shareholder base of Abril in Brazil considering revenue, 80 publishers and the country´s most important sales efficiencies and synergies and Educação, in 2013, 29% of the shares are traded content production channels, including magazine stores, newsstands on BM&FBOVESPA (free float) under ticker symbol and bookstores. Magazine Express, specializing prepare for the ongoing expansion ABRE11 in the form of Units, 45.9% of total share and services. in the international publishing market, imports of its activities; driven by the strong capital belongs to the Civita family, 8.9% to BR and sells the most important global publications demand for distribution, logistics Investimentos, 9.6% to Flávio Augusto (original throughout the country. FC Comercial, focused on founder of Grupo Ometz) and 6.6% to the and delivery of small goods, and fast distribution of publications throughout Brazil, serves 511 clients in more than 2 thousand Brazilian the promising outlook for the cities and 29 thousand points-of-sale. e-commerce Market. 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% Editora Editora Wise Anglo pH Maxi CAEP GEO Motivo Sigma Ática Scipione Up 100% 51% 64.9% 0.01% 100% 22.7% Edumobi Jafar Nice Ei Você Red Baloon Ei Você 100% etb DGB’s fleet. 18 2013 Annual Report 19 ABRIL GROUP CORPORATE PROFILE In September 1985, Victor Civita created the The NOVA ESCOLA magazine is the largest Educador Nota 10 is the main Foundation initiative Victor Civita Foundation, in order to help improve education magazine in the country and for 28 years for valuating the work of teachers and disseminating and modernize education in Brazil, by applying its it has been contributing to the improvement of educational practices that impacted the quality of NOVA ESCOLA greatest expertise the production of editorial content teachers’ work in the classrooms. In print and digital student learning. In 16 years, more than 50 thousand • More than 520 thousand copies circulated monthly1; with consistency and quality, to disseminate it to all editions, it brings educational practices and relevant projects have been registered, 181 educators awarded • 1.8 million readers, mainly teachers and administrators2; teachers and schools in Brazil. information for both early childhood education and and over R$2 million in prizes were distributed. • 1.1 million unique visitors per month to the online Today, with the mission of contributing to for primary education. The magazine’s website has The area of Estudos e Pesquisas raises elements version; and 70 million page views per year3; improving the quality of Brazilian primary education, the largest pedagogical resource bank of the country. to investigate relevant issues and submit suggestions • Over 400 thousand fans on Facebook4; the Foundation develops initiatives focused on In bimonthly digital editions, the GESTÃO to help address the challenges of the Brazilian Basic • 2.1 million views on YouTube channel5; training and appreciation of teachers and school ESCOLAR magazine highlights what all managers Education. The evidences surveyed since 2007, in • 76% of readers state that at some point, they changed need to know to improve the day-by-day at their 20 investigations of great scope, have influenced the their classroom practice because of an article they administrators, as well as improving public school. One of the greatest education magazines in debate and decisions about practices, methodologies, read at NOVA ESCOLA6; policies. Among them, Brazil’s two major education the country, the publication is devoted to matters of research and public education policies in Brazil. magazines – NOVA ESCOLA and GESTÃO ESCOLAR their respective websites, the Prêmio Victor Civita interest to school principals, coordinators and school Recently, the Victor Civita Foundation created Educador Nota 10 (Victor Civita Award – Grade 10 counselors. Launched in 2013, its website covers all online courses: Fomento à Leitura (promotion of areas of expertise of these professionals. reading) and Didáticas da Matemática (teaching Teacher), and Estudos e Pesquisas Educacionais mathematics), aimed at teachers and administrators (Educational Studies and Research Department). Created in 1998, the Prêmio Victor Civita of early childhood education and early elementary education, thus helping to improve the qualification and training of Brazilian educators. GESTÃO ESCOLAR • 50 thousand copies circulated bi-monthly1; • 110 thousand unique visitors per month to the online version and 5 million page views per year3; • Over 59 thousand fans on Facebook4; • 88% of readers say that GESTÃO ESCOLAR magazine contributes to the planning of their activities6. Raoni Maddalena Winners of Victor Civita Award Grade 10 Teacher. Raoni Maddalena 1 Paid + free circulation – IVC (Jan to Dec/2013 average) 4 Facebook – December 2013 2 Marplan Readers Brazil 2013 Projection versus paid 5 Youtube – December 2013 + free circulation IVC (Jan to Dec/2013 average) 6 Tracking Ipsos 2013 Grade 10 Teacher and students at classroom. 3 Google Analytics (Jan to Dec/2013) 20 2013 Annual Report 21 ABRIL GROUP CORPORATE PROFILE TIMELINE 2000 to 2005 The arrival of the year 2000 was marked by the launch 1950 of NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC Brazil and the GUIA Editora Abril is founded with the launch of DONALD 2006 to 2009 DE BOA CIDADANIA CORPORATIVA, by EXAME DUCK magazine, beginning a partnership with Disney that 1960 to 1970 In 2006, a partnership with the Naspers Group was Magazine, as well as the creation of Idealyze Produções, has lasted until today, and Abril Gráfica – SAIB (Sociedade Distribuidora Abril was founded during this period, whiformed, Abril Digital was created and the first edition the partnership with Fundação SOS Mata Atlântica in Anônima Impressora Brasileira) commences its activities. ch gave rise to Dinap (Distribuição Nacional de Publicaof the Prêmio Saúde (Health Award) took place. In the the Clickarvore project, and inauguration of the Teatro ções), and in 1964, SAIB´s Graphic Park on Marginal TieAbril. In addition, Dinap introduced the Campaign following year, Abril focused on sustainability: PLANETA 1970 to 1980 tê was inaugurated. In addition, the decade was marked for the Disarmament of Children, and the Prêmio SUSTENTÁVEL was created, Abril´s first Sustainable In the early 1970´s, EXAME, which had previously by the launch of the publications CLAUDIA, still a refePlaneta Casa (Earth is our Home Award) was created. Media (SM) outlet, SUPERINTERESSANTE published just been a supplement in technical publications, was rence among feminine content; REALIDADE, reaching In 2003, Abril signed-on to the Global Compact, a its first green edition and the name of the GUIA DE launched as an independent magazine; ENCICLOPÉDIA a circulation of 250 thousand in three days; VEJA, the larUN initiative to mobilize the international community BOA CIDADANIA CORPORATIVA was changed to ABRIL was born, and Círculo do Livro was founded. gest weekly news magazine in Brazil and second largest around the adoption of its basic principles in the areas GUIA EXAME DE SUSTENTABILIDADE. In 2007, the Midway through the decade, EXAME´s annual in the world; RECREIO, focused on school-age children; of human rights, labor relations, the environment and Foundation created the Estudos e Pesquisas Educacionais publication OS MELHORES E OS MAIORES was PLACAR, in the soccer segment; and QUATRO RODAS. anti-corruption; launched the Concerto Bons Fluídos (Educational Studies and Research Department), and in launched; the first edition of the ALMANAQUE ABRIL event in benefit of culture and well-being; completed 2009, launched the GESTÃO ESCOLAR magazine. In was published by Editora´s Documentation Department; the acquisition of the publishers Ática and Scipione; 2009, the Group acquired all of Viacom Inc.´s shares 1980 to 1990 of MTV Brasil, held the First Abril Suppliers Meeting, and Programa Alfa was introduced, providing kits to introduced the Revisteca project through Dinap, and In 1982, TV Abril´s first program, NOVA MULHER, launched the Young World Program and developed other support children’s literacy. The Group´s first international in 2005, launched the Programa Contribui (Contribute aired on TV Bandeirantes. Abril Video was created in initiatives and achievements in the area of sustainability: company was founded in 1980, with the creation of Program), which promotes engagement on the part of the following year, an independent producer of teAbril joined the Companies for Climate (EPC) platform, Editora Abril Morumbi in Portugal. Gráfica´s employees. levision programs, and the GUIA DO ESTUDANTE prepared its first Socio-Environmental Report and was introduced. In the mid-80´s, Listel, a telephone published the first sustainable edition of VEJA; Abril 1990 to 1995 directory publisher, began its operations, as did the 2010 and 2011 Gráfica obtained the PEFC certification (Program for the 1990 was marked by the founding of Editora Abril Cinco, Fundação Victor Civita (FCV), which today supports In 2010, Abril Group assumed a controlling interest in Endorsement of Forest Certification), the PLAR Program by creating Abril Panini (in association with the Italian improvement of the quality of primary education in Elemidia and inventoried greenhouse gas emissions (Clean Production, Responsible Attitude) was launched company Panini), and by the launch of MTV Brazil, the Brazil. In the following years, Editora Azul was crea(GHG) for the year, in accordance with the GHG and the Group joined the WBCSD (World Business country´s first segmented broadcaster. In the years that ted, focusing on segmented publications; the NOVA Protocol methodology. In the same year, Abril Educação Council for Sustainable Development). followed, Editorial Primavera and Vídeo Print were created, ESCOLA and SALA DE AULA magazines were launwas spun-off as a separate entity from Abril Mídia, marking the official beginning of TVA´s broadcasts. ched, both published by the FVC; SUPERINTERESwith 100% of the capital provided by the Civita family. SANTE magazine was launched and Editorial PriAfterwards, a new partner (BR Educacional) contributed 2012 and 2013 mavera was created, a subsidiary of Abril in Spain. capital to help support the new Company´s first In 2012, 100% of Elemidia was acquired, DGB´s new 1996 to 1999 In 1998 the Prêmio Victor Civita Educador Nota 10 acquisitions, Anglo, etb and pH. Treelog launched the warehouse was inaugurated, VEJA BH was launched In 1996, Datalistas was founded, the Group´s marketing (Victor Civita Award – Grade 10 Teacher) was created Right Direction Program, and the green edition of VIDA and the Group´s head office received the LEED Seal company, and the Prêmio Claudia and Directv Brazil were by the Victor Civita Foundation. SIMPLES magazine and the 1967 censored edition of (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design), a created. At the same time, Abril entered digital media REALIDADE magazine were both published. In 2011, certification for buildings that incorporate features to with the launch of BOL (Brazil Online), which was later Abril Educação held its IPO on BM&FBovespa and minimize environmental impacts. In 2013, the Group incorporated by UOL. Subsequently, Musiclub was the Group introduced Entrega Fácil. It also published acquired the Meu Espelho website, which is involved created, a partnership between Abril and Universal to the first socio-environmental table for a magazine in the e-commerce of Cosmetics and beauty products, sell CDs by catalog; the Abril Music recording company and the first Abril Group Activities, Performance and developed the partnership with the Huffington Post to was introduced and VEJA na Sala de Aula was launched, Sustainability Report, based on the guidelines of the launch the BRASIL POST portal in Brazil and entered into published by FVC. In 1999, TVA launched @Jato, Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). In addition, the Group a partnership with I-Behavior, a provider of marketing the country´s first cable internet provider; the Group acquired Total Express; MTV and the local community databases and behavioral targeting services. Also during acquired the publishers Ática and Scipione; Abril created restored a soccer field in Morro dos Prazeres, Rio de the year, DGB acquired 100% of Total Express and Abril a partnership with the publisher Símbolo and the Group Janeiro; and Abril Gráfica introduced the rotogravure Educação concluded its acquisitions of WiseUp, from the introduced its volunteer program, Mãos à Obra. printer Cerutti VII. Motivo School, and the Centro Educacional Sigma. 22 2013 Annual Report 23 ABRIL GROUP CORPORATE PROFILE Market Scenario More than 60 years ago, during a time in which Furthermore, the study shows that 47% of BraziAccording to the latest study by ABIGRAF The report also found that only 0.4% of Brazilian there were fewer sources of information (newspalians consider the internet to be a means for commu(Brazilian Association for the Graphic Industry), printing companies are large companies, while 78.6% pers, magazines, books and some radio and televinication. As a result, given the rise in popularity, a industrial graphic production totaled R$ 44 billion are micro-enterprises. Thus, Abril Gráfica occupies a sion stations), and technology was still a very long new type of consumer has emerged, demanding new in 2012. Of this total, 29.2% related to published privileged position in a small niche of the market. It way from today´s digital age, Abril was founded with platforms and better media planning. material (books, magazines, manuals and guides), is the largest printer of magazines in Latin America a focus on the production and dissemination of Within this new scenario, Abril Group continuouthe second largest segment in the market, trailing by production volume, with operations in Brazil and content using practices not yet common in Brazil. sly refreshes its strategy for the sustainability of its only packaging production. experience in Argentina and the United States. Currently, the content market is at a very different businesses. Abril Mídia will focus its investments on stage, characterized by the immediacy and breadth the production and dissemination of multi-platform of information made possible by the internet. content, offering the Group´s quality no matter where According to a survey conducted by IBOPE relethe consumer may be located. ased in November 2013, over the last 10 years, the internet has grown 129% in Brazil and 121% in Latin America. Today, in Brazil, 4% of the population owns a tablet, 16% a smartphone and 31% have cellular phones with internet access. The transport and logistics sector has a strong Another important factor in understanding the relationship to GDP, since it serves nearly all sectors industry scenario is the change in operating model of the economy. Accompanying GDP, which grew by due to the reduction in inventories (resulting from 2.3% in 2013, the transport/distribution sector grew the increase in quantity and items, reduction in sales Multi-task Multiple platforms by 10.4% in the period, despite the continuing need areas and shorter product lifecycles) and the growth for more investments in infrastructure. of e-commerce. Thus, distribution and logistics actiSince 1975, federal public spending in transportavities have been required to handle smaller and more tion infrastructure, as a percentage of GDP, fell from frequent deliveries. 1.84% to 0.29% in 2012. After decades in which these DGB ensures its positioning in this challenging investments were below 1% of GDP per year, signienvironment by providing distribution and logistics ficant investments were forecasted for the transport services across 100% of the country, an extensive Interaction Convergence sector in 2013. However, only two airport and five portfolio of products and services (from commercial highway tenders were held during the year under the activities in retail outlets through trade marketing suInvestment in Logistics Program (PIL) released in pport) and its strategic positioning in growth sectors 2012 (compared to the original concession plan of such as e-commerce. nine highways, twelve rail segments, two airports and four port lease lots). 24 2013 Annual Report 25 ABRIL GROUP CORPORATE PROFILE The activities of Abril Educação take place at Market for Technical Education Market for Prep Courses for Civil Service Exams Market for Learning Languages different segments of the education sector in Brazil, as follows: Technical Education in Brazil has been growing by The market for civil service exams preparation This market consists of private school networks, two digits for some years now. Recently, such growth generates gross revenue of about R$ 1.0 billion with the main schools operating franchises, and has Market for Educational Systems received another stimulus with the implementation per year, including textbook sales, according to been growing at a rate of 10-15% in revenue over the of the Federal Government´s PRONATEC program, the ANPAC (National Association of Protection last three years. The most popular course in Brazil which offers scholarships to students seeking better and Support for Competitive Processes in the is English, followed by Spanish. English language The trend of implementing educational systems qualifications for the job market. Abril Educação Public Sector). Abril Educação has been involved penetration in Brazil is still very low (3%) when in both private and public schools is on the rise, took the lead through its investment in etb in 2011, in this market since 2012, when it acquired control compared to other countries. forming part of a scenario in which there is a demand developing a Technical Education System with more of Alfacon and began developing, producing and Abril Educação believes there to be significant for education of proven quality associated with than 30 courses. Today, it is being used by 85 large coordinating preparatory courses for civil service growth opportunities in this segment due to the recognized brands. This segment has high growth institutions, including a number of Universities exams. It offers distance-learning courses through increase in family incomes, growing demand for potential due to low penetration in public schools, throughout the country that is now offering video-classes over the internet. professionals with proficiency in English and the the growing number of private schools in Brazil, these courses. In 2013, more than 130 thousand public service need for workers in the tourism, hotel, restaurant, in which Educational Systems are more frequently used, and because they represent an efficient solution job vacancies were filled, increase of 44.4% compared transport and related sectors with Brazil hosting the for providing high quality in a market where a very Market for Private Schools and Prep to 2012, with around 13 million applicants. ANPAC 2014 World Cup and 2016 Olympics. limited number of teachers are dedicated full-time. Courses for University Entrance Exams estimates that approximately 12 million individuals sign-up for civil service exams in Brazil each year, and In 2012, primary education represented 89.9% according to the Ministry of Planning, Budget and Market for Textbook Publishers Management, about 30% of the jobs available do not of total students enrolled in institutions accredited by the country´s Ministry of Education. The 38.8 require a college education. Furthermore, according In 2013, the Company took over In 2013, more than 150 million textbooks were to the IOB Institute – that offers civil service exams sold throughout Brazil, about 5.5% more than 2012 thousand private schools served 8.6 million students preparation about 60% of civil servants will retire the activities of the SIGA brand, in Brazil. The number of students in private schools according to our estimates. In 2013, total gross increased by 4.0% compared to 2011 and 2012, over the next ten years, which could increase the acquired in 2010 together with revenue earned by publishers of textbooks and number of positions available and the related exams. related material was estimated at R$ 2.17 billion. resulting from both social mobility and expansion In 2013 alone, more than 15 thousand civil servants Anglo, and began coordinating of the middle class. Within this context, Abril The combined market share of the publishers Ática Educação expanded its own network of schools, and retired, and the estimates are for 41 thousand content for live civil service exams and Scipione by volume of textbooks sold to the positions being made available in 2014, with 400 public sector was 22% in 2013, according to figures its portfolio consists of courses and schools that thousand by 2016. preparation courses. In the same continue to show excellent approval rates in the tests, published by the FNDE. In the private sector for competitive processes and admissions exams of Given this scenario, and having established itself year, Alfacon sold over 90 thousand textbooks and related material, the Companies in the market by offering excellence in education, continued at the number two spot, only half a top universities. Alfacon has been responsible for high approval rates online courses, a tool offering virtual percentage point behind the leader. and job placements in key positions. As examples, classes geared towards different Alfacon prepared three of the highest ranked individuals in Banco do Brasil´s entrance exam and admissions exams in Brazil. obtained the highest national approval rates on the registrar position exams for the Federal Police, Federal Highway Police and São Paulo State Court. 26 2013 Annual Report 27 ABRIL GROUP CORPORATE PROFILE Strategies and Competitive Advantages Content with credibility always Strategy: with the change in how information Casa Cor events are held in 25 cities throughout is accessed, the Company disseminates quality the year, are part of the official city calendars content across multiple platforms, meeting the where they are held, and stimulate business F or Abril, 2013 was characterized by the restructuring of the Group and a new outlook for Today, Abril Mídia, DGB and Abril Educação are the backbone driving the Group´s continuity, needs of millions of Brazilians in the language, media and speed that best suits them; not just through its printed magazines, which continue to be the activity by providing opportunities for both businesses and professionals. the operation, in which greater importance will be supported by a solid operating structure, experience preference of a majority of readers, but also through In Abril Mídia, it is also worth mentioning placed on the interdependency of its operational and the market penetration achieved since it initiated websites, tablets, smartphones and out-of-home Abril Gráfica’s potential derived from a number of pillars, which is critical to the sustainability of the its activities. digital media. competitive advantages over its competitors. It has business. It will also seek to exploit niches with high modern technology that ensures the consistency growth potential as it adapts to the global Competitive advantages: of the printing plates with those received from macroeconomic environment. • Comprised of Editora Abril, its Digital Businesses customers so that it can generate copies in the Unit, Abril Gráfica and Casa Cor, Abril Mídia has quantity and quality required. a comprehensive structure consisting of content production, printing, support for digital platforms, Quality and speed interactive marketing solutions and running outof-home digital media; Competitive advantages: • Through its publications, Editora Abril is the leader in 21 of the 25 segments in which it • The only one in Latin America with rotogravure operates. It is responsible for publishing VEJA printing for publications; magazine, which is currently the most widely read • Optimization of magazine production and magazine in Brazil and second most widely read printing quality guaranteed by entirely filmless weekly news magazine in the world; operation, generation of CTP plates (computer• By the end of 2013, 29 titles had been released to-plate) and Electromechanical Recording for the iOS, Android and PC platforms; more of Cylinders; than 520 thousand digital magazines were being • Structure permits daily, weekly, bi-monthly and delivered each month and 80 thousand iPAD monthly production of material through high and subscriptions had been received for VEJA alone; medium-capacity runs, in a wide range of formats • An increase of 14% in subscriptions over the last and paper types; six years, an average increase of 3% per year, • Latest technology allows a wide range of material reaching a total of 4.9 million subscriptions; to be published, from scented to gifts, colors and • In 2013, the milestone of half a million digital the use of special formats in the publications. subscriptions was reached, representing growth of 275% compared to 2012. Of these 500 thousand subscriptions, 97% opted for the “print + digital” combo, demonstrating how these media complement one another and the loyalty of the readers; • The Editora produces different content for magazines and websites, offering innovation and interactivity. Moreover, it offers online Apps, both free and paid, with some of them among the most widely downloaded and sold; • Casa Cor is internationally recognized as the largest event in architecture and decoration in the Americas and second largest worldwide. Abril Mídia’s publications shown at Group’s head office. 28 2013 Annual Report 29 ABRIL GROUP CORPORATE PROFILE and gaining efficiency. Fast and efficient delivery Strategy: DGB is comprised of six companies each Continuous investment and growth with with various profiles in logistics and distribution, quality and strength delivering express shipments through medium-sized cargo for both B2B (business-to-business) and B2C Strategy: Abril Educação serves public and private (business-to-customer). schools, offering solutions that can improve the quality of Brazilian education resulting in high customer Competitive advantages: loyalty. It has made strategic acquisitions and now has 15 companies. After the growth achieved by the • Offers different services such as receipt, acquisitions, Abril Educação now has a strategy of sorting, storage, checking, packaging, labeling, consolidating its evolution by exploiting synergies distribution, handling, customization, kitting and Vehicle of DGB fleet. among the educational systems; brand positioning; information management, among others; new school openings; and strengthening its leadership • Integrated distribution network covers all of in language education through organic growth. Brazil, with weekly trips to all regions; • Daily deliveries to eight state capitals as well as Campinas and Santos (SP), delivering three times Competitive advantages: per week to a number of other cities; • One of the largest companies in Brazil’s primary • With the unification of the distributors, DGB • In 2013 alone, 124.5 million publications were education sector, with a portfolio that can delivers magazines, small and medium-sized delivered door-to-door and 520 million loose meet the requirements of all schools wanting products and e-commerce, optimizing processes copies were delivered throughout Brazil; to improve the quality of education offered, including traditional and digital content, educational technology, language education, technical education and other complementary services. No other company in the sector offers such a diverse portfolio; • Abril Educação brands are well known, respected Abril Educação, one of the largest education companies in Brazil, focused on primary and secondary education. and associated with exceptional academic results. The brand platforms lend credibility to the In 2014, Abrilpar announced the partnership Group’s solutions and facilitate their adoption by with Tarpon Investimentos, controlled by Fundos the institutions; Tarpon, becoming a minority shareholder of • The Abril Educação Initial Public Offering (IPO), Abril Educação, the Civita family remaining as in July 2011, provided a solid capital structure, the controlling shareholder. With the completion adequate in light of the Company’s objectives. of the transaction, the shareholders have The Company is listed on the Corporate announced plans to enter the New Market Governance Level 2 segment of BM&FBovespa. (Novo Mercado). Packaging, labeling, handling and distribution at DGB. 30 2013 Annual Report 31 ABRIL GROUP GOVERNANCE AND PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE AND PERFORMANCE 32 2013 Annual Relatório Report Anual 2013 3333 ABRIL GROUP GOVERNANCE AND PERFORMANCE Corporate Governance The Abril Mídia Board of Directors is made up of members of the Civita family and the South African media group, Naspers. The President is responsible for the media, printing and reports to the Board, which maintains Audit and Risk Committees to monitor accounting and financial management. The members are as follows: Board of Directors Chairman Giancarlo Francesco Civita Member Roberta Anamaria Civita G rupo Abril has implemented appropriate governance structures for its Companies based on Best Governance Practices disseminated by the Brazilian Institute of Corporate Governance (IBGC). The composition Member Andre Coetzee Member Victor Civita Neto More than 520 thousand digital magazines delivered each month. Member Hein Brand of the Group’s management and corporate governance bodies in 2013 is shown below. Board of Executive Officers President Fábio Colletti Barbosa Managing Director of the VEJA Business Unit Thais Chede Soares Managing Director of the EXAME Business Unit Claudia Vassallo Managing Director of the Abril SEGMENTED Business Unit Helena Bagnoli Managing Director of the Digital Businesses Unit Manoel Lemos Director of Subscriptions Fernando Costa Superintendent Director of Abril Gráfica Eduardo Costa Abrilpar, the Civita family’s holding company, controls Abril Mídia and maintains a controlling stake in Abril Director of Casa Cor Angelo Derenze Educação, in addition to a number of other ventures. The management structure is as follows: Director for Government Relations Angela Rehem Director of Human Resources Cibele Castro President Giancarlo Francesco Civita Director of Editorial Planning Elda Muller Legal Vice President Arnaldo Figueiredo Tibyriçá Corporate IT Director Claudio Prado CFO, and CEO of DGB Douglas Duran Director of Corporate Relations Meire Fidelis Audit Director Thomaz Roberto Scott Member Marcelo Vaz Bonini Since DGB was formed in 2009, the Company has been developing a corporate governance structure based on experienced management in the logistics and distribution segment, reinforcing its growth potential. Board of Executive Officers CEO Douglas Duran Superintendent Director of Publications Fernando Mathias Superintendent Director of Small Packages Vito Chiarella DGB: distribution and logistics structure that can reach 100% of the country. 34 2013 Annual Report 35 ABRIL GROUP GOVERNANCE AND PERFORMANCE Abril Educação is publicly traded and complies with the Level 2 Corporate Governance requirements of BM&FBovespa. It has a Board of Directors, Board of Executive Officers and four Committees: a Finance Committee, which advises the Board on matters related to financial supervision and investment plans; Human Resources Committee, which supports the Board in formulating Personnel Policies aimed at recruiting, developing and retaining key talent in the Company; Committee for Quality and Educational Technology, which helps formuThe Fundação Victor Civita is a non-profit organization, presenting several initiatives and relies on late strategies and initiatives aimed at maintaining high levels of quality in the Company and its competitive contributions from Abril Group, Grupo Gerdau and a number of different partners. Its governance structure advantage in educational technology; and the Integration and Synergy Committee, which monitors integration consists of a Board of Trustees. activities in the portfolio of acquired companies. In 2014, Abrilpar announced the partnership with Tarpon Investimentos, controlled by Fundos Tarpon, becoBoard of Trustees ming a minority shareholder of Abril Educação, the Civita family remaining as the controlling shareholder. With the Chairman Victor Civita Neto Member Fábio Colletti Barbosa completion of the transaction, the shareholders have announced plans to enter the New Market (Novo Mercado). Vice Chairman Roberta Anamaria Civita Member Jorge Gerdau Johannpeter The Company also has a Supervisory Board composed of five members, two of whom represent the Member Giancarlo Francesco Civita Member Manoel Luiz Ferrão de Amorim minority shareholders. Member Beatriz Gerdau Johannpeter Member Marcos Magalhães Member Claudio de Moura Castro Board of Directors Chairman Giancarlo Francesco Civita Vice Chairman Manoel Luiz Ferrão de Amorim Supervisory Board Member Victor Civita Neto Member Alexandre Cunha Bagnoli Member Douglas Duran Member Eduardo Khair Chalita Member Paulo Roberto Nunes Guedes Member Xavier Abdon de Sousa Member Arnaldo Figueiredo Tibyriçá Member Leonardo Rocha Member Florian Bartunek Member Marcos Bastos Rocha Independent Advisor Marcos Antônio Magalhães Independent Advisor Maria Helena Guimarães de Castro Board of Executive Officers CEO Mário Ghio Strategic Planning and Performance Management Director Daniela Menusier Executive Director for Marketing, Sales and Institutional Communication Elzimar Albuquerque Executive Director Content & Innovation René Agostinho Human Resource Officer Carlos Toledo Language Business VP Júlio de Angeli Pedagogical Services and Relationship VP Ivan Sartori Filho Educational Operations VP João Lacerda Chief Financial, Administrative Officer and Investor Relations Officer Guilherme Mélega Marcelo Almeida In 2013, more than 150 million textbooks were sold throughout Brazil. The Victor Civita Foundation’s mission is to contribute to improving the quality of primary education in Brazil. 36 2013 Annual Report 37 ABRIL GROUP GOVERNANCE AND PERFORMANCE Operational and Financial Performance I n 2013, net revenue of Abril Comunicações Distribution of Net Revenue Value Added totaled R$ 2.7 billion, almost four times higher than (R$ million) Distribution of value added in 2013 (in thousands of reais) 2012, when it amounted to R$ 724.3 million. Abril Educação registered net revenue of R$ 1.0 billion, up Net Abril Mídia DGB Abril Educação 17% year-over-year. Share (%) Revenue Payroll and related charges 593,653 113,001 172,366 Abril has been focusing on its priority businesses, reducing costs by reviewing and streamlining Printing 154.1 5.6 Taxes, fees and contributions 373,894 224,038 116,475 processes, reorganizing the corporate structure, Distribution 1,136.3 41.6 Remuneration of third party capital 201,192 23,349 134,923 prioritizing investments, selling non-strategic Media 1,442.9 52.8 Remuneration of own capital -174,036 -76,398 98,123 assets, looking for new sources of financing Abrilcom (ASA) 2,733.3 100.0 Total 994,703 283,990 521,887 and renegotiating short-term debt. During 2013, some of the short-term credit lines were renegotiated and extended with the banks, in addition to the renegotiation of financial ratios on its borrowings to reflect the Company’s actual cash flows Net Revenue of the Group vs. indebtedness. (R$ million) FINEM Balance Abril Educação recorded operating profit of R$ Government incentives (in thousands of reais) 207.0 million, up 11% compared to 2012. Adjusted EBITDA (operating profit before depreciation and Net Abril Mídia, DGB and some of its subsidiaries Share (%) 2012 2013 Revenue have credit facilities with interest subsidized by amortization) amounted to R$ 311.9 million, up 23% year-over-year, and the EBITDA margin was 30%, up Educação 1,036.5 28.0 the BNDES program known as FINEM Financing Abril Mídia 24,481 27,166 and Investments. In this respect, it is worth noting 1p.p. for the same period. Net income before minority Abril Group 3,699.8 DGB 14,125 9,280 that the Government does not have a stake in interests totaled R$ 78.9 million in the period. the Company. Abril Educação 42,066 38,923 1. Consistent with the Financial Statement presentation, the results are split between Abril Comunicações (which includes the results of Abril Midia and DGB and all of its subsidiaries). 38 2013 Annual Report 39 ABRIL GROUP CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORE RELATIONSHIPS 40 2013 Annual Report 41 ABRIL GROUP CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Group Conduct Beyond financial capacity and the strength of the Complaints, questions and other demands in readministrative contracts arising from the sale of eduinfrastructure, the continuity of a company, especially Termo de Compromisso Abril Group Código de lation to this topic and the actions of the Group´s cational systems and related products to governmenthe size of Abril Group, is linked to the management Code do stakeholders can be made by phone or email and as tal entities are reviewed by a dedicated team from the Declaro que recebi o Código de Conduta do Grupo Abril e entendi of the people and the manner in which the company a sua importância, o seu conteúdo e as consequências dele para a Conduta part of newsletters, the website and intranet. ComLegal Department. It evaluates the material in light of empresa e para mim. conducts its businesses. This is why expressions Comprometo-me a seguir os princípios éticos estabelecidos pela of Conduct Grupo Abril plaints and inquiries are treated confidentially by the market practices and the terms of the corresponding such as “teamwork” and “valuing people” form part empresa no meu dia a dia profissional e em meu ambiente de trabalho. corporate Compliance department, which registers requests for proposal. In 2013, this process was resof the Group’s principles and values. and forwards its decisions to the Conduct Commitponsible for the legal validation of 35 administrative To guide and share these principles with employeNome: ___________________________________________________ _________________________________________________________ tee, comprised of the CEO of Abril Mídia, Fábio Colcontracts or amendments that will be executed in es and partners, the Group has implemented a Code Área: ____________________________________________________ letti Barbosa, the Director of Human Resources, Ci2014. Moreover, in 2013, the company did not identify of Conduct, which is available in both printed and UN: _____________________________________________________ bele Castro, and the Audit Director, Thomaz Roberto any cases of corruption with respect to the contracts. digital versions. The code is continuously made puChapa: _____________________ Data: _______/_______/_______ Scott. During 2013, 47 questions related to the Code blic in Abril´s internal communications vehicles and Assinatura: _______________________________________________ of Conduct were sent to the Committee, the same Internal Audit Monitoring as part of the workshop “Inside the Code of ConEste documento deve ser preenchido, assinado, destacado e enviado ao Atendimento RH, que o arquivará em seu prontuário funcional. amount as 2012. duct”, in addition to an e-learning program for new employees available on the intranet. The Group’s Corporate Internal Audit function, The Code deals with matters such as the respontogether with the legal team, monitors the processes sibilities of leaders and employees, the work environGovernmental entities for contracting suppliers, granting licenses for events, ment, relationships with shareholders, customers, paying commissions, sponsorships and donations. suppliers, partners, third parties, the media, unions Due to the nature of its business, Abril Educação This allows it to identify and mitigate risks related and other organizations, and provides guidance on has an internal control system over the legal aspects to corruption. corruption, bribery and conflicts of interest. Moreorelated to doing business with the public sector. All ver, given its commitment to disseminating inforFor questions, complaints and other mation and knowledge among Brazilians, the Code demands related to the Code of also provides guidance on impartiality and fairness in dealing with political parties, to which the Group has Conduct, the Group has channels not made any financial contributions in 2013. available that include email In Abril Educação, 214 employees were trained through the “Inside the Code of Conduct” program, codigodeconduta@abril.com.br and of which 86% took the course through e-learning. In the hotline 0800 772 2745, available Abril Mídia, 1,201 employees were trained, of which nearly all (99.3%) through e-learning. At DGB, 216 Monday to Friday from 9:00am to employees were trained, all through online platform. 12:00pm and 2:00pm to 6:00pm. Mid-day Cultural Discussions, promoted by Abril Group. 42 2013 Annual Report 43 ABRIL GROUP CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 2013 2012 Abril Abril EduAbril Abril EduDGB DGB Mídia cação Mídia cação Employees by employment contract Temporary 31 1 0 43 2 N/A CLT 4,057 2,538 2,120 4,457 1,361 2,115 Interns 308 41 33 380 39 49 Valuing diversity Employees by type of employment 8h 4,057 2,538 N/A 4,457 1,361 N/A For Abril Group, 2013 was marked by acquisitions, restructuring activities and new perspectives, which resulted in an increase in the number of employees. On December 31 of the current year, there were 9,129 employees 6h 339 42 N/A 423 41 N/A in the Group, 8.1% more than at the end of 2012 when the total was 8,446. Employees by shift type Without timecard (everyone has 2,363 524 N/A 4,880 1,402 N/A their timecard, regardless of clock-in/out) With timecard 2,033 2,056 0 0 0 0 (started in Dec/13) Total Number of employees in Abril Group3 Employees by region South 38 22 0 37 1 0 Southeast 4,307 2,390 2,090 4,818 1,365 2,097 Abril Midwest 50 8 0 24 8 0 Mídia DGB Abril Northeast 1 160 63 1 28 67 Educação Employees by level of education Doctorate 6 0 139 7 0 N/A University incomplete 816 236 549 971 214 N/A University complete 1,599 251 637 1,867 215 N/A MBA 12 3 6 16 4 N/A 2012 Total: 8,446 4,880 1,402 2,164 Post-graduate 335 64 96 411 73 N/A Master's degree 18 1 41 26 0 N/A Abril High school 1,171 1,511 514 1,247 611 N/A Mídia DGB Abril High school incomplete 124 208 44 135 84 N/A Educação Primary schooling complete 139 210 43 138 148 N/A Primary schooling incomplete 161 91 95 55 50 N/A No schooling 3 2 N/A 7 3 N/A Undefined 12 3 N/A 0 0 N/A Employees by age 2013 Total: 9,129 4,396 2,580 2,153 Under 18 27 12 N/A 49 2 N/A 18 to 35 2,448 1,695 1,142 2,702 789 N/A 36 to 45 1,131 565 568 1,282 366 N/A 46 to 60 703 281 377 761 224 N/A Above 60 87 27 77 86 21 N/A 3. Indicators about the workforce cover own employees only. The Abril Educação indicators include Editora Àtica, Editora Scipione, Anglo, N/A: information is monitored using different consolidation parameters. The Group is working on standardizing the monitoring procedures pH, and corporative. in order to present more complete information. 44 2013 Annual Report 45 ABRIL GROUP CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Workforce by gender in Abril Group 2013 Apprentices Regarding equal opportunity for both genders, Workforce women’s participation in the Group´s workforce re5,467 by Workforce gender by gender mained virtually unchanged, accounting for 40.1% in in Abril Group 2013 3,662 The valuing of differences is a consistent part of in Abril Group 2013 Abril Abril 2013 and 42.4% in 2012. To create a favorable enviDGB the agenda in all of the Group´s companies. As such, Mídia Educação ronment for gender diversity, free of discrimination, diversity management practices have undergone imFemale 24 39 N/A provements, with important advances made in 2013. the Group´s policies promote gender equality and The Group considers the same color and race caopportunities for its employees to discuss and becoMale Female Male 24 20 N/A me more aware of issues relevant to the empower5,467 tegories used by the Brazilian Institute of Geography 5,467 3,662 Total 51 43 N/A and Statistics (IBGE) in its diversity profiles. This ment of women – including pregnancy and contra3,662 Quota reallows for analysis of demographic profiles in the reception, combat of domestic violence against women 77 106 N/A and children and the encouragement of responsible quired by law gions where the Group operates. fathering. From a career point of view, performance appraiMale Female sals are based on transparent criteria and objectives Male Female that are identical for both men and women, as are the opportunities for training and promotion. Employees by color/race Workforce by gender in Abril Group 2012 2013 2012 Abril Group is a supporting partner Abril DGB Abril Abril DGB Abril of the Brazil WEP award (Women`s Mídia Educação Mídia Educação Empowerment Principles), recognized Indigenous 4 0 2 4 0 2 4,869 by Workforce gender by both the Global Compact and UN Workforce by gender 3,577 Asian 72 10 25 76 9 32 in Abril Group 2012 Black 578 1,304 146 636 440 146 Women. The award encourages and in Abril Group 2012 White 3,692 1,106 1,969 4,147 890 1,984 recognizes companies that invest in Undeclared 50 160 11 17 63 0 the empowerment of women. Male Female 4,869 4,869 3,577 3,577 Male Female Male Female N/A: information is monitored using different consolidation parameters. The Group is working on standardizing the monitoring procedures in order to present more complete information. 46 2013 Annual Report 47 ABRIL GROUP CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Employees by category Human Resource Management The Human Resources area also underwent a 2013 2012 major restructuring, having revised its policies and Female Male Female Male practices, especially with regard to the performance Abril Mídia and retention of talent. Beyond the diversity related Operational (Other levels) 1,728 2,079 1,911 2,253 programs, the area promoted a number of other initiatives in 2013: Management 182 247 222 293 • Analyzing the market scenario relative to commuExecutives 54 106 73 128 nication and the current business context, the diffeDGB rent areas of the Company reviewed the formalized leadership skills, which now also include the ability The Group has an internal Operational (Other levels) 766 1,712 416 891 to deal with uncertainty and promotion of an encommunications policy that Management 25 59 28 51 vironment conducive to questioning; the ability to Executives 4 14 4 12 take bold initiatives, outline strategic actions and values transparency and respect. Abril Educação to have a long-term view; the ability to influence In cases of significant changes in positively (by example and through feedback proviOperational (Other levels) 851 1,181 867 1,169 ding recognition and redirection); and the ability to the structure and management of Management 39 35 41 41 navigate across departmental boundaries, among the companies, strategic decisions Executives 13 34 15 31 others. • Execution of the Management and Leadership proand business movements, sharing grams, considered strategic for Abril Group: three with the internal public is always PDGA groups (Abril Management Development Program), aimed at professionals who informally a priority. In addition, all internal Another important factor for the Group in the recruitment, and in order to reduce turnover rates, context of diversity is the hiring of employees with various departments are engaged in promoting lead others; two Basic Level groups, aimed at communications vehicles offer disabilities. The Diversity Program was developed information and sensitivity about the importance lower management levels in the organization; one Intermediate Level group, aimed at middle manachannels for employees to express in 2013, which addresses the issue of employees of including and retaining these employees. Joining with disabilities. Within this context, the types of the company is only the first part of the process. gement; and one CGA group (Abril Management their opinions. disabilities considered and amount of positions The intent is to utilize their capabilities in the Course), targeted at executive level professionals. made available were both expanded. departments most suited to them and that provide • In addition to the regular agenda, two CGA forums All of Abril´s companies have formal guidelines the best career prospects, as is the case with all will be held with participation of the CEO of Lojas for managers and employees for this type of Group employees. Renner, José Galló, and the doctor and neuroscientist António Damásio. The scale of Abril Group was already addressed through the Business Challenge a new activity where groups of executives choose a business challenge faced by one of the particiPCD pants and develop potential solutions for the issue. • Introduction of Leadership and Management PoAbril Mídia DGB Abril Educação ckets workshops that aim to update and refresh Female 71 15 N/A former participants in the management development programs. The initial workshops focused on Male 95 31 N/A the topic of Innovation in Business Models and Total 166 46 N/A were attended by both executives (former CGA Quota required by law* 191 121 N/A students) and managers (former PDGA students). • Redesign of the Integration program for new Abril employees in order to combine agility in the recruiting process with robust on-boarding and the creation of a positive relationship with the Company, in addition to helping them adjust and be * For Abril’s employees, the legislation requires the Company to employ a quota of 5% for disabled persons. Each year, Group initiatives ­ aim to attract and retain these employees in order to meet and exceed the quota. ready to begin work. The program now has four N/A (not applicable): information monitored with different consolidation parameters. The Group is working on standardizing the monitoring steps – an initial meeting to ask questions, align Abril Group head office. across its companies to present increasingly complete information. 48 2013 Annual Report 49 ABRIL GROUP CORPORATE GOVERNANCE expectations and distribute the program guide; on-boarding with the area manager; online and clasProfessional development sroom activities about the Company and the Code of Conduct; and training for managerial positions Focusing on the training, refreshing and develo– beginning shortly after the candidate has been pment of Abril´s employees, the training scheduling approved in a selection process and lasting for four occurs throughout the year and programs approato six months. ch is defined in accordance with the general requi• The climate survey, carried out every two years by rements for each position, the needs and demands the Board of Organisation and People, has earned of employees referred by their managers in the pernew version in 2013. A Quick Climate Survey was formance evaluation process and the emergence of conducted to evaluate once again the Personnel topics to be developed in the company. Management subject, whose results were treated Scheduling takes place throughout the year, and Abril Journalism Course: in a corporate and institutional manner. One of the Abril Group employees. the approach for the training program is defined in lasting five weeks, the course projects was the Circle of Ideas, which organized accordance with the general requirements of each pomeetings with employees from different departsition, employees´ needs and recommendations by provides training in publishing ments to listen to them on the critical points in the their managers made during the performance assesto recently graduated existing organizational scenery at that moment. All sment process and other topics that become relevant for the Company. professionals throughout the action plans arising from these discussions were All registered employees have implemented in the same semester. Training topics covered included negotiating country, with 1,800 participants • In 2013, Abril Mídia implemented a BSC (Balanced employment contracts with strategies, project management, time management, teamwork, Office tools and online English. There over its 30 year history. Scorecard), a new strategic management model for working hours consistent with their the company, in which the business performance are also institutional programs designed to share With focus on preparing and is measured according to Financial, Market and professional category and the union broad ideas, concepts and corporate issues, as well as encourage interaction among the different areas. training professionals for the Customers, Internal Processes and Learning and collective bargaining agreements. In Growth perspectives. The vision and strategy of The People Development Nucleus (NDP) promotes publishing industry, the course each business area are translated into strategic 2013, 14 different unions represented courses and lectures for all employees and specific groups, such as finance and marketing. includes experimental studies, maps, with organizational goals defined for each the professional categories of Abril BSC perspective, and monitored throughout the External training also forms part of the Group’s interviews, classes with Abril year by means of measurable and verifiable indicaMídia; 22 in the case of DGB and 7 investment in its employees. With a corporate policy regulating subsidies, employees can attend formal professionals and presentations tors. People Management was one of the organiin Abril Educação. zational indicators in 2013. education and extension courses, as well as particiby guest speakers and industry • In 2013, the Abril Performance Cycle, which is a pate in trade shows, conferences and seminars for up process for planning, evaluating and developing to 180 hours (or development programs from 180 to experts. Historically, 60% of employees, was revised and implemented to pro360 hours), that may be fully paid for by the employestudents taking the course are mote a more integrated management of the Come´s department. In addition, the Company may pay pany’s professionals. Among the changes introduEmployees who gone through up to 50% for post-graduation courses of more than hired as full-time employees by ced by the new format is the combination of the 180 hours; up to 80% for online English courses; up Abril, half of them coming from results and skills assessments, to ensure that the performance assessment to 30% for regular English courses; and up to 50% for regular courses in other languages. outside the state of São Paulo. professionals performance boost the achievement process (%) The Company also offers, for some of the proof organizational goals, promoting business sustainability and developing a meritocratic culture in fessional categories, courses overseas. These inprofessional relations. 2012 2013 clude programs at institutions such as IFA Ber• Another initiative in 2013 was the installation of Abril Mídia 78.0 97.8 lin, Yale, Central Saint Martins School, Summer time clocks for administrative personnel. The obInstitute for Graphic Design Studies, and visits to DGB 47.6 1 N/A organizations such as the NYT, Time Inc., Hearst jective is to facilitate monitoring of hours worked in an organized manner so that both the employees Abril Educação 2 N/A 3 100 and The Economist. and managers have better control of the hours. N/A (not applicable) 1 In 2012, DGB’s administrative career employees representing 4.2% of the assets used did not carry performance evaluation due to the change in the internal evaluation system. 2 The metric includes Editora Ática, Editora Scipione, Sistemas de Ensino Abril Educação, Sistemas de Ensino pH and Colégio pH. 3 The first full year of the performance assessment process was 2013. 50 2013 Annual Report 51 ABRIL GROUP CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Compensation and benefits In addition to specific technical training courAs part of how it values employees, Abril Group is offered to all Abril employees and includes: childcases, the Personal Development area organizes the has a compensation and benefits policy that applies re assistance, illness benefits, credit union, maternity following programs in partnership with the NDP: equally to all employees and is strictly observed in leave, health plan with three options, dental plan with • Humanities, designed to complement regular order to prevent any form of discrimination. a large network, pharmacy plan with discounts subemployee training with programs based on the sidized in the payroll, pension plan with employer cultural themes announced on NDP Online, Future Program: since 2009, the Salaries and benefits are competitive with respect and employee contributions and food subsidies of not necessarily linked to their roles in the program is focused on preparing to the markets in which the Group Companies opean average of 80% in the Company´s restaurants. organization. rate, and are based on monitoring of best practices • Mid-day Cultural Discussions, informal chats in for retirement. It offers lectures and salary surveys conducted by Human Resources. Furthermore, all employees receive life insuranwhich public figures grant interviews to a Group and workshops related to For each employee, only individual performance, the ce, meal and food vouchers, transport vouchers, journalist along with the other participants. Company’s profitability and market practices are Christmas vouchers to buy toys for children up to • Magazine Photography Exhibition, in financial organization, health and taken into account. 10 years old, 30% to 50% discounts on the Compartnership with the Fundação Armando Álvares quality of life. pany´s products, and for a small monthly fee, emPenteado (FAAP). In 2013, the lowest salary paid by Abril Mídia was ployees can join the Cultural, Sports and Recreation equivalent to 1.6 times the national minimum wage Association (Acerga). Demonstrated below are the total hours invested (R$ 678.00 in 2013), in Abril Educação it was 1.2 in training, along with the number of participants, times, and in DGB it was equivalent to the Employees are guaranteed the right to maternity shown by Group Company and the type of training: minimum wage. and paternity leave in accordance with labor laws. The Group monitors the rate of return after the leaves Regarding benefits, although they vary among the in order to encourage and promote the retention of Group Companies, there are no differences between these employees. part-time and full-time employees. A benefits package Management Professional Personal and Leadership Education Development Rate of return after maternity leave 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 Abril Mídia and DGB Abril Mídia DGB Abril Educação Total training hours 943 803 7,634 5,952 61 39 2013 Total participants 517 1,017 4,622 4,180 1,446 1,161 Total leaves 62 29 17 % of good and Rate of return 96.80% 100.00% 100.00% 89% 96% 98% 97% 91% 93% outstanding evaluations 2012 Abril Educação Total leaves 37 12 23 Total training hours N/A 1,513 N/A 2,636 N/A 18 Rate of return 100.00% 91.70% 100.00% Total participants N/A 287 N/A 1,748 N/A 79 % of good and N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A outstanding evaluations Pension plan The private pension plan offered to employees made contributions of R$ 1.5 million to Abrilprev. is managed by Abrilprev, a Private Pension Fund. Retirement is linked to length of service in the plan In 2013, Abril Mídia and its subsidiaries made sponsors, a specific minimum age and the employee contributions of approximately R$ 11.0 million. Over no longer being employed by the Company. N/A (not applicable): information monitored with different consolidation parameters. The Group is working on standardizing the monitoring the same period, Abril Educação and its subsidiaries across its companies to present increasingly complete information. 52 2013 Annual Report 53 ABRIL GROUP SOCIO-ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT 54 2013 Annual Report 55 ABRIL GROUP SOCIO-ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT Policies and Follows the main guidelines contained Financial performance and governance Principles in the Policy: Develop and maintain governance structures that support sustainable businesses (through a body that includes representatives from different areas of Abril A fter more than 40 years since the word susThe elements of the Policy that came into effect Group), in order to assist the Board of Directors with decision-making processes; maintain the employee tainability was first used, the concept has become in 2014 involve collective building, convergence with recommendation/suggestion channels with the leaincreasingly more refined and evolved, with propoAbril Group’s values and principles, transversality, dership of the different areas active and well publicisals that go beyond recycling, reforestation and social the scope and integration of perspectives, the conWorking conditions zed; and include criteria that consider legal, social, assistance. Going beyond these concerns, for Abril nection between the businesses and mobilizing for and relationships environmental, economic and governance related Group, sustainability refers to the concept of mainaction, the assessment of impacts and externalities. factors into the processes for evaluating new busitaining business continuity and how this impacts nesses, mergers and acquisitions. everything around the organization. Ensure satisfactory working conditions through In this context, one of the most important activiAbril guides its action by the the management of the business, focusing on factors ties for the entire Group is dialogue, with debates of such as health and safety, development of the emCommunication ideas and the creation of economic, environmental, constant pursuit of relevance, ployees and opportunities for personal development, social and cultural realities. As such, the Group estaseeking to deliver not only quality among others; guarantee every employees´ right to Create conditions for Abril Group´s publications blished its Sustainability Policy in December 2013 in and minimum standards of fairness; ensure that the to promote respect and appreciation of diversity in order to guide sustainable management of the busiproducts, but also value to society content developed for the publications contributes, society, increasingly democratizing information, fighness and support decision-making by managers and in all its areas of operation. in some way, to the valuing of differences. ting discrimination and harassment and working for teams involved in processes that represent opportuthe elimination of child labor, forced labor and situanities for innovation, considering products, services tions comparable to slavery; take measures to ensure and relationships. that content in the publications does not reinforce Use of resources and the environmental or encourage any type of discrimination; express the impact of the activities Group´s co-responsibility for the content and language of marketing announcements and inserts included in its publications, always guaranteeing freedom of Evaluate, avoid and minimize the environmental expression and editorial independence. risks and impacts of all of the activities; use resources more efficiently and reduce pollution, emissions and waste; prioritize the use of renewable resources; avoid the use of dangerous, toxic and controlled maRelationships terials in the operations; engage employees and visitors at the units about the initiatives Abril Group proStrengthen relationships and initiatives together motes in the areas of eco-efficiency and innovation with suppliers and partners, managing impacts along in its managing of environmental impacts and prethe value chain and guaranteeing respect for human servation; consider the socio-environmental impact rights; develop and implement socio-environmental of the material in evaluating marketing campaigns criteria (aligned to this policy and developed in partand tools used by the Group; identify business oppornership with the interested stakeholders) to evaluate, tunities presenting possibilities for reverse logistics select and contract suppliers; contribute to expanof the products; and promote reductions in the soding and democratizing access to information and cio-environmental impacts of transporting people, knowledge in the country through interaction with material and products, paying particular attention to public bodies and other entities representing the puthe health and safety conditions of drivers, employees blic interest; combat all types of corruption within and the communities, and the condition of the fleet the Group and its entire network of relationships; of vehicles. and maintain impact monitoring and management processes in the operational areas. Abril Group employees. 56 2013 Annual Report 57 ABRIL GROUP SOCIO-ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT Management and Practices F ollowing, a description of some of the environmental management initiatives incorporated within the Group’s main activities: ABRIL MÍDIA Sustainability in the Publishing Business Development for all Commitment to sustainability Abril Group´s valuing of people is not limited In addition to the awards and rankings, Abril to just its employees, but extends to society as Mídia also promotes Sustainable Planet, a project a whole as part of its role and responsibility as whose mission is to spread information and an organization focused on communication and references regarding sustainability. It is the first education. A number of different initiatives are program to be led by a large communication carried out through its companies (including awards company that debates, informs and produces and rankings) that recognize, value and publicize thought leadership on the subject, in a systematic important actions for society in different areas, manner, for all types of audiences. including: Sustainable Planet has the support of partner • Top 100 Companies to Work for: VOCÊ S/A companies, and 38 publications of the Publisher magazine recognizes companies with the best participate in the process. Over its six years of employee relationships; existence, almost 10 thousand pages have been • EXAME Sustainability Guide: introduced published between articles and announcements, by EXAME magazine, the ranking highlights and more than 24 thousand links to exclusive content Brazilian companies with the best attitudes in have been included on the largest website in Brazil relation to sustainability; dedicated to this subject. • Top Universities: part of a special edition of the GUIA DO ESTUDANTE since 2004, the award recognizes the best universities and courses in Brazil; In 2013, two editions of Sustainable • Claudia Award: created by CLAUDIA magazine, it recognizes women who improve the lives of the Planet addressed Abril’s business, people around them in some way; providing internal and external • Planeta Casa Award: an initiative of CASA CLAUDIA magazine, it recognizes architectural stakeholders with information about projects, initiatives and products that minimize its operations, the impacts caused environmental impacts; • Health Award: created by SAÚDE magazine, it and the initiatives and principles recognizes and promotes the work of a number designed to minimize these impacts. of different professionals in the health field based on their impact and contributions toward making the country healthier; 58 2013 Annual Report 59 ABRIL GROUP SOCIO-ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT Environmental issues and impact Main materials consumed Paper consumption the most relevant material groups in order to minimize the impacts of consu2012 2013 Variation used by Abril Mídia, due to the nature of its business, ming material. This has resulted, for example, in the is the paper used for its publications. In 2013, a total development of inks that produce less impacts, a Aluminum Plates (parts) 83,940.0 90,050.0 7.3% of 91.9 tons of paper was used. study on the use of plastics derived from renewable Treatment of Water/Tributaries (t) 2.4 2.5 4.2% or biodegradable sources and the substitution of chemical solutions used in the offset printing process. Chemicals (L) 6,000.0 7,000.0 16.7% Mobility in 2013, Abril Mídia developed the mobility survey in order to identify impacts and After three years of development and implementaCopper (t) 29.4 33.1 12.6% create opportunities for improving the mobility of tion, in 2012 the biomass fueled boiler was inauguraGlue (t) 206.5 174.9 -15.3% its employees, a recurring day-to-day topic in the ted at Abril Gráfica. The main benefit of the machine is the replacement of the fuel type from natural gas to Wire/staples (t) 65.6 62.2 -5.2% city of São Paulo where the head offices are located. firewood. The boiler generates steam that is used for Polyethylene/PVC (t) 228.1 200.0 -12.3% rotogravure printing process, the restaurant, locker rooms and the recovery of solvents used in printing Blankets/pads (parts) 826.0 815.0 -1.3% – it also has a roof garden composed of plants that Ink (t) 3,539.0 3,408.0 -3.7% help in the absorption of rainwater and the reduction A total of 775 employees responded to the survey, of heat islands, besides making the process more efwhich sought to reduce the need for commuting by ficient, the boiler reduces in half the consumption of natural gas, generating savings of approximately one In relation to waste disposal, Abril Gráfica consThe Printer also invests in modern car, resulting in the following benefits: million reais per year. tantly looks for solutions and opportunities for reuse • Reduce air pollution, CO2 emissions and equipment and devices, which offer and recycling. energy use; Paper Consumption Most of the waste consists of paper (resulting remote technical assistance so that • Explore sustainable alternative and strategies from production losses, unsold magazines and for mobility; tons the manufacturers, located on other books and leftover items, such as sheets of cardbo• Reduce traffic and travel costs; and ard lining), which are crushed, wrapped in bales and continents, do not need to travel to • Improve quality of life. 2012 sent to recycling companies. There, they become The results of the survey showed the distance 98,3 2013 Brazil. This avoids GHG emissions raw materials for the manufacture of paper towels, traveled by employees from their homes to the office, 91,9 napkins and hospital linen, among others. Ink resiassociated with air travel. Moreover, their habits and the means of transportation utilized. due is returned to the manufacturers. In addition to the survey, together with the because of the investments, the employees, actions were developed in order to raise awareness about urban mobility solutions. production process is more efficient Currently, the Printer uses paper produced from Routes and tips for using bicycle paths, walking reforested trees with a certified management process. Abril Gráfica is the first printer and effective and less raw materials routes and subway maps of the city were made available to employees, in addition to consultations Moreover, it has implemented water treatment and in Brazil to prepare an inventory and energy is consumed, producing reuse processes in some stages of the production with specialists. cycle, and processes for recovering volatile solvents of greenhouse gas emissions in significant environmental gains. and reusing heat, among other initiatives. accordance with the GHG Protocol The use of natural resources, one of the main imPrinting Sustainability pacts of the printing process, is monitored and mamethodology, in addition to naged based on gaining efficiency, and consequently, obtaining FSC (Forest Stewardship Eco-efficiency and care reducing consumption and disposal. Part of Abril Gráfica´s routine consists of ensuIn 2013, the energy consumption of its operations Council) Certification and CERFLOR/ ring the efficiency of its processes. This helps reduce totaled 51 GWh, with a majority derived from electriciPEFC (Brazilian Forest Certification environmental impacts through the choice of raw maty purchased. During the period, 168 thousand m3 of terials, recycling and care over the proper disposal. unused water was consumed, and 7 thousand m3 of System / Program for the In recent years, the Company has mobilized work reused water, treated by the Company itself. Endorsement of Forest Certification Schemes) Certification. Abril Gráfica. 60 2013 Annual Report 61 ABRIL GROUP SOCIO-ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT Sustainability in Logistics and Distribution Intelligence and security DGB also approaches sustainability management as all of the service providers on the supply chain In addition to the certification, Abril Educação is Consumption of paper to minimize impacts and generate opportunities for are encouraged to renew their vehicle fleets, use promoting selective garbage collection in its units (kg) eco-efficiency and social development in the logistics alternative fuels, carry out preventive maintenance so that the recyclable waste is reused. For example, and distribution process. Within this context, on vehicles and properly dispose of waste. in the Anglo system, all of the units promote sorted Treelog (one of its subsidiaries), assumed a leading Moreover, in 2013, DGB initiated a structural recycling bins, and at the end of the course, students 2012 2013* role in the discussions and implementation of reorganization in the Group’s various distribution are asked to deliver their textbooks and workbooks. Editora new initiatives. and logistics companies to generate synergies Those that are in good condition are donated, and Ática 20,915,488 6,144,419 To better comply with sustainable practices, and increase the efficiency of each vehicle through the others are recycled. Annually, around 600 comon the part of both the employees and suppliers, better use of their cargo capacities and the use of plete kits are donated, representing 8% of the mateScipione 9,786,663 11,700,819 the Right Direction Program was launched in more effective routes. As a result, faster delivery and rial delivered. Total 30,702,150 17,845,238 2010. The Program seeks to ensure excellence in reduced fuel consumption is expected, in addition Abril Educação also monitors the impact of its the transportation services offered, prioritizing to less greenhouse gas emissions, already down by operations on the regions in which it operates. The performance, security and sustainability. In addition 8.9% during 2013 and 7.3% compared to 2012 (since pH Educational System (RJ), for example, has adopto timely pick-up and delivery, vehicle tracking, the new routes were only fully implemented in 2013). ted measures to help traffic flow around the schools. driver training, encouragement of environmental The Revisteca project, conceived by Dinap, This was done together with the public agencies respreservation, social responsibility and citizenship promotes the donation of publications and creation ponsible and local residents and store owners assoare also important priorities. of reading spaces in libraries, public schools and ciations in order to minimize the impacts on traffic. It is worth noting that such initiatives also include social institutions. the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions (GHG), Sustainability in the Group Sustainability in education Culture and Education Minimizing impacts and building awareness In supporting society, the Group also invests in Since 2011, Praça Victor Civita was managed Since 2010, Abril Educação has been focused on that the material has been extracted responsibly, in initiatives and projects that promote improvements by Instituto Abril. It is now managed by the reducing the environmental impact of its activities accordance with sustainable management practices, in education, culture and quality of life in Brazil. Associação Amigos da Praça Victor Civita (AAPVC). by using paper from certified sources to produce its mitigating the risk of illegal logging. As shown below, Within this context, the Praça Victor Civita, The management now involves companies, books and workbooks. Certification is a guarantee certified paper represented 99.0% of the total purchathrough the Instituto Abril and a cooperation public institutions, NGOs and the community. Its sed in 2012 and 2013. agreement with the Municipality of São Paulo, governance structure has a Board of Directors, which is comprised of companies and institutions such as Purchase of paper was implemented in 2008. With support from its partners, a degraded area was renewed through Abril Group, Gerdau, Grupo CCR, Levisky Arquitetos (kg) an innovative architectural project incorporating Estratégia Urbana and Sabesp. sustainable solutions. It has become a reference in Non-Certified Certified Total the renewal of public spaces and the recuperation 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 of urban areas. The structure offers educational and cultural activities and hosts discussions and forums Editora relating to sustainability. Ática 103,016 0 16,890,921 10,653,551 16,993,937 10,653,651 Scipione 79,174 845 6,118,303 7,012,177 6,197,477 7,013,022 Total 182,190 845 23,009,224 17,665,828 23,191,414 17,666,673 * The drop in paper consumption from 2012 to 2013 was due to lower PNLD public sector book sales in 2013. 0.79% 0.01% 99.21% 99.90% 62 2013 Annual Report 63 ABRIL GROUP SOCIO-ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT Activities at Praça Victor Civita during 2013 • Mexa-se na Praça: sponsored by Pró Saúde, the of mobile phones, batteries and old accessories in Furthermore, the Praça hosted storytelling events; public is invited to exercise outdoors, accompathe Praça Victor Civita. All of the items disposed the activities of the 7th Culture and Sport Ticket nied by qualified professionals, free of charge. of in the bin were regularly collected and sent for Week; commemoration of Inter-American Clean-up Offer of advertising space • “Sistemas/Ecos”: inspired by the artist and reserecycling to an IBAMA certified company. and Citizenship Day (DIADESOL); a variety of shows archer Sonia Guggisberg, the exhibition brought • Ponto pro Rock Project: The Ponto pro Rock Proby national and international bands; the Albergue. for nonprofit institutions together internationally recognized contemporary ject presented bands such as Índios Nativos Valart project; the Popourri Festival, which brought and class entities. In 2013, artists to display their work, some of which was vulados, Manu Littiéry, Dino Linardi, Mr Punch, together three independent bands; the Ocupação being shown for the first time, in different parts X so Pretty and DVCO, among various others a Pipa Project; Peixe Boi Children’s Music Festival, 46 institutions benefited of the square. The Sistemas/Ecos project, which throughout the year. which brought together 15 musical acts from different from 96 placements made the exhibition is a part of, also held a series of • Clássicos em Cena: in its third year at the Praça niches and styles of Brazilian popular music; among workshops for interested young people to partiVictor Civita, the project offered classical music dozens of other cultural events. available in the Publisher’s cipate in discussions about art, the environment presentations with commentary by the conductor For more information about Praça Victor Civita and magazines and websites and and design. Parcival Módolo, bringing this type of music clo• A Hora do Planeta: on March 23, 2013, the lights ser to the public. The Carlos Gomes Sextet was its activities, visit: http://pracavictorcivita.org.br/ the Elemidia screens; with of the Praça were turned off as part of the global among the performers. The non-profit movement Educate to Grow is an estimated market value Earth Hour movement, which reminds everyone • Cine na Praça: organized by Cinemagia – Agênof the difficult questions that humanity must face cia Cultural, and sponsored by Lorenzetti and another one of its initiatives. With the Group’s segof R$ 10,136,085.00, if the mented communications capabilities and the suin order to achieve a sustainable way of life. In its Pernambucanas, the initiative was designed to pport of the Ministry of Education and other partner placements had been paid for. fifth year, the theme was “What would you do to show films in the Praça every Thursday. The goal save the planet?” of the project was to present, explore audiovisual companies, the actions support best practices and • Mobile phone collection: Instituto Claro, in partlanguage and create special areas for screenings, building awareness about the importance of a good Program, which has been recognizing and publicizing nership with the Associação Amigos da Praça Vicbringing culture and entertainment to São Paulo’s education for everyone. The Group has already invesvolunteer work within the Company since 1999. The tor Civita and Instituto Verdescola, set up a recypublic squares. ted R$ 18.4 million in these initiatives over the past Program brings together NGOs in which the voluntecling bin from the Claro Recicla project to dispose three years, with R$ 1.9 million spent in 2013. It also ers, who are Abril employees, perform activities and offers space in its publications and websites for this organize campaigns on behalf of the institutions. cause (this practice is governed by a specific corpoThese include the Agasalho (Sweater) Campaign and rate policy setting forth the guidelines and criteria for toy collections for Children’s Day. using Abril´s media advertising space). Finally, also within the social context, the Group Recognition of volunteers among the Group´s supports the Verdescola Institute, a non-profit orgaemployees has become even more prevalent throunization whose mission is to promote socio-environgh another initiative, the Mãos à Obra (Hands On) mental awareness, educating for sustainability. Cultural event at Praça Victor Civita. Praça Victor Civita. 64 2013 Annual Report 65 ABRIL GROUP SOCIO-ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT Environmental preservation Active Participation In addition to the specific initiatives of each In 2012, the Abril Group has partnered with FAS In order to contribute to sustainable economic deThrough forums and working groups, the Group business to minimize the environmental impacts, (Sustainable Amazon Foundation) to offset some velopment, Abril Group actively participates in natioalso participates in associations and industry orgaAbril Group performs centralized management of of its activities emissions. This is accomplished nal and international organizations. Since 2003, Abril nizations to encourage freedom of the press and Greenhouse Gas emissions (GHG) caused by its supporting the Municipal School Victor Civita, built in Group has been a signatory of the United Nations free enterprise; including the National Association operations. This form of management began with the Comunidade da Abelha in the Juma Sustainable initiative known as the Global Compact, committing of Magazine Publishers (Aner), Inter-American Press Abril Group´s entrance into Brazil´s GHG Protocol Development Reserve, in the State of Amazonas. to follow its ten principles; is a member of the BraziAssociation (SIP), Brazilian Association of Printers Program in 2008, as a founding member. Thereafter, The greenhouse gases emissions offsetting occurs lian Business Council for Sustainable Development (Abigraf), the Palavra Aberta Institute, the Millenium the Group began measuring and reporting its GHG by the REDD + project, a mechanism used to prevent (CEBDS) and member of the World Business Council Institute, National Newspaper Association (ANJ), Ciremissions annually, taking the first step towards deforestation and environmental degradation in for Sustainable Development (WBCSD). culation Verification Institute (IVC); and FIPP Gloimplementing a management process aligned to the vulnerable areas. Since 2012, 43,474 tons of carbon Abril Mídia’s partnership with the Fundação SOS bal Media and Magazine Association, among many climatic changes4. equivalent were compensated. Mata Atlântica in the Clickarvore program; its support others. Moreover, the Group also participates in asThe Abril Carbon Neutral Program was created to Still as a contribution to the projects developed by for the Instituto Ethos de Empresas e Responsabilisociations of other sectors; including the Brazilian guide the internal activities of the Company toward FAS, Abril promotes the donation of magazines not dade Social; the participation in entrepreneurial iniAssociation of Book Editors (Abrelivros); Brazilian a low-carbon economy, engaging and mobilizing marketed in Manaus, which had previously been sent tiatives of the Centro de Estudos em Sustentabilidade Book Chamber (CBL) and the National Council for employees in causes related to climatic issues and to back to São Paulo. In the first quarter of 2013, 2,098 from the Getulio Vargas Foundation (Companies for Self-Regulation in Publicity (Conar). communicate the initiative in a clear and consistent magazines were donated to the schools. Enjoyable Climate, Innovation and Sustainability in the Value manner to stakeholders. material for light reading on a number of different Chain, Innovation in Local Development, Trends in topics is an excellent way to encourage reading Ecosystemic Services), also demonstrate its commitamong the students. ment to sustainable development. Objectives of the Abril Carbon Neutral Program • Minimize the negative impacts of the Group’s activities and maximize its potential to inform and educate the public about climate related issues. • Be transparent about its responsibilities in relation to the climatic equilibrium of the planet; • Seek opportunities to reduce costs through energy efficiency, logistics and the use of resources; • Be recognized as a benchmark in the industry in combating climate change; • Inform and inspire people to turn today into how we want to see the world in the future; • Be forward-looking, avoid risks and take advantage of opportunities related to the new low-carbon economy; • Be a source of pride and means to integrate Abril Group´s employees; and • Encourage innovation through empowerment and recognition of Abril´s internal entrepreneurs. Victor Civita Municipal School. Abril Group invests in initiatives and projects that promote improving in the education, culture and quality of life at Brazil. 4. To see Abril Group´s annual GHG emissions, visit http://registropublicodeemissoes.com.br/index.php/participant/80 66 2013 Annual Report 67 ABRIL GROUP GRI INDEX GRI INDEX 68 2013 Annual Report 69 ABRIL GROUP GRI INDEX Indicators Description Reference (pg.) / Direct response Indicators Description Reference (pg.) / Direct response 1. Strategy and Analysis 3. Material Factors Identified Statement from the most senior decisionFinancial Statements available on the Group's 1 m a k e r o f t h e o r g a n i z a t i o n a b o u t t h e Message from Management website, listing the subsidiaries: http://grupoaimportance of sustainability. List of entities included in the bril.com.br/pt/quem-somos/balanco, and at 17 financial statements. Abril Educação S.A.'s website: http://ri.abriled2. Organizational Profile ucacao.com.br/pt-br/InformacoesFinanceiras/ 3 Name of the organization. Abril Group Paginas/documentos-CVM.aspx 4 Primary brands, products, and/or services. Corporate Profile Process for defining content and boundary 18 About the Report of the report. 5 Location of the organization´s headquarters. Sao Paulo, Brazil List of material factors identified in the process Number of countries where the 19 About the Report 6 Brazil of defining the content of the report. organization operates. Both internal and external stakeholders were 7 Nature of ownership and legal form. S.A. Boundary of each material factor to engaged in order to develop the materiality 8 Markets served. Corporate Profile 20 the organization. matrix and an integrated view combining the 9 Scale of the reporting organization. Corporate Profile and Core Relationships internal and external perspectives. 10 Profile of the workforce. Core Relationships Boundary of each material factor external to 21 the organization. All employees are covered by collective Percentage of employees covered by collective Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of Possible restatements in relation to information 11 bargaining agreements with their respective bargaining agreements. 22 information provided in earlier reports, and the provided in previous reports are presented withcategory´s union. reasons for such re-statement. in the report together with an explanation. Each of the Company's businesses has its own supply chain, providing services to the Group Significant changes from previous reporting pe12 Description of the organization´s supply chain. ranging from the supply of materials and 23 riods in the scope, boundary, or measurement About the Report consumer goods to the provision of services methods applied in the report. and specialized technical consulting. 4. Stakeholder Engagement Significant changes during the reporting period List of stakeholder groups engaged by 13 Corporate Profile, 2013 Highlights and Timeline 24 Socio-environmental Management regarding size, structure, or ownership. the organization. Commitments to external initiatives Basis for identification and selection of stake25 About the Report The Company's businesses manage the risks holders with whom to engage. E x p l a n a t i o n o f w h e t h e r a n d h o w t h e of their activities through the identification, Approaches to stakeholder engagement, includ14 precautionary approach or principle is addressed monitoring and mitigation of potential risks, 26 ing frequency of engagement by type and by About the Report by the organization. however, they have not specifically adopted the stakeholder group. precautionary principle. Key topics and concerns that have been raised Externally developed economic, environmental, through stakeholder engagement, and how the Socio-environmental Management and the 27 About the Report and social charters, principles, or other organization has responded to those key topics 15 Group's website: http://grupoabril.com.br/pt/ initiatives to which the organization subscribes and concerns. quem-somos/parceiros or endorses. 5. Profile Disclosure Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/ Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for 28 About the Report international advocacy organizations in which Socio-environmental Management and the information provided. 16 the organization: has positions in governance Group's website: http://grupoabril.com.br/pt/ 29 Date of most recent previous report (if any). 2011 bodies; participates in projects or committees; quem-somos/parceiros 30 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) Biennial provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues. 70 2013 Annual Report 71 ABRIL GROUP GRI INDEX Indicators Description Reference (pg.) / Direct response Indicators Description Reference (pg.) / Direct response Contact point for questions regarding the Aspect Indirect Economic Impacts 31 Acknowledgments report or its contents. Development and impact of infrastructure investEC7 Socio-environmental Management Choice for applying guidelines ments and services provided. 32 (mandatory or comprehensive), Mandatory Understanding and describing significant indiGRI Index and external assurance. Core Relationships and Socio-environmental EC8 rect economic impacts, including the extent of Management Policy and current practice with regard to seeking External assurance will not be provided on this impacts. 33 external assurance for the report. Report 9. Environmental 6. Governance Information about environmental management Governance Structure and composition Aspect Materials 34 Governance structure, including committees. Corporate Governance and Performance EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. Socio-environmental Management 7. Ethics and Integrity None of the materials monitored and preInternally developed statements of mission or sented are derived from recycled inputs. 56 values, principles and behavioral guidelines, Core Relationships Percentage of materials used that are recycled However, the Socio-environmental ManageEN2 such as codes of conduct and ethics. input materials. ment section presents the recycling and input source evaluation (certification) procedures 8. Economic Performance employed in relation to these materials. Information about economic management Aspect Products and Services Aspect Economic Performance Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed. Operational and Financial Performance EN27 of products and services, and extent of impact Socio-environmental Management mitigation. Financial implications and other risks and opEC2 portunities for the organization's activities due Socio-environmental Management There is no precise calculation on the perto climate change. centage of reclaimed products and packPercentage of products sold and their packaging aging, however initiatives to minimize the Coverage of the organization's defined benefit EN28 EC3 Core Relationships materials that are reclaimed by category. disposal, such as recycling publications, are plan obligations. presented in the Socio-environmental ManSignificant financial assistance received from agement section. EC4 Operational and Financial Performance government. 10. Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work Aspect Market Presence Information about social management Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by Aspect Employment EC5 gender compared to local minimum wage at sigCore Relationships nificant locations of operation. Total workforce by employment type, employment LA1 Core Relationships contract, and region, broken down by gender. In Abril MÌdia, 92.9% of senior management Proportion of senior management hired from Benefits provided to full-time employees that are positions were filled locally in the city of São EC6 the local community at significant locations of LA2 not provided to temporary or part-time employCore Relationships Paulo. In DGB, no senior management posioperation. ees, by major operations. tions were filled locally in Osasco (SP). Return to work and retention rates after parenLA3 Core Relationships tal leave, by gender. 72 2013 Annual Report 73 ABRIL GROUP ACKNOWLEDGMENTS Indicators Description Aspect Training and education Reference (pg.) / Direct response Acknowledgments Average hours of training per year per employLA9 Core Relationships ee by gender, and by employee category. Programs for skills management and lifelong LA10 learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings. Core Relationships W e would like to thank all of the employees from the different areas of Abril Group who participated in the work groups that helped prepare the 2013 Percentage of employees receiving regular Annual Report. LA11 performance and career development reviews, Core Relationships by gender. 11. Social: Society Composition, GRI Consultation and Translation Information about social management RICCA RI Aspect Local communities Editing Percentage of operations with implemented local Abril Group SO1 community engagement, impact assessments, Socio-environmental Management Sustainability Management Area and development programs. Press and Corporate Communications Operations with significant potential or actual Graphic Design and Layout SO2 Socio-environmental Management negative impacts on local communities. RICCA RI and Luz Publicidade Aspect Corruption Text Review Percentage and total number of business units Luz Publicidade SO3 analyzed for risks related to corruption and the Core Relationships significant risks identified. Compilation of Content Percentage of employees trained in organizaAbril Mídia SO4 Core Relationships tion's anti-corruption policies and procedures. Abril Educação DGB Actions taken in response to incidents There were no confirmed cases of corruption SO5 Fundação Victor Civita of corruption. in 2013. 12. Social: Product Responsibility Lead Area Information about social management Corporate Relations Meire Fidelis Aspect Marketing Communications The Group does not market any prohibited or General Guidance PR6 Sale of prohibited or contested products. contested products in the markets in which it Sustainability Management Area operates. Mariana Páal F. Martinato Total number of incidents of non-compliance Press and Corporate Communications Nucleus with regulations and voluntary codes concernDouglas Cantu PR7 ing marketing communications, including adThere were no cases in 2013. vertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. Contact about the report gerencia.sustentabilidade@abril.com.br 74 2013 Annual Report 75 www.grupoabril.com.br 76
