PT TRAKINDO UTAMA UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 Statement of Continuous Support PT Trakindo Utama (Trakindo) supports the principles of the UN Global compact and believes that the company have shared substantive action in pursuing the principles of the global compact. In line w ith our corporate slogan, “ Our commitment: Customer Success” , Trakindo not only prioritize customer satisfaction but also firmly believe in the need to proactively shape the characters of our employees so as to ensure that w e achieve our goals. The principles of equal opportunit ies applies to all Trakindo regardless of belief, race, gender or physical ability. This is a practical example on how Trakindo internalizing values in the areas of human rights. Based on Trakindo’ s mission to set up an entity that creates w orthw hile and challenging job opportunities to as many Indonesians as possible, Trakindo provides every employee w ith the opportunity to grow and to improve their know ledge and skills. To support the company’ s vision and mission, Trakindo strives to bring noble goal of being green company. Trakindo understands the importance of saving energy, w ater, electricity and paper for sustainability. Safety, Health and Environment (SHE) standards have been applied to make sure that the w orkplace is healthy, safe and clear from any pollution and environmental damage. Trakindo believes that long term sustainability and grow th of the company is determined by consistently practicing good corporate governance in day-to-day policy making and activities. Management and all Trakindo employees w ork hand in hand to apply the principles of corporate governance based on the six Company’ s Core Values. Jakarta, 5 June 2014 Bari Hamami President Director of PT Trakindo Utama Trakindo at Overview Glance PT Trakindo Utama (Trakindo) is the authorized dealer in Indonesia for Caterpillar products, the w orld' s largest manufacturer of heavy equipment, diesel and natural gas engines, industrial engines and generator sets. Trakindo w as established in 1970 by the founder, Mr. AHK Hamami. The Company became the authorized dealer for Caterpillar in 1971 and now has more than 65 branches throughout the country from Sumatera to Papua. At the end of 2013, Trakindo has more than 7,500 employees. Trakindo is proud to offer a complete line of Caterpillar equipment products designed to w ork hard and built to last. We have a complete selection of Caterpillar engines w ith various capacity ratings, a full selection of Caterpillar equipment, and a complete range of genuine replacement parts for every Caterpillar product, as w ell as new and used Caterpillar parts and equipment. Backed by unbeatable support facilities and an extensive spare parts supply netw ork, Trakindo provides w orld-class service to its customers in the mining, construction, forestry, agricultural, oil and gas, energy, marine, and other industrial sectors. Trakindo has experienced a remarkable journey of more than 40 years, during w hich w e have grow n to become a w orld‐class provider of Caterpillar equipment and a reliable solution partner. Trakindo Four Pillars of Trakindo’s Corporate Citizenship Program: Education Corporate Focus on people development through education and good character building. Collaboration of Trakindo’ s employees and their families, students and their parents and the local communities. Citizenship Program: Coop Program w ith 10 SMKs and 5 polytechnics and 40 Public Elementary Schools. Program Environment Commitment to energy conservation & pollution control, w ater conservation and w aste management. Program: save w ater, save energy, save paper campaign and w aste management i.e. oil and w ater separator. Health Consistently maintain the w orkplace safety and health of our people Education Environment Program: HIV/AIDS prevention in w orkplace, blood donation, zero accident, one million w ork-hour w ithout LTI. Compassionate Relief Community empow erment for disaster survivors. Program: Aceh Tsunami, Mentaw ai Tsunami, Wasior flash flood, Merapi eruption. Compassionate Health Relief Trakindo Employee Value Proposition (EVP) Area 1: Human rights Assessment, Policies, Goals Trakindo has introduced an Employee Value Proposition (EVP) initiative Principle 1: Businesses should support to help the company address low levels of employee loyalty and and respect the protection of retention, particularly as regards critical talent w ith the right experience internationally proclaimed human rights; and competencies. The EVP sets out the Company’ s promises to every and Trakindo employee and potential employee. Principle 2: make sure that they are not The policies that have been issued are: complicit in human rights abuses. 1. Salary structure at all levels; 2. Incentives for team leader of the technician and senior technician; 3. Religious holiday allow ance and service year aw ard; 4. Training implementation and cost allocation; and 5. Others. Implementation Practical activities undertaken to implement EVP for example: 1. Providing approach, plan and EVP basic framew ork; 2. Providing draft EVP by dividing per target group; 3. Making preparations for its implementation (planning and communication materials); 4. Mapping the human capital initiatives under EVP Framew ork. The heavy equipment sector is often assumed to be Measurement of Outcomes a male domain. Trakindo has show n that there is no At the individual level, the achievements of our employees in shaping a discrimination in its w orkplaces. know ledge organization culture are assessed using Performance & Management Development (PMD), w hich is derived from the Balanced Scorecard (BSC). Area 1: Human rights Continued: Learning Organization Assessment, Policies, Goals The learning organization concept has a significant impact on strategies that are designed by the company. Based on unique experience, Trakindo has developed a know ledgedriven organization learning strategy to deliver training and development so as to continuously improve the effectiveness of individuals, thereby supporting the grow th of our business and optimizing return on investment. Implementation In 2013, Sales and Marketing conducted 12 trainings, Product support w ith tw o trainings, 33 technical skills training and five soft skills trainings and support group w ith four trainings. Human Capital division had initiated Human Employee development is continuously enhanced Capital monthly sharing Session every month together w ith through trainings the companies under one holding group. Measurement of Outcomes In 2013, Trakindo received STEAA (Service Training Excellence Aw ard Accreditation) from Caterpillar in recognition of delivering a good quality in technical training. Education Cooperation Program (COOP) Assessment, Policies, Goals • To apply Trakindo mission: To set up an entity that creates w orthw hile and challenging job opportunities to as many Indonesians as possible; • Contribute to national education system especially on “ Character Based Educational System” implementation; • Enhance Customer Value Preposition by providing high quality manpow er; • To provide sustainable manpow er resources to fulfill business requirement; Coop Forum provides a place w here curriculum • To create & improve strategic cooperation w ith several formal and skills can be discussed education institutions w ithin CSR program. Implementation • Education cooperation program has been commenced since 1996 and the partnership w as revisited in 2013; • MOU signing w as gradually done in 2013 w ith nine vocational schools and six polytechnics across Indonesia. MOU signing as a form of cooperation betw een Trakindo and nine vocational schools and six polytechnics across Indonesia Education Cooperation Program (COOP) Implementation The name of the educational institutions are: • SMK Negeri 1 Singosari, East Java Province • SMK Negeri 1 Lubuk Pakam, North Sumatera Province • SMK Negeri 2 Dumai, Riau Province • SMK Negeri 1 Balikpapan, North Kalimantan Province • SMK Negeri 6 Samarinda, North Kalimantan Province • SMK Negeri 2 Sumbaw a Besar, West Nusa Tenggara Province • SMK Negeri 2 Bitung, North Sulaw esi Province • SMK Negeri 3 Sorong , West Papua Province • SMK Negeri 1 Mimika, Papua Province • Politeknik Negeri Jakarta, Jakarta Capital • Politeknik TEDC Bandung, West Java Province Vocational High School students receive on the • Politeknik Negeri Padang, West Sumatera Province job training at Trakindo w orkshop • Politeknik Negeri Banjarmasin, South Kalimantan Province • Politeknik Negeri Samarinda, North Kalimantan Province • Politeknik Ujung Pandang, South Sulaw esi Province Education Cooperation Program (COOP) Implementation Resources in implementation stage are as follow s: 1. Memorandum of Understanding betw een educational institutions, the local government and Trakindo 2. Program guidelines 3. Performance measurement guidelines 4. Curriculum 5. Teaching plan 6. Training literature 7. Softw are training aid 8. Engine/machine 9. Training aid 10. Working tools 11. Classroom and w orkshop 12. Computer and internet access Measurement of Outcomes A scene in one of Trakindo Vocational Schools Number of graduates in Coop program; Percentage of graduates w ho w ork w ith Trakindo; Percentage of graduates w ho w ork at Trakindo’ s customer and subsidiaries; Percentage of graduate w ho w ork at other heavy equipment industry. Promoting Noble Character-Based Education Area 1: Human rights Assessment, Policies, Goals • Trakindo manifests its social responsibility through its Corporate Citizenship Program w hich consists of 4 pillars, namely Education, Continued: Environment, Health, and Compassionate Relief. • In Education pillar, Trakindo promotes a noble character-based education to stakeholders to create qualified human resources. Implementation of 40 State Elementary School Program • The year of 2013 became a milestone for Trakindo Corporate Citizenship because Trakindo set focus on its social responsibility activities and set the pillars, namely Education, Environment, Health and Compassionate Relief. • 2013 marked the launch of employee volunteerism in Trakindo. Almost 1,500 Trakindo volunteers spared their time to teach in 40 Trakindo’ s State Elementary Schools; • Fund raising and other donations collecting w ith the purpose for flood The principals and teachers to receive know ledge survivors in Jakarta and library books in 40 Trakindo’ s State Elementary from education expert Schools; • On going program for 40 Trakindo’ s State Elementary Schools to give capacity building for the management of the school as w ell as teachers and student scholarships; • “ Comparative Study Program” as part of the 40 Trakindo’ s State Elementary Schools to invite 30 outstanding principals and teachers to Jakarta. Trakindo invited education experts and brought them to modeling school to get inspirations to be applied in their schools. Area 1: Human rights Continued: Measurement of Outcomes Ten schools of Trakindo’ s State Elementary School Program finished the program and ready to be independent and qualified schools. Measurement of impacts can be seen from: Improvement of school accreditation More achievements in academic and non academic skills Physical school before and after Number of partnership and engagement Enhancing the skills of teachers through training and mentoring for schools Human Capital Area 2: Labour Assessment, Policies, Goals • In line w ith Vision 2015, Trakindo has formulated a human capital Principle 3: Businesses should uphold development strategy that focuses on four elements supported by the freedom of association and the capability analytics so as to help ensure effective decision-making and effective recognition of the right to encourage improvement initiatives. collective bargaining; • The strategy includes in leadership, talent, organization and culture. Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Implementation The strategic initiatives to ensure the company’ s business objective are Principle 5: the effective abolition of properly aligned, Trakindo formulates an annual strategic business plan that child labour; and focuses on business development and current economic conditions. Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of The initiatives include talent segmentation, employee value proposition, employment and occupation. leadership development program and business system implementation. Measurement of outcomes The outcomes of the strategic objectives includes: Organizational readiness Q&R Portal hit rate Employee engagement survey Assessment, Policy and Goals Area 3: Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. SHE Policy in Trakindo The Policy stated that Trakindo to: 1. Comply w ith all applicable government regulations and others Area 3: Environment requirements that are in force. 2. Implement, maintain and prioritize a high quality SHE System at all Continued: Branches and Work areas. 3. Identify all Hazards and effectively manage the associated Risks. 4. Encourage all employees to take full responsibility for all SHE aspects w ithin their w ork areas. 5. Commit to prevent the injury and illness. 6. Alw ays create and increase Environmental Aw areness. 7. Effectively manage all environmental aspects and impacts throughout our w ork areas. 8. Prevent pollution of environmental degradation. 9. Provide coaching and training to all employees so that they can support the implementation as stipulated in this Policy as w ell as the requirements of the SHE System, and 10.Ensure that all employees, customers suppliers, visitors and other stakeholders are familiarized w ith the contents and objectives of this Policy. SHE Department has specific w orking procedure related to Environmental Management in w ork areas, such as Manual, SOP (Standard Operating The participants of Environmental Training at Procedure), WIN (Work Instruction), and Forms. Trakindo Medan a) The Manual accommodates general regulations of Environmental Management and other substantial aspect that should be stated as guidance. SHE Manual made as elementary guidance for Trakindo to develop, implement, maintain and also improving SHE Management System appropriate w ith National and International regulation. All related documents like SOP and WIN have to refer to the regulation in this SHE Manual. Area 3: Environment b) Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) Continued: Trakindo has SOPs related Environmental Management in w ork areas, it contains prevail national regulations as reference. The SOPs are: 1. SHE.SOP.001 SHE Policy, Objective and Program 2. SHE.SOP.002 Legal & External Requirement 3. SHE.SOP.003 Risk Management 4. SHE.SOP.004 SHE Communication Internal & Consultation 5. SHE.SOP.005 SHE Communication External & Consultation 6. SHE.SOP.007 Training 7. SHE.SOP.015 Management & Control of Toxic & Hazardous Substances 8. SHE.SOP.017 Personal Protective Equipment 9. SHE.SOP.018 SHE Maintenance and Inspection 10. SHE.SOP.019 Waste Management & Control 11. SHE.SOP.023 Emergency Preparedness and Response 12. SHE.SOP.024 Incident Reporting 13. SHE.SOP.025 Incident Investigation Process 14. SHE.SOP.026 SHE Measurement & Monitoring 15. SHE.SOP.027 SHE Preventive and Corrective Action 16. SHE.SOP.029 SHE Internal Audit 17. SHE.SOP.030 SHE Management Review One of the SOPs in Trakindo Area 3: Environment Continued: c) Work Instruction (WIN) WIN contains specific instruction of activity process in w orking area. How to conduct the operation w ithout contribute negative impacts to employee and environment. The WINs are: • SHE.WIN.004 Symbolic Safety Sign • SHE.WIN.016 Physical Environmental Condition Compliance • SHE.WIN.017 Hydrocarbon Management • SHE.WIN.018 Control of SHE Record • SHE.WIN.019 Noise Measurement Method • SHE.WIN.020 Lighting Measurement Method • SHE.WIN.022 Oil Spill Handling • SHE.WIN.025 THS Waste Temporary Storage Environmental preservation is Trakindo endeavor. Area 3: Environment Continued: The Form The form is used to record data and/or as reporting template. It is important w hen audit to provide actual data. The forms are: 1. SHE.FRM.003 HIRA-ERA 2. SHE.FRM.034 List of THS 3. SHE.FRM.035 Weekly Inspection of THS 4. SHE.FRM.046 Incident Report 5. SHE.FRM.047 Incident Investigation Report 6. SHE.FRM.048 Schedule of SHE Measurement 7. SHE.FRM.049 SHE Measurement 8. SHE.FRM.050 Non Conformity Record 9. SHE.FRM.077 Record Disposal 10. SHE.FRM.079 Waste Transfer 11. SHE.FRM.080 Oil Trap System Inspection 12. SHE.FRM.081 Waste Dredging on Oil Trap System One of the SHE Forms 13. SHE.FRM.096 Environmental Audit Checklist 14. SHE.FRM.097 Measurement of Sound Pressure Level On 2013 w e developed our SOPs and WINs based on prevail regulations such as on Toxic and Hazardous Substances (THS) w aste management, w e completed our WINs w ith THS w aste balance form. Here are the latest forms that w e had created for environmental management in branches: SHE.FRM.104 THS Waste Balance SHE.FRM.105 Emergency Tools Inspection Area 3: Environment Continued: Trakindo had identified the environmental aspects, risks and hazards in operational activities on w orking areas, such as attached form below . Figure 2. Form of Environmental Risk Assessment Figure 3.Cumulative number of participants per Year Area 3: Environment Continued: Implementation a. Environmental Training SHE Department has been holding Environmental Training since 2010. The participants are SHE personnel in all w orking area and also from supervisory up such as Branch Head or Division Head. Here is the update of training participants number as per May 2014, the participants cumulatively increase to 112 people. 120 112 100 102 80 60 59 Participants Number 40 43 31 20 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Figure 3.Cumulative number of participants per Year Area 3: Environment Continued: 40 35 13 9 6 4 2 1 2 Sumatera Java Kalimantan EIA Batu Hijau Tembagapura Cileungsi Product Support HO Figure 4.Cumulative number of participants per Area until 2014 Area 3: Environment B. Environmental Campaign Trakindo cares about environmental preservation, to support preservation, Trakindo conducts campaign as the follow ing: C. Community Responsibility Another our responsibility to environmental preservation, Trakindo Palembang planted trees to support government program planting 1 billion trees. Measurement of outcomes In 2012 Trakindo Surabaya and Samarinda branches w ere certified for Environmental Management System ISO 14001. ISO 14001certification is a verification of Trakindo’ s environment preservation in its operation. In 2013 Trakindo Palembang w as certified for ISO 14001 . Assessment, Policies, Goals Assessment, Policy and Goals Area 1: Anti Corruption The main foundation for Trakindo in maintaining its sustainability rests on Good Corporate Governance (GCG). The governance principles are embraced by The Core Values​​, Good Corporate Principle 10: Businesses should Governance Guidelines in Indonesia (2006) and common practices w ork against corruption in all its in Indonesia. forms, including extortion and The Core Values bribery. Integrity We enforce the highest ethical and moral standards, demonstrating honesty and fairness in all activities Continuous Development We are committed to continuously developing both our companies and employees. Excellence We continuously strive to achieve the highest standard of result. Proactive We pursue and adopt new techniques and approaches to improve our business quality. Accountability We assume responsibility to stakeholders for all the decisions and actions taken. Teamwork We promote and support a multicultural w orkforce based on trust and respect, achieving goals by communicating appropriately. Implementation • The structure of Good Governance are as follow : Shareholders General Meeting Board of Commissioners Board of Directors Implementation • Directors and Executive Council periodically attend seminars and training programs to ensure that they are updated w ith the latest development, competencies and technology as w ell as applicable law s and regulations In 2013, Trakindo has conducted several important steps: 1. Manual for board 2. Corporate Ethics Guidelines 3. Building Risk Management 4. Charter preparation for committees to support commissioner Measurement of Outcomes • Shareholders General Meetings consist of Annual General Meeting (AGM), w hich is not less than 6 months after the closing of fiscal year, and Extraordinary General Meeting (EGM); • The Company appointed an independent external auditor to audit the financial statements of the Company, based on the Annual General Meeting result; • The External auditor is obliged to maintain the independence, in accordance w ith Standard Inspection of Public Accountant, issued by Indonesian Accountants Association. Thank You
