SoftSkills Management Consultants Communication on Progress Year: 2014 STATEMENT SoftSkills is a firm of Management Consultants with its Head office in Lagos, Nigeria. The firm has a special focus on imparting soft skills that managers generally have difficulty defining, measuring and managing. Our goal is to assist organizations to motivate and inspire their employees to peak performance as evidence has shown this to be the key drive for successful corporate performance. SoftSkills Management Consultants has a crop of reputable corporate citizen as her staff at all levels. As a member of the Global Compact, our aim is to implement the ten principles in our business policies. Business policies of like terms as the ten principles are embraced by the board of our company. Through our support of the United Nations Global Compact, we also aim to move the agenda forward on performance related to human rights, labour rights, the environment and the fight against bribery and corruption. Documented in this report is the summary of the progress we have made against these principles and we will continue to follow them up in future 19th February, 2014 Date Wonuola Adetayo, Managing Director/ CE Contact: Wonuola Adetayo Email: wonutayo2002@yahoo.com Phone: 2348029990258 1|Page S/N Global Compact Principle Action Taken & Impact Achieved and/or Plans for the Performance upcoming Year Indicator 1 Businesses should support Workers in SoftSkills are treated with fairness. There is Satisfactory and respect the protection of unbiased remuneration for their time at work while internationally proclaimed promotion is on merit. Our business processes are carried human rights; out in a world class atmosphere. There is gender balance in our workforce and females are treated with equal respect. 2 Business makes sure that Our business policies and processes are within the Excellently they are not complicit in stipulated Human right law in Nigeria. Our mode of done human rights abuses. operations and terms of engagement are within Nigeria and ILO that guarantees non-violation of human rights of employees in whatever forms. We ensure alignment with Nigerian Constitution. 3 Businesses should uphold Members of staff have the freedom to join any association Excellently the freedom of association of their choice without intimidation. Some of our members done and the effective recognition belong to Chartered Institute of Personal Management of the right to collective (CIPM), Nigeria and Society of Human Resource bargaining; Management, USA. None of our staff member was coaxed to come to the office. 4 The elimination of all forms of Staff intimidation is non-existent in our workplace. Our Excellently forced and compulsory engagement letter is well explicit enough for our new staff. done labour; Job description, targets, KPI and expectations are jointly agreed and clearly started. 5 The effective abolition of child Child labour is illegal in our work environment. All Excellently labour; members of staff are above the legal working age – 18 done years old. The youngest staff on our payroll is 26 years old. 6 The elimination of All records on recruitment, training and promotion of our Excellently discrimination in respect of staff are up-to-date. Going through the documents, it has done employment and occupation. a transparent view of opportunities for employees and their progression within the organization 2|Page 7 Businesses should support a To encourage a precautionary approach to environmental Excellently precautionary approach to challenges, a code of conduct for our business operations done environmental challenges; has been developed and it is committed to upholding good health and the environment. HSE Policy is in place, HSE meeting and audit are carried out regularly. 8 Undertake initiatives to SoftSkills is known to measure, track and communicate Excellently promote greater our development in incorporating sustainability. We done environmental responsibility; identify with and support activities of organisation, corporate bodies and NGO that promote environmental sustainability. 9 Encourage the development SoftSkills is knowledge firm, one of the ways we help to Excellently and diffusion of diffuse an environmentally friendly technologies includes done environmentally friendly sensitization on the importance of recycling and also by technologies. recycling our used paper materials instead of thrashing or burning them. We try to reduce the use of paper materials by using CD Disc, electronic portable devices and emails, sms and other IT enabled devices for communication. 10 Businesses should work It is our standard practice never to give or collect Excellently against all forms of bribes for the jobs we do or the projects we solicit for. done corruption, including Part of the training and HR intervention to clients is extortion and bribery. hinged on good governance, work ethics, professionalism and good corporate citizenship. 3|Page
