JULIE SANDLAU VIETNAM COP 2014 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2014 I. A statement of continued support for the Global Compact. I am pleased to confirm that Julie Sandlau Vietnam continues supporting the ten principles of the Global Compact with respect to Human Rights, Labor Rights, Environment and anti-corruption. With this annual report, we express our intent to advance those principles within our sphere of influence. We are committed to make the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company, and to engage in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, particularly the Millennium Development Goals. Julie Sandlau Vietnam will make a clear statement of this commitment to our stakeholders and the general public. 28th October 2014 Mr. Soren Roed Pedersen CEO/Julie Sandlau Vietnam Page 1 JULIE SANDLAU VIETNAM COP 2014 II. Introduction: 1. About Julie Sandlau Vietnam. Company : Julie Sandlau Vietnam Co. Ltd. Address : Km 9, Lang Hoa Lac Street, An Khanh Commune, Hoai Duc District, Hanoi, Vietnam. Contact Person : Soren Roed Pedersen, General Director Tel: +84 433 65 67 68 Soren@juliesandlauvn.com Reporting Period : 08th November 2013 – 28th October 2014 Membership Date : 08th November 2012 Sector : Jewelry designing and producing Number of Employees : 462 2. Brief description of nature of business a. The Company Julie Sandlau Vietnam Co. Ltd. Is 100% foreign own factory from Denmark located at Km 9 Lang Hoa Lac Street, An Khanh Commune, Hoai Duc District, Hanoi, Vietnam. We are specializing in producing & exporting high-end jewelry. b. CSR Julie Sandlau Vietnam has high focus on social responsibility and as a part of our Corporate Social Responsibility it is a wish to be able to comply according to the UN Global Compact and its 10 principles throughout the organization and collaborators. c. Julie Sandlau Vietnam CSR Vision Julie Sandlau Vietnam vision and intension is to act social responsible both local and global based on the principle and intension of the UN Global Conduct and support the values within:  Human Rights  Labor Rights  Environment  Anti-corruption 3. Availability of this COP This COP is available online at www.unglobalcompact.org and our public website www.juliesandlauvn.com . It will also be distributed to clients and suppliers as well as being forwarded to any requesting parties. Page 2 JULIE SANDLAU VIETNAM COP 2014 Targets for the coming UNGC Principles JSV practical actions Measurement of outcomes year 1. Human rights  We continue to apply “Supplier’s Code of Conduct”  Customer’s Code of Conduct is posted in site our  Establish Julie Sandlau 1.1 Principles 1: Businesses manual that based on and follows the Universal facility and communicated throughout our supply Vietnam’s Code of should uphold and respect Declaration of Human Rights, key UN conventions, chain and employees. Conduct that covers all the protection of ILO conventions and recommendations. Supplier’s  Labor Code book is available in our library. aspects such as: internationally Code of Conduct has been posted in our facility and  We are awarded the best company in Health & Human rights and proclaimed human rights. communicated throughout our supply chain and our Safety implementation and Fire safety precautions Labor rights; Health 1.2 Principles 2: Business employees. implementation in 2013. and Safety; should ensure that they  We have detailed internal HR policies that are  100% employees were offered: Orientation Environmental are not complicit in translated in local language and delivery all our training, Health check before joining, annual protection; Ethics and human rights abuses employees. All new staffs are introduced to the health check, HIV/AIDS training, Health & Safety apply it to day-to-day regulations in orientation training. precautions, fire prevention, first aid training and operations of our  The employees are offered: Health check before fire safety precautions with certificates from company. joining, annual health check, HIV/AIDS training, relevant authorities.  Continue to offer the Health & Safety precautions, fire prevention, first aid  The company’s minimum wage that is paid for our employees: Health training and fire safety precautions. employees is 20% higher than the statutory check before joining,  Our employees are paid with higher wage that minimum wage. annual health check, compares with the statutory minimum wage according  Every six months, there is a meeting between the HIV/AIDS training, to Vietnamese labor code. We actively work on employer and the employees. The employees are Health & Safety reaching a sustainable solution to providing living free to raise their voice in any kinds of issue precautions, fire wages. regarding to working environment, salary and prevention, first aid  Democratic working environment is applied in our benefits. training and fire safety company. Employees are advocated to speak up their precautions. opinion.  Offer our employees better wage. Page 3 JULIE SANDLAU VIETNAM COP 2014 Targets for the coming UNGC Principles JSV practical actions Measurement of outcomes year 2. Labor rights  There is Trade Union organization in our company  Every two months, a regular meeting between the  A new Trade Union 2.1 Principle 3: Businesses and we strong support its activities. We allow Trade employer and Trade Union members is organized. committee will be should uphold the Union rights, do not interfere with worker’s unions, Clear minutes of meeting are well stored. elected in March 2015. freedom of association and do not prevent workers from joining this union.  100% our employees are members of Trade Union In coming years, we and the effective Workers do not face prejudice due to union organization. continue to attach the recognition of the right to membership or active participation in worker’s  We provide a signed labor contract in a language important role of collective bargaining. committee. that is understandable to the employees. Trade Union 2.2 Principle 4: Businesses  Board of Trade Union is invited to get involved in  There was no child labour found in our company. organization and ask should uphold the many company’s activities and decisions such as: According to the factory’s recruitment and them for advice for all elimination of forced or establishing company’s policy, salary and benefit for selection procedure, the factory does not recruit issue related to Labor compulsory labor. employees, establishing football teams… employees below 18 years old. Applicants are Rights. 2.3 Principle 5: Businesses  There was no discrimination practice found in the required to submit age verification documents  Continue to do regular should uphold the company. Employees are recruited based on their (copies of birth certificate, ID card, certified charity activities to effective abolition of competencies and factory’s requirements. Employees’ resume) to HR staff during recruitment process. help unlucky people. child labor. compensation levels are based on their working Short-list applicants would be interviewed to  Continue to advocate 2.4 Principle 6: Businesses position, knowledge and skills only. ensure the matching between the appearance of employees to raise should uphold the  Employees are voluntarily working for the company. the employee and his/her submitted documents. their voice by elimination of  All employees are signed labor contract with social  Employees are voluntarily working for the factory. organizing a meeting discrimination in respect insurance, health insurance and unemployment Labour contract is signed between the employer between both parties of employment and insurance from probation period as stipulated by law. and the employee at the beginning of employment. every 03 months. occupation.  We do not use any illegal workers, or any kind of Each party would keep one copy of the contract forced labor or child labor in our factory. for reference. Employees could terminate the  All safety precautions in regards to the use, storage labour contract at any time with reasonable and handling of chemicals are taken and the advance notice of 30 days to 45 days as stipulated employees are sufficiently trained in handling by Law. chemicals. Page 4 JULIE SANDLAU VIETNAM COP 2014 Targets for the coming UNGC Principles JSV practical actions Measurement of outcomes year 2. Labor rights  All candidates who are enough 18 of age are welcome  Around 90% unskilled workers have been 2.1 Principle 3: Businesses to be our workers. We provide on-the-job training for provided on-the-job training to be skillful workers. should uphold the freedom of association all un-experienced worker to be skillful worker.  No accident at work is found in our company and the effective Externally trainings are also provided for our  The MSDSs listing all chemicals on site are recognition of the right to employees posted near chemicals. collective bargaining. 2.2 Principle 4: Businesses  Charity activities are organized regularly with strong  There are clear employment policy and procedure should uphold the support of parent company and subsidiary company. in our company. elimination of forced or We work with Blue Dragon Children’s foundation to  We provide: computers, desks and chairs for compulsory labor. help disadvantaged children in rural Vietnam. classroom, support for children to go to school for 2.3 Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the  15 children under 17 years of age from Blue Dragon a year – payment for school fees, text books, effective abolition of Children’s foundation were invited to visit our stationery, insurance, uniforms and other fees. child labor. company to learn about job opportunities. 2.4 Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the  Offer fresh graduated students on-the-job trainee. elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 3. Environment  Collecting waste in the industrial zone is done  In order to make working place clean, around 100  We plans to use power 3.1 Principle 7: Businesses regularly by our cleaning team. trash cans were bought and put around the saving bulbs and will should support a  Environmental training for our employees is provided working area. use more precautionary approach to to ask for protecting environment.  We sign the contract with prestige suppliers who environmentally environmental  The public area of the factory is kept clear and clean. are competent as well as allowed to handle with friendly technologies challenges. Trash bins are placed around the premises for rubbishes according to The Vietnamese Ministry in the near future. employees to use. of natural resources and environment. Page 5 JULIE SANDLAU VIETNAM COP 2014 Targets for the coming UNGC Principles JSV practical actions Measurement of outcomes year 3.2 Principle 8: Businesses  To make sure that we do not pollute the environment  Turn off air conditioners and other equipments should undertake and our neighbors, our rubbishes are removed and when we do not use. initiatives to promote treated by the suppliers.  Take advantage of nature lights instead of using greater environmental too much electricity. responsibility.  Reduce energy consumption and greenhouse gas 3.3 Principle 9: Business footprint. should encourage the  We encourage employees to use front and back on development and printing paper. diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 4. Anti-corruption  A suggestion box established to protect employees  The suggestion box is checked every 03 days and  We will display the 4.1 Principle 10: Businesses who report potential human rights concerns within the shared with related departments. A quick action highest level of ethical integrity when dealing should work against all company or with business partners is also provided. will be done then. We try our best to create “no with workers, forms of corruption,  We have transparent reporting procedures and try to complaining working environment”. suppliers. No violation including extortion and improve them better and better.  We have been working with famous audit firms regarding to corruptions is bribery  All our company transactions are accountable and such as Deloitte Vietnam, KPMG in consulting recorded. transparent. and annual audit.  Accounting software makes clear all our transactions. Page 6
