2014 U.N Global Compact Communication on Progress Participant: 51Give Reporting Period: May 2012 – April 2013 To our stakeholders: 51Give recognizes the role that the divverse business community in which we operate ha as to play in making changes to how globall businesses are perceived by stakeholders and consumers alike. As an organization that can influence charity foundations through our online donation platform, we acknowledge and accept our role as a organization to embed the ten princiiples of the global compact by embedding the these within our service offerings. Through this approach we drive integra ration of human rights, social, environmental and ethical considerations into our businessss operations, strategies and the products offered to organizations, while employing diverse se and in many cases complex supply chains. 51Give have developed and implemen ented assurance and pre-qualification programmes s that not only improve technological innovation innovation, but they also assist major organisations workin ng in a wide range of sectors to enhance wor orking conditions and minimize their impact to the environment. To ensure sustainability within w our global network of charity foundations & NGO’s, we ensure that holistic underst standing of the challenges our partners face, while ensuring the accuracy of their informattion. In mid-2013 we committed as an n organization tto address how we could increase its glob bal footprint in an ethical and transparent manner m that would also reduce our environmentall impact. We are pleased to renew our commitm ment supporting and complying with the UN Globall Compact as detailed within our Commun unication on Progress Yours Sincerely, Cavan M. Chan Operations Manager 1. Human Rights 1.1 Assessment, Policy and Goals The Company has recognised the importance of ensuring that all personnel are engaged and treated in an equal manner across the organization. 1.2 Implementation To ensure that we provide a safe working environment and maintain the wellbeing of all members of the workforce independent of their geographical location, we have created a safety committee that is managed from our office. We follow international best practices for health and safety measures and work place ergonomics. 1.3 Measurement of outcomes We follow the rules and regulations of the jurisdiction in which we operate and in our company’s policies, we ensure that our employees and stakeholders are treated fairly and equally. We help our client’s to achieve their goals in the areas of corporate social responsibility, sustainability and workplace. 2. Labour Standards 2.1 Assessment, Policy and Goals Our engagement process, which covers any individual independent of their employment status or location, will always provide verification of their age and their identity with government issued documentation. To ensure due diligence in this area, we will maintain necessary copies of this documentation and the process is open to any form of independent verification. We are committed to providing our employees with a work environment that is open, friendly and non-discriminatory, and that is fully in accordance with employment legislation in the country of operation. All our employees work for us of their own choosing and are all of legal age and are not subject to any financial penalties when employed via a professional recruitment service. 2.2 Implementation 51Give complies with applicable local legislation regarding the principle of freedom of association and collective agreements in the areas in which we operate. To support our attitude and the construction of a positive working environment, we periodically review corporate policies focused on equality and the prevention of discriminatory practice. All members of the workforce are issued with formally documented terms of engagement that clearly define their terms of employment including a clear breakdown on remuneration, holidays and their ability to leave this employment when they choose to do so. We shall not engage with any organisation that allows or supports forced or bonded labour irrelevant of location. This stance is also applied to any form of child labour. 2.3 Measurement of outcomes To provide our clients with the best possible service, we ensure all members of our workforce are provided with a detailed training program with a vast range of job specific subjects both when they commence employment and this is also undertaken on a continued basis to ensure that our personnel maintain their professional development. We also encourage our staff to undertake additional training and further education to further their careers and enhance their personal development. Human Resources and senior management work in hand to ensure that all employees are given access to the same resources and treated equally in the workplace. 3. Environment 3.1 Assessment, Policy and Goals We recognise that as we expand and grow the business globally, we face the challenge of minimising our environmental impact. This will continue to be a challenge as our market share increases due to 3 the demand for our services and also the demands that can be placed on personnel to meet clients in a non-virtual environment. a. Shutting windows when using air conditioning; b. Turning off lights, air conditioning and computer equipment upon leaving office; c. Reusable kitchenware; d. Use of public transport, instead of taxis or company cars, whenever possible to attend external meetings; e. By posting donations online we have reduce printing and postal impact. 3.2 Implementation We are committed to using internet media where possible to undertake meetings and deliver presentations as required by our clients. Where travel is unavoidable, we have opted to reduce our costs and committed to finding the best travel solutions that not only ensure our personnel travel safely, but also with minimum impact to the environment and reduce our CO2 emissions. 3.3 Measurement of outcomes At the office, employees now apply the guidelines stipulated in the Employee Handbook and continuously seek new measures to limit their environmental footprint. 4. Anti-corruption 4.1 Assessment, Policy and Goals 51Give holds a strict zero-tolerance policy. 51Give has always been practicing principles of honesty and all the employees are fully aware of these practices. 4.2 Implementation Standard operating procedures are created for each department to avoid any dishonesty to take place and independent checks are conducted regularly. 4.3 Measurement of outcomes 51Give’s mission is to set the foundations for a sustainable and socially-responsible society via the creation of dynamic, innovative and transparent initiatives, all while ensuring its own corporate practices fall in line with the principles and ethical culture nurtured by the UN Global Compact. 4
