Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013-2014 UN Global Compact NKT wishes to protect the environment, safeguard human and labour rights and work against corruption About this report CONTENTS NKT became signatory to the UN Global Compact in March 2009. The present report fulfils the obligation to provide Communication on Progress (COP) for the period 1 July NKT Group 2013 to 30 June 2014. Profile 3 Statement 4 The business units Nilfisk-Advance and NKT Cables are also autonomous signatories to Performance 5 the UN Global Compact, and their obligation to provide Communication on Progress is covered by this report. Business units Nilfisk-Advance 8 Reporting structure NKT Cables 13 NKT consists of three businesses with diverse product portfolios, organisations and Photonics Group 18 markets. Accordingly, their focus areas and challenges in terms of sustainability also differ. The first part of this report deals with the Group’s overall performance on selected Framework parameters, while the second part addresses progress in each of the businesses. Reporting principles 21 GRI indicators 22 The overall responsibility for Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) in the NKT Group lies GRI appendix 23 with the Board of Directors. While NKT sets the overall guidelines, the targets are set by the individual businesses. To ensure commitment, all targets must be as specific as possible and concrete actions to achieve them must be clearly defined. Contact NKT Holding A/S Helle Gudiksen Email: helle.gudiksen@nkt.dk Communications Consultant NKT Holding A/S CSR Report 2013-2014 Introduction 2/23 NKT Group profile Employees as of 30 June 2014 Revenue mDKK (LTM)* EBITDA mDKK (LTM)* 797 Photonics Group NKT Holding 9,208 208 20 6,665 NKT Cables 386  3,373 282 10 Nilfisk-Advance NilfiskNKT Photonics NilfiskNKT Photonics 5,475 Advance Cables Group Advance Cables Group * Last twelve months (1 July 2013 30 June 2014) * Last twelve months (1 July 2013 30 June 2014) NKT is a modern industrial conglomerate with businesses specialising in professional cleaning equipment, power cables and high-tech photonic products. NKT operates in more than 100 countries and has some 9,100 employees NKT Holding Photonics Group NKT Cables The NKT Group comprises three businesses: Photonics Group supplies high quality photonic products Nilfisk-Advance ranging from fibers and lasers to systems and optical process Nilfisk-Advance is one of the world’s leading manufacturers equipment. The products are sold to a broad spectrum of of professional cleaning equipment. The products are sold industries, including life science, infrastructure as well as the oil worldwide with primary focus on the commercial cleaning and gas sector. The equipment supplied is often incorporated in market, including institutional and industrial customers as well as totally new and innovative solutions which address the need for professional contract cleaners. Consumer vacuum cleaners and more efficient use of global resources, increased security of food high pressure washers are also manufactured. Nilfisk-Advance and energy supply, and prevention of pollution. invests some 3% of annual revenue in product development. The aim is to provide a portfolio with a distinct, sustainable NKT is headquartered in Denmark. Some 94% of Group revenue profile characterised by reduced consumption of energy, water, (2013) is, however, generated in other markets and 88% of the detergents and environmentally friendly disposal. workforce is based outside of Denmark. NKT Cables is a manufacturer and supplier of power cables to the energy sector. Primarily sold in Europe and China, its products Visit www.nkt.dk to learn more about us. and solutions target the offshore wind sector and the expansion of onshore transmission and distribution grids. The company also supplies cables for buildings and wires for cars, as well as catenary wires for high speed railways. NKT Cables aims to be at the forefront in developing innovative sustainable products and solutions. NKT Holding A/S CSR Report 2013-2014 3/23 NKT Group statement At NKT, CSR is an integral part of creating value for our shareholders, customers, employees, and other stakeholders NKT supports the demand for sustainable global development At NKT we believe that our largest contribution to a sustainable future lies in developing and manufacturing environmentally friendly products and solutions which also support sustainable applications. This approach adds value to NKT as a company and promotes more sustainable global development. NKT’s offerings complement the worldwide trend towards urbanisation and derivative effects such as rising welfare and expansion of infrastructure. NKT similarly supports trends in the energy sector by providing products and expertise which target sustainable production of wind power, reliable, efficient and flexible energy supply, and the need for increased exploitation of existing deepwater oil and gas reserves. Progress on internal goals “ NKT became signatory to the UN Global Compact in 2009, and this initiative remains the key to efforts relating to social responsibility. We closely monitor the development within parameters such as CO2 emissions, water We believe that our consumption, work safety, diversity, and anti-corruption, as well as the adherence of our suppliers with the principles of the UN Global Compact. largest contribution to Whistleblower system extended to external stakeholders a sustainable future In 2010 we set up a whistleblower system aimed at disclosing any internal lies in developing irregularities. Over the years a number of incidents have been reported, a small number of which have led to adjustments to our business procedures. and manufacturing We now intend taking our responsible business conduct a step further by environmentally friendly inviting external stakeholders to disclose irregularities or inappropriate actions through our whistleblower system. This service is expected to be available by products and solutions end-2014. which also support a Collectively, these efforts are instrumental in delivering ongoing value sustainable application creation for all our stakeholders. Michael Hedegaard Lyng Group Executive Director & CFO NKT Holding A/S CSR Report 2013-2014 NKT Group 4/23 Group performance HUMAN AND LABOUR RIGHTS NKT is a company with global presence operating in compliance In the period under review Nilfisk-Advance has noted with local laws and regulations and with respect for international significant growth in supplier acceptance. In Europe and in the rights. Incorporated in numerous policies, this compliance is also US particularly, suppliers who were previously hesitant have an integral part of NKT’s due diligence procedures for acquisitions. accepted the new contractual terms. The UN Global Compact is now an intrinsic part of Nilfisk-Advance’s standard contract Target for supplier support for UN Global Compact and the current level of 80% acceptance is therefore expected reached in two units to further increase. In NKT Cables the acceptance rate has been In 2009, NKT introduced the requirement that suppliers above 80% for the past three reporting periods. representing an annual purchase value above 50,000 EUR had to comply with the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. One reason for the previous disparity in acceptance levels is The target was to obtain acceptance from 80% of the suppliers that NKT’s business units differ considerably in terms of supplier concerned. base. Whereas NKT Cables has a small number of large suppliers and procurement is concentrated in Europe, Nilfisk-Advance has Suppliers* accepting the UN Global Compact many small, local suppliers situated around the world. Photonics Group also has small, local suppliers. Oper. EBITDA% LTM, std. % Diversity profile unchangedOper. EBITDA mDKK 100 % NKT is firmly committed 2013/2014 to providing equal opportunities for all 80 86 84 88 employees and Oper. EBITDA% 2012/2013 will not LTM discrimination or harassment tolerate 80 73 2011/2012 60 of any kind. However, achieving a diversified workforce must 57 63 primarily be based on combining optimal competences with 40 44 50 appropriate social and cultural skills to realise NKT’s business 20 strategy and targets. 0 Nilfisk-Advance NKT Cables Photonics Group NKT monitors the diversity development in terms of age, gender 2011-2012 2012-2013 2013-2014 and nationality among senior management. The NKT Group Original target * Annual purchase value above 50,000 EUR NKT Holding A/S CSR Report 2013-2014 NKT Group 5/23 Diversity in senior management 2014 Senior Man. Age profile Gender No. of nationalities Total <40 40-54 >54 Women Men (The predominant nationality in %) NKT Board of Directors* 6 0 3 3 1 5 2 (Danish 83%) NKT Management 5 3 2 0 0 5 1 (Danish 100%) Nilfisk-Advance 44 6 32 6 2 42 18 (Danish 45%) NKT Cables 94 13 64 17 8 86 14 (German 49%) Photonics Group 13 0 9 4 1 12 4 (Danish 38%) Total 162 22 110 30 12 150 * Elected at the AGM operates in businesses which historically have a preponderance ENVIRONMENT of men and this is still reflected in the fact that only a few women hold senior management or staff positions. The objective for both NKT has a two-fold strategy for reducing environmental impact: genders is to be represented among the AGM-elected members Firstly, to develop and supply products that reduce user energy of NKT’s Board of Directors, with 17% as the target for the underconsumption (Nilfisk-Advance) and to support the spread of represented gender. This target was achieved for 2013-2014. sustainable energy production (NKT Cables and Photonics Group). And secondly to reduce consumption of resources by Going forward, NKT will continue to offer equal opportunities for NKT’s own businesses. both genders to achieve positions at all levels of management, e.g. by stipulating that both genders must be represented among CO2 emissions further reduced the candidates for a vacancy and by increased internal focus on Nilfisk-Advance and NKT Cables both continued to record lower employees with management potential. CO2 emissions. The decrease of 4% for Nilfisk-Advance and the 1% reduction in NKT Cables were mainly due to reduced heating Small changes in the level of occupational injuries consumption and a drop in electricity used. NKT business units are dedicated to ensuring a safe and healthy working environment and have set up ambitious targets to Continued decline in water consumption reduce occupational injuries. In the previous reporting periods Installation of a separate water recycling system at its Hungarian impressive reductions were recorded while the level of injuries plant was a significant contributor to a 10% reduction in water in the present period has increased slightly in NKT Cables consumption for Nilfisk-Advance. Savings from maintenance compared with last year. This in partly due to inclusion of data of premises were another factor in the reduction. NKT Cables from an acquired plant in 2013. To further reduce the number started monitoring the water consumption in 2010, since when of accidents the business units have intensified the number of the company has recorded a 54% reduction in use of tap water safety trainings and awareness campaigns. In addition they have per tonne cable. Use of secondary water, installation of a cooling increased focus on eliminating unsafe situations or behaviours compressor for recirculation purposes and repair of leakages and on analysing the root causes of incidents registered. were some of the major reasons for the considerable decrease. Occupational injuries causing work absence CO2 emissions (Scope 1+2) Frequency per million working hours Tonnes Tonnes 20 % 30,000 Oper.EBITDA Oper. 2013/2014 mDKKLTM, std. EBITDA% 88,000 15 Oper. EBITDA% LTM 2012/2013 -3% 29,000 -2% 2011/2012 86,000 10 -4% -1% 28,000 84,000 5 9.4 7.3 7.0 16.6 8.0 9.7* 27,000 82,000 0 Nilfisk-Advance NKT Cables 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2011-2012 2012-2013 2013-2014 Nilfisk-Advance NKT Cables One injury has occurred in Photonics Group for the past three years CO2 emmisions from Photonics Group are insignificant * Part of the increase is due to the fact that data from a plant acquired Scope 1: Energy consumption for heating in Sweden in 2013 is now included Scope 2: Energy consumption for production NKT Holding A/S CSR Report 2013-2014 NKT Group 6/23 Water consumption Whistleblower system to include external stakeholders In 2010, NKT set up an internal whistleblower system with the aim of disclosing any internal irregularities. The system is maintained m3 m3 by an external provider and all employees can anonymously report % 200,000 150,000 Oper. Oper. EBITDA% EBITDA any serious concerns about mDKKLTM, std. Nilfisk-Advance irregularities or inappropriate actions. -16% Oper. EBITDA% Reports may be submitted in aLTM number NKT ofCables languages and in -23% writing or orally. None of the reports submitted for 2013-2014 have 170,000 125,000 -10% led to material adjustments in business procedures. -1% NKT has decided to take its responsibility for sound business 140,000 100,000 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 conduct a step further, and as of end-2014 external stakeholders Nilfisk-Advance NKT Cables* will be invited to disclose any irregularities through the whistleblower system. Access to the system will be available at Photonics Group does not register water consumption. www.nkt.dk and on the business units’ websites. * Water consumption from a plant in Sweden, acquired in 2013 is not included. Appeal against European Commission decision On 2 April 2014 NKT received a fine of 29 mDKK following an investigation conducted by the European Commission into ANTI-CORRUPTION alleged price-fixing activities in the high-voltage power cable industry, cf. Company Announcement No. 8 2014. NKT disagrees NKT has business operations worldwide, including areas where with the Commission’s decision and therefore lodged an appeal corrupt practices have used to exist and to some extent still do. in Q2 2014. Some of the business units are also active in sectors where cartels have operated. It is therefore crucial for NKT’s credibility to be a strong advocate of fair competition and lawful practices. Internal compliance The managers of all NKT entities complete an annual Statement of Representation, which includes an extensive anti-corruption review. Any findings relating to potentially corruptive practices, such as cartels, money laundering, bribery and facilitation payments must be reported in the statement. The managers also state whether necessary actions are taken to ensure that employees in contact with external partners are aware of and trained in NKT’s anti-corruption policy. No cases of corruption were registered in the present reporting period while one case of misuse of company assets was registered. NKT Holding A/S CSR Report 2013-2014 NKT Group 7/23 Nilfisk-Advance statement Our company has existed for more than a century, and there is no doubt in our minds that respect and proactive behaviour when it comes to sustainability are essential to a company’s long term prospects. As one of the world’s leading manufacturers of professional cleaning equipment, we wish to head the industry by setting high business standards. Sustainability and responsibility are crucial to achieving our ambition of becoming our customers’ preferred choice. As a part of this ambition, we were first in our industry to become signatory to the UN Global Compact. By acting as a responsible business partner we can create a long-term advantage for both our customers and ourselves. The UN Global Compact sets high standards for how companies should act: Respect human rights, say no to bribery and take care of the environment. “ We as a company have always had high standards which are in line with those of the UN Global Compact, and we are convinced that committing to We wish to head the this agenda will help us develop our business in a positive direction and at the same time meet the growing demand from customers for sustainable industry by setting high and more efficient products and offerings. As examples, our whistleblower system, our annual Statement of Representation and our Code of Ethics are all business standards” initiatives that help us uphold high business standards. Our sustainability strategy is termed Green Meets Clean. In 2013, we launched Our Green Meets Clean promise to our a revised version of this strategy to further improve our sustainability efforts, customers: focus on innovative product development, green operations and increased We lower your total cost of operation and collaboration on recyclability. Green Meets Clean is our pledge to both maximise your return on investment by ourselves and our customers to dedicate our activities to offering cleaning developing products that use less energy, solutions that are efficient and improve the sustainability of the industry. It is water and detergent. also our pledge to continuously work to improve our environmental footprint as a company. We develop products with improved environmental performance and thereby Our Communication on Progress Report contains data and status on goals enhance your capacity for delivering and initiatives launched by Nilfisk-Advance. The data show that we have sustainable cleaning services as a customer. improved our performance in many areas and there is much to be proud of. We consider the results achieved to be a significant stepping stone on our We respond to the need for sustainable path to becoming an even more sustainable company. cleaning and develop new opportunities for you to create lasting value for you, your Jonas Persson employees and owners. CEO, Nilfisk-Advance NKT Holding A/S CSR Report 2013-2014 Nilfisk-Advance 8/23 NilfiskAdvance Highlights 2013-2014 Nilfisk-Advance employees assembling consumer high-pressure washers and vacuum-cleaners in our ISO9001 and 14001 certified factory in Suzhou, China. Courtesy of: www.issainterclean.com Sustainability concept Award to Nilfisk-Advance partner for Collaboration with universities on cradle-to-grave responsibility recycling Nilfisk-Advance continuously works to In May 2014, European Cleaning Machines Given the scarcity of resources and a improve its products. New products must Recycling (ECMR) was a proud winner of rising, global middle class, we believe that provide equal or enhanced cleaning ISSA Interclean’s Innovation Award in the recycling will be increasingly important efficiency and feature environmental Cleaning Management category. in our industry. We therefore collaborate improvements in at least one of four with a number of Danish universities on focus areas: Energy consumption, water Nilfisk-Advance donates life-expired life-cycle analyses to better understand consumption, use of detergents and equipment to ECMR, which strips out all the impact of our equipment in all steps of disposal. useful components. ECMR works to ISO the value chain. 26000, the international CSR guidelines. Both we and our customers see significant Together with the University of Southern potential in developing cleaning solutions Nilfisk-Advance is a partner of ECMR and Denmark (SDU), Nilfisk-Advance is now with improved environmental performance. was the company’s leading contributor, examining the possibilities for further donating approximately 20% of its recycling of its products an initiative We wish to be a leading player in this machine intake in 2013. which will meet the increasing customer development: Our approach is titled demand for products manufactured as Green Meets Clean. sustainably as possible. NKT Holding A/S CSR Report 2013-2014 Nilfisk-Advance 9/23 HUMAN AND LABOUR RIGHTS The next step, which is about to commence, is the provision of training to 300 of our leaders next in line. We consider it essential that all our employees are assured of good and fair working conditions, and we are committed to setting an example in the countries where we operate. As a global company we operate in parts of the world that have a long tradition of respect for individual rights, and also in areas 2013-14 Employee Engagement Survey where these rights may be less highly prioritised. Our approach on human and labour rights is defined and 45 4,930 91% globally communicated through the Nilfisk-Advance Code of countries respondents response rate Ethics and the Business Integrity Principles introduced in 2012. The subject of human and labour rights is also a mandatory  agenda component at local business board meetings at least once a year. Based on the results from the global Engagement Surveys, key We are firmly committed to providing equal opportunities to our focus areas such as knowledge of the future direction of Nilfiskemployees and will not tolerate discrimination or harassment Advance, employee recognition and strong customer focus  based on religion, race, colour, gender, age, sexual orientation, have been identified as main drivers for creating an even more political orientation, birth right or other status. We have therefore attractive workplace regardless of location and for ensuring that established a system for reporting cases of discrimination in our our people have the opportunity to achieve their full potential. whistleblower system. No incidents were reported in the COP  2013-14 period. Our customers want to be sure that the products we supply have Achieving our business goals is dependent on having a been produced in a responsible way. And we are committed to dedicated workforce, an inspiring working environment and ensuring that not only we, but also our suppliers, conform to our being able to continuously foster new talent. To ensure dialogue standards and observe the principles of the UN Global Compact. and promote commitment and engagement, our Employee These principles are now fully integrated in our standard   Engagement Survey was launched globally in 2012 and has supplier contracts, which achieved an 80% signature rate, an now been conducted for three consecutive years. To support improvement of 30% points compared to last year. Although   the development of our organisation and our leaders, 200 of our the end-2015 target of 80% has already been reached we will managers were selected for a comprehensive leadership training continue our efforts in this area. programme to ensure the continued development of our talent.  2013-14    30.06.14 Goals & actions Human and labour rights Target Achieved Status Management All local managements have been informed of our policies, have issued their comments, and have endorsed the policy. 100% ( ) 100%  ( ) 100% ( Zero tolerance of acts of discrimination of any kind and hence no cases to be reported. 100% We will foster talent so that skilled employees have the opportunity to achieve their full potential. With the 2015 target being a score of index 77 on the internal leadership assessment. Index 77 Index 74  ) Derived goal: To conduct global Employee Engagement Survey and set Employee Engagement targets Index. Procurement 100% ( ) 100%  ( ) 80% 80% of procurement (above 50,000 EUR in value) to be supplied by partners who have agreed to abide by the 80% principles of the UN Global Compact by end-2015. Occupational injuries  Improving performance with a short-term goal of a frequency less than 5.5 accidents per 1 million working hours. The long term goal is zero accidents. <5.5 7.0 () Labour rights ( ) 100% Our Code of Ethics is an integral part of Nilfisk-Advance’s M&A due diligence process and any 100% non-conformities are reported. ÷ Not accomplished () Partly accomplished or behind schedule  Accomplished or on track NKT Holding A/S CSR Report 2013-2014 Nilfisk-Advance 10/23 ENVIRONMENT least one of the four focus areas: Energy consumption, water consumption, use of detergents and disposal. We view environmental sustainability as an element of sound  business practice. If we can reduce our consumption of resources In collaboration with Technical University of Denmark (DTU) we it will not only benefit the environment but also our customers have created a life-cycle analysis of a few of our products in order and Nilfisk-Advance financially. Green Meets Clean is Nilfiskto better identify and understand the environmental footprint of  Advance’s environmental approach to developing new products products. for our customers. Our own consumption of resources is another focus area. Our Cleaning equipment naturally consumes energy, water and production units continuously strive to minimise environmental sometimes detergents. Designing future equipment which impact by use of low-energy light, natural light, internal wells and can clean to the same high standard, but uses less resources, is other initiatives. We also closely monitor our energy consumption therefore our foremost challenge. This is therefore also the area in and related CO2 emissions. which we can make the greatest possible environmental impact. For the present reporting period Nilfisk-Advance achieved a 4% The environmental impact of future products is a high priority reduction in CO2 emissions normalised to revenue, which is an  consideration in our technology development platform: important second step in achieving our overall CO2 emission Customer Focused Technology Development. 71% of all new reduction target of 8% over three years; 2013-2015. This goal was products launched by Nilfisk-Advance in the reporting period set in 2013 as a part of the sustainability strategy review. under review feature an environmental improvement in at  2013-14 30.06.14 Goals & actions Environment Product development  Target Achieved Status New products feature sustainability improvements in at least one and preferably more of the following four areas: Energy consumption, water consumption, use of detergents and disposal. 75% 71% () CO2 emissions  8% reduction over 2013-2015, equivalent of ~4% annually. 4% () 4% Product environmental footprint ( ) 100% Actively participate in industry-related activities, boards and committees to push for agreement 100% on industry standard for measuring environmental performance of products. ÷ Not accomplished () Partly accomplished or behind schedule  Accomplished or on track Auto Booster 5M Nilfisk-Advance has introduced a new series of stationary high pressure washers with the choice of up to three detergents and five programmes from light to intensive cleaning. With these adjustable settings any cleaning requirement can be met while water and energy consumption is reduced. NKT Holding A/S CSR Report 2013-2014 Nilfisk-Advance 11/23 ANTI-CORRUPTION As a global company doing business in all parts of the world, Nilfisk-Advance is committed to combat the negative effect that corruption has on fair competition and the development of a stable society. Based on the Transparency International Corruption Perceptions Index (www.transparency.org) we have identified areas of the world where business integrity issues are To ensure management commitment and to promote our   anti-corruption agenda the local managements in all NilfiskAdvance entities are obliged to personally sign a Statement of Representation on the UN Global Compact principles. The individual Statements are then consolidated and signed by the CEO of Nilfisk-Advance. The Statement of Representation receives  most likely to occur. significant attention from all parties. The findings for 2013-2014 revealed no major concerns. In order to support our activities in the domain of business integrity, our position is set out in the Nilfisk-Advance Code of Ethics. To further support these efforts a set of Business Integrity Principles has been introduced which guides all Nilfisk-Advance Nilfisk-Advance furthermore has a global whistleblower system which enables employees to anonymously report corruption and other unlawful incidents which are subsequently dealt  employees on what to do and what not to do in specific circumstances and situations.  with by an independent party. All reported cases receive the utmost attention, being discussed and dealt with by the Group Management of Nilfisk-Advance and NKT.    2013-14  30.06.14  Management Goals & actions Anti-corruption Target Achieved Status    Local managements have been informed of our policies, have issued their comments and have endorsed our policies. 100% ( ) 100%  Anti-corruption  () No reported corruption or cartel cases. 0% ( ) 0% ( ) 100% Ensure employees are knowledgeable regarding how to act in accordance with Nilfisk-Advance 100% expectations on business integrity issues. Apply risk management in growth markets on business integrity issues. 100% 20%( ) ÷ Not accomplished () Partly accomplished or behind schedule  Accomplished or on track One of our many professional and trained service technicians inspecting a SW900 sweeper for a routine check. NKT Holding A/S CSR Report 2013-2014 Nilfisk-Advance 12/23 NKT Cables statement In the long history of our company, Corporate Social Responsibility has always been an implicit and explicit part of how we do business to achieve sustainable success As an active corporate citizen, NKT Cables has a clear philosophy and conviction about our social responsibilities. With strict adherence to our CSR principles and the framework of the UN Global Compact, we take our commitment towards high ethical standards seriously wherever we seek to do business and to abide by all local laws and regulations and respect the rights of all individuals. Accordingly, we continue to train our employees and promote awareness of our zero-tolerance attitude towards non-compliance with laws and regulations. To underline this commitment, we ask the management of the units in the countries and regions of our activities to sign an annual Statement of Representation confirming adherence to the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact. “ Along with our participation to the UN Global Compact charter we continuously work to increase the awareness of the importance of CSR and we constantly develop new objectives to improve our performance in this respect. We keep in our focus the pursuit of the reduction of energy, NKT Cables is an active water and material consumption as well as the emissions of our production corporate citizen of the facilities. Against this background we continue to invest in the development and improvement of our products and relevant production standards. global society with a clear Furthermore, we pursue a safe and accident-free working environment. and firm philosophy and With regard to our objectives we have achieved good progress in many conviction about our social areas, but we know that we can and need to do more. We are convinced that responsibilities” financial success, social responsibility and protection of the environment are fully interlinked and essential for long-term sustainability. We want our business partners to choose NKT Cables as their partner because of our commitment to high ethical standards for the human interaction in and around our company as well as because of the high standards for the quality of our products and services. Marc van’t Noordende CEO, NKT Cables NKT Holding A/S CSR Report 2013-2014 NKT Cables 13/23 NKT Cables Highlights 2013-2014 Hands-on experience with installation trials First Safety Buddy Award New distributor and agency contracts 20 energy saving projects launched With view to maintaining focus on safety, In order to further prevent potential Energy saving is one of the components an annual Safety Buddy Award was bribery and corruptive practices in in a comprehensive programme with the established in 2013. At a ceremony in connection with purchasing, new aim of increasing efficiency and improving Cologne attended by an audience that distributor and agency contracts have profit ability in NKT Cables. Consequently, included the CEO of NKT Cables and been formulated. These contracts also 20 energy projects are currently in the 10 winners of the local Safety Buddy incorporate acceptance by the supplier of progress. Awards, a special trophy was presented the principles of the UN Global Compact. to the first Group Award winner, Vaclav Some of the saving targets for the period Hajny, from the Kladno site in the Czech The revised contracts were introduced 2014 to 2015 included a 340 MWh Republic. in 2013 as standard for new agreements reduction of electricity and a 490 MWh while existing agreements will be replaced reduction of natural gas generating by the new contracts when renegotiated. in total a reduction in CO2 emissions of about 270 tonnes per year. NKT Holding A/S CSR Report 2013-2014 NKT Cables 14/23 HUMAN AND LABOUR RIGHTS areas for improvement. Our Meet-the-Board initiative introduced in 2012 has proven very valuable for opening discussions Respecting human and labour rights is fundamental to our between employees and Group Management. business. NKT Cables has established ethical guidelines, and our local management teams in all countries are asked to sign a Statement of Representation affirming adherence to the ENVIRONMENT principles of the UN Global Compact. Environmental impact from cable production is relatively small NKT Cables conducts surveys on a regular basis regarding the and mainly related to CO2 consumption and use of limited position of our suppliers on these 10 principles, and the results of resources, especially copper. the last survey showed that the commitment level among suppliers had increased to 88%. In order to further facilitate and increase the Looking at our carbon footprint, 83.8% is attributable to suppliers acceptance of the UN Global Compact, NKT Cables is to roll out of raw materials, whereas 2% is direct emissions (Scope 1) from new general conditions of purchase which will make suppliers’ our sites, and 14.2% is related to our power consumption (Scope  compliance mandatory for doing business. NKT Cables thus 2). The development in carbon footprint allocation is a mirror of continuously monitors its goals with regard to human and labour the improvements made since last year’s reporting: rights and ensures that the fundamental principles are known and followed throughout the company and also by its suppliers. • CO2 emissions from heating have been reduced by 17% or 4% when adjusted for climate. All accidents have causes. Removing these causes reduces • CO2 emissions from production have been reduced by 11% accidents, and a programme was set up in 2013 aimed at per tonne of cable. eliminating a minimum of 3,000 dangerous situations and behaviours annually. This goal was reached in the reporting The 50001 Energy Management System was implemented at the  period under review. Despite these efforts the targeted 25% Cologne plant and is planned for introduction at another German annual reduction in accidents was not achieved in the period. plant in Nordenham. Very sadly one fatality occurred in August, after the end of the reporting period. A root cause analysis was instituted to identify Copper is an essential part of manufacturing cables. The potential any shortcomings in the safety risk assessments. for savings lies in optimising material utilisation and reducing We value a diverse workforce and we firmly believe that not insulation thickness. The material utilisation rate has been  stable for several years, but as the target of 96.2% is challenged,  only does offering international career opportunities, talent management programmes and training opportunities make NKT Cables an attractive workplace but that a skilled and highly continuous focus is required. A number of slim-line cables have been developed, reducing the amount of plastics used for insulation.   motivated workforce is a prerequisite to a continued success of our business. We conduct worldwide Engagement Surveys on  In addition to goals for reducing CO2 emissions, NKT Cables  a regular basis to measure employee satisfaction and to identify is engaged in fostering research and development relating Goals & actions Human and labour rights 2013-14 Target Achieved Status 30.06.14     Procurement () Based on results of the last survey, a further improvement in supplier commitment to the Global Compact 100% 88% will be targeted. ()  Supplier compliance with Global Compact principles incorporated as standard item in new purchasing 100% 100%  contracts and a mandatory condition for doing business. Occupational injuries Improve safety performance towards best-in-class industry standards, defined as a frequency of less than  5 accidents per 1 million working hours. Starting point 2010: Number of accidents 131, frequency 22.6. Annual target is a 25% reduction. Number of accidents in the reporting period. Frequency per million working hours in the reporting period. <53 <8.8 58 () 9.7  Eliminate the number of unsafe situations and behaviour. >3,000 () 3,976 Employees New goal: Measurement of employee satisfaction by conducting a global survey in the autumn 2014.  Development of action plans based upon the findings. Health management ( ) 100% Provide the resources and management systems to ensure a safe and healthy work environment. All sites are to 100% create action plans based on OHSAS 18001 by end-2014 in line with NKT Cables’ health & safety policy. ÷ Not accomplished () Partly accomplished or behind schedule  Accomplished or on track NKT Holding A/S CSR Report 2013-2014 NKT Cables 15/23  Goals & actions Environment 2013-14 Target Achieved Status  30.06.14 CO2 emissions  CO2 emission from comfort heating reduced more by more than 40% compared with 2010. >42% ( ) 44% ( ) 100% Optimise machinery energy consumption. Ongoing measurements followed by data analysis 100% will lead to definition of specific goals. An action plan is defined in the period under review. Reduce consumption of natural gas by 500 MWh by end-2014. New goal: Reduce consumption of natural gas by another 490 MWh by end-2015. 500 MWh ( )1,930 MWh  Reduce power consumption by 1,000 MWh by end-2014. 1,000 MWh 794 MWh ( ) New goal: Reduce power consumption by another 340 MWh by end-2015.  New goal: Implement ISO 50001 Energy Management System at plant in Nordenham, Germany. Material utilisation efficiency  Increase efficiency by 0.1% yearly, i.e. to 96.2% in 2014. 96.2% () 94.8% Water Save 5,000 m3 drinking water by end-2014. A 2013-acquired plant in Sweden is not included. >5,000 m3 () 1,433 m3 ÷ Not accomplished () Partly accomplished or behind schedule  Accomplished or on track  to renewable energy and knowhow in this field. In 2011, NKT taking immediate corrective action. NKT Cables also engages Cables was the prime mover in sponsoring the Offshore Wind in transparent business relations with partners who undertake Studies Programme and the Wind Energy Research Centre at to respect the principles of the UN Global Compact. As part of the Ozzietzky University Oldenburg in Northern Germany. The a continuous awareness campaign, these principles, rules and programme offers knowhow relating to the engineering of guidelines are communicated throughout the company, and sustainable power production and creates common ground for training sessions are held in compliance with laws and regulations.  all parties and professions within the energy sector. By sponsoring and sending our employees to this programme, our goal is to In addition, a code of conduct has been implemented in order strengthen a further expansion of the sustainable energy sector. to provide all employees involved in Group purchasing activities with guidelines for compliance with our corporate governance  and to prevent possible bribery and corruptive practices in ANTI-CORRUPTION connection with procurement.  NKT Cables is committed to conducting its business in a manner Compliance awareness campaign and which allows the company to make positive contributions to employee training society and ensures compliance with national and international laws and regulations in a manner that is consistent with  Our awareness campaign continued in the period under principles of integrity, honesty, respect and also internal policies. review, increasing the attention of our employees on compliance, anti-corruption, facilitation payments and NKT Acting with integrity is the central requirement for sustainable Cables’ policies. Training sessions are continued with a view to instilling permanent employee awareness of these matters.  success and a maxim that we follow in our daily business. If  these guidelines are violated, NKT Cables is committed to  2013-14 30.06.14  Goals & actions Anti-corruption  Target Achieved Status Anti-corruption  Explicit communication to be established and understood by all employees and business partners. An awareness campaign started in 2012 using a variety of tools and forums. 100% () 70% More training sessions are planned in order to instil permanent awareness in employees. Train relevant employees in anti-corruption and competition law topics. 100% 25% () () New goal: Develop a model form of contract that includes clear statements regarding anti-corruption. Facilitation payments Ban on facilitation payments. Communication on non-acceptance of facilitation payments is part of the awareness campaign. 100% ( ) 100% ÷ Not accomplished () Partly accomplished or behind schedule  Accomplished or on track NKT Holding A/S CSR Report 2013-2014 NKT Cables 16/23 Photonics Group statement We consider a sustainable development of our planet important and we are proud that our efforts support better living conditions for future generations Photonics Group’s products and solutions are instrumental in enabling the development of new applications that lead to better and more efficient use of energy resources, new and improved tools for early detection of diseases, and better systems for human safety and for protecting high-value assets. These are solutions and applications that contribute to a better and more sustainable development of our planet. Our customers are leading global professionals. They and the end users of their products are increasingly demanding more environmentally friendly products and an assurance that these products are manufactured in a safe and responsible manner. Of course, these expectations also extend to the materials and components we receive from our suppliers. We in turn therefore “ make similar demands on our supply chain and business partners for the responsible provision of goods and services. Human and labour As designers and manufacturers of high-performance products it is vital that we rights and anti-corruption can attract and retain skilled and committed employees and provide them with an incentive to do their best. Accordingly, continuous dialogue is maintained are priority issues for with our employees on the company’s developments, goals and performance. A Photonics Group positive working environment is also important and we are therefore dedicated to offering our employees a good, stimulating and challenging workplace. Our products are marketed and sold with a reputation for high quality and represent significant input in the form of R&D and investment. For us it is therefore of paramount importance that the players in our industry compete on fair terms, and we will tolerate no form of bribery or other acts contributing to unfair competition. Human and labour rights and anti-corruption are thus priority issues for Photonics Group. NKT, our parent company, is a signatory to the UN Global Compact, underlining our commitment to responsibility and to promoting sustainable global development. Photonics Group wholeheartedly supports this initiative. Søren Isaksen Chairman, Photonics Group NKT Holding A/S CSR Report 2013-2014 Photonics Group 17/23 Photonics Group Highlights 2013-2014 Photonics Group products support metro tunnel surveillance Surface Monitoring Acquisition solution provides Unit early detection of leaks from fluids and gas Pipeline Fiber optic sensor cable Temperature anomaly at leak event Detection of leaks in oil and gas Employee Engagement Survey in all Awareness of whistleblower system pipelines entities Many new oil and gas pipelines are For a number of years Employee Photonics Group has recently registered planned in the years ahead and the risk Engagement Surveys have been conducted a misuse of company assets. While of leaks in pipelines which pass close to in the Danish business unit of Photonics colleagues had noticed indications that residential or environmentally sensitive Group. some procedures were not in line with the areas is a major public concern. company policy, they were in a position The survey has now been modified to where it was difficult to verify or address Photonics Group has started a new meet the needs and requirements of all the issue. Although the option of reporting business in North America, FiOPS (Fiber entities, and a Photonics Group-wide the misuse through the whistleblower Optic Pipeline Solutions), designed survey is scheduled for the upcoming system was present, they did not make to address these risks by providing reporting period. use of it. Therefore a new campaign will be complete surveillance solutions, including launched to increase employee awareness installation of cables along the pipelines, of the whistleblower system and to make monitoring and warning equipment, etc. everyone comfortable with its use. NKT Holding A/S CSR Report 2013-2014 Photonics Group 18/23 HUMAN AND LABOUR RIGHTS ENVIRONMENT Photonics Group has sales offices on an international scale, Photonics Group’s environmental footprint is insignificant in sells its products globally and buys components and services production terms. The principal environmental impact relates to worldwide. In this context we need to ensure that respect for the use of our products. human and labour rights is and remains an integral part of how we run our business. Many of our products find application in solutions aimed at improving either environmental conditions, supply of goods, Historically, our focus was to ensure that we conducted our personal safety or human living conditions. Examples include business correctly. Now, our focus is to ensure that, throughout fire detection in tunnels, efficient use of high-voltage cables, the production chain to customer delivery, all our products are safe use of oil and gas pipelines, quality control of food, manufactured responsibly and without infringing the rights of the development of new and improved medicines and diagnosis individual. These same demands are also made on our suppliers. of diseases. Demands for greater environmental accountability, Our sights are primarily set on companies who supply us with large increased security and improved living conditions are thus and stable volumes; our target is to achieve 80% compliance with important drivers in our business development and support our the UN Global Compact among these companies. This target has investments in the photonics field. been achieved by one of our three business units in the past year, and overall compliance has improved from 63% to 73% during the As a manufacturer of electro-optical products and production present reporting period. equipment we use relatively small raw material volumes in our  products. Almost all our products incorporate and use electrical A safe and healthy working environment is also important. Very components, and new products are designed to comply with the high light intensities are often used in the development and directive to restrict the use of hazardous substances in electronic manufacture of our lasers, and this can cause eye damage in case and electrical equipment (RoHS Directive) and similar regulations. of accident or careless equipment handling. As well as detailed work instructions we therefore take numerous precautions, such as eye protection, screening and alarm systems. We operate in a global and very competitive high-tech business environment and employee engagement is therefore vital to our performance. Employee Engagement Surveys, which previously covered some 50% of our personnel, have now been extended to all Photonics Group entities. A Photonics Group Employee Engagement Survey is planned for the upcoming reporting period.  2013-14   30.06.14 Goals & actions Human and labour rights Target Achieved Status Procurement  80% of procurement (above 50,000 EUR in value) is to be supplied by partners who have agreed ()  80% 73% to abide by the principles of UN Global Compact. Development of a monitoring plan, based on inspections, to check the extent to which the conduct of our suppliers supporting the UN Global Compact conforms to the agreed criteria. Delayed new target date: 30.06.2015. 100%  Occupational injuries No injuries causing work absence to be registered in the reporting period under review. 0% ( ) 0% Eye tests conducted every two years reveal no eye injuries caused by working with high light intensities. 100% ( ) 100% New goal: No injuries causing work absence in the next reporting period. New goal: No eye injuries caused by working with high light intensities to be recorded in the next reporting period Employee engagement Employee engagement to be measured in all business areas and action plans to be prepared on the basis of the results. 100% Delayed new target date: 30.06.2015. ÷ Not accomplished () Partly accomplished or behind schedule  Accomplished or on track NKT Holding A/S CSR Report 2013-2014 Photonics Group 19/23 2013-14  30.06.14 Goals & actions Environment Target Achieved Status CO2 emissions  () 15% reduction in CO2 intensity* relative to level at 30.06.2011 (25.2 tonnes of CO2/mEUR) planned to 15% 16% be achieved by 30.06.2014. This reduction has been achieved one year ahead of schedule. Transition to unleaded products () All products must comply with the RoHS Directive by 30.06.2013 (all new product designs completed or in 100% 100% development are now in compliance with the directive). * CO2 intensity is defined as CO2 emissions from Scope 1+2 activities relative to output. ÷ Not accomplished () Partly accomplished or behind schedule  Accomplished or on track ANTI-CORRUPTION    We consider corruption to be a problem for the international June 2013 and with the target to train all employees within the community. As a company with global activities we operate in next year. The training has been conducted in most entities, but parts of the world where corruption and facilitation payments are the task remains to be completed.  very rare, and in other areas where they are a regular occurrence. Photonics Group has registered no instances of corruption during We wish to compete on fair and honest terms. We will not the present reporting period. As in the previous period, however, tolerate our employees being involved in corruption or accepting facilitation payments. The only exception to this rule is if our employees are exposed to situations where their safety we have experienced that our policy on facilitation payments  has caused considerable delays in obtaining product approvals and that such delays have meant loss of orders. Our patience has is threatened. We have therefore developed a programme for training all employees in our anti-corruption policy. The structure  paid off in the sense that approval has eventually been granted in such cases. of this programme was presented to the management group in    Goals & actions Anti-corruption 2013-14  Target Achieved Status  30.06.14 Anti-corruption  Develop a programme by 30.06.2013 for training all employees in our anti-corruption policy. 100% () 100%  Train all relevant employees in our anti-corruption policy relative to their specific job functions before 30.06.2014. 100% Goal redefined to integrate a documented standard procedure for training. Deadline 30.06.2015. () Facilitation payments  Non-acceptance of facilitation payments. No facilitation payments to be reported. 0 () 0 Agents and distributors All agents and distributors have been informed of our Fair Trade Policy. 100% () 100% Risk assessment of business areas and regions in which we operate, and active follow-up on employees, agents and distributors in high-risk areas by 30.06.2014. Goal redefined to include a formalised and documented assessment. Deadline 30.06.2015. ÷ Not accomplished () Partly accomplished or behind schedule  Accomplished or on track NKT Holding A/S CSR Report 2013-2014 Photonics Group 20/23 Reporting principles NKT’s reporting system consists of four main elements which form the basis for monitoring progress on Corporate Social Responsibility Statement of Representation The four main elements are: 1. A whistleblower system, maintained by an external provider, which allows all NKT employees to raise concerns about seemingly inappropriate conduct, events or circumstances. Reporting may be done anonymously and in a number of languages. At NKT BOARD OF DIRECTORS end-2014 the system is expected to be available for external stakeholders. 2. A data collection system where various Key Performance Indicators (KPI’s) are registered, covering parameters such as occupational injuries, fuel and energy consumption, CO2 emissions from travel and transport, utilisation of raw materials, and irregularities such as NKT GROUP EXECUTIVE environmental spills and fines. The business units are responsible for the data collection DIRECTOR and for the KPI quality. NKT Group Finance is responsible for data consolidation. 3. An annual Statement of Representation on Corporate Social Responsibility, signed by all local managers in the business unit, certifying that they are familiar with and actively working to advance the principles of the UN Global Compact. CEO BUSINESS UNIT 4. A special reporting scheme where the business units annually report on issues such as diversity in senior management and R&D efforts in relation to sustainability. The reporting system and the Statement of Representation both embrace around 100 legal entities worldwide. ENTITY MANAGER Reporting methodology Based on the methodology proposed by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) an assessment of NKT wishes to ensure that CSR the materiality of the GRI indicators has been carried out. The methodology remains unchanged is an integral element in the daily activities of all business from previous reports, and NKT has chosen to assess a total of 19 GRI, G3.1 indicators. An units and entities. Annually, all overview is available on page 22. entity managers (around 100) draft and sign a Statement of Data reliability Representation detailing the The majority of data is estimated to be sound. CO2 emission data for transport of goods is still progress made on all UN Global subject to some uncertainty. To focus efforts on areas under the company’s control, the data Compact principles within the entity concerned. for Nilfisk-Advance solely covers transport of goods from the company factories to distribution centres. Each Statement of Representation is submitted to the CEO of the Nilfisk-Advance and Photonics Group use the NKT Group’s data collection system. NKT Cables relevant business unit who signs have used a similar reporting system internally for a number of years and no discrepancies have a Statement on behalf of the unit as a whole. Ultimately, NKT’s been observed between the systems. The reporting system deployed by NKT Cables is actually Group Executive Director signs a more elaborate than the NKT Group’s system, and is believed by NKT to generate even more Statement of Representation for accurate reporting. the entire Group and the Board of Directors is informed of the Auditing conclusions. The present report was not audited by an independent auditor. NKT Holding A/S CSR Report 2013-2014 Framework 21/23 GRI indicators The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) is a comprehensive sustainability reporting framework which enables all organisations to measure and report their economic, environmental, social and governance performance the four key areas of sustainability The NKT business units report on parameters inspired by the GRI indicators is listed below. Not all parameters are elaborated upon in the present report, but data used in other contexts. NilfiskNKT Photonics GRI, G3.1 indicators GRI parameters* Advance Cables Group Human Rights Investment and Procurement practices HR1, HR2, HR3 ü ü ü Non-discrimination HR4 ü ü ü Freedom of association and collective bargaining HR5 ü ü ü Child, forced or compulsory labour HR6, HR7 ü ü ü Labour Practices & Decent Work Employment LA1 ü ü Occupational health & safety LA7 ü ü ü Diversity and Equal Opportunities LA13 ü ü ü Environment Materials EN1, EN2 ü ü Energy EN3, EN4, EN5, EN6, EN7 ü ü ü Water EN8 ü ü Emissions, Effluents and Waste EN16, EN17, EN18, EN23, EN24 ü ü ü Product and Services EN26 ü ü Compliance EN28 ü ü ü Transport EN29 ü ü ü Anti-corruption Local Community SO1, SO9 ü ü Anti-corruption SO2, SO3, SO4 ü ü ü Public Policy SO5, SO6 ü ü Anti-Competitive Behaviour SO7 ü ü ü Compliance SO8 ü ü ü * In-depth descriptions are available on page 23. NKT Holding A/S CSR Report 2013-2014 Framework 22/23 GRI, G3.1 Appendix Human Rights Percentage and total number of significant investment Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions EN7 agreements and contracts that include clauses incorporating achieved HR1 human rights concerns, or that have undergone human rights EN8 Total water withdrawal by source screening EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors and other business HR2 partners that have undergone screening on human rights and EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight actions taken Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions EN18 achieved Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures HR3 concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills operations, including the percentage of employees trained Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention EN24 Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right shipped internationally to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may HR5 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and be violated or at significant risk, and actions taken to support EN26 these rights services, and extent of impact mitigation Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant Monetary value of significant fines and total number of nonHR6 risk for incidents of child labour, and measures taken to contribute EN28 monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws to the effective abolition of child labour and regulations Operations or significant suppliers identified as having significant Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and HR7 risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labour, and measures to EN29 other goods and materials used for the organisation’s operations, contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labour and transporting members of the workforce Labour Practices & Decent Work Anti-corruption Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and LA1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community region broken down by gender engagement, impact assessments, and development programmes. Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, absenteeism, and SO1 Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programmes and practices LA7 that assess and manage the impacts of operations on communities, total number of work-related fatalities by region and by gender including entering, operating, and exiting Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees Percentage and total number of business units analysed for risks LA13 per employee category according to gender, age group, minority SO2 related to corruption group membership, and other indicators of diversity Percentage of employees trained in organisation’s anti-corruption SO3 policies and procedures Environment SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption EN1 Materials used by weight or volume Public policy positions and participation in public policy SO5 development and lobbying EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source SO6 parties, politicians, and related institutions by country Indirect energy consumption by primary source Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, antiEN4 SO7 Non-renewable energy source trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements Monetary value of significant fines and total number of nonSO8 monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy-based EN6 products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on result of these initiatives SO9 local communities NKT Holding A/S CSR Report 2013-2014 Framework 23/23
