NEDBANK GROUP UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS for the year ended 31 December 2013 This document is intended to fulfil Nedbank Group’s reporting obligation as part of its commitment to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). The Nedbank Group 2013 Integrated Report has been aligned with the requirements of the King Code of Governance Principles for SA (King III Code), the International Integrated Reporting Framework and complies with Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Guidelines (3.1) which inform not only Nedbank Group’s annual reporting, but also our ongoing reporting initiatives throughout the year. On the understanding that the sustainability imperative forms the foundation of the UNGC Principles; Nedbank Group’s activities as they relate to the Principles are comprehensively addressed in the Nedbank Group 2013 Integrated Report which is available on line www.nedbankgroup.co.za Please note that Nedbank Group has interpreted Principles 1 and 2 to have both an internal and external impact. Nedbank’s sustainability credentials, indices and memberships include: ■■ Banker Magazine – South African Banker performance benchmark for companies ■■ United Nations Global Compact of the Year Award. in terms of corporate sustainability. We Advisory Committee ■■ Sunday Times Top 100 Companies were included for the eighth year (2013: – Corporate Social Investment Leadership 84%; 2012: 82%). ■■ United Nations Global Compact Award. ■■ JSE SRI Index – Inclusion since 2004. – ‘Caring for Climate’ Programme ■■ African Banker Awards – Socially ■■ WWF Water Balance Programme Responsible Bank Award. – Invested R9 million into South Africa’s ■■ United Nations Global Compact CEO water security. Water Mandate ■■ Black Business Quarterly (BBQ) Awards – 2013 Transformation Champion of the ■■ WWF-SA Green Trust partnership. ■■ National Business Initiative Advisory Year. WWF Sustainable Agriculture ■■ Committee on Climate Change ■■ BANKSETA – Skills@Work Award, Large Programme – Official sponsor – invested Company category. R8,3 million. ■■ National Energy Efficiency Accord ■■ 46th Annual Chartered Secretaries ■■ Nedbank occupies four Green-star-rated ■■ Energy Efficiency Leadership Network Southern Africa (CSSA) and buildings. Johannesburg Stock Exchange (JSE) Pledge ■■ Natural Capital Leaders Index – Natural Limited Integrated Reporting Awards Capital Decoupling Leader. ■■ Banking Association of South Africa: – Overall winner. Sustainable Finance Committee ■■ 2013 EY Africa Excellence in Integrated NEDBANK IS REPRESENTED ON: Reporting – Eighth place. ■■ Association of Ethics Officers in Africa ■■ 2013 Nkonki Integrated Reporting ■■ Equator principles – first African bank Awards – Nedbank was placed second in to joint in 2005. ■■ OECD Financial Sector Mapping the Finance Sector and joint third overall. Advisory Group ■■ Principles for Responsible Investment ■■ MTN App of the Year Awards 2013 National Biodiversity Business (through Old Mutual Plc). ■■ – Nedbank App Suite™, Best Android App, Consumer category. Network ■■ UNEP FI African Task Force ■■ Carbon Neutral – Africa’s first carbon ■■ Network for Business Sustainability neutral financial organisation. ■■ UNEP FI National Capital Declaration South Africa ■■ Dow Jones World Sustainability Index ■■ UNEP FI Social Working Group membership – The world’s premier NEDBANK GROUP | UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS 2013 Overview A profile of our business Letter from Chief Executive 2 3 2 Chief Executive’s Review 4 Chairman’s Review 10 Performance highlights 14 An attractive growth strategy 16 A sound investment 23 2013 Highlights 27 Stakeholder overview Building enduring relationships Investing in our people 29 31 29 Innovating for our clients 33 Delivering value to our shareholders 37 Partnering with our regulators 41 Leading in the communities 43 Operational overview UNCG Principle 2013 Activity GRI Financial Services Sector Supplement 47 47 GRI 3.1 Index 50 Contact details 57 57 1 MAKING THINGS HAPPEN A PROFILE OF OUR BUSINESS Nedbank Group is one of SA’s four largest banking groups by assets and deposits, with Nedbank Ltd our R750bn TOTAL ASSETS principal banking subsidiary. We are a JSE Top 40 company with our ordinary shares listed on the JSE since 1969 and on the Namibian Stock Exchange since 2007. Our market capitalisation was R107bn at R8,7bn 31 December 2013. Old Mutual plc is our majority HEADLINEEARNINGS shareholder, owning 52% of Nedbank Group. THE SERVICES AND PRODUCTS WE PROVIDE 6,7m CLIENTS NEDBANK CAPITAL Investment banking and markets solutions for NEDBANK RETAIL Holistic financial solutions 1 050 institutional and corporate for individuals, startups and STAFFED OUTLETS clients. small businesses; as well as corporate card and merchant solutions. NEDBANK 3 382 CORPORATE ATMs Lending, depositNEDBANK taking, transactional WEALTH banking and Wealth commercial-property finance to large corporates, financial management, asset 29 513 institutions, the public sector management EMPLOYEES and government clients. and insurance solutions for clients of NEDBANK BUSINESS BANKING Nedbank Group. Holistic financial solutions for businesses and their owners. OUR FOCUS AND POSITIONING WHERE WE ARE BASED ■■ A bank for all, based in Southern Africa, with selected ■■ Headoffice in Sandown, Sandton, Johannesburg, SA. expansion into the rest of Africa. ■■ Regional branch network of more than 1 050 staffed ■■ Top two wholesale bank and strong market position in outlets across SA. commercial-property finance, business banking, ■■ Subsidiary banks in Lesotho, Malawi, Namibia, Swaziland, investment banking, vehicle finance, card-acquiring, Zimbabwe, Isle of Man, Guernsey and Jersey. Representative deposit-taking and asset and wealth management. offices in other Southern Africa countries, including Angola, ■■ Pan-African banking alliance with Ecobank Kenya, strategic acquisition of an initial stake of 36,4% in Transnational Incorporated, giving our clients access to Banco Unico in Mozambique (regulatory approval received, 37 countries across Africa. with completion of the transaction targeted for end March 2014) ■■ Leadership in sustainability, transformation and and key global financial centres to provide international banking community development. services for our SA-based multinational and high-net-worth clients, including in London, Toronto and Dubai (UAE). 2 NEDBANK GROUP | UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS 2013 LETTER FROM CHIEF EXECUTIVE Attention: United Nations Global Compact Office April 2014 Nedbank Group – continued commitment to the United Nations Global Compact As Chief Executive of Nedbank Group, I reaffirm our commitment to the United Nations Global Compact and the 10 principles that underpin it. In addition, as a Group, we remain a signatory to the Equator Principles and the CEO Water mandate and we continue to actively support the UNEP FI African Task Force. These commitments form an important part of our overall sustainability journey as we aspire to a better future for all. We consider it a privilege to be a part of such a vital and valuable initiative. Yours sincerely Mike Brown Chief Executive Officer Nedbank Group 3 ENSURING A SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS DELIVERING SUSTAINABLY TO ALL OUR STAKEHOLDERS CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW 2013 has been a successful year for Nedbank Group – we repositioned Nedbank Retail, exceeded our NIR-to-expenses ratio of greater than 85%, tilted our portfolio away from high-risk, low-EP activities and built on our rest of Africa strategy. These actions position us well for the challenging economic environment we expect in the year ahead. I am pleased to report to all our stakeholders that 2013 was a successful year for Nedbank Group. It has been four years since I was appointed CEO, and we set out to deliver on four key strategic focus areas that I announced at that time. These were: 1 Repositioning Nedbank Retail Headline earnings have increased from a loss-making position to R2,5bn in 2013 and the return on capital has Mike Brown improved to 11,6%. In the second half of 2013 Nedbank Chief Executive Retail’s return on capital exceeded its cost of capital. 4 NEDBANK GROUP | UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS 2013 1 829 cents 895 cents 12,5% DILUTED HEADLINE DIVIDEND COMMON-EQUITYTIER1 EARNINGS PER SHARE PER SHARE RATIO (BASEL III) 15% 19% (2012: 11,6%) 2 Growing non-interest revenue (NIR) Our NIR growth has been ahead of the industry average and our NIR-to-expense ratio increased from During this time, we also acquired the minority 78,8% in 2009 to 86,4%, above our > 85% target for interests that we did not own in various Old the first time. Mutual joint venture (JV) businesses to expand our economic interests in bancassurance and wealth management and we acquired full ownership of Imperial Bank, increasing our 3 vehicle financing exposure to a market share of 25,2%. We have also increased our cooperation Portfolio tilt with our parent company, Old Mutual plc, and We have followed a policy of selective origination in some our sister companies in SA. New-business flows advances categories and proactively reduced our exposure from our financial planners to Old Mutual SA to higher-risk products in preparation for rising interest increased 58% in 2013 and we entered the rates. Common-equity tier 1 capital increased from 9,9% direct-insurance market in partnership with (Basel II) to 12,5% (Basel III) and non-performing loan Mutual & Federal. coverage levels from 29% to 42,8%. Economic profit (EP) increased from R57m to R2,1bn. Today, we are a far stronger bank than we were in 2009; we have added 2,2m retail clients and built the value of our franchise while strengthening our balance sheet for the rising 4 interest rate cycle that lies ahead. Investors will be pleased to know that since Rest of Africa 2009 our net asset value per share has increased We have secured the rights to subscribe for up to 20% in by a compound growth rate of 9,6%, our return Ecobank Transnational Incorporated (ETI) and made our on equity (ROE) (excluding goodwill) has first foray into Mozambique with approval obtained for an increased from 13,4% to 17,2%, and we have initial stake of 36,4% of Banco Unico, targeting the end of delivered compound dividend growth of 19,4% the first quarter of 2014 for completion of the transaction. per annum. Headline earnings have grown from R4,3bn to R8,7bn. While our financial performance has been among the best in our peer group, I am particularly pleased that, with our focus on sustainability that is so closely linked to our brand, we delivered value to all our stakeholders. 5 ENSURING A SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW (CONTINUED) Our journey to being Africa’s most admired bank, by all our stakeholders Our vision, to be Africa’s most admired bank, is underpinned by delivery to all our stakeholders – our staff, clients, shareholders, regulators and communities. In 2013 we continued to make good progress with our vision, as demonstrated by the following achievements: INVESTING INNOVATING DELIVERING PARTNERING IN OUR FOR OUR VALUE TO OUR WITH OUR PEOPLE CLIENTS SHAREHOLDERS REGULATORS For our staff. At a time when For our clients. We continued For our shareholders. We For our regulators. To the jobs are being lost across the investing in our distribution delivered a strong set of satisfaction of these economy, we provided footprint with 334 additional ATMs results, achieving earnings important institutions employment for more than and the rollout of 28 of our growth in excess of our that oversee the health of 550 additional permanent Branches of the Future. System medium-to-long-term our industry, we employees in SA, invested uptime was at multiyear highs and target, while investing in implemented Basel III significantly in training, we accelerated delivery in the franchise and successfully on progressed well with staff innovation with the launch of strengthening our balance 1 January 2013, with the transformation initiatives as various market-leading products. sheet provisioning levels. group’s common-equity reflected in our employment Taking cognisance of the impact of We delivered a total tier 1 capital equity statistics and a tough economic environment shareholder return of 16% strengthening further to continued the participation on our clients’ disposable income, and increased the full-year 12,5%, being the top end of our leaders in our Leading we launched one of the lowestdividend by 19%. We also of our internal target for Deep Green. This priced credit life products with positioned the group for ranges. For our programme has not only increased benefits and saved long-term shareholder government, we made made a significant difference clients banking fees by proactively value creation through our cash taxation to team effectiveness across moving them to lower-priced Pan-African banking contributions of R8bn the group, but also provided bundled products and by keeping strategy and we were once relating to direct, indirect, deep personal insights, for general fee increases at 0% for again voted the Financial PAYE and other taxation. which our staffmembers are 2014. In 2013 we increased loan Times and The Banker We maintained our extremely grateful. As a payouts by 10% and excelled at magazine 2013 SA Bank of strong, open and result, our culture managing our clients’ money, once the Year. transparent relationships measurements are healthy again being rated one of SA’s top with all regulators and – internally we have never three asset managers in the continued our been in a better position and Raging Bull Awards, with assets commitment to our culture continues to under management increasing responsible banking attract high-calibre staff. 26,5% to a record R190bn. As a practices. We are result of all of this, more people committed to being chose to bank with Nedbank and worldclass at managing our client numbers increased risk and doing by 10% to 6,7m. appropriate remediation where required. ■■ Tough economic ■■ Tough economic ■■ Tough economic ■■ Tough economic RELATED MATERIAL MATTERS conditions conditions conditions conditions ■■ Scarce skills ■■ Banking relevance ■■ Banking relevance ■■ Banking relevance amid consumerism amid consumerism amid consumerism and increased and increased and increased competition competition competition ■■ Increased demands on ■■ Increased demands on ■■ Increased demands on governance and risk governance and risk governance and risk management management management ■■ Growth opportunities ■■ Growth opportunities ■■ Growth opportunities in the rest of Africa in the rest of Africa in the rest of Africa ■■ Transformation of ■■ Transformation of ■■ Transformation of society within planetary society within planetary society within planetary boundaries boundaries boundaries ■■ Scarce skills ■■ Scarce skills GREAT PLACE GREAT PLACE GREAT PLACE WORLDCLASS AT TO WORK TO BANK TO INVEST MANAGING RISK 6 NEDBANK GROUP | UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS 2013 A sustainable business model The world has been a tough place for banks and bankers since the financial crisis began in 2008, with very few macroeconomic tailwinds. In SA our economy has grown slower than expected for the past few years, but given our sound banking system, growth in consumer spending and the commodity demand from China, it has been less affected LEADING IN THE than many developed economies. However, in 2013 the economy weakened more COMMUNITIES than expected. Initially forecast to grow at 2,6%, gross domestic product (GDP) growth WE SERVE ended the year at 1,9%, reflecting the continuing tough global environment and slowdowns in the economies of key trading partners together with our country’s own For our communities. Since challenges, such as widespread labour strikes across export-led industries, high 2009 we have expanded our unemployment, infrastructure constraints and high levels of consumer indebtedness footprint to service 10 000 despite low levels of interest rates and real wage increases. more areas and suburbs and contributed significantly to Nevertheless, as discussed in greater detail in the Chief Financial Officer (CFO) section socioeconomic development. of this integrated report, our 2013 financial performance reflects the benefits of We maintained our level 2 continuing to invest for growth and building our franchise, while our cost discipline broad-based black economic and risk management capabilities ensured that we remained resilient despite the empowerment (BBBEE) uncertain and volatile economic environment. contributor status for the fifth I am convinced that the foundation we have built enables Nedbank to enter what is consecutive year and were likely to be a challenging and volatile environment in 2014 in the best shape we have ranked first among the top ever been. 100 companies in the Mail & Guardian dti Code survey, Our history also shapes the way we think about the future. It explains the value we acknowledgement of the lead place on our people and our unique culture, why we emphasise risk management and we are taking in building a manage costs well, and why we invest with a long-term perspective and build diverse more transformed SA. We earnings streams. As we continue to grow, it will become more difficult to deliver the were recognised as a leader in same rates of growth year after year, but this is the challenge every successful socially responsible banking organisation faces and Nedbank is no different. This is where I believe our resilient at the 2013 African Banker business model, our people and our organisational culture will stand us in good stead. awards and won the Sunday Times Top 100 Companies Embedding our values and culture Corporate Social Investment Nedbank is a vision-led, values-driven organisation. We identified and introduced our (CSI) awards, illustrative of our values of accountability, integrity, pushing beyond boundaries, respect and being green and caring approach, people-centred a decade ago. We have embedded them in our culture and continuously whether it’s for the benefit of acknowledge our people – not just for what they achieve, but for how they achieve it. our communities or We fundamentally believe our culture, which encompasses our values, is our key source our environment. of competitive differentiation. Our culture survey, which measures the number of matches between an individual’s values and those of the organisation, shows that we have five matches – a worldclass level. It is particularly pleasing for me to see that our top three values – accountability, client satisfaction and being client-driven – are embedded in the organisation. Other values on our top 10, such as teamwork, ■■ Tough economic environmental awareness and employee recognition, also align with our strategic conditions focus areas, which gives me confidence in our future success as our plans and our ■■ Transformation of hearts are aligned. society within planetary boundaries We have found that there is no magic wand to reinforce culture, and no organisation ■■ Scarce skills can ensure that everyone does everything perfectly all the time. But we need to keep working at embedding our culture, because it is our key differentiator. Collaboration across our business is another area of distinctiveness. We have had good success from our Nedbank @ Work offering, which provides the employees of our wholesale clients with banking services, and which has given us more than 200 000 new clients since 2012. We also gained good traction in winning deals because we combined and co-located our Nedbank Capital and Nedbank Corporate structureddebt finance teams. Our shared services areas continue to be a good example of how to share resources and work together efficiently with a business partnering mindset. HIGHLY INVOLVED IN THE COMMUNITY AND ENVIRONMENT 7 ENSURING A SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW (CONTINUED) Refining our strategy ■■ Growth opportunities in the rest of Africa. As our During our strategy development and planning processes clients expand beyond the borders of SA we seek to unlock growth opportunities in regions of higher in 2013 we identified six material matters that will continue GDP growth. to impact the bank in years to come as we seek to become ■■ The transformation of society within planetary Africa’s most admired bank. These are: boundaries. We strive to build a thriving bank in a thriving society. ■■ Tough economic conditions. These seem to be the ‘new normal’ as developments in the external ■■ Scarce skills. We continually seek to keep and attract the best skills in a highly competitive environment. environment impact both our clients and the bank. ■■ Banking relevance amid consumerism and increased During 2013 we took stock of our four key strategic focus competition. We put our clients at the centre of areas in relation to these six material matters and refined everything we do in a more competitive environment. our statement of strategic intent, sharpened the language and changed the emphasis. The core principles of our ■■ Increased demands on governance and risk successful strategy remain the same, but the context and management. Regulators seek to ensure a strong stable challenges have evolved, and therefore we felt that our financial system and parity for all stakeholders. emphasis needed to shift as well. The first change is that our initiative to reposition Nedbank Retail is no longer highlighted as a separate focus area because the retail bank has been fundamentally repositioned, and it is resilient and ready to grow and improve its returns. Going forward we have five key strategic focus areas that are applicable right across Nedbank Group. All five, together with our stakeholder commitments, represent our strategic 3 Optimise to invest We want to leverage our strong cost response to the material matters. culture and be more adept at extracting efficiencies while investing in our franchise for the longer term. Since 2009 we have achieved a cumulative R1,1bn in efficiencies in Nedbank Retail while 1 Client-centred innovation investing R1,7bn in new distribution channels, client-value propositions such Firstly, we are accelerating innovation to make the group more accessible and easier to bank with through digital, integrated banking channels. Our clientas Savvy and Ke Yona and system centred business model, which was introduced in 2009, has enabled a far deeper functionalities across the bank. In 2013 we understanding of what is important to our clients, and the clients I engage with initiated a SAP enterprise resource across all our segments echo this. In the past two years we have brought more planning (ERP) system replacement in digital-banking offerings to our clients than ever before, with offerings such finance, human resources and as Approve-it™, MyFinancialLife™, PocketPOS™ and an online home loan procurement functions. Since 2009 we application site, to name a few. Since the Nedbank App Suite™ was launched have removed over R500m from the core over 340 000 downloads have been done and over R6bn (in over 10,5m cost base in technology, and as part of our transactions) has been transacted over the platform. Winning the MTN Android ‘rationalise, standardise and simplify’ Consumer App of the Year award in 2013 demonstrates that we are indeed information technology (IT) strategy we making progress, but we have to get even better and be more relevant and have decommissioned 56 IT systems in responsive to our clients in an increasingly competitive banking environment. our effort to reduce core systems from 220 to 60, while decommissioning a further 21 non-core IT systems. 2 Strategic portfolio tilt Strategic portfolio tilt retains the same focus as portfolio tilt, which has helped us drive an increase in EP from R57m in 2009 to R2,1bn in 2013 as we focus on the optimal allocation of scarce resources such as capital and longer-dated funding. This has been supported by selective advances growth to mitigate against downside risk in products such as personal loans and home loans, while we focused strongly on EP-generative activities such as deposit growth, insurance, asset management, cards, vehicle finance and investment banking. Strategic portfolio tilt also incorporates Nedbank’s Fair Share 2030, which is born of the important role that Nedbank, as one of the 40 largest companies in SA, has to play in the economy and broader society. It involves a carefully calculated flow of money allocated each year for investment in future-proofing the environment, society and our business. In 2013 our Fair Share 2030 initiative made steady progress and early results have been encouraging, with innovative financing solutions emerging in agriculture, energy, housing and transportation. Lessons learned during our proof-of-concept phase will inform the way we scale up to the full Fair Share 2030 commitment – roughly equivalent to R6bn, or 4% to 6% of new lending each year. While it is too early to state precisely the earnings impact of Fair Share 2030, we are convinced it will create significant long-term value as we increase our participation in the green economy and underpin our vision of being Africa’s most admired bank. 8 NEDBANK GROUP | UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS 2013 Outlook The economic outlook for 2014 remains volatile and uncertain, both globally and here in SA.  rowing our transactional 4 Gbanking There is a growing divergence between anticipated prospects for developed economies and emerging markets. Developed economies are expected to see accelerated momentum while franchise emerging markets wrestle with the effects of the tapering off of quantitative easing as funds Our strategic initiative to grow NIR has are disinvested, currencies depreciate and interest rates increase. This is particularly the case in seen us increase our NIR-to-expenses countries such as SA, which have both current account and fiscal deficits to finance. A further ratio above 85% for the first time. concern is China’s economic slowdown, given its importance as a trade partner of SA. Growing NIR is, however, an outcome of growing our transactional banking SA’s GDP is forecast to grow by 2,6% in 2014 – higher growth than in 2013, but still below franchise and that is why we focus on potential – with the key drivers likely to be better export performance and an increase in gross high-quality, annuity NIR generated fixed-capital formation. However, downside risk to growth has increased as interest rates have through transactional banking volume started on an upward trajectory with a 50 basis point increase in January 2014 and further growth. To achieve this we will further potential increases later in the year. At the time of writing, forward rate markets were pricing in strengthen our franchise by attracting further interest rate increases of 150 basis points in 2014. This does not bode well for consumers even more transactional banking who are already struggling with high levels of indebtedness. clients to build our current and savings The economy is also dealing with infrastructural constraints and policy uncertainty, and account market share to levels closer to corporate credit demand will likely remain subdued as corporates delay their commitment to our asset market share, a challenge not new projects. dissimilar to the 85% NIR-to-expenses target we set in 2010. Achieving this In this context we believe Nedbank is well positioned and our strategies are appropriate for the will require innovative, client-centred environment. Our business is well diversified, with no cluster contributing more than 29% to products and value propositions, headline earnings. NIR today contributes 48% of income, well ahead of the 42% in 2009. Our transparent and competitive pricing, asset base is approximately 62% in wholesale and 38% in retail. We have positioned our book for a rising interest rate cycle, benefiting net interest income (NII) (including endowment efficient and sales-oriented channels, income) by R936m before tax for every 1% increase in interest rates over a 12-month period. both physical (through our Branch of Defaulted advances continued to decrease to R17,5bn or 3% of our book (5,9% in 2009). While the Future) and electronic, as well as we cannot avoid the potential negative impact of higher rates on our clients’ ability to repay collaboration across all our businesses and hence our impairments, especially if rates increase too fast or too much, we have taken to deepen our share of wallet. proactive steps by increasing our coverage on specific impairments to 42,8% (from 29% in 2009) and retail portfolio impairments to 1,4% of the performing book (from 0,5%). In addition, we have taken early action to reduce our exposure to higher-risk products such as personal loans and home loans, well ahead of the industry – home loans in particular have proved historically to be problematic for the industry if interest rates rise steeply.  an-African banking 5 Pnetwork In summary, Nedbank enters 2014 with good momentum and a strong balance sheet. We are well positioned to make the most of growth opportunities as they present themselves, and we The ‘rest of Africa’ strategic focus remain committed to consistent delivery for all our stakeholders. has been renamed the ‘Pan-African Given the uncertain economic environment, forecast risk has increased and, in this context in banking network’ and will continue to the year ahead, we are currently expecting organic growth in diluted headline earnings per incorporate our strategic alliance with share to be in excess of the growth in nominal GDP. Ecobank in West and Central Africa and our own network and expansion Appreciation activities in the Southern African Nedbank’s journey over the past four years has been one of resilience, growth and consistent Development Community (SADC) and delivery. The next four years will undoubtedly be equally exciting. We have a solid foundation East Africa. Nedbank has the right to take up a shareholding of up to 20% on which to continue building our growth, driven by our five key focus areas, and we are in ETI and a formal decision will be investing in our businesses and growing our franchise value. By delivering on our strategy, by made during the rights exercise period staying true to our culture, and by being innovative and client-centred, I am confident that we in 2014. can continue to go from strength to strength. Regulatory approval has been I would like to thank our investors for their support throughout this journey. I would also like to received to acquire an initial stake of express my gratitude to the exceptional and highly experienced group executive team that I am 36,4% of Banco Unico in Mozambique honoured to work with. Thank you for your invaluable contribution to the group, your knowledge, and completion of the transaction your leadership strength and your willingness to take on tough situations with a smile. targeted for end March 2014. The To our board of directors and to our parent company, Old Mutual, thank you. To our Chairman, presence in Mozambique will contribute to the strengthening of Reuel Khoza, thank you for your wisdom, guidance and support. Finally and most important of Nedbank’s franchise and client all, I would like to thank our people for their hard work, loyalty and commitment and our clients proposition in the SADC and East for trusting us with their banking needs. Together we make Nedbank a great place to work at, Africa, increasing our presence to six a great place to bank with and a great bank to invest in. countries. In 2013 we signed an alliance agreement with the Bank of China and this has already resulted in the conclusion of several transactions Mike Brown for clients. Chief Executive 9 ENSURING A SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS A SUSTAINABLE FUTURE FOR ALL CHAIRMAN’S REVIEW Twenty years of democracy Reflecting on the first 20 years of democracy in SA provides an opportunity to review the country’s achievements and contemplate the next two decades. Change is often incremental, A strong and sustainable and on a year-by-year basis the cumulative effects are often overlooked. Looking back to 1994 we can see just how deeply our economy with higher levels of society and our economy have changed. In many areas our country employment occurs when private is admired and respected. Even in its remotest areas the great majority of the population now has access to electricity, water and enterprise is strong and works in sanitation. Living standards have improved materially and the harmony with government, black middle class has become a significant component of our creating the enabling conditions economy. Expansion of access to the monthly social grant has provided a degree of upliftment for the poor, with more than 16m under which business can flourish. people benefiting. Our public service and private sector have We are committed to playing an transformed and great progress has been made relative to the enormity of the challenges inherited in 1994. We score at or near active role in facilitating the the top of the rankings, including those of the World Economic building of a thriving nation. Forum, for the quality of our corporate governance, the strength of our institutions, such as the stock exchange, and the soundness of our banks. Because SA has been embraced into the global economy and is able to participate in it fully, the private sector has been given many opportunities to grow and strengthen its abilities. This was enabled by government’s market-based approach, disciplined fiscal policies, protection of property rights, the gradual reduction of exchange controls and the lowering of trade barriers that helped attract an investment grade sovereign rating from Moody’s as early Dr Reuel Khoza as 1994. Non-executive Chairman These achievements have been remarkable given the massive challenges that needed to be addressed at the dawn of our democracy in 1994. Yet much remains to be done in areas where progress has been frustratingly slow. One key area is education, where many children never reach matric, and the majority of those who do, pass at a level that does not position them for growth and readiness for the world of work. Our youth are badly equipped for today’s labour market and this has contributed to our recording among the world’s highest levels of unemployment over a sustained period. In addition, a heavily regulated labour market keeps many unemployed. In recent years the business and investment environment has also become more uncertain and less supportive of expansion. Infrastructure shortfalls and policy uncertainty have contributed to these challenges. It is imperative that we imbue ourselves with moral leadership and wisdom for the public and private sectors. I strongly believe that leadership in these sectors should work together constructively to make a positive contribution to the creation of a better life for all. When we reflect on Nedbank Group’s journey since 1994, it is clear that we have had our own successes and challenges. We 10 NEDBANK GROUP | UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS 2013 R107,2bn 16% LEVEL 2 MARKETCAPITALISATION TOTAL BEE RATING (2012: R95,4bn) SHAREHOLDER FIFTH YEAR RETURN IN A ROW have grown organically as well as through various mergers and of children. We will continue our relationship with the Nelson acquisitions. We had a difficult period, just after the start of the Mandela Children’s Fund, spanning more than 15 years thus far, new millennium, that culminated in a rights issue in 2003 to through the Nedbank Children’s Affinity. Since the launch of strengthen the capital base of the group. Since then we have the Children’s Affinity, Nedbank has donated more than R50m to developed into one of the strongest financial services participants the Nelson Mandela Children’s Fund. in the SA economy. We are making significant contributions to all our stakeholders, thereby helping to make SA a better place to live Creating a desirable future in. As an employer we created an additional 13 500 jobs, and we The global economic environment over the past 20 years has been now have over 30 000 employees in total. At the same time, very beneficial for SA. It included rising commodity prices, a strong we embrace transformation and we have been one of the top three demand for exports and large capital inflows reducing the cost of most transformed large companies on the JSE for the past three capital, thereby assisting investment. This was the case especially years. Since 2004 we have spent R1,5bn (approximately 70% of in the period before the global financial crisis in 2008 and for a the group spend) on skills development for our black employees. short period thereafter as the world began to recover from recession. Globally, financial institutions in particular have focused Through our banking activities we granted over R570bn in loans to on addressing their financial strength and a return to traditional clients. We expanded our presence to service an additional 10 000 banking activities. The global financial system is in a better place new areas and suburbs, particularly in peri-urban areas, and added today, but with much still to be done. more than 2 000 new ATMs to make banking more accessible and convenient. Nedbank is a bank for all, with more than 3m new retail SA banks are strong and the industry is rated the third most sound and small-and-medium-enterprise (SME) clients having chosen to in the 2013–2014 World Economic Forum Global Competitiveness bank with us since 2004. Many of these clients are new to the Report. Regulatory oversight is worldclass. Nedbank’s strategic formal banking system and we now service over 6,7m clients focus areas of repositioning Nedbank Retail, non-interest revenue in total. growth and portfolio tilt have ensured that we have substantially strengthened our franchise. We also lowered our exposure to the In 2005 we embraced broad-based black economic empowerment macroeconomic cycle through selected growth in higher-risk (BBBEE) and developed a leadership position. Our innovative BEE products such as unsecured lending, more prudent provisioning, transaction benefited more than 500 000 black South Africans a stronger balance sheet and higher levels of sustainable directly and/or indirectly. The net value of our Eyethu scheme, with transactional income. more than 47 000 participants, has grown by more than R6,7bn, with R2,3bn having already accrued free of any debt to these It is very concerning that the global environment has been under shareholders. In addition, over R747m has been paid out in stress for the past five years, which has culminated in significantly dividends to date. intensified pressure on emerging-market currencies as investors struggle to come to terms with changes in US monetary policy. As an active corporate citizen we have spent in excess of R644m The growth environment that attracted investment interest on socioeconomic development projects since 2004. We assisted towards developing economies is still present and will reassert the communities in which we operate with sustainable and viable itself as the middle class grows. Africa in particular faces a bright projects that focus on education, community development, future where better economic policies, greater regional integration, health, economic development and volunteerism. Since 1994 the more open economies, reduced debt burdens, increased investor Nedbank Affinity Programme has contributed more than R200m interest and massive resources will keep many economies on a to almost 1 000 projects in the areas of arts and culture, sports strong growth trajectory. SA companies are already taking development, helping underprivileged children and environmental advantage of the many opportunities to the north, and our conservation. A total of 1,2m clients support these affinities and our government is encouraging greater regional cooperation to primary beneficiaries have been the Nelson Mandela Children’s unblock borders and boost infrastructure. Fund and the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF). Expansion into the rest of Africa is a great longer-term opportunity. We also marked, with great sadness, the passing of the founding Our vision, to be Africa’s most admired bank, reflects our intention father of our democracy, Mr Nelson Rolihlahla Mandela, in 2013. to unlock this opportunity while managing the higher risk that Tata Madiba represented universal virtues that unite us all as typifies earlier-stage economies. Nedbank’s vision aligns with the human beings the world over: moral authority and probity, ambition of our parent company, Old Mutual plc, to become resilience, conviction, moderation, compassion, grace, courage, Africa’s financial services champion. humility and wisdom. At Nedbank we seek to support Madiba’s honourable legacy through a shared vision to champion the rights 11 ENSURING A SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS CHAIRMAN’S REVIEW (CONTINUED) We are positioning ourselves to provide a Pan-African This is underpinned by the recognition that a values-based banking network supporting our clients’ activities on the approach in leading the organisation is imperative if we are continent. It is in this context that we established our alliance to safeguard the integrity of the organisation and position it with Ecobank Transnational Incorporated (ETI) in 2008 for appropriately in a rapidly transforming environment. expansion into West and Central Africa, recognising the Our board is well diversified and balanced, and we seek to benefits that flow from deep local knowledge. The year 2014 is an important one for Nedbank as we are in the 12-month continue building diversity in skills and thinking. We were period during which we have the opportunity to exercise pleased to welcome David Adomakoh in February 2014 as an our rights to acquire 20% in ETI. Regulatory approval for our independent non-executive director of Nedbank Group and acquisition of a strategic stake in Banco Unico has been Nedbank Ltd. We announced the departure of two of our received and completion of the transaction is targeted for directors, Don Hope and Thenjiwe Chikane, during 2013 and end March 2014. This acquisition enhances our plans for express our sincere appreciation to them for the many years expansion into SADC and East Africa. of diligent service and insight they provided. A strong and sustainable economy with higher levels of A number of directors will be retiring in 2015 in line with our employment occurs when private enterprise is strong and board continuity programme. In anticipation, the board works in harmony with government, creating the enabling has instituted a formal succession planning process and conditions under which business can flourish. We are identified a broad spectrum of specific skills and experience committed to playing an active role in facilitating the building it must have within its ranks. The process is robust and of a thriving nation. constructive in identifying the capabilities that potential new boardmembers should possess to complement those of the We appreciate the fact that our business success is linked to current members. In line with our strategy we will continue the upliftment of society at large, as well as the fact that we to bolster the skills of the board in areas such as banking, can do much to enable this upliftment through our core mining and resources, information technology (IT), business activities. We are committed to playing an active innovation as well as the rest of Africa. role in building a thriving nation. In 2012 Nedbank developed its long-term vision for SA, describing a country that would The integrated report contains detailed reporting on be flourishing by 2030 and that would be a vibrant place to governance in the risk, audit, transformation and live and work, having overcome a series of pressing economic, remuneration sections. In addition to this, I summarise in social and environmental challenges. We worked with many the following paragraphs some deliberations of each of the experts, including those linked to the development of the board subcommittees. National Planning Commission’s Diagnostic Report, to In 2013 the Group Transformation, Social and Ethics provide a clear understanding of our country’s potential. Committee focused on monitoring regulatory developments The 2030 goals are aligned with the National Development relating to the BBBEE Act and the Financial Sector Charter Plan (NDP): they were developed independently but in Codes. It also reviewed management’s effort to improve parallel and remain firmly aligned with it in spirit and BBBEE performance and maintain our carbon neutrality objective, and they are more than just a statement of ambition. They provide a telescope that enhances our ability despite increases in the scope of our carbon measurement. to identify future business opportunities and risks. We are Lastly, the committee guided the strategic development responding through a strategic initiative called Fair Share of Fair Share 2030 in response to a set of long-term goals 2030, challenging ourselves to capture new business for a thriving SA. opportunities by taking a non-conventional approach to The Group Information Technology Committee focused on lending on a scale that is appropriate to our market share. reviewing and implementing the group’s IT strategy, Leading by example interrogating key technology trends that have a significant This year I share with stakeholders more of the Nedbank impact on banking. These trends will become increasingly board’s deliberations and challenges, both in the year gone prevalent over the next few years and include social media, by and looking forward. In addition I will lead our first board mobile banking and cybersecurity. Production stability was governance roadshow in 2014 to engage proactively with monitored and it is pleasing that the group recorded the best our shareholders and other stakeholders, to share our system uptime levels in recent history. The committee philosophies and thinking and to receive valuable input approved Project 4321, which will consolidate the group’s from them. finance, human resources and procurement systems and continue to be a focus over the next few years. Awareness around governance matters has increased since the global financial crisis, with unsound practices exposed The Group Audit Committee was satisfied with the adequacy and with regulatory intervention more strict. As a board we and efficiency of the internal control systems, accounting take governance, compliance and ethics very seriously – they practices, information systems and assurance processes underpin our deliberations and decisionmaking and align us applied within the group. We are particularly pleased with with the spirit and guidelines of King III. We are continuously the ongoing recognition received for our financial and learning and challenging ourselves to strengthen our integrated reporting from independent observers such as the governance capabilities and recognise that, while much has JSE, Chartered Secretaries Southern Africa, Nkonki and EY. been achieved, we must drive the organisation to raise its We will continue to ensure that the committee is exercising standards further in our aspiration to be worldclass at its assurance oversight role effectively in relation to financial managing risk. Nedbank believes that the development of a reporting, internal controls, internal audit, and our relationship unique corporate culture is an enduring competitive with the external auditors, as well as to oversee the finance advantage. For more than a decade Nedbank has invested in transformation project. More detailed reporting can be found personal-mastery and team-effectiveness programmes. on pages 110 to 113 of this integrated report. 12 NEDBANK GROUP | UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS 2013 Given increased regulatory intervention, our focus on ■■ competitive franchises that create value and enhance governance and the emergence of risks in a tougher brand value because of: macroeconomic environment, the Group Risk and Capital ¨¨ our leadership in corporate banking, and the fact Management Committee provided oversight on various that we hold the largest market share in risks. These included capital and liquidity management, commercial property finance and generate good compliance with various frameworks and requirements, returns underpinned by an excellent risk profile; regulatory compliance with an increased focus on the ¨¨ integrated, lower-risk investment banking with prevention of money laundering and financing of terrorist strong growth prospects resulting from activities, and actions to manage and reduce the onslaught of government’s infrastructure plans and growth on fraud. Details are discussed on page 134 to 135 of this the continent; integrated report. These focus areas along with the group’s ¨¨ strong, differentiated and decentralised business expansion into the rest of Africa will be closely monitored in banking; the coming year. ¨¨ innovative, client-centred retail banking, with more The primary focus for the Group Credit Committee was on clients choosing to bank with Nedbank; and reducing the group’s appetite for unsecured lending in the ¨¨ fast-growing wealth, insurance and asset rapidly deteriorating consumer credit profile. In addition, it management business with high return on equity; monitored stress in the middle-market business banking ■■ a client-centred, risk-mitigated, capital-efficient strategy environment and engaged management on its level of in the rest of Africa over the long term, with the largest comfort in our mining, automotive and agricultural credit Pan-African geographical footprint; exposures due to protracted strikes in these sectors during ■■ continued delivery on a growth-oriented strategy; the year. Our construction industry exposures were also ■■ a strong balance sheet and defensive investment given reviewed. The uncertainty in the global economy and the stable banking sector in SA; and difficult credit environment will be of considerable importance in 2014. ■■ a stable and experienced management team, a differentiated, values-based culture and high levels of Remuneration, and specifically the remuneration of staff morale. executives, continues to receive considerable attention from stakeholders. This had led globally to a significant increase Looking forward in the amount of regulation. In some cases there has The outlook for the environment remains volatile and been legislation regarding the delivery and disclosure uncertain. We, the board, believe that Nedbank is well of remuneration. Given this increasingly complex positioned given its strong balance sheet and higher coverage environment, the Group Remuneration Committee carries in 2013. As proved over the past few years, we have a stable a key responsibility to ensure that remuneration policies management team and a sustainable growth strategy, and and practices implemented in the group enable the this will continue to stand us in good stead as more clients attraction and retention of key talent. It also aims to mitigate choose to bank with Nedbank. against imprudence and inappropriate risk-taking, and to We have refined our 2014 strategic focus areas (covered in enable sustainability. These remuneration policies and more detail on page 21) to ensure that we build a sustainable practices must be applied within the context of efforts franchise. This will help Nedbank remain on a growth path, ensuring that our core reward-for-performance principles are focus on our clients through innovative solutions and grow in adhered to. strategically attractive areas, particularly transactional banking, while optimising our spend to invest for the future. These factors featured prominently in the scope of The year 2014 is also a key period in which to decide whether the Remuneration Committee’s work during 2013. The or not we will exercise our right to take up a 20% shareholding committee reviewed the competitiveness of the Nedbank in ETI. remuneration suite while remaining attuned and appropriately responsive to the changing governance Lastly, we will be finalising key board appointments in the environment. Where necessary, changes were made to our near future and I look forward to engaging with our major practices (these changes are set out in detail in the shareholders during our first governance roadshow. Remuneration Report on pages 138 to 140 of this integrated report). Our remuneration policies and practices foster an Appreciation appropriately long-term focus, and growth in remuneration Thank you to my fellow directors for their contributions, should be reflective of the overall performance of the insights and commitment to the affairs of the group. I am business, resulting in an appropriate sharing of value between pleased that we again delivered strongly to all stakeholders the various stakeholders in the group. This work will continue in 2013. We are well prepared for both uncertain times through 2014, with a broader focus on the critical issues and the unlocking of growth prospects, and I congratulate of performance management, the competitiveness of our Mike Brown and the Group Executive Committee. employee benefit suite, and further enhancements in We thank our staff for their contribution as they continually our stakeholder engagement. strive to exceed the expectations of our stakeholders. Delivering value to shareholders To our clients who have chosen Nedbank as their bank of In 2013 Nedbank Group again delivered value to our choice, we thank you for your support on our journey towards shareholders, with a total shareholder return of 16%. making Nedbank a great place to bank. Our share price increased 11,7%, making us the second-best performer among the big four banks. We declared a total dividend of 895 cents, up 19% ahead of headline earningsper-share growth of 14,9%. Despite a volatile and uncertain environment, we continue to possess qualities that we believe are attractive to investors. These include: Dr Reuel J Khoza Non-executive Chairman 13 MAKING THINGS HAPPEN A STRONG PERFORMANCE IN UNCERTAIN TIMES PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS ECONOMIC Headline earnings Income attributable to equity holders of the parent Diluted earnings per share: ■■ Headline ■■ Basic Dividend declared per share Dividend cover Net asset value Tangible net asset value per share Net interest income to average interest-earning banking assets Credit loss ratio – banking advances Non-interest revenue (NIR) to total income NIR to total operating expenses Efficiency ratio Group capital adequacy ratios: ■■ Common-equity tier 1 ■■ Tier 1 ■■ Total Total assets under administration Total assets Assets under management Return on total assets Return on ordinary shareholders’ equity (ROE), excluding goodwill ROE 1 Basel II. 2 Basel II.5. 3 Basel III. ENVIRONMENTAL Green Star-rated buildings Carbon footprint per fulltime employee Offset through carbon emission reduction projects Carbon status SOCIAL Socioeconomic development spend2 CULTURAL Broad-based black economic empowerment credentials Barrett entropy 1 tCO2e = tonnes of CO2 equivalent. 2 Includes Community Trust and Nedbank Private Wealth Foundation, spend impacted by FSC Code changes in 2013. 14 NEDBANK GROUP | UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS 2013 % change 2012–2013 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Rm 15,9 8 670 7 483 6 184 4 900 4 277 Rm 15,9 8 637 7 449 6 190 4 811 4 826 cents 15,0 1 829 1 590 1 340 1 069 983 cents 15,1 1 822 1 583 1 341 1 050 1 109 cents 19,0 895 752 605 480 440 times 2,11 2,18 2,26 2,30 2,30 Rm 12,1 64 336 57 375 52 685 47 814 44 984 cents 13,6 11 346 9 989 9 044 8 160 7 398 % 3,57 3,53 3,48 3,35 3,39 % 1,06 1,05 1,13 1,36 1,52 % 47,7 46,8 46,1 44,3 42,2 % 86,4 84,4 81,5 79,6 78,8 % 55,2 55,6 56,6 56,7 53,5 % 12,53 11,42 11,01 10,11 9,91 % 13,63 12,92 12,61 11,71 11,51 % 15,73 14,92 15,31 15,01 14,91 Rm 12,8 939 935 833 453 760 358 711 288 657 907 Rm 9,8 749 594 682 958 648 127 608 718 570 703 Rm 26,5 190 341 150 495 112 231 102 570 87 204 % 1,23 1,13 0,99 0,82 0,76 % 17,2 16,4 15,3 13,4 13,4 % 15,6 14,8 13,6 11,8 11,8 3 3 2 1 – tCO2e4 (3,5) 7,61 7,89 7,74 8,25 8,77 tCO2e 4 (4,2) 230 000 240 000 240 000 220 000 220 000 tCO2e 4 Neutral Neutral Neutral Neutral Neutral Rm (4,3) 111 116 89 80 73 Level 2 Level 2 Level 2 Level 2 Level 2 % 11 10 11 13 13 15 MAKING THINGS HAPPEN BUILDING STRONG FRANCHISES AN The historic strength of Nedbank Group has been in our ATTRACTIVE wholesale franchises, which are built on strong client relationships, competitive deposit and lending market GROWTH shares, quality portfolios with low levels of impairments over an extended period of time in corporate and business banking, expertise in key areas such as STRATEGY commercial property finance, resources, renewable energy, infrastructure and, more recently, oil and gas as well as markets businesses. We are well positioned to leverage off growth in the rest of Africa, support growth in small and medium enterprises and benefit from the participation in the rollout of government’s infrastructure Our vision is to be Africa’s most programmes. admired bank by our staff, clients, Repositioning Nedbank Retail has been a large focus of shareholders, regulators and the group for the past few years as we addressed communities supported by our weaknesses in the transactional banking franchise, values of accountability, integrity, owing to historic underinvestment and poor strategic choices in relation to clients, distribution and marketing, respect, pushing beyond and a predominantly product-focused approach. This, boundaries and being peoplecoupled with inadequate risk management disciplines, centred. led to Retail reporting a loss in 2009. Our actions over the past few years in building a sustainable and profitable retail bank, while recognising the importance of being a bank for all in SA, were to focus on the growth markets of Our growth-oriented strategy is youth and entry-level banking as well as restoring our underpinned by strong franchises historic strengths in the middle-market, seniors and each with long-term growth small-business segments. As a result, we have made significant investments in footprint, new client value opportunities, growing our share of propositions and innovative products. At the same time transactional banking revenues, we embedded worldclass risk practices, significantly tilting our portfolio in favour of strengthened balance sheet provisions and adopted strategically attractive opportunities more prudent provisioning methodologies. As a result, while protecting against the financial performance improved substantially and since the start of 2009 we have gained more than 2m clients. downside in higher risk portfolios Future growth will be driven by SA’s banking population, and expanding into the rest of which is forecast to grow by 10m people, and by our Africa. This is enabled by our capturing an increasing share of these primary clients people and our unique culture, through innovative, client-centred value propositions. which we regard as our primary Nedbank Wealth, the youngest of the group’s client strategic differentiator. facing clusters, was established in 2009 following the buyout of the remaining shares in the former joint ventures with Old Mutual. The cluster has low capital requirements and is a significant economic profit contributor. Growth opportunities in our wealth management, asset management and insurance businesses remain very attractive. 16 NEDBANK GROUP | UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS 2013 GROWING OUR TRANSACTIONAL BANKING FRANCHISE Historically, Nedbank has had a smaller transactional banking franchise than our peers and as a result our earnings have been strongly influenced by macroeconomic changes given the absence of a substantial, stable commission MANAGING A and fee income stream. BANK IN A TIME OF Since 2009 we have focused on growing our transactional banking franchise through client UNCERTAINTY AND gains, improved cross-sell and innovations, with REGULATORY CHANGE the aim of increasing our non-interest-revenueto-expense ratio and meeting our medium-toThe introduction of new capital and liquidity long-term target of greater than 85%. In 2013 we requirements by Basel regulations in recent years has achieved this target for the first time. forced banks to rethink their business portfolios as capital and liquidity have become increasingly scarce and expensive resources impacting on overall profitability. In order to optimise returns for shareholders and position GEOGRAPHIC EXPANSION the bank in a tougher, uncertain and more volatile environment we have adopted a portfolio approach to managing our different businesses and products. Our largest opportunity is to capture a greater Through our strategic portfolio tilt we choose to grow share of the banking profit pool in SA. In the faster in certain businesses or products such as longer term, economic growth in the rest of transactional banking, deposits, investment banking, Africa is expected to be much higher and we will follow our clients who are also expanding insurance and asset management, while taking a selective beyond the borders of SA. We are building the origination approach with others. Home loans and Nedbank franchise in SADC and East Africa. In personal loans are products where we have chosen to Central and West Africa we are following a limit our downside risk and we recognise that we may partnership approach with Ecobank. lose market share during certain times in the economic cycle. OUR PEOPLE AND CULTURE ARE OUR PRIMARY DIFFERENTIATORS We believe that our people and our unique culture differentiate us. We are committed to developing and training our staff, and investing significantly in programmes such as Leading for Deep Green to improve our personal and team effectiveness across the group. In addition, we track and monitor our staff satisfaction levels and changes in our corporate culture by identifying areas of dissonance (entropy) and value matches in relation to our ideal corporate culture. 17 MAKING THINGS HAPPEN AN ATTRACTIVE GROWTH STRATEGY (CONTINUED) A VISION-LED, DELIVERING ON OUR VALUES-DRIVEN 2013 STRATEGIC ORGANISATION FOCUS AREAS In 2013 we made progress VISION: towards achieving our vision TO BE AFRICA’S through delivery on our MOST ADMIRED BANK strategic growth drivers of repositioning Nedbank Retail, VALUES: growing NIR, portfolio tilt and rest of Africa. During our INTEGRITY be honest, trustworthy, truthful, and strategic planning processes consistent and open in all of our for 2014-16 we refined our conduct and decisions. strategic focus areas in the context of our material matters RESPECT – these are discussed in more recognise the inherent worth of detail on page 20. every human being and treat all people accordingly. Over the past four years Nedbank’s franchise has ACCOUNTABILITY experienced strong growth as reflected in the prepared to make commitments and be increase of our brand value by 38,0% to R10,9bn judged against our commitments, to (2009: R7,9bn), measured by Brand Finance’s deliver on those commitments and to Brands Survey. We have also made significant be responsible for our actions. progress in delivering on the four key strategic focus areas of repositioning Nedbank Retail, growing NIR, implementing the portfolio tilt PUSHING BEYOND strategy and expanding into the rest of Africa. BOUNDARIES recognise our obligation to the entire organisation – to push beyond the limits of what is best for us individually, or as a group or unit and strive to break new ground – fuelled by our passion and commitment. PEOPLE-CENTRED we invest in our people and create empowering environments through development, support, mentoring, coaching, valuing diversity, recognition and reward. 18 NEDBANK GROUP | UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS 2013 REPOSITION NEDBANK RETAIL GROW NIR From 2009 to 2013 our retail business’ headline earnings have We have made excellent progress in growing our increased from a loss of R27m to R2,5bn and ROE from (0,2%) to NIR-to-expense ratio from 78,8% in 2009 to 86,4% in 11,6% in 2013. We invested R1,7bn in distribution footprint and a 2013, exceeding our medium-to-long-term target of further R400m in people, integrated channels and innovations, more than 85%. Over this period, our client base has while extracting R1,1bn in efficiencies and growing clients by grown across all clusters and transactional banking 2,2m to 6,4m. With the repositioning complete, the focus now volumes have turns to leveraging our strong increased. foundations to accelerate primary As a result, banked client gains and capturing commission and a greater share of the market while fee income grew continuing to be diligent in REPOSITION GROW at a compound managing risk. NEDBANK NIR annual growth rate of 13,1% RETAIL to R14 023m (2009: R8 583m). TO BE AFRICA’S MOST REST OF ADMIRED AFRICA PORTFOLIO TILT BANK Our rest of Africa Under the portfolio tilt strategy incorporates our strategy, economic profit (EP) increased PORTFOLIO REST OF strategic alliance significantly from R57m in TILT AFRICA with Ecobank 2009 to R2,1bn in 2013, Transnational supported by selective Incorporated (ETI) advances growth to in West and mitigate against downside Central Africa and risk in personal loans and CLIENT-CENTRED APPROACH strengthening our home loans while we existing network focused strongly on SUSTAINABILITY EMBEDDED IN and expanding our EP-generative activities GROUP STRATEGY presence in the such as deposit growth, Southern African insurance, asset Development management and investment banking. Community (SADC) and East Africa. Nedbank has the right to take up a shareholding of up to 20% in ETI and a formal decision will be made during the rights exercise period in 2014. Regulatory approval has been received for us to acquire an initial stake of 36,4% of Banco Unico in Mozambique, with completion of the transaction targeted for end March 2014. The group has the right to acquire a majority shareholding over time and this will contribute to strengthening Nedbank’s franchise and client proposition in the SADC and East Africa, increasing our presence to six countries. 19 MAKING THINGS HAPPEN AN ATTRACTIVE GROWTH STRATEGY (CONTINUED) OUR 2014 STRATEGIC FOCUS AREAS Following the progress made with regard to our four previous strategic focus areas, the emphasis will now be on client-centred innovation, grow our transactional banking franchise, optimise to invest, our strategic portfolio tilt, and Pan-African banking network. OPTIMISE TO INVEST is aimed at driving internal efficiencies in an environment of slower revenue growth and enhancing our ability to invest in the franchise for the longer term. Significant information technology (IT) innovations are planned to enhance our systems and deliver business benefits through managed evolution. Our ‘rationalise, standardise and simplify’ IT strategy forms part of CLIENT-CENTRED this intent as we move INNOVATION TO BE AFRICA’S MOST ADMIRED BANK from 220 to 60 core is vital in accelerating and systems over time and building on the embark on initiatives innovations launched in such as a SAP ERP the past two years to GROW system replacement in enhance Nedbank’s value OPTIMISE Finance, Human TRANSACTIONAL TO Resources and propositions and drive BANKING INVEST Procurement. In 2013 client growth and product cross-sell. FRANCHISE alone, 30 IT systems were decommissioned. CLIENTCENTRED INNOVATION PAN-AFRICAN GROW OUR BANKING TRANSACTIONAL NETWORK BANKING reflects the FRANCHISE STRATEGIC PAN-AFRICAN importance of focuses on capturing a PORTFOLIO BANKING providing banking greater share of the TILT NETWORK services for our overall groupwide clients as they transactional banking expand across the opportunity, with continent, and growing NIR and client creating deposits a STEP CHANGE IN SUSTAINABLY BUILDING shareholder value key outcome. THE FRANCHISE through appropriate investment opportunities that STRATEGIC PORTFOLIO TILT continues to are aligned with the emphasise the strategic nature of portfolio tilt and Nedbank strategy EP-generative activities while incorporating Nedbank’s and culture and Fair Share 2030 initiative, which encompasses a carefully that can clear our calculated flow of money allocated each year to invest in financial hurdles. future-proofing the environment, society and our business. We have also increased collaboration with our parent company, Old Mutual plc, and our sister companies in SA. New-business flows from our financial planners to Old Mutual SA increased 58% in 2013 and we entered the direct-insurance market in partnership with Mutual & Federal. 20 NEDBANK GROUP | UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS 2013 MONEY WORKING FOR THE FUTURE WE WANT Nedbank’s vision is to be Africa’s most admired bank by all our stakeholders. We understand that our success in achieving this vision is greatly dependent on the success of the environment in which we operate – the people and our planet. Therefore, we are deeply committed to ensuring greater and lasting wellbeing for all. However, we are aware that the prevailing model for socioeconomic development is running into serious challenges as the economy bumps against environmental limits (eg climate change and fresh water), exacerbating inequality, increasing the potential for conflict and creating a real risk of stalled progress. While the private sector definitely plays a positive developmental role by supplying products and services, creating jobs, paying taxes and supporting social investment, the collective business response has not been sufficient to address these challenges. We cannot afford to be neutral with respect to outcomes for society; neither can we expect different outcomes if we do the same things as before. Our commitment is therefore to think and act differently, to go beyond usual business to help create the future we all want. We believe this ambition will increase our own chances of success, as well as those of our stakeholders, and help us to grow our franchise sustainably. SHAPING THE CONTEXT We need to get money working for the future we want by doing what we do best: being a successful bank. We are worldclass at managing risk, we facilitate trade, and we enable the deployment of capital into the economy. Through the proper application of these skills we can shape the context in which we operate. Taking a more deliberate and imaginative approach to creating a better future requires us to extend our aspiration to be the ‘green and caring’ bank into the range of products and services we offer. To this end we have applied a futureback, outside-in process to gain a better understanding of DRIVING the conditions for long-term success and the needs and aspirations of society. TOWARDS THE FUTURE WE WANT THROUGH FAIR SHARE 2030 21 MAKING THINGS HAPPEN AN ATTRACTIVE GROWTH STRATEGY (CONTINUED) LONG-TERM GOALS AND RESPONSE Not everything that needs to be done can or should be done These goals speak to environmental and social issues as by a bank. We have therefore identified a number of long-term well as the important interplay between these two societal goals that are relevant for a thriving bank in a thriving domains. Achieving them collectively will also ensure other society and that we believe we can contribute towards. desirable outcomes such as improved food security, a more resource-efficient economy and less divided communities. These goals are: We have calculated that, to achieve these goals between Atmospheric greenhouse gases are stabilised at a now and 2030, capital equal to 2% of the SA gross domestic level that gives a more-than-50% probability of avoiding a 2°C temperature rise above the product will have to be invested and lent differently into long-term preindustrial average. the economy annually. We have calculated that our fair share of this equates approximately to our market share of Water resources are not being extracted debt provision in the economy. This fair share is additional beyond sustainable levels. to all the things we already do in areas such as renewable energy, BEE financing and enterprise development – in The labour force is employed at percentages comparable with those of other prosperous most of which Nedbank is already an established leader. To nations. get money working for the future we want needs imaginative solutions from our clients and our staff, All citizens have affordable access to energy coupled with rigorous risk assessment. services essential for development and prosperity. Fair Share 2030 is our strategic response to these long-term All citizens have affordable access to clean goals. It is a calculated flow of money, allocated each year water and sanitation services. to be invested in future-proofing the environment, society and our business. Starting in 2015, Fair Share 2030 Levels of saving and investment are sufficient represents a constant flow of funding, estimated at R6bn, to support national economic development working for the future we want. Our response to the longobjectives. term goals also includes a risk screen to improve the Good health outcomes are consistently being management of our lending exposure to carbon and water achieved for citizens at a cost that is risk, both for ourselves and our clients. comparable with that of other nations. Fair Share 2030 forms part of our strategic portfolio tilt, a Good educational outcomes are consistently mechanism through which to shift away from areas that being achieved for citizens at a cost that is contribute to societal risks, and towards areas that build comparable with that of other nations. resilience and wellbeing. An initial Fair Share 2030 target of R6bn has been set for 2015; 2014 is a pilot year. This represents a lending or investment target, subject to credit granting criteria, not an expense or donation, and we expect to make a decent return on this funding to be deployed into the economy. We will allocate our fair share every year to make sure money is flowing to activities that contribute to meeting the long-term goals. We will rigorously measure the performance of Fair Share 2030 funds and, in future years, report on indicators and progress towards reaching our targets. Fair Share 2030 is not designed to replace any aspect of our existing commitment to sustainability. Properly understood, it represents a step change in the way we approach our sustainability efforts through core business and a strategic response to our recognition of the need for all South Africans to work towards creating a better future for our country. By setting out how we will adapt to a changing environment, develop new competencies, sustainably grow our franchise, and invest our resources with a view to achieving a prosperous future, Fair Share 2030 forms another vital component in Nedbank’s realisation of its vision to be Africa’s most admired bank. 22 NEDBANK GROUP | UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS 2013 A SOUND INVESTMENT SOUND BANKING SYSTEM IN SA Through economic cycles SA banks have delivered sustainable returns on equity (ROEs), well above the The Nedbank Group much larger international banks in the US and the EU, investment proposition with growth driven by continued increases in banking remains compelling. Our penetration in the retail market, business investment in SA infrastructure programmes and expansion into the competitive franchises rest of Africa. SA banks are well capitalised, operate in a are differentiated in the predominantly closed funding system, and are very well SA market and continue regulated as evidenced by their being rated third to create value. Also, we globally in terms of soundness by the World Economic Forum and are currently delivering dividend yields offer an attractive growth above the JSE all-share index benchmarks. strategy and have a strong balance sheet. 23 MAKING THINGS HAPPEN A SOUND INVESTMENT (CONTINUED) Our objective of building an organisation that optimises returns for all stakeholders and creates a sustainable future is enabled by an integrated approach to the economics of the business, environmental preservation, OPTIMISING involvement in society and organisational culture. RETURNS FOR ALL Incorporating this approach, STAKEHOLDERS the investment case for Nedbank Group is built around: 1 COMPETITIVE FRANCHISES CREATING VALUE AND ENHANCING BRAND VALUE 2 CONTINUED DELIVERY ON GROWTH-ORIENTED STRATEGY 3 WELL POSITIONED FOR CURRENT ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT A STRONG BALANCE SHEET AND 4 DEFENSIVE INVESTMENT GIVEN THE STABLE BANKING SECTOR IN SA A STABLE AND EXPERIENCED MANAGEMENT 5 TEAM AND DIFFERENTIATED VALUES-BASED CULTURE 24 NEDBANK GROUP | UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS 2013 1 COMPETITIVE FRANCHISES CREATING VALUE AND ENHANCING BRAND VALUE Our historical strength in wholesale banking is evident in the fact that the underlying businesses consistently deliver ROEs – higher than our cost of capital, which is a key driver of value creation, while the high-ROE Nedbank Wealth cluster is growing faster than industry trends and Nedbank Retail is building a sustainable retail banking business. Leading position in corporate banking and commercial-property finance ■■ Excellent client relationships and ratings. ■■ Strong market shares, particularly in commercial-property finance and public sector loans. ■■ Excellent risk practices over time. ■■ Opportunity to increase transactional banking market share. Integrated, full-spectrum investment banking ■■ Leadership and expertise in mining and resources, infrastructure, energy, telecommunications and oil and gas sectors, providing good growth opportunities in SA and the rest of Africa. ■■ Full-service investment banking model, combined with an ability to leverage client relationships in collaboration with other wholesale clusters. ■■ Focus on flow and deal facilitation in markets business. Strongly differentiated and decentralised business banking ■■ Globally best-in-class client management practices. ■■ Holistic relationship-banked offering through localised client service teams. ■■ Excellent, client-centred risk management capabilities. ■■ Strong deposit-generating franchise. ■■ Client and people measurement at multiyear highs. ■■ Excellent momentum in net new client gains and new business growth. Innovative and client-centred retail banking ■■ Sustainable investment in the franchise, including integrated channels, people effectiveness and brand positioning. ■■ Compelling, innovative client value propositions and positive shifts in brand perception, fuelling strong client growth momentum and cross-sell. ■■ A growing client franchise to take advantage of the lower primary banked market share relative to our strong positioning in advances and deposits. ■■ Judicious advances growth and strengthened balance sheet impairments to protect against downside risk. ■■ Skilled people committed to collaboration and diligence in execution. Fast-growing wealth, insurance and asset management businesses ■■ Significant opportunity in penetrating the Nedbank client base and benefiting from various new-product launches and recently introduced direct insurance offerings. ■■ Unique Best of BreedTM asset manager with excellent track record, generating strong growth in assets under management. ■■ Leveraging of the Nedbank Private Wealth brand as one of SA’s leading high-net-worth franchises. Longer-term, client-centred, risk-mitigated, capital-efficient strategy in rest of Africa, with unmatched Pan-African geographic footprint ■■ Providing clients with access to 37 countries across Africa. ■■ Rights to acquire up to 20% in Ecobank Transnational Incorporated. ■■ Expansion into the Southern African Development Community and East Africa, where gross domestic product is expected to grow much faster than in SA, even though economic returns in financial services are still below cost of capital in the medium term. Approval to acquire an initial 36,4% in Banco Unico in Mozambique has been obtained and completion of transaction targeted for end March 2014. 25 MAKING THINGS HAPPEN A SOUND INVESTMENT (CONTINUED) 3 WELL POSITIONED FOR 2 C  ONTINUED DELIVERY CURRENT ECONOMIC ON GROWTHENVIRONMENT ORIENTED STRATEGY ■■ Operational and ﬁnancial gearing beneﬁts should enable us to deliver improved proﬁtability ratios Our 2014–2016 strategic focus areas of over time. client-centred innovation, optimising to invest, ■■ Endowment income upside will be unlocked when strategic portfolio tilt, building a Pan-African interest rates increase (a 1% yield curve parallel banking network, growing our transactional shift in interest rates impacts pretax earnings by banking franchise, and a step change in approximately R936m). sustainably building the franchise will continue ■■ Through our strong wholesale banking franchise, to drive growth. we are well positioned to benefit from the rollout of government’s infrastructure programme, highlighted in the 2013 SA Budget and the National Development Plan. 4 A STRONG BALANCE SHEET AND DEFENSIVE INVESTMENTGIVENTHE STABLEBANKINGSECTOR 5A  STABLEANDEXPERIENCED IN SA MANAGEMENT TEAM AND DIFFERENTIATED VALUES■■ We have a strong, cost management culture, BASED CULTURE with the existing strategy favouring an investment-for-growth focus in our transactional businesses. ■■ Our stable and skilled management team is among ■■ Risk and capital management is embedded in our culture and aimed at creating a stable the most experienced and transformed in the SA and sustainable organisation. Our credit banking sector. Group Executive Committee impairment coverage ratios are among the members have an average of 14 years with Nedbank highest in the industry. The prudent and Group and on average more than 23 years of industry proactive actions taken in unsecured lending and functional experience. The average tenure for and home loans position the group cluster managing executives is over 12 years. defensively in the event of a further Importantly, we have experienced limited change in deterioration in the macroeconomic the management team since 2010, and this has environment. enabled strong and well-coordinated execution of ■■ We have a common-equity tier 1 capital the group’s strategy. adequacy ratio at 12,5%, with sound funding ■■ Our people and culture give us a sustainable and liquidity ratios that are in line with those long-term competitive advantage. Internal culture of domestic peers. and staff surveys show that we are close to worldclass ■■ Earnings streams are well diversified, levels with high levels of consensus with no cluster contributing more than on common value. 29% of headline earnings to the group. ■■ Motivated and energised staff enable greater client ■■ A dividend cover range of 1,75 to 2,25 times, satisfaction, which leads to higher revenue growth aiming to deliver dividend per share growth and improved shareholder value creation over the ahead of headline earnings per share growth. long term. 26 NEDBANK GROUP | UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS 2013 2013 HIGHLIGHTS FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS DILUTED HEADLINE EARNINGS DILUTED HEADLINE EARNINGS RETURN ON RETURN ON EQUITY EQUITY HEADLINE HEADLINE EARNINGS EARNINGS PER PER SHARE SHARE (EXCLUDING (EXCLUDING GOODWILL) GOODWILL) Rm RM cents CENTS % 1 829 8 670 17,2 1 590 16,4 7 483 15,3 1 340 13,4 13,4 6 184 1 069 4 900 983 4 277 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 ORDINARY DIVIDEND NON-INTEREST REVENUE RETURN ON ASSETS PER SHARE Rm % cents ORDINARY DIVIDEND NON-INTEREST REVENUE RETURN ON ASSETS PER SHARE % % 19 361 17 324 895 15 412 1,23 1,13 752 13 215 0,99 11 906 605 0,82 0,76 480 440 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 27 MAKING THINGS HAPPEN NON-FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS INVESTING INNOVATING DELIVERING PARTNERING LEADING IN IN OUR FOR OUR VALUE TO OUR WITH OUR THE COMMUNITIES PEOPLE CLIENTS SHAREHOLDERS REGULATORS WE SERVE ■■ Providing ■■ Increase of total ■■ Delivering ■■ Implementing ■■ Expanding our employment for group client economic profit of Basel III distribution an additional numbers by 9,8% R2 114m and successfully on footprint by 29% 588 permanent to 6,7m in 2013 increasing the 1 January 2013. in urban areas staff in SA. (2012: 6,1m). return on equity ■■ Strengthening and 71% in ■■ Investing R396m ■■ Significantly (excluding the group’s non-urban areas in training our investing in our goodwill) to 17,2%. common-equity since 2009. people. distribution footprint ■■ Increasing the tier 1 ■■ Contributing to be a bank for full-year dividend further to 12,5%. R413m to ■■ Participation in all, with five net our Leading for by 19,0%, ahead of One of SA’s socioeconomic new outlets and ■■ Deep Green 334 ATMs in 2013. 14,9% growth in largest tax development programme by headline earnings contributors: with since 2009 ■■ Systems uptime at per share. (2013: R111m). 1 521 of our multiyear highs. R8,0bn relating to staffmembers. ■■ Delivering total direct, indirect, ■■ Supporting ■■ Accelerating shareholder return PAYE and other 163 external ■■ Consistently good delivery in staff and culture for 2013 of 16,0%. taxation. bursars across innovation, including survey results. the reformatting of ■■ Positioning the ■■ Strong, open 17 universities. ■■ High staff morale. 28 Branch of the group for future and transparent ■■ Maintaining our Future outlets, with shareholder value relationships with level 2 BBBEE FSC ■■ Good progress more to follow. creation through all regulators. contributor status on staff our long-term, for the fifth transformation ■■ Launching market■■ Commitment to leading products risk-mitigated and responsible consecutive year. initiatives. capital-efficient such as PocketPOS™, banking and ■■ Sourcing 78,1% of MyFinancialLife™, Pan-African insurance our procurement My eBills™ invoice banking strategy. practices. locally, improving issuing and payment Voted the on an already system. Added ■■ ■■ Strengthening Financial Times balance sheet high benchmark. further functionality to the awardand The Banker impairments ■■ Being recognised winning Nedbank magazine’s and coverage as a leader in App Suite™. 2013 SA Bank ratios to the socially of the Year. highest levels. responsible ■■ Offering clients a lower-priced credit ■■ Our 2012 ■■ Aspiring to be banking at the life product with integrated report worldclass at 2013 African increased benefits. the overall winner managing risk Banker awards ■■ Increasing loan of the 2013 and having and winning the payouts to R159bn Chartered appropriate Sunday Times (2012: R144bn) Secretaries remediation Top 100 and assets under Southern Africa where required. Companies CSI management by and JSE Annual awards. 26,5% to R190bn. Report awards. Staff Clients Shareholders Regulators Communities 32–33 34–37 38–41 42–43 44–47 Cultural entropy Number of clients Total shareholder Common-equity tier 1 Socioeconomic (%) (millions) return (%) ratio (Basel III) (%) spend (Rm) 13 13 6,7 35,3 34,3 12,5 116 111 5,5 6,1 11,0 11,6 89 11 10 11 5,1 9,9 10,1 73 80 4,4 15,3 16,0 8,6 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 GREAT PLACE GREAT PLACE GREAT PLACE WORLDCLASS HIGHLY INVOLVED IN TO TO TO AT MANAGING THE COMMUNITY WORK BANK INVEST RISK AND ENVIRONMENT 28 NEDBANK GROUP | UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS 2013 STAKEHOLDER OVERVIEW BUILDING ENDURING RELATIONSHIPS Our stakeholders are those individuals, groups of individuals or organisations that affect and/or could be affected by our organisation’s activities, products or services and performance. Our primary stakeholders, as outlined in our vision, are our staff, clients, shareholders, regulators and communities and include ‘silent’ stakeholders such as future generations and the environment. INVESTING The Nedbank Group Executive Committee has overall responsibility for the IN OUR group’s stakeholder engagement. The process of engagement is largely PEOPLE decentralised, with the various clusters and business areas empowered to engage directly and transparently with their immediate stakeholders. ‘Nedbank has come a We recognise that this presents the organisation with a measure of risk, long way in terms of particularly in terms of managing and maintaining a consistent message across transformation and I all areas of stakeholder engagements. To mitigate such risk we have a believe there are still comprehensive stakeholder engagement policy and framework in place, which great things to come. aligns with the recommendations of King III and identifies material stakeholders It’s a wonderful for each business area and any potential areas of overlap that need to be environment to work monitored and managed. in and there are lots of opportunities It is our belief that the benefits of immediate engagement between business and programmes areas and their stakeholders far outweigh the risks of such engagement. Direct through which to engagement at a business level not only ensures that every area of Nedbank improve yourself FEEDBACK RECEIVED remains in touch with the needs, wants and expectations of all its stakeholders, and your career.’ but also empowers us to be more responsive and accurate in addressing and managing risks and leveraging potential opportunities because we have – Nedbank staffmember access to immediate feedback on these matters. We therefore encourage such decentralised Nedbank representation, but always within the parameters of ‘I believe in Nedbank; our stakeholder engagement policy. they take care of their The information that follows offers a high-level overview of our main staff. They encourage stakeholder engagements and what was accomplished in 2013. Details of our staff to get involved in engagement with other stakeholders are available in the online Sustainable community projects Development Review. and care about the environment, and they make you feel that you are part of something truly exceptional.’ – Nedbank staffmember GREAT PLACE TO WORK 29 DELIVERING TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS STAKEHOLDER OVERVIEW (CONTINUED) Nedbank Group views its stakeholders as partners in its business. Our approach to stakeholder communication therefore extends beyond conversation to comprehensive engagement, through which ideas can be shared, input can be provided, and mutual benefit can be unlocked. INNOVATING DELIVERING PARTNERING LEADING IN THE FOR OUR VALUE TO OUR WITH OUR COMMUNITIES CLIENTS SHAREHOLDERS REGULATORS WE SERVE ‘Knowledgeable staff ‘In an environment where Our relationships with ‘In the 30 years that I’ve and high levels of pressure on the consumer regulators remain been involved in expertise make is building, we prefer banks ongoing, proactive and invasive alien clearing, business a pleasure.’ to focus on clients and transparent. Over the last I never thought that I – Nedbank Corporate deliver conservatively year the demands from would get on top of client in an electronic stated results … We think regulators to comply fully this problem, but since Business Banking Nedbank ticked all the with all legislative and receiving this Water survey boxes in 1H13.’ regulatory requirements Balance assistance, – Rated financial analyst have increased. ‘Nedbank Private I now do.’ Wealth is the best bank ‘Nedbank has a strong Nedbank has approval – Participating farmer, that I have dealt with. management team, from SARB to apply the WWF Water Balance You are very I think one of the best in Advanced Management Programme professional, fair and emerging market banks.’ Approach to calculate clear. I rate Nedbank – International investor exposure to credit, Private Wealth as a ‘I have been part of operational and market risk. model bank.’ ‘We particularly value our Enactus since 2010, that – Nedbank Wealth client strategic partnership on We view the professional has helped me to grow Imbizo and believe that relationship between ‘Nedbank’s professionally and through this and other Nedbank and our MyFinancialLifeTM is personally. It’s the contributions we continue regulators as mutually the best financial tool to add real value to generous sponsorships with which to keep beneficial. from corporates such as Nedbank’. track of your spending Nedbank that have – CEO of Wipcapital Ltd ‘SA is rated as a behaviour.’ helped Enactus SA to Founder and Executive well-regulated – Nedbank Retail client Director of WIPHOLD Ltd financial market.’ get to where it is today.’ ‘I would criticise the – WEF Competitiveness – Zuko Xelelo, Nedbank ‘Key issues are to Nedbank Private Wealth understand how the credit Report 2013/14 Business Banking logo. The marketing loss ratio progresses Academy Agriculture colours are dull.’ from here and the health trainee – Nedbank Wealth client of the consumer.’ – Local investor HIGHLY INVOLVED IN GREAT PLACE GREAT PLACE WORLDCLASS AT THE COMMUNITY TO BANK TO INVEST MANAGING RISK AND ENVIRONMENT 30 NEDBANK GROUP | UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS 2013 STAFF INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE In 2013 we improved our cultural sustainability performance as measured by non-ﬁnancial key performance indicators. 29 513 PERFORMANCE DURING 2013 NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES Progress with its academies and the external acknowledgement of this innovative work, as we strive for continuous learning. Through the Nedbank academies approach, 1 311 leaders and professionals have been trained (868 in 2013). The alignment of management processes through the implementation of the integrated talent framework, which included training of the HR community and 63% line managers on the framework. Good progress made on our journey to achieve a culture of collaboration, FEMALE innovation and client-centredness through research and planned initiatives. EMPLOYEES Nedbank’s efforts in creating an inclusive environment where all employees are valued for their diversity. The People with Disabilities target was exceeded. At 31 December 3,73% of employees had declared disabilities. High level of staff satisfaction in Nedbank Staff Survey with a 76,7% rating. 37% A total of 1 521 employees benefitted from the Leading for Deep Green Programme and over 100 employees were included in the Nedbank Leader/Manager Academy. MALE EMPLOYEES Approximately 400 employees attended Planning for Retirement workshops. Good progress has been made with the implementation of the transformation strategy. Altogether 588 additional jobs were created in SA. On average 85% black representation on Nedbank learning programmes, with 30% of them black female. RELATED Retention of 95,9% of individuals identified in the talent pool for cluster executive MATERIAL roles during the 2012/13 talent review period. MATTERS We continue to work on building our black talent pipeline and 78,9% of the longterm pipeline for cluster executive roles are black candidates. ■■ Tough economic Positive review of overall competitiveness of our total remuneration and benefit conditions offering relative to the markets in which we compete, while we remained ■■ Scarce skills appropriately commercial and agile in response to changes in market conditions. Ongoing monitoring of and adaptation to the evolving HR governance requirements applicable to organisations in financial services. 31 DELIVERING TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS HOT TOPICS IN 2013 Hot topics Our response/resulting developments ACCOLADES Development and growth ■■ We offer our employees and managers IN 2013 opportunities numerous development opportunities ■■ Skills @ Work award in the (see page 94). In 2013, the Integrated Large Company category: Talent Framework was implemented. BANKSETA It includes talent conversations between managers and employees about ■■ Highest Contributor award in performance, personal aspirations and the Financial Services Sector holistic development. by the Thuthuka Bursary Our Leading for Deep Green Programme Fund Management capability ■■ and Leader/Manager Academy aim to ■■ Nedbank Group monthly staff better equip our managers and leaders. TV broadcast awarded a gold A total of 1 521 managers participated in award for video excellence at the Leading for Deep Green Programme the 2013 International in 2013 and more than 100 managers Academy of the Visual Arts went through the Nedbank Leader/ ■■ Knowledge Resources Manager Academy. Chief Learning Officer Work/Home life balance ■■ Wellness Days were implemented to raise of the Year award awareness of the importance of a healthy lifestyle. In 2014 a stress management programme will be piloted. Performance management ■■ Ongoing engagement with employees process led to an understanding of how they experience the performance management process. Feedback has been consolidated with a focus on continuous improvement. Employment equity progress ■■ We achieved five out of our nine employment equity targets. We are determined to understand the barriers and challenges involved so that we can address these proactively. ■■ Countrywide transformation dialogues provided insights that were used to refine our employment equity plan and promoted a common understanding of diversity issues. FOCUS AREAS FOR 2014 TARGETS FOR 2014 ■■ Driving transformation in order to create a ■■ Senior management 37,6% black, diverse workforce in an inclusive with 15% being black females. environment. ■■ Middle management 57,2% black, ■■ Enabling a unique, collaborative, innovative with 30% of those being black females. and client-centred culture. ■■ Junior management 83,1% black, ■■ Acquiring and optimising talent. with 55,1% being black females. ■■ Repositioning rewards to create differentiation. ■■ Maintaining a score of 9,2 for FSC skills. ■■ Creating a learning organisation that ■■ Over 170 Leading for Deep Green supports employee development and workshops with the aim of reaching achievement of business objectives. about 2 500 employees. 32 NEDBANK GROUP | UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS 2013 CLIENTS INNOVATING FOR OUR CLIENTS ‘Being great at listening, understanding our clients’ needs and delivering’ remains at the heart of Nedbank’s strategy and we therefore remain committed to providing a choice of distinctive client-centred banking experiences as a bank for all through excellent service, innovative offerings and competitive pricing. 6,7m PERFORMANCE DURING 2013 TOTAL CLIENTS Grow clients Nedbank Retail grew its client total by 529 000, with and primary-client gain remaining stable and improved the transactional quality of revenue per client. Nedbank Business Banking income streams delivered strong net primary-bankedclient gains of 210 000 965 clients. In addition Nedbank Corporate and Nedbank Wealth grew primary clients, continuing the momentum SMALL-AND-MEDIUMgained. ENTERPRISE (SME) Differentiated A focus on product and process innovation yielded a CLIENTS and relevant number of market firsts and enhanced the client experience value offering through simplified onboarding, more relevant offerings and automated fulfilment. Nedbank’s progress on 25 000 conceptualising and operationalising the integratedchannels strategy and leveraging digital, was acknowledged when Nedbank received the Bank of the Year 2013 award BUSINESSBANKING from the Financial Times and The Banker magazine. CLIENTS Delivering strong Accelerated innovation resulted in the launch of a number performance for of new solutions over the period, including enhancing the clients Approve-itTM internet security feature, the PocketPOSTM mobile chip and PIN card acceptance device and the MyFinancialLifeTM personal financial management tool, many of which are unique in the market and contribute to RELATED the distinctiveness of Nedbank’s overall value proposition. MATERIAL Nedbank Private Wealth clients experienced top quartile investment performance as measured over periods of 1, 3, 5, MATTERS 7 and 9 year(s), and since fund inception. For the fifth consecutive year Nedgroup Investments was ■■ Tough economic conditions voted one of the Top 3 domestic asset management companies at the 2013 Raging Bull Awards. ■■ Banking relevance amid consumerism and increased Wholesale We enhanced our position in the global trade market through competition banking client enablement and new-product development. ■■ Increased demands on proposition Transactional Banking continued to innovate while still governance and risk focusing on compliance projects related to product management enhancements. ■■ Growth opportunities in the We continued to focus on maintaining a high-performance rest of Africa culture across the businesses with ongoing investment in people development and skills enhancement. ■■ Transformation of society within planetary boundaries Demonstrating Holding or reducing transactional prices in 2014 to ensure relevance all elements of the value proposition remain compelling for our clients, and encourage product cross-sell while also supporting the accelerating drive in new-client acquisition. Two of Nedbank’s Savvy adverts ranked among the top five best-liked adverts in Q3 2013, only the third time this has happened in 29 years. Nedbank was also acknowledged as the bank of choice for small business and rated second Business Bank overall in the first business banking survey by Intellidex for Business Day Investors Monthly. 33 DELIVERING TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS ACCOLADES PERFORMANCE DURING 2013 (CONTINUED) IN 2013 Accessibility to Making Nedbank more accessible through the R1,7bn investment in ■■ Nedbank voted SA 2013 our financial distribution since 2009. Branches have increased by 41% to 763, with Bank of the Year by the services 76% growth in the non-urban areas, and ATMs have increased by 83% to Financial Times and 3 382. An accelerated rollout plan has been chosen for the purpose of The Banker magazine. investing R2,1bn over the next five years, to enable 75% of our clients to experience the new Branch of the Future design within three years. ■■ Nedbank App Suite™ awarded the Best Android In addition we are driving innovation across multiple distribution App in the consumer channels, including mobile and digital, allowing our clients to choose category at the MTN App how they want to interact with us. of the Year awards 2013. Worldclass The main service metric common to the majority of the bank is the Net ■■ The bank recognised as client service Promoter Score (NPS) , which is used both as a lead measure of the Best Subcustodian in SA overall health of client relationships and as a behavioural driver seeking at the Global Finance to enhance client loyalty and organic growth. Business Banking, Property World’s Best Finance and Retail experienced improvements in their NPS for 2013 Subcustodian Banks (Business Banking reached a new historic high). Corporate Banking saw a awards 2013. slight year-on-year decline in NPS, but off a high base in 2012. Nedbank ■■ Nedbank voted Best Private Wealth conducted their first NPS survey since 2009, with good Property Finance Bank in scores following the rebranding of the old BoE Private Client business. SA by the 2013 SA PwC Nedbank Retail’s recent CMATTM results have shown a substantial banking survey. improvement in the overall score, with Retail’s client management ■■ Nedbank Private Wealth intentions benchmarked as worldclass in 2012. On the recent very voted Best International rigorous SCHEMATM measure, Retail was ranked in the top five of 92 Private Wealth Manager companies surveyed globally. and received the Business Banking’s client management capabilities are worldclass as prestigious Euromoney confirmed by an independent assessment conducted globally, which Best Private Bank for ranked the business first in 92 global SCHEMATM assessments and second High-net-worth Clients in some 900 global CMATTM assessments. award in the UK offshore category. The Treating Customers Fairly programme remained a prominent focus for Nedbank during 2013. The programme aims to improve client ■■ Nedbank awarded Power confidence through the supply of appropriate products and services and Deal of the Year by to enhance transparency and discipline in the industry. The programme Euromoney Project also aligns with our current client-centred ethos and code of conduct. We Finance Africa. anticipate that the additional focus this programme brings to client ■■ Nedbank achieved first imperatives will further enhance client trust and service levels. position by volume and In the spirit of ensuring accurate and relevant client advice, third by value in 2013 Nedbank rescreened more than 6 380 FAIS key individuals and Dealmakers M&A league tables. representatives to ensure that they all comply with the prescribed ‘fit and proper’ requirements. Overall, 2013 was a pleasing year from a systems availability perspective. We measure the overall uptime of our major infrastructural platforms as well as our most critical application systems, and the blended uptime score for both infrastructure and applications was 99,89% (2012: 99,88%) against a target of 99,70%. It is important to note that this was achieved against a record number of complex changes deployed in the information technology (IT) environment. While we are fully committed to meeting our clients’ needs, they are able to approach the Ombudsman for Banking Services in cases where we are unable to resolve an issue to their satisfaction. The number of cases opened against us has remained relatively stable since 2012, with 688 (2012: 648) Nedbank Group-related cases being opened and 753 closed (2012: 659). Of the cases closed, 65% were resolved in favour of the bank. This result demonstrates that our internal processes are robust and address clients’ needs. 34 NEDBANK GROUP | UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS 2013 PERFORMANCE DURING 2013 (CONTINUED) Selectively expanding into The group continued to build on the foundations of the Ecobank–Nedbank Alliance. Various banking Africa and leveraging the initiatives were implemented to align with the vision of providing clients with a one-bank experience Ecobank–Nedbank Alliance across the African continent. Revenue is being generated as a result of an effective client engagement approach supported by streamlined operational processing. Client activity in sub-Saharan Africa increased signiﬁcantly during 2013 and this is reﬂected in the increased pipeline, transactional revenue and account openings that have been recorded across the business clusters. Nedbank Capital and Corporate made strides into Africa by leveraging the Ecobank alliance to provide Africa-destined clients with banking on the ground and participated in various lending opportunities. Improving the group’s Nedbank Group participated in the majority of public sector business tenders during 2013. The business positioning in the public sector retained its share of public sector liabilities. Feedback from various levels of government has indicated that we are well recognised as a reliable partner to the public sector. DATA PROTECTION RESPONSIBLE LENDING AND PRIVACY TO PROTECT CLIENTS, INVESTORS AND THE BANK FROM THE PRESSURES OF Nedbank Group subscribes to the Code of Banking Practice of The Banking Association THE NEXT CREDIT CYCLE SA and complies with the Consumer A number of concerning industry dynamics over the past three years Protection Act and the Protection of have made it easier for consumers to access personal loans: Information Act, all of which require that all personal client information be treated as ■■ Many new entrants driving supply. private and conﬁdential. The group is further ■■ Inconsistency in the criteria and calculations applied, especially using committed to complying with the Electronic 40-year-low interest rates and above-inflation wage increases Communications and Transactions Act regarding client privacy as well as the (especially in the public sector) to determine affordability. Financial Intelligence Centre Act (FICA) and ■■ Ability to increase debt by extending tenor for similar or lower Financial Advisory and Intermediary Services monthly instalments. (FAIS) Act. This fuelled strong personal-loans industry growth before 2013 in an Formal policies and processes are in economy with weak fundamentals, while consumer indebtedness has place to manage client privacy and materially increased over the past two years. At the same time conﬁdentiality. For more details on cybercrime distressed consumers have been able to keep current for longer, as they issues, such as online fraud, fraud prevention can access more credit to delay going into default. There is also a and anti-money-laundering measures, please knockon effect to other asset classes as consumers are able to take out see the Operational risk section online. additional personal loans to sustain their lifestyles, including the ability to meet their home loans or vehicle finance obligations. As a result, actual loan origination vintages look more benign than the underlying factors suggest, and as macro factors change (higher RESPONSIBLE PRODUCT/ inflation especially due to administered prices, below-inflation salary increases, higher risk of job losses and prime interest rate increases), the INFORMATION LABELLING true quality of the assets and level of consumer stress emerge. Nedbank highlighted these concerns in 2011 and took early action to redesign the personal loans business fundamentally and reduce risk Detailed product brochures that comply with appetite, while increasing conservatism in impairment methodologies all relevant legislation, such as the National (away from the recency-based industry approach). This resulted in a Credit Act, are available to the group’s clients. slowing of advances growth well ahead of the market. In the 2013 Relationship managers are also responsible financial year we reduced our book by 9,4% (R2,1bn) while the rest of for explaining the characteristics, beneﬁts the industry continued to grow strongly at 8,3% (R12,3bn). and implications of products to clients in By applying more stringent affordability criteria and selective advances accordance with the FAIS Act. Product origination policies across all asset classes, Nedbank sought to improve policies and procedures and product review the underlying asset quality and, importantly, protect our clients against committees are in place. overindebtedness ahead of the next rising interest rate cycle. This is in line with Nedbank’s principles of acting as a responsible lender, ensuring sustainable growth and enabling our clients’ financial fitness. 35 DELIVERING TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS INNOVATING FOR OUR CLIENTS (CONTINUED) HOT TOPICS IN 2013 ACCOLADES Hot topics Our response/resulting developments IN 2013 Pricing ■■ We have moved towards more transparent and simplified ■■ Voted the Financial Times pricing structures. ■■ Credit life protection and pricing have become much and The Banker debated topics in SA and are under increasing regulatory magazine’s 2013 SA scrutiny. In 2013 we took a leadership position in Bank of the Year proactively launching a differentiated credit life proposition that offers a sustainable insurance solution to ■■ Our 2012 integrated the entry level market and provides top quartile and report was awarded differentiated benefits at highly competitive rates. as follows: ■■ We made a decision not to increase transactional prices in 2014 for the majority of our clients. ¨¨ Overall winner: Greater accessibility ■■ We invested R1,7bn in our distribution footprint, which 2013 Chartered to banking services resulted in 41% more branches and alternate outlets Secretaries and increased (a total of 763 excluding personal-loan kiosks) and 83% Southern Africa channel choice more ATMs. and JSE Integrated ■■ The rollout of our Branch of the Future formats has been Reporting awards well received. ■■ Video banking facilities in branches allow easy access to ¨¨ Eighth place: 2013 specialist advice. EY ■■ Additional functionality was deployed for the Nedbank Africa Excellence App Suite™. This included banking functionality for in Integrated business and corporate clients. Reporting ■■ Online channels were launched for business clients wishing to apply for products or provide feedback. ¨¨ Second in the ■■ Our digital home loans Apply Online channel is the first on Finance Sector the market to offer approval within hours. The channel has and joint third already processed over 10 000 applications, granted loans overall: 2013 worth R1,5bn and registered 1 548 properties. Nkonki Integrated Responsiveness – ■■ Our listening centre is now fully established and facilitates Reporting Awards social media engagements with clients and staff through social media and digital channels. The impact of spiralling ■■ We funded a Green Star SA performance rating tool energy costs on produced by the Green Building Council of South Africa. corporate building stock The tool helps existing building owners and/or portfolio managers to gain a better understanding of the environmental impact and related costs of their buildings, improving efficiencies and reducing costs. Integrated cashflow ■■ We implemented and improved our cash management management system, which maximises interest income and minimises the cost of borrowed funds for clients. Financial literacy and ■■ We have increased the functionality of our free, holistic overindebtedness personal financial management tool, MyFinancialLife™, through the addition of a simplified, fun budgeting tool called MyMoneyMap™. ■■ We proactively educate our clients about their pricing options and help them to switch to the lowest-cost options for their needs. ■■ A unique no-funds-alert function notifies clients when there are insufficient funds in their account ahead of a pending debit order and delays the processing of the debit order. Holistic understanding of ■■ Our business clients now have a single point of entry clients’ businesses through our wholesale banking client solution. This has resulted in a better understanding of our clients and improved communication and client service levels. ■■ We proactively match the skills of our bankers to identified client needs. ■■ We ensure that our clients have access to specialists when these are needed. 36 NEDBANK GROUP | UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS 2013 SHAREHOLDERS DELIVERING VALUE TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS A great place to invest. WHY DO Types of Feedback from WE ENGAGE engagement Engagements held the investment community WITH OUR ■■ JSE SENS announcements During the year, 344 individual meetings ‘In an environment where pressure on the consumer SHAREHOLDERS ■■ Financial results were held, including the is building, we prefer banks AND THE and integrated following events: to focus on clients and deliver conservatively INVESTMENT report Roadshows and ■■ Annual and interim results stated results … We think COMMUNITY? Nedbank ticked all the ■■ conferences announcements, boxes in 1H13.’ presentations and ■■ Management – Rated financial analyst To provide relevant and timeous roadshows. information on our strategy, meetings and ‘Consistent strategy; calls ■■ Firstand third-quarter prospects and financial gradual gains. There is an trading results. performance so that shareholders ■■ Investor days indication yet again of and the investment community ■■ Broker-hosted a clear, all-encompassing ■■ Annual general conferences, lunches and consistent strategy for can fairly value Nedbank Group, meeting and non-deal the retail business, focused and rating agencies can assign Media releases ■■ roadshows. on building a solid, loyal appropriate bank credit ratings client base. We heard more ■■ Group website Nedbank Wealth to Nedbank, and so that ■■ of what we have heard we can manage the and Nedbank Retail before, which is comforting group’s reputational risk. investor days. to us.’ ■■ Ad hoc meetings with – Rated analyst shareholders, potential ‘Your rest of Africa strategy investors, analysts, is sensible – I like the credit rating agencies approach.’ and financial media RELATED during non-closed – International investor MATERIAL periods. ‘Strong management team, I think one of the best in MATTERS ■■ Engagement with our holding company, emerging-market banks.’ – International investor ■■ Tough economic conditions Old Mutual Group, to ensure alignment ‘Easily one of the best ■■ Banking relevance amid of financial reporting discussions of banking consumerism and increased and communication, culture I’ve had. competition Professional and to provide a holistic ■■ Increased demands on group view of which, realistic management. governance and risk the Old Mutual plc One we watch closely.’ management Africa Showcase held – International investor ■■ Growth opportunities in the in the fourth quarter of ‘Key issues are to rest of Africa 2013, is a good understand how the credit ■■ Transformation of society example. loss ratio progresses from within planetary boundaries here and the health of the ■■ Scarce skills consumer.’ – Local investor 37 DELIVERING TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS DELIVERING VALUE TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS (CONTINUED) DELIVERING VALUE TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS WHO ARE OUR SHAREHOLDERS? Our stakeholders include the local and international investment community and comprise: ■■ 19 832 shareholders ■■ 19 sellside analysts ■■ Investment funds and potential ■■ Three credit rating agencies retail investors ■■ Financial media Consistent strategy; gradual gains. There is an NEDBANK indication yet SHAREHOLDING again of a clear, NEDBANK all-encompassing TREASURY and consistent SHARES OTHER strategy for the retail business, 10% 5% focused on building a solid, loyal client base. TOP 40 We heard more of INTERNATIONAL what we have 35% heard before, 100% which is comforting to us. 100% – Rated financial analyst TOP 40 33% 65% 52% SOUTH AFRICA OLD MUTUAL DELIVERING TO SHAREHOLDERS IN 2013 ■■ Economic profit R2,1bn, up 39% driven by solid NIR growth, despite challenging economic environment and prudent provisioning. ■■ Total shareholder return of 16%. ■■ Total dividend of 895 cents, up 19,0%. ■■ Price to net asset value 1,6 times. ■■ Rights to 20% in Ecobank Transnational Incorporated. ■■ Maintained leadership in transparent reporting. 38 NEDBANK GROUP | UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS 2013 16,0% 19,0% 17,2% TOTAL FULL YEAR ROE SHAREHOLDER DIVIDEND (EXCLUDING RETURN INCREASE GOODWILL) PERFORMANCE DURING 2013 2013 2014 Metric Performance Medium-to-long-term targets Outlook Return on equity (ROE) 5% above cost of ordinary 17,2% Below target (excluding goodwill) shareholders’ equity Growth in diluted headline ≥ consumer price index + growth domestic ≥ consumer price index 15,0% earnings per share (HEPS) product (GDP) growth + 5% + GDP growth Between 0,8% and 1,2% of Meet target, improving Credit loss ratio (CLR) 1,06% average banking advances slightly on 2013 Non-interest-revenue 86,4% > 85% At target (NIR)-to-expense ratio Efficiency ratio 55,2% 50,0% to 53,0% Above target Common-equity tier 1 capital At or above the top 12,5% 10,5% to 12,5% adequacy ratio (Basel III) end of target Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP): Economic capital A debt rating (including 10% capital buffer) Dividend cover 2,11 times 1,75 to 2,25 times 1,75 to 2,25 times Shareholders are advised that this guidance is based on organic earnings and our latest macroeconomic outlook, and has not been reviewed or reported on by the group’s independent auditors. Weak global and local economic environment leading to muted advances growth and higher CHALLENGES ■■ defaults in certain product categories, most notably unsecured lending and small businesses. DURING 2013 ■■ Once-off impairment in business banking and unsecured lending environment impacting impairments in the first half of 2013. ■■ Dealing with the complexity and challenges of increased regulation. ■■ Strong competition from existing and non-traditional players. 39 DELIVERING TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS DELIVERING VALUE TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS (CONTINUED) HOT TOPICS IN 2013 ACCOLADES Hot topics Our response/resulting developments IN 2013 Impact of a tougher-than■■ We strengthened our balance sheet ■■ Voted the Financial anticipated economic environment (capital ratios, liquidity and provisioning). Times and The Banker ■■ Our focused collection processes generated magazine’s 2013 SA solid post-writeoff recoveries. Bank of the Year ■■ We concentrated on selected advances growth ■■ Our 2012 integrated to protect downside risk in line with our report was awarded portfolio tilt strategy. as follows: ■■ We are gaining new clients and improving ¨¨ Overall cross-sell to grow NIR. winner: 2013 ■■ We are ensuring disciplined expense growth Chartered at 9% (2012: 8%), while continuing to invest for Secretaries the future. Southern Health of the consumer and ■■ We proactively slowed our advances book growth Africa and JSE developments in the personalin certain higher risk areas from H2 2012 and Integrated loans industry throughout 2013 through initiatives such as the Reporting tightening of affordability criteria. awards ■■ We have kept our maximum loan size and ¨¨ Eighth place: tenor the same since 2009. 2013 EY Africa ■■ We released a new credit life product, priced Excellence in competitively in the market, with increased Integrated benefits. Reporting Reaching into the rest of Africa ■■ We have the rights to acquire a shareholding of in a value-creating, riskup to 20% in Ecobank Transnational Incorporated. ¨¨ Second in the mitigating manner This alliance provides network coverage for Finance Sector Nedbank in Central and West Africa. and joint third overall: 2013 ■■ In addition to our existing presence in five Nkonki Southern African Development Community Integrated (SADC) countries, the agreement to acquire an Reporting initial stake of 36,4% of Banco Unico in Awards Mozambique – with the right to a majority shareholding over time – will strengthen our position in SADC and East Africa. Progress in Nedbank Retail’s ■■ We gained 529 000 new clients, achieved higher positioning cross-sell ratios, increased the number of our ATMs by 323 and our outlets by five, launched various innovative client value propositions and products, and continued proactive risk management while strengthening balance sheet provisioning (see the Supplementary Operational Overview information online for more details on Nedbank Retail). FOCUS AREAS ■■ Deliver on our strategic focus areas (see page 20) and make progress towards medium-to-long-term financial FOR 2014 targets. ■■ Ongoing improvement in quality of investor engagements and financial reporting disclosure. ■■ Introduction of a corporate governance roadshow to deepen stakeholder engagement. 40 NEDBANK GROUP | UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS 2013 REGULATORS PARTNERING WITH OUR REGULATORS Regular and open communication with regulators ensures that Nedbank Group is seen to be transparent in its dealings with them, thereby instilling trust in the Nedbank brand and in risk management in the group. PERFORMANCE DURING 2013 BASEL III The Enterprisewide Risk Management Framework (ERMF), which is fully aligned with IMPLEMENTED regulatory developments, was maintained. 1 JANUARY 2013 Following industry concerns of regulators about SA banks’ exposure to unsecured lending, our credit loss ratio of 1,06% was in line with that of 2012 and represented an improvement on the 1,31% reported in June 2013. Defaulted advances decreased by 9,4%. Regulatory compliance ensured strong capital adequacy levels supported by internal 12,5% stress-testing results. Sound implementation and ongoing enhancement of the Advance Measurement COMMON-EQUITY Approach (AMA) for operational risk management were maintained and similarly the TIER 1 ACHIEVED Internal Model Approach (IMA) for market risk continued to meet the regulators’ 31 DECEMBER 2013 requirements. In line with international and local trends, Nedbank observed an increase in regulatory scrutiny and inspections, which highlighted areas where administrative regulatory controls can be strengthened. All regulatory reviews were attended to with significant attention to detail, professionalism and prompt reaction to matters raised. RELATED Compliance and regulatory risk has become increasingly significant given the more stringent regulatory environment in which Nedbank operates. The group MATERIAL sought to achieve compliance with applicable local and international laws, MATTERS regulations and supervisory requirements, guided by an established comprehensive set of board-approved policies, procedures and governance structures. ■■ Tough economic conditions We engaged proactively with the South African Police Service and other crime ■■ Banking relevance amid prevention initiatives. The redesigning of our physical security systems at our branches consumerism and increased and offices allowed us to save an amount of R36,5m in operational costs. competition Although we have experienced a decrease in the number of fraud cases (6 026 in 2013, down from 8 139 in 2012), the overall value of these cases has increased. The number ■■ Increased demands on of internal fraud cases has also decreased, evidence that preventing fraud rather than governance and risk dealing with the consequences is a more effective strategy. As part of Nedbank’s management recruitment process, integrity checks are conducted on all potential staffmembers. ■■ Growth opportunities in the With regard to industry requirements by the regulators, we have commenced rest of Africa benchmarking our risk management performance against that of other banks and against feedback from the South African Reserve Bank (SARB). No issues were raised on ■■ Transformation of society our Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP) by SARB. within planetary boundaries Given the high levels of corruption currently experienced in SA we added our anti■■ Scarce skills corruption interventions as a key performance indicator that is externally assured. This was done to give an extra level of assurance to our stakeholders that our actions in this regard are robust and that we do not contribute to this negative cycle. In 2013 all (100% ) of our operations underwent corruption screening without any material concerns/issues being raised. 41 DELIVERING TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS CHALLENGES DURING 2013 Industry concerns that resulted in our reducing our exposure to unsecured lending. Continued changes to regulations, which involve updating of our systems and processes to meet these requirements. The growing need for effective controls and procedures to enhance all aspects of regulatory compliance, especially as far as combating money laundering and the financing of terrorist activities is concerned. Increased oversight of all aspects of regulatory compliance. HOT TOPICS IN 2013 Hot topics Our response/Resulting developments Implementation and impact of ■■ We achieved compliance with Basel III on 1 January 2013. Basel III regulations relating to ■■ We are well placed to comply with increased capital and liquidity banks requirements when these are required in future years. Net stable funding ratio compliance remains a challenge in SA. Increased focus on consumer ■■ We are well on track with our preparation for the new regulatory protection, such as Twin Peaks regime of Twin Peaks, the Consumer Protection Act and the Protection regulation, the Consumer of Personal Information Act. Protection Act and the Protection of Personal Information Act Solvency Assessment and ■■ Nedgroup Insurance remains well capitalised and is on track to Management (SAM) regime for implement SAM. the SA insurance sector Unsecured lending ■■ We continued to implement our policy of responsible lending and reduced our market share proactively. Rest of Africa strategy ■■ We have adopted a risk-mitigated, client-centred, capital-efficient, longer-term strategic approach that has started to demonstrate benefits (see the information on our Africa operations on page 69). Money-laundering, terrorist■■ We have invested significantly in IT and people resourcing to comply financing and sanctions with the more stringent anti-money-laundering regulation and to risk management combat terrorist-financing activities, with more to be done. Resolution and recovery ■■ We maintain resilient business continuity management processes. planning FOCUS AREAS International and local regulatory reform (in particular Basel III and Twin Peaks) has materially increased capital levels and liquidity costs, and is FOR 2014 changing business models internationally. Regulatory risk remains high, but there is now less uncertainty because Basel III is substantially finalised by Bank for International Settlements and SARB, while Twin Peaks is expected to be finalised in 2014 with an ongoing emphasis on consumer protection. To meet the stringent requirements of all regulators in full, Nedbank Group will: ■■ maintain good, regular and transparent relationships with all regulators; and ■■ ensure compliance with all legal and regulatory requirements. A comprehensive risk strategy is in place and forms an integrated component of the group’s business plan. The salient features include continuing to evolve the strong risk culture, the ERMF, risk and balance sheet management and the building of worldclass risk management. 42 NEDBANK GROUP | UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS 2013 COMMUNITIES LEADING IN THE COMMUNITIES WE SERVE LEVEL 2P PERFORMANCE DURING 2013 BBBEE RATING 2013 objective Making things happen in 2013 LEADING AS A ‘CARING BANK’ Be a truly SA bank: ■■ Our 2013 socioeconomic development spend was R89m, in excess of the 0,7% of the SA NPAT FSC 38% ■■ Socioeconomic development requirement (2012: R95m). This supported 585 development projects and initiatives, with RENEWABLE-ENERGY more than 135 000 beneficiaries. FUNDING FOR REIPPPP ■■ Altogether 82% of the total cost of external bursaries we awarded went to 132 black students (2012: 203), of which 68 (51%) were women. 100% ■■ Access to ﬁnance ■■ More than 54 000 clients and other stakeholders were directly impacted by our consumer education programmes. DISCLOSURE: SA CARBON ■■ Lending to enable ■■ In 2013 Nedbank Business Banking granted PROJECT healthcare, housing R1,3bn in black small-and-medium-enterprise and education, (SME) loans to 2 972 beneficiaries. enterprise development (ED) and community upliftment Economic Nedbank extended more than R7,3bn in funding RELATED ■■ ■■ empowerment for transformational infrastructure, black SME MATERIAL financing, black agriculture financing and affordable housing in 2013. MATTERS ■■ Preferential ■■ 78% of our 2013 procurement spend was procurement on locally sourced products and services ■■ Tough economic conditions (2012: 73%). ■■ Transformation of society within planetary boundaries ■■ Black-owned supplier spend increased by 4% year on year. ■■ Scarce skills Delivering on ■■ Nedbank was recognised as the most transformed transformation of the JSE Top 100 listed companies in the 2013 commitment Mail & Guardian Most Empowered Companies survey done in partnership with Empowerdex. ■■ Our progressive transformation initiatives have ensured that we maintained our level 2 broadbased black economic empowerment (BBBEE) rating for the fifth consecutive year. Our BBBEE rating for the past four years was calculated under the Codes of Good Practice (dti Codes) and for the first time this year was calculated in accordance with the Financial Sector Code (FSC). 43 DELIVERING TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS LEADING IN THE COMMUNITIES WE SERVE (CONTINUED) PERFORMANCE DURING 2013 2013 objective Making things happen in 2013 LEADING AS A ‘GREEN BANK’ Manage social and ■■ We continued to refine and implement our Social and Environmental environmental impacts Management System (SEMS). Credit policies within our Business Banking, of our lending Wealth, Corporate and Capital clusters were enhanced to include a focused approach to high-impact industries to ensure that the related social and environment risks are mitigated. ■■ Altogether 15 (2012:15) Nedbank Capital transactions that comply with the Equator Principles (per risk category) had additional drawdowns in 2013. Accelerate relevant ■■ We developed Fair Share 2030, a business strategy that provides a longer-term product and service perspective and a wider lens to identify client needs and develop appropriate offering business solutions. We developed a number of pilot products and projects that will form the foundation of this work and these will be further refined and evolved in 2014 for rollout in 2015. ■■ We were involved in all three rounds of the Renewable Energy Independent Power Producer Procurement Programme (REIPPPP), effectively funding and supporting projects that will deliver 1,486 MW or 38% of the total renewableenergy capacity allocated by REIPPPP since inception. ■■ Since the inception of the Nedbank Green Savings Bond R3,6bn has been invested in it. Altogether R2,7bn of this flowed in during 2013 (see page 84 of the Sustainability Development Performance Review). ■■ Nedbank Afﬁnity donations grew from R20,9m in 2012 to R27,8m in 2013, with support given to nearly 1 000 social and environmental projects across SA (excluding the projects supported by the Nelson Mandela Children’s Fund). Since the inception of the four Nedbank affinities, donations of more than R225m have been made to the respective trusts supported by them. Manage our carbon ■■ We maintained our carbon-neutral status for the fifth consecutive year. emissions ■■ We decreased our total greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by 2,18% in 2013. ■■ We again participated in the SA Carbon Disclosure Project Index and were one of only two participants to achieve a disclosure score of 100%. ■■ Nedbank occupies three Green Star SA-rated buildings with another two planned for 2014. To date, Nedbank Corporate Property Finance has financed eight Green Star SA-rated buildings, making Nedbank the leader in green building finance. Contribute to resource ■■ Electricity usage declined by 2,63% per fulltime employee (FTE) and by 1,44% conservation based on total floor space. ■■ Overall water consumption on our campus sites increased marginally as a result of the consolidation of employees and organic growth. However, we continued our investment in water security through the WWF Water Balance programme. The year 2013 was the third in our five-year R9m pledge to support this vital water conservation programme (see page 90 of this report). ■■ Our support of the WWF-SA Sustainable Agriculture programme encourages reduction of energy, water and other resource-intensive inputs in the SA agriculture sector. ■■ We launched our Green Living Guide, which is aimed at encouraging all South Africans to adopt more sustainable lifestyles and enjoy the associated economic, social and environmental benefits. 44 NEDBANK GROUP | UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS 2013 ALIGNING WITH FINANCIAL SECTOR CODE-BASED REPORTING Our progressive transformation initiatives have ensured that we maintained our level 2 broad-based black economic empowerment (BBBEE) rating for the fifth consecutive year. For the past four years our broad-based black economic empowerment (BBBEE) rating was calculated under the Codes of Good Practice (dti Codes) and for the first time it was calculated in accordance with the Financial Sector Code (FSC). Because of the unique position that financial institutions hold in the development of SA, two new elements have been introduced into the FSC, which had been promulgated in November 2012. These include empowerment financing and access to financial services. The year 2013 brought with it the latest phase of the BBBEE framework in the form of the revised Codes of Good Practice, which prescribe goals of a transformational environment that is progressively more demanding. These changes symbolise a new beginning in the reorientation of the Transformation Policy to address the issue of fronting and focus more on productive BBBEE and the growth of black entrepreneurs through enterprise and supplier development elements. We seek to ensure that existing and new initiatives build on our current successes to advance our transformation journey. Financial Sector Code Element Possible points December 2013 Ownership 14 + 3 bonus 16,92 Management control 8 + 1 bonus 6,91 Employment equity 15 + 3 bonus 11,29 Skills development 10 9,21 Procurement 16 14,56 Empowerment financing 15 13,86 Enterprise development 5 5,00 Socioeconomic development 3 3,00 Access to financial services 14 10,47 Total 100 + 7 bonus 91,21 BBBEE level 2 P 45 DELIVERING TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS LEADING IN THE COMMUNITIES WE SERVE (CONTINUED) HOT TOPICS IN 2013 ACCOLADES Hot topics Our response/resulting developments IN 2013 Scarce skills ■■ We have implemented diverse training and development In 2013 we received a programmes to give our employees the skills necessary for number of awards that them to meet client needs. recognised our efforts in ■■ We further invested in graduate and bursary programmes as leading at sustainability in well as learnerships – all for the purpose of developing a the communities we serve talent pipeline for our own business as well as contributing to and impact. While we do the overall SA skills pool. not approach sustainability Funding of energy■■ Nedbank proactively responding to the regulatory and policy for the purpose of receiving related projects developments with regard to the SA energy mix. These accolades, recognition developments will include the Integrated Energy Plan and serves as external the Integrated Resource Plan. We are committed to providing affirmation of the validity funding to ensure a secure energy future for SA, with and effectiveness of the cognisance given to the need for reducing carbon-intensive work we are doing. We are energy generation. therefore proud of having Trust in the During 2013 we paid special attention to: been awarded the financial sector following: ■■ Driving ethical behaviour through enhanced ethical awareness training for staff. ■■ Corporate Social Investment Leadership ■■ Ensuring correct financial advice for clients through wellAward: Sunday Times qualified staff who comply with the Financial Advisory and Intermediary Services Act. Top 100 Companies ■■ Socially Responsible ■■ Protecting client information through stringent application Bank Award: of the Protection of Personal Information Act and worldclass online security. African Banker Awards ■■ 2013 Transformation Access to corporate ■■ We acknowledge that the number of applications we receive far outweigh the available funds. The Nedbank Foundation Champion of the Year: social investment follows a stringent funding process to ensure the prudent Black Business Quarterly (CSI) funding allocation of our CSI investment. (BBQ) Awards ■■ 100% disclosure score: SA Funding of green ■■ Guided by our long-term goals and Fair Share 2030 response, innovations/ we are committed to collaborating with businesses that Carbon Disclosure Project companies innovate in the environmental and social spheres. Index 2013 The economic sustainability of these businesses is ■■ Natural Capital equally important and remains key to our investment and Decoupling Leader on partnering decisions. the Natural Capital Leaders Index 2013 FOCUS AREAS FOR 2014 Objective Target Integrate sustainability Continue the integration of sustainability into a long-term strategy and implementation initiatives and considerations of Fair Share 2030 (see page 21–22). into all business activities. Accelerate development of sustainable products and services. Enhance and expand responsible lending and investment practices. Pursue carbon awareness, Reduce carbon footprint through the pursuit of clearly defined electricity, paper, waste and measurement and reduction business travel reduction targets and ongoing recycling initiatives in support of our journey and maintain our carbonto combat climate change. neutral status. Maintain carbon neutrality despite tough economic conditions, with a simultaneous increase in the scope of our carbon measurements. Continue to deliver on Maintain level 2 BBBEE rating as measured under the FSC, including the two additional transformation as a vital sector-specific elements, which are empowerment financing and access to financial services. component of realising one Participate in an industry realignment process through Banking Association of South Africa of our aspirations, which is to (BASA) and the FSC Council. be a bank for all South Continue to focus on enhancing and extending access to ﬁnancial services for all. Africans. Maintain growth in the representation of black women at Nedbank, especially at senior management level. Achieve a greater impact from our socioeconomic development spend and build stronger partnerships in this area. 46 NEDBANK GROUP | UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS 2013 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE FSSS1 GRI2 FSSS1 Topic Description FS1 Description of policies with speciﬁc Sustainable development review environmental and social components Sustainability governance structures and policy applied to business lines framework. Social and environmental sustainability management. Responsible lending. Responsible investment. Risk and balance sheet management review Governance and ethics review Code of Ethics. Code of Conduct. Human rights. FS2 Description of procedures for assessing and Sustainable development review screening environmental and social risks in Social and environmental sustainability business lines management. Responsible lending. Responsible investment. Risk and balance sheet management review Governance and ethics review Human rights. FS3 Description of processes for monitoring clients’ Sustainable development review implementation of and compliance with Social and environmental sustainability environmental and social requirements management. included in agreements or transactions FS4 Description of processes for improving staff Sustainable development review competency to implement the environmental Entrenching sustainable thinking with our staff. and social policies and procedures as applied to Managing and optimising our own impact business lines Carbon reduction. Risk and balance sheet management review Money-laundering, terrorist-ﬁnancing and sanctions risk management, and fraud risk management. Governance and ethics review Driving ethical awareness. FS5 Interactions with clients/investors/business Building enduring relationships partners regarding environmental and social Sustainable development review risk and opportunities Stakeholder engagement. Managing and optimising our own impact Carbon reduction. Carbon neutrality. Leading through collaboration and partnership The Nedbank Consumer Programme. Partnerships for effective sustainability education. FS6 Percentage of the portfolio for business lines by Proﬁle of our business speciﬁc region, size and sector Company structure. Increasing our footprint. Growing our franchises. Nedbank Group Ltd 10-year review – statistics and ratios. 1 Financial Services Sector Supplement. 2 Global Reporting Initiative. 47 DELIVERING TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE FSSS1 (CONTINUED) GRI2 FSSS1 Topic Description FS7 Monetary value of products and services Managing and optimising our own impact designed to deliver a specific social beneﬁt for Enabling sustainability through products and each business services. Empowerment financing. Targeted investment. BBEEE transaction financing. Enterprise development. Nedbank Affinities. 2013 Transformation Report FS8 Monetary value of products and services Managing and optimising our own impact designed to deliver a specific environmental Enabling sustainability through products beneﬁt for each business line, broken down and services. by purpose The Nedbank Green Afﬁnity. The Nedbank Green Savings Bond. FS9 Coverage and frequency of audits to assess Assurance statement in the 2013 implementation of environmental and social Nedbank Group Integrated Report policies and risk assessment procedures FS10 Percentage and number of companies held in Company structure the institution’s portfolio with which the Increasing our footprint reporting organisation has interacted on environmental and social issues FS11 Percentage of assets subject to positive and Sustainable development review negative environmental and social screening Enabling sustainability through products and services. Managing and optimising our own impact Carbon neutrality. Leading through collaboration and partnership. Greening the group’s supply chain. Preferential procurement. FS12 Voting policies applied to environmental and Sustainable development review social issues for shares over which the reporting Responsible lending. organisation holds the right to vote shares or advises on voting FS13 Access points in the low-populated or Clients economically disadvantaged areas by type Responsible product/information labelling. Operational: Nedbank Retail Overview sustainable development review. Enabling access to financial services for all. 2013 Transformation Report FS14 Initiatives to improve access to ﬁnancial Building enduring relationships: Clients services for disadvantaged people Responsible product/information labelling. Enabling sustainability through products and services Enabling access to financial services for all. Empowerment finance. Targeted investment. BBBEE transaction financing. Enterprise development. 2013 Transformation Report 48 NEDBANK GROUP | UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS 2013 GRI2 FSSS1 Topic Description FS15 Policies for the fair design and sale of ﬁnancial Building enduring relationships: Clients products and services Responsible product/information labelling. Worldclass at managing risk Risk and balance sheet management review Information and technology risk. People risk. Financial crime. Money-laundering, terrorist-ﬁnancing and sanctions risk management. Compliance risk management. Governance and ethics review Code of Ethics. Code of Conduct. Human rights. FS16 Initiatives to enhance ﬁnancial literacy by type Leading through collaboration and partnership of beneficiary The Nedbank Consumer Education Programme. 2013 Transformation Report 49 DELIVERING TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE GRI1 INDEX Our response to GRI G3.1 is aligned with application level A+. This is with reference to the information disclosed in the printed integrated report as well as the supplementary information available online at nedbankgroup.co.za. No Proﬁle disclosure Description UNGC2 online reference Principles 1 Strategy and analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decisionmaker of the Chairman’s Review organisation. Chief Executive’s Review 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities. Committed to transparent reporting An attractive growth strategy Material matters 1–10 A sound investment Building enduring relationships Sustainability governance structures and policies 1–10 framework Social and environmental risk management 7–9 Risk and balance sheet management review 2 Organisational proﬁle 2.1 Name of the organisation. Nedbank Group Ltd 2.2 Primary brands, products and/or services. A proﬁle of our business Value-creating business model Operational overview Enabling sustainability through products and 7–9 services 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation, including Increasing our footprint main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries and joint ventures. Company structure 7–9 2.4 Location of organisation’s headquarters. A profile of our business 2.5 Number of countries where the organisation operates, A profile of our business 7–9 and names of countries with either major operations or that are speciﬁcally relevant to the sustainability Company structure issues covered in the report. Increasing our footprint 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. A profile of our business Company structure 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, Company structure sectors served and types of client/beneﬁciary). Increasing our footprint Growing our franchises 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation. Increasing our footprint Chief Financial Officer’s Review Nedbank Group Ltd five-year review Managing and optimising our own impact: 3–6 Employee proﬁle 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period No significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure or ownership. 1 Global Reporting Initiative. 2 United Nations Global Compact. 50 NEDBANK GROUP | UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS 2013 No Proﬁle disclosure Description UNGC2 online reference Principles 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. Leading through collaboration and partnership 3 Report parameters 3.1 Reporting period (eg ﬁscal/calendar year) for Committed to transparent reporting information provided. 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). Committed to transparent reporting 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc). Committed to transparent reporting 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its Contacts contents. 3.5 Process for deﬁning report content. Committed to transparent reporting 3.6 Boundary of the report (eg countries, divisions, Committed to transparent reporting subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). 3.7 State any speciﬁc limitations on the scope or n/a boundary of the report. 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, Committed to transparent reporting leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can signiﬁcantly affect comparability from Company structure period to period and/or between organisations. Financial notes 53 and 54 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of Committed to transparent reporting calculations, including assumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of Basis of preparation is available at the indicators and other information in the report. nedbankgroup.co.za. Explain any decisions not to apply, or to substantially diverge from, the GRI Indicator Protocols. 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any restatements of Certain reclassifications and restatements were made information provided in earlier reports, and the to the group’s statement of financial position and reasons for such restatement. the statement of comprehensive income, as well as reclassifications and restatements in the notes to the financial statements, none of which were material. Refer to note 8 in the Summarised annual financial statements in the group’s integrated report for further detail. 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods None in the scope, boundary or measurement methods applied in the report. 3.12 Table identifying the location of the standard GRI FSSS disclosures in the report. Full GRI G3.1 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking Committed to transparent reporting external assurance for the report. Validating our sustainability journey 1–10 4 Governance, commitments and engagement 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation, including Committed to good governance 1, 2, 7–10 committees under the highest governance body Sustainability governance structures and policy responsible for speciﬁc tasks, such as setting strategy framework or organisational oversight. Governance and ethics review 1, 2, 7–10 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance Governance and ethics review 1, 2, 7–10 body is also an executive officer. 4.3 For organisations that have a unitary board structure, Board of directors state the number and gender of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/ or non-executive members. Governance and ethics review 1, 2, 7–10 51 DELIVERING TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (CONTINUED) No Proﬁle disclosure Description UNGC2 online reference Principles 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to Building enduring relationships: 3–6 provide recommendations or direction to the highest Investing in our people governance body. Building enduring relationships: Delivering value to our shareholders Notice of annual general meeting 3–6 Form of proxy 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the Rewarding for performance 1, 2, 3–6 highest governance body, senior managers and executives (including departure arrangements), and Reporting back on remuneration 3–6 the organisation’s performance (including social and environmental performance). 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to Governance and ethics review 3–6 ensure conﬂicts of interest are avoided. 4.7 Process for determining the composition, qualiﬁcations Sustainable development review 1, 2, 7–10 and expertise of the members of the highest governance body for guiding the organisation’s strategy on economic, environmental and social topics, including any Governance and ethics review consideration of gender and other indicators of diversity. 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, Sustainable development review 3–6 codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental and social performance and the status Governance and ethics review 1, 2 of their implementation. 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for Sustainable development review 7–9 overseeing the organisation’s identiﬁcation and Enabling sustainability through products and 7–9 management of economic, environmental and social services performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, Leading through collaboration and partnership 1, 2 and adherence or compliance with internationally Managing and optimising our own impact agreed standards, codes of conduct and principles. Governance and ethics review 3–6 1–10 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance Sustainable development review 1, 2,7–10 body’s own performance, particularly with respect to Governance and ethics review economic, environmental and social performance. 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary Sustainable development review: Social and 7–9 approach or principle is addressed by the organisation. environmental risk management Governance and ethics review: Ethics and corporate accountability 1–10 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental and Sustainable development review 7–9 social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organisation subscribes or endorses. 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry Sustainable development review: associations) and/or national/international advocacy Sustainability credentials and indices organisations in which the organisation has positions in governance bodies. Participates in projects or committees. Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues or views membership as strategic. 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the Sustainable development review: Stakeholder 1–10 organisation. engagement 4.15 Basis for identiﬁcation and selection of stakeholders Sustainable development review: Stakeholder 1–10 with whom to engage. engagement 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including Sustainable development review: Stakeholder 1–10 frequency of engagement by type and by engagement stakeholder group. 52 NEDBANK GROUP | UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS 2013 No Proﬁle disclosure Description UNGC2 online reference Principles 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised Sustainable development review: Stakeholder through stakeholder engagement, and how the engagement organisation has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. ENVIRONMENTAL – MANAGEMENT APPROACH No Proﬁle disclosure Description UNGC online reference Principles EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. Nedbank Group Ltd five-year review 7–9 Managing and optimising our own impact: Carbon footprint measurement EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input Based on our materiality review process, this 7–9 materials. indicator has been deemed ‘not material’ and therefore we do not attempt to report on it. EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. Nedbank Group Ltd five-year review 7–9 Managing and optimising our own impact: Carbon footprint measurement EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. Nedbank Group Ltd five-year review Managing and optimising our own impact: Carbon footprint measurement EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. Nedbank’s participation in the WWF Water Balance 7–9 Programme addresses water consumption regardless of source. EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, No land owned, leased or managed or adjacent to a 7–9 or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high protected area/area of high biodiversity value. biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, No land owned, leased or managed or adjacent to a 7–9 products, and services on performance biodiversity in protected area/area of high biodiversity value. protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by Managing and optimising our own impact: Carbon 7–9 mass. footprint measurement ENVIRONMENTAL – MANAGEMENT APPROACH (CONTINUED) No Proﬁle disclosure Description UNGC online reference Principles EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by Managing and optimising our own impact: Carbon 7–9 mass. footprint measurement EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by mass. Managing and optimising our own impact: Carbon 7–9 footprint measurement EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type Not a material emission. If emitted and a 7–9 and mass. greenhouse gas, then is included in the carbon footprint. EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. Based on our materiality review process, this indicator has been deemed ‘not material’ and therefore we do not attempt to report on it. EN22 Total mass of waste by type and disposal method. Managing and optimising our own impact 7–9 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. Based on our materiality review process, this 7–9 indicator has been deemed ‘not material’ and therefore we do not attempt to report on it. EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of Building a sustainable bank: products and services, and extent of impact Social and environmental risk management mitigation. Managing and optimising our own impact EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging Based on our materiality review process, this materials that are reclaimed by category. indicator has been deemed ‘not material’ and therefore we do not attempt to report on it. 53 DELIVERING TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (CONTINUED) EN28 Monetary value of significant ﬁnes and total number No significant ﬁnes were received during the period. 7–9 of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. HUMAN RIGHTS – MANAGEMENT APPROACH No Proﬁle disclosure Description UNGC online reference Principles HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment Leading through collaboration and partnership: 1, 2, 7 – 9 agreements and contracts that include human rights Social and environmental risk management clauses or that have undergone human rights Governance and ethics review: screening. Human rights 1, 2 HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors Governance and ethics review: 1, 2 and other business partners that have undergone Human rights screening on human rights and actions taken. 2013 Transformation Report HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and Governance and ethics review 1, 2 procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of 2013 Transformation Report employees trained. HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and Governance and ethics review 1, 2 corrective actions taken. HR5 Operations and significant suppliers identiﬁed in which No significant risk identiﬁed for the reporting the right to exercise freedom of association and period. collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. HUMAN RIGHTS – MANAGEMENT APPROACH (CONTINUED) No Proﬁle disclosure Description UNGC online reference Principles HR6 Operations and significant suppliers identiﬁed as No significant risk identiﬁed for the reporting having significant risk for incidents of child labour and period. measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labour. HR7 Operations and significant suppliers identiﬁed as No significant risk identiﬁed for the reporting having significant risk for incidents of forced or period. compulsory labour, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labour. HR10 Percentage and total number of operations that have Governance and ethics review: 1, 2 been subject to human rights reviews and/or impact Human rights assessments. HR11 Number of grievances related to human rights ﬁled, Governance and ethics review: addressed and resolved through formal grievance Human rights mechanisms. LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK – MANAGEMENT APPROACH No Proﬁle disclosure Description UNGC online reference Principles LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment Managing and optimising our own impact: 3–6 contract, and region broken down by gender. Employee proﬁle LA2 Total number and rate of new employee hires, Managing and optimising our own impact: 3–6 employee turnover by age group, gender and region. Employee proﬁle LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective Managing and optimising our own impact: 3–6 bargaining agreements. Collective bargaining LA5 Minimum notice periods regarding significant Managing and optimising our own impact: Ensuring 3–6 operational changes, including whether it is speciﬁed harmonious employee relationships in collective agreements. LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint Managing and optimising our own impact: 3–6 management-worker health and safety committees that Occupational health and safety help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programmes. 54 NEDBANK GROUP | UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS 2013 LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days and Managing and optimising our own impact: 3–6 absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by Occupational health and safety region and by gender. LA8 Education, training, counselling, prevention, and Managing and optimising our own impact: The 3–6 risk-control programmes in place to assist members, Nedbank Employee Wellbeing Programme their families or community members regarding serious diseases. LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by Managing and optimising our own impact: 3–6 gender and employee category. Developing, empowering and equipping our people LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular Managing and optimising our own impact: 3–6 performance and career development reviews. Performance management LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of Managing and optimising our own impact: 3–6 employees per employee category according to Employee profile gender, age group, minority group membership and A progressive and empowering employment equity other indicators of diversity. plan. LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee Managing and optimising our own impact: 6 category by significant locations of operation. Reporting back on remuneration LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, Managing and optimising our own impact: Gender 6 by gender. advancement SOCIETY – MANAGEMENT APPROACH No Proﬁle disclosure Description UNGC online reference Principles SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local Sustainable development review stakeholder 3–6 community engagement, impact assessments, and engagement development programmes. SO2 Percentage and total number of business units Risk and balance sheet management review: 10 analysed for risks related to corruption. Operational risk SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organisation’s Risk and balance sheet management review: 10 anti-corruption policies and procedures. Operational risk SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. Risk and balance sheet management review: 10 Operational risk SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public Risk and balance sheet management review: 1–10 policy development and lobbying. Operational risk SO6 Total value of ﬁnancial and in-kind contributions to Nedbank’s policy does not allow for contributions to political parties, politicians and related institutions by individual political parties. country. SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive None for the reporting period. behaviour, anti-trust and monopoly practices and their outcomes. SO8 Monetary value of significant ﬁnes and total number No material ﬁnes received in the reporting period. of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations. SO9 Operations with significant potential or actual No significant or potential negative impacts for the 7–9 negative impacts on local communities. reporting period. SO10 Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in Based on our materiality review process, this 7–9 operations with significant potential or actual indicator has been deemed ‘not material’ and negative impacts on local communities. therefore we do not attempt to report on it. PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY – MANAGEMENT APPROACH No Proﬁle disclosure Description UNGC online reference Principles PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of Based on our materiality review process, this products and services are assessed for improvement, indicator has been deemed ‘not material’ and and percentage of significant products and services therefore we do not attempt to report on it. categories subject to such procedures. PR3 Type of product and service information required by Building enduring relationships: Innovation for our 1,2 procedures and percentage of significant products clients and services subject to such information requirements. Client data protection and privacy Responsible product/labelling Risk and balance sheet management review: Operational risk PR5 Practices related to client satisfaction, including results Building enduring relationships: Clients of surveys measuring client satisfaction. 55 DELIVERING TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS PR6 Programmes for adherence to laws, standards and Building enduring relationships: Innovating for our 1,2 voluntary codes related to marketing communications, clients including advertising, promotion and sponsorship. Client data protection and privacy Responsible product/labelling Risk and balance sheet management review: Operational risk PR9 Monetary value of significant ﬁnes for non-compliance No significant ﬁnes received for non-compliance in 1,2 with laws and regulations concerning the provision this regard in the reporting period. and use of products and services. ECONOMIC – MANAGEMENT APPROACH No Proﬁle disclosure Description UNGC online reference Principles EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, Strong performance in uncertain times 1–10 including revenues, operating costs, employee Value-creating business model compensation, donations and other community Chief Financial Officer’s review investments, retained earnings and payments to Nedbank Group Ltd 10-year review capital providers and governments. Risk and balance sheet management review EC2 Financial implications and other risks and Sound investment case 7–9 opportunities for the organisation’s activities due to Operational review climate change. Risk and balance sheet management review EC3 Coverage of the organisation’s deﬁned-beneﬁt plan Reporting back on Remuneration Report 1–6 obligations. EC4 Significant ﬁnancial assistance received from No ﬁnancial assistance received from government. government. EC6 Policy, practices and proportion of spending on locally Sustainable development review: Suppliers 1–10 based suppliers at significant locations of operation. Leading through collaboration and partnership 1,2 EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior Managing and optimising our own impact: 1,2,3–6 management hired from the local community at Employee profile significant locations of operation. 2013 Transformation Report EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure Leading through collaboration and partnership: investments and services provided primarily for public Empowerment ﬁnancing beneﬁt through commercial, in-kind or pro bono 2013 Transformation Report engagement. 56 CONTACT DETAILS Driekie Havenga Nedbank Ethics Officer Enterprise Governance and Compliance 011 295 6944 driekieh@nedbank.co.za Wendy Campbell Sustainability Communications Officer Enterprise Governance and Compliance 011 294 0133 Wendyc@nedbank.co.za 57 NEDBANK GROUP | UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS 2013 10162 A Tribute to Nelson Rolihlahla Mandela The Children’s Champion To a man who made our land his life And forgiveness his focus Who turned hatred into humility And made peace with the past Who made his captors his comrades And his prison cell his podium Who turned imprisonment into freedom And a divided people into a nation Who made children his cause And love his legacy. Nedbank is a proud partner of: nedbank.co.za Nedbank Limited Reg No 1951/000009/06. Authorised financial services and registered credit provider (NCRCP16). 58
