TROPICAL CABLE AND CONDUCTOR LTD. TCCL GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRES (COP) REPORT FROM THE MANAGING DIRECTOR As Managing Director of TCCL, I would like to express our continued support for the United Nations’ Global Compact. Our Company from its inception to date has always been committed to aligning our operations and strategies with principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. It is indeed a great pleasure for us to integrate and embed the global compact principles within TCCL as we describe our actions to continually improve in our daily operations I am pleased to say that so far we have strived to implement them but nevertheless there is always room for improvement. Tony Oteng Gyasi, Managing Director. Activities which are Being Undertaken by TCCL on a Continuous Basis in Alignment with the Global Compact Principles. PRINCIPLE OF GLOBAL COMPACT Actions Indication Human Rights Businesses should support and respect the Periodic training programme both local and overseas High productivity and Efficiency in all protection of internationally proclaimed for Technician/Engineers and management to improve aspects of the job particularly production human rights. competencies. We provide access to health care through the Ghana National Health Insurance Scheme and also company nominated clinics at the expense of the company. We ensure there is no forced labour directly or indirectly, whiles providing access to basic health needs. There is a proper organizational structure in place which ensures fairness. Businesses should make sure they are not We provide support for Human Right groups and also Good company image complicit in human rights abuses. invite them periodically for seminars and participate in programs that seek to fight against human right abuses. We have made budget provisions for periodic donations to institutions e.g. hospitals, schools, and scholarship for university of Ghana students. We are a member of the Ghana Business Code. Also a member of the Association of Ghana Industries (AGI). We also have a suggestion box in the factory for all grievances to be addressed through. Management reviews suggestion box periodically and addresses them accordingly. Labour Businesses should uphold the freedom of We have provided the opportunity for workers to form a Pleasant relationship between association and the effective recognition of trade Union with a collective barging agreement in management and workers the right to collective bargaining. place between management and the local Union without fear of intimidation. We also offer facilities to help worker representatives carry out their duties within the company’s needs, size and capabilities Businesses should uphold the elimination of Every employee is given employment contract, stating Trust and confidence between all forms of forced and compulsory labour. the appropriate procedures one will have to follow in management and staff. their engaging with the company Every worker is given an appointment for acceptances of the terms and conditions of the company. Businesses should uphold the effective We adhere strongly to minimum age provisions of abolition of child labour national labour laws & regulations and do not engage minors. We verify adequately the age of every employee. This is indicated in our human resource manual We also ensure that our local suppliers do not engage minors in their operations. Businesses should uphold the elimination of We recruit qualified and experienced people and also Employees come from a variety of discrimination in respect of employment and have periodic training for career advancement. We backgrounds (religion, class, creed, occupation. don’t engage in any form of discrimination gender, ethnicity, age). Workers respect each other Environment Businesses should support a precautionary We have integrated environmental and social issues Environmental protection certification approach to environmental challenges. into supply chain relationships. We also participate in Tree Planting Exercises. Businesses should undertake initiatives to The company’s quality policy ensures that all raw Environmental protection community promote greater environmental responsibility. materials conform to standard in order to reduce the approved method of waste disposal. production of excessive waste. We dispose waste products properly by recycling. We integrate environmental and social issues into our supply chain relationships Businesses should encourage the Western Rod & Wire Ltd a subsidiary of TCCL recycles Protection of the environment, reduction of development and diffusion of environmentally our aluminium scrap by reusing it to produce aluminium environmental pollution. friendly technologies. rod. Reduced production cost. Also, TCCLs Copper scrap is exported back to suppliers for recycling Anti-Corruption Businesses should work against corruption in We do proper documentation and have soft wares to Workers do not engage in any form of all its forms, including extortion and bribery control all activities in the company. corrupt practices. Accounts are audited periodically by external auditors. Periodic ISO audits helps senior management in decision making process We are an ISO 9001 certified company for the past 10 years
