TNT Bulgaria Communication on Progress Report 2013 CONTENTS 1. Statement of commitment 2. Who we are 3. Our mission and business principles 4. Corporate responsibility 4.1 TNT and the people 4.2 TNT and the environment 4.3 TNT and the society TNT Bulgaria Communication on Progress Report 2013 2 STATEMENT OF COMMITMENT “TNT Bulgaria has been a member of the United Nations Global Compact since the very beginning of the initiative in Bulgaria in 2003 and member of the National Board since 2010.. Corporate responsibility is an integral part of our business and further to this we are focused on the spread of the socially responsible behaviour among our partners, suppliers and the community. We continue to fully support the ten principles of UN Global Compact and adhere to them in our policies and practices.” Ivan Vassilev Country General Manager TNT Bulgaria Communication on Progress Report 2013 3 WHO WE ARE TNT Bulgaria is a part of TNT Express. It is established on December 22, 1995 and is one of the leading express distributors in Bulgaria. At TNT Express we provide a wide range of business-to-business and business-to-consumer express services around the world. We have a long-standing commitment both to protecting the environment, promoting social values and to conducting our operations with integrity and with respect for the interests of all our stakeholders. TNT Bulgaria has developed a network of 6 offices and more than 20 representatives that covers the whole country. TNT Bulgaria offers a wide range of services. The country headquarters are based in Sofia and the other main depots are in Plovdiv, Varna, Burgas, Pleven and Sevlievo. The company prides itself on high standards of customer service, based on its philosophy of putting the customer at the center of its business, and acting as a business partner to devise professional solutions for their distribution needs. TNT Bulgaria is managed by a management board that consists of 6 Managers headed by the Country General Manager. TNT Bulgaria Communication on Progress Report 2013 4 OUR MISSION We are a global team of empowered people that connects business, markets and people in a sustainable way. OUR BUSINESS PRINCIPLES Legal and international regulations We comply with the laws, rules and regulations of the countries in which we conduct business. Public reporting and communication Our financial statements, public reporting documents and other public communication provide full, fair, accurate, timely and understandable disclosure of TNT Express’s position in accordance with relevant laws and generally accepted accounting principles and standards. We comply with all applicable laws and accounting rules, financial reporting requirements and requirements of the securities exchanges on which TNT Express N.V. is listed. We maintain open and transparent communication with our customers, employees, shareholders and society, while giving due respect to confidentiality. Public activities We do not intervene in party political matters, nor do we make gifts or donations to political parties. Where it concerns our business, we – as a company – voice opinions on social, environmental, regulatory or other matters that may affect our shareholders, customers, employees and the world. Human rights We are committed to developing and promoting a culture where internationally recognised human rights contained within the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (proclaimed in a resolution of the United Nations General Assembly on 10 December 1948) are not infringed. These TNT Express Business Principles outline our commitment to the human rights worldwide in four broad headings: our company, our employees, our business and our relationship to our world. Safety We provide all employees with safe and healthy working conditions. We comply with relevant safety laws and regulations, and deploy policies that prevent, identify and eliminate hazards across our company and operations. Safety representatives and improvement groups exist throughout our company. We strive to adopt best practices and to exceed legal safety requirements. We continually measure and assess our safety performance. Principles that guide our employees TNT Bulgaria Communication on Progress Report 2013 5 Employees We seek to attract, develop, reward and retain outstanding individuals who appreciate the value of acting as a team. We create equal opportunities for all our employees, without regard to age, disability, ethnicity, gender, marital status, race, religion or sexual orientation. We do not condone unfair treatment of any kind. We treat all people with consideration and respect. We are committed to the Investors in People standard. Individual conduct Conflicts of interest Employees may not take business opportunities for themselves that belong to TNT Express. Our employees must report to management any transaction or relationship that could reasonably be expected to give rise to a conflict of interest. Company assets Our employees may not use company assets for unauthorised personal benefit. We do not tolerate fraud, theft, loss through recklessness or waste of company assets. Gifts and entertainment Our employees must avoid improper personal benefits for themselves or family members that result from their association with TNT Express. Employees may not accept gifts or entertainment that might appear to place them under obligation. Bribes Our employees and agents may not pay or accept bribes to gain or render orders, services or financial or other benefits. Our employees and agents must immediately turn down and report any attempt at or opportunity for bribery. Principles that guide our business Customers We strive to provide the most reliable and efficient solutions in the transfer of our customers’ goods and documents. We safeguard property and information entrusted to us by customers and other parties. Competition We believe in open and fair competition. We do not use unethical practices to obtain competitive advantage. We will not use information acquired through illegitimate activity to the detriment of competitors or other parties. Business associates and agents Our Business Principles guide our decisions to do business or to partner with others. To the fullest extent possible, we require our business associates to observe the TNT Express Business Principles. TNT Bulgaria Communication on Progress Report 2013 6 We expect our agents – individuals or organisations that legally represent TNT Express N.V. – to comply with the principles. Principles that guide our relationship with our world Social responsibility To carry out our business, we use resources that impact society and the environment. We support and strive to implement developments that can lead to sustainable environmental and social benefits. We strive to use finite resources carefully. We incorporate environmental risk management into our decision-making. We review and regularly report on progress in social responsibility. We invest in society around the world, putting our resources to use in areas related to our business. Our social investment aims to promote the best outcome for our partners, stakeholders and our business. We also support the principles of the United Nations Global Compact on human rights, employment standards, the environment and anti-corruption. TNT Bulgaria Communication on Progress Report 2013 7 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY At TNT Express, we have a long-standing commitment both to protecting the environment, promoting social values and to conducting our operations with integrity and with respect for the interests of all our stakeholders. We seek to make a positive impact on society through our operations and relationships, through the voluntary contributions we make to the community and through our wider engagement with society. We are also committed to making continuous improvements in the management of our environmental impacts and to working towards our longer-term goal of developing a sustainable business. Standards TNT Bulgaria is a company committed to social, health and safety and ecological accountability to the personality and the society. As a result of this we have developed, certified and maintain an Integrated Management System responding to ISO9001, ISO14001, OHSAS18001, Investor in People and SA8000 Standards. Our system is based on principles like: quality service assurance, strong social responsibility by respecting personality and human rights and constant improvement of the environment and the working conditions. TNT Bulgaria is certified towards 5 internationally recognized standards three of which are directly addressing the human rights. Investor in ISO 9001 OHSAS 18001 ISO 14001 SA 8000 Health and Social People Quality Environment Training and Safety Accountability Development TNT Bulgaria Communication on Progress Report 2013 8 TNT and the People Our human resources mission is to support all business functions by recruiting the right people, developing and empowering their competencies, capabilities, skills and motivating them to achieve company objectives and contribute to business sustainability. Our ambition is for the people to be a competitive advantage for TNT Bulgaria. People are at the heart of our business and to create a people competitive advantage we must develop our people management and leadership competency to create a positive working environment in which our people can thrive. This approach will also enable TNT to improve people satisfaction, pride and engagement, which in conjunction with our core competencies, will achieve our ambition and add value to the business through HR. Equal opportunities TNT Bulgaria applies Equal Opportunities policy to all its employees no matter of gender, age, religion, political or sexual orientation or any other discriminative factor. The company threats all personnel with dignity and respect and does not tolerate any disciplinary action which may humiliate any of the employees. All employees can apply for vacancies and be promoted within the organization. The splits between men and women generally and on managerial positions are as follows: All staff M anagement M en; 40% M en; 40% Wom en ; Wom en ; 60% 60% TNT Bulgaria is certified to SA8000 and as such is not engaged in the use of child, forced or compulsory labour. The youngest worker is 20 years old. All employees have signed labour contracts fully complying with national legislation. All employees are treated with dignity and respect. TNT Bulgaria Communication on Progress Report 2013 9 Investor in People TNT Bulgaria is certified to Investor in People standard dedicated to training and promotion of its own employees. In 2013 the company provided various trainings to its employees including IATA DG goods training, Early Career Potential training, etc. The culture of empowering people and performance management led to a very high score on people engagement. Health and Safety Further to training and development TNT Bulgaria is also committed to ensure healthy and safe working conditions for the staff. We have been certified to OHSAS 18001 since 2006. At TNT Express we are committed to embedding a strong safety culture both top down and bottom-up, and recognize that workplace and road safety need to be managed with the same degree of expertise and to the same standards as other core business activities. As a significant part of our corporate strategy a target for reducing lost time accidents was set. We are proud to say that in TNT Bulgaria we have only 1 lost time accidents for the last 3 years. Road Safety TNT Express uses the approach “safe vehicle, safe driver, safe journey” and recognises that work-related road safety is a significant business risk. Therefore a specific road safety management system is in placed to comply with and even exceed minimum global standards for road safety management. The road safety manaement system is cascaded to each of our operating units worldwide and they are responsible for implementing the management system requirements into each of their functional areas. In 2011 TNT Bulgaria implemented and developed a Road safety recognition and incentive scheme aiming at motivating the drivers in reducing road traffic accidents, injuries and deaths whilst driving for work. Each driver or courier has the opportunity to apply for the scheme and is evaluated according several criteria: lack of blameworthy road traffic incidents no customer complaints clean operational checklists. The scheme contains three levels of awards: bronze, silver and gold, respectively for 1, 3 and 5 years period. The scheme was very well accepted by the employees. In 2013 there were 14 drivers awarded in 2011 with bronze level. In 2013 6 TNT drivers achieved Bronze level and 12 participants achieved Silver level. They received certificate, a pin and material award as fuel vouchers. The campaign continues and next year we expect first achievers of gold level. TNT Bulgaria Communication on Progress Report 2013 10 TNT and the Environment To carry out our business, we use resources that impact society and the environment. We support and strive to implement developments that can lead to sustainable environmental and social benefits. We strive to use finite resources carefully. We incorporate environmental risk management into our decision-making. We review and regularly report on progress in social responsibility. TNT Bulgaria has been certified to ISO14001 for environmental management systems since 2006. In 2012 we successfully passed our second recertification audit. CO2 Footprint As part of a corporate initiative started in 2010 TNT Bulgaria works on reducing CO2 emissions from two main sources – buildings and vehicles. At the end of 2012 the heating system was replaced with a more efficient one which lead to serious decrease in the use of heating fuel. In our fleet all commercial vehicles comply with Euro 4, Euro 5 or higher standards. In 2013 TNT Bulgaria succeeded to reduce its consumption of electricity with 0,4% kWh. Further to that the consumption of heating fuel was reduced by 55 % compared to 2012 as a result of heating system replacement. Despite that the CO2 buildings efficiency decreased with 8% due to the higher electricity energy conversion factor for the country. The CO2 efficiency of the small trucks and vans was slightly deteriorated with 2% but that of large trucks was improved with 4% due to route optimizations. TNT Bulgaria offers electronic invoicing to its customers. The company was the first in the transport sector and the second in the country, clearly demonstrating the innovative nature of our goods and services. Currently we e-invoice above 94% of all invoices produced. TNT Bulgaria Communication on Progress Report 2013 11 “Think Eat Save” On June 5, 2013 Bulgarian Global Compact Network celebrated the World Environment Day which theme this year was “Think, Eat, Save. Reduce Your Foodprint.” The Bulgarian network prepared educational campaign by sending information and posters to 46 schools and 63 companies. TNT Bulgaria was the official courier of the initiative and delivered educational materials to the intended recipients. On a dedicated forum The Country General Manager Ivan Vassilev told the child viewers what makes TNT in the fight against hunger. The Orange Bike Tour On April 26, 2013 TNT Bulgaria joined the “Orange Bike Tour”, sponsored by the Dutch Embassy in Sofia and organized by Bike evolution and Taofes. The “Orange Bike Route” connected the typical Dutch bicycling with social, cultural and economic connections between the Netherlands and Bulgaria. One of the missions of the tour was to promote cycling as a way of transport and thus reduce CO2 footprint, an idea which was very much in line with TNT beliefs. TNT Bulgaria Communication on Progress Report 2013 12 Award for Sustainable Development In January 2013 TNT Bulgaria was distinguished with a special award for sustainable development from the Coalition for Sustainable Development. The Coalition is formed by many non-governmental organizations and has established annual awards and anti-awards to distinguish good and bad practices in sustainable development on the following criteria: environmental protection and climate changes, waste utilization, biodiversity conservation, health issues, etc. TNT Bulgaria received the award because of our long-lasting initiative to promote cycling as a means of transport and thus reducing CO2 footprint. TNT Bulgaria Communication on Progress Report 2013 13 TNT and the society We seek to make a positive impact on society through our operations and relationships, through the voluntary contributions we make to the community and through our wider engagement with society. Bulgarian Network of UN Global Compact TNT Bulgaria joined the UN Global Compact in 2003 and since then we have been an active member of the initiative. Currently we are a member of the National board of the local network. TNT Bulgaria participated in various initiatives undertaken by the local network. CSR Awards At the end of 2012 and the beginning of 2013 TNT Bulgaria actively supported the organization of the local contest round of the European CSR Awards. The European CSR Award Scheme aimed to further enhance existing or establish National CSR Award programmes under an inclusive and unique European Scheme, bringing into focus the best European CSR multistakeholder projects and in doing so; transforming the exchange of best practices into concrete action on the ground. The common theme for the award schemes is “Corporate social responsibility: Partnership, Innovation and Impact”. IN 2013 the Bulgarian Network of UN Global Compact hosted the event for Bulgaria. TNT Bulgaria supported the initiative in two directions: a member of our team was among the assessors who evaluated the applications at first stage selecting national finalists and on the other hand we took active participation in the organization of the contest and the local awards ceremony. Bulgarian Business Leaders Forum TNT Bulgaria has been an active member of the Bulgarian Business Leaders Forum since 2004. Тhe Bulgarian Business Leaders Forum (BBLF) is one of the leading organizations in Bulgaria devoted to promoting the principles and values of corporate social responsibility (CSR). BBLF is a membership association with a large number of member companies, General meeting as a supreme body and a Managing Board as a management body. The Forum is affiliated to the International Business Leaders Forum. Currently our Country General manager is a member of the Management Board. Business Leaders Olympics For a consecutive year representatives of TNT Bulgaria took part in the Business Leaders Olympics organized by the Bulgarian Business Leaders Forum. Business Leaders Olympics are the first-ever initiative in Bulgaria that brought business people, politicians, government officials, diplomats, journalists, athletes, and other public figures together to spend one day filled with intense but fair competitions in various sports. TNT Bulgaria Communication on Progress Report 2013 14 Charity Auction of Stars On November 21, 2013 TNT Bulgaria supported the “Charity Auction of Stars”. BBLF and the foundation “Teach For Bulgaria” organized for second year in row auction in support of the Foundation, whose mission is to facilitate access to quality education for every child in Bulgaria. The organization attracts and trains young, talented and motivated young professionals to become teachers of students from disadvantaged communities and with low educational attainment. In this non-traditional auction famous and inspiring people were “sold out” – business professionals, diplomats, stars from the cinema and music business, sport champions. They will provide their professional expertise, artistic and other talents to those who pay the most for two hours of their time. TNT Bulgaria’ CGM Ivan Vassilev supported the auction as a board member of BBLF. Evening of the Virtues The charity event Evening of the Virtues took place on October 10th 2013. It was organized by For Our Children Foundation, a successor to the British organization for protecting children’s rights “Every Child” and had been working in Bulgaria since 1992. The aim is to provide the highest level of support for the babies, children and young people who are at most risk in our communities. TNT Bulgaria donated an orange bicycle which refers to one of our campaigns “Ride a bicycle, Arrive on time” toward TNT employees, clients and partners stimulating them using a bicycle as an alternative means of transport. TNT Bulgaria Communication on Progress Report 2013 15 Express charity As an honorary member of the Advisory Board of “For Our Children Foundation” TNT Bulgaria supported a campaign of their partnering NGO “Holiday Heroes”. TNT provided free of charge transportation of food packages to poor families in Sofia for Christmas holidays. Knowledge Sharing In October 2013 for a third consecutive year TNT Bulgaria supported an educational exchange program of the Bulgarian High School for Finance and Insurance and hosted 3 German students for one-month practice. The students were given the chance to participate in the company operations and learn about local economic conditions. TNT Bulgaria Communication on Progress Report 2013 16 TNT Bulgaria is a part of TNT Express, one of the world’s largest express delivery companies. On a daily basis, TNT Express delivers close to one million consignments ranging from documents and parcels to palletised freight. The company operates road and air transportation networks in Europe, the Middle East and Africa, Asia-Pacific and the Americas. TNT Express made €6.7 billion in revenue in 2013. More information on TNT Express corporate responsibility policies and practices can be found at: www.tnt.com/corporate/en/site/home/about_us/corporate_responsibility.html You can contact us at: TNT Bulgaria Bulgaria 1528, Sofia 35, Nedelcho Bonchev str. Tel: +359 700 11 666 Fax: +359 2 9339 144 www.tnt.com/bg Е-mail: customer.service.bg@tnt.com TNT Bulgaria Communication on Progress Report 2013 17
