UN GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress 2014 STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT Our mission is to provide clothing of high quality, tailored to fit the customer's needs, efficiently and at a competitive price. At Bacher Work Wear we see ourselves as a driver for future trends in the industry and we believe sustainability to be a pivotal factor. It is important to Bacher Work Wear to respond to our customers' needs. We find it necessary to invest in long-term sustainable solutions that will ensure that we, in the future also will be able to live up to our core values. We believe that sustainability simply is good business, as we lower our costs and utilize our resources better. But for Bacher Work Wear there is more to sustainable business. We have been engaged in ethical principles and fair and responsible business conduct since the beginning, and so, our way of doing business is not only an attempt to meet future demand and expectations. We believe that through a structured approach to managing sustainability we will gain more as a business. As a leading supplier of work wear, uniforms and safety shoes, we believe that we carry a responsibility to drive the industry towards common goals for sustainability and through our business conduct set an example to follow. We are always looking to develop our business socially, economically and environmentally and in recent years Bacher Work Wear has evolved radically, which has resulted in increased market shares and thereby greater responsibilities. In collaboration with our suppliers, customers and other relevant stakeholders, Bacher Work Wear will determine how we most efficiently and with the greatest impact can make a difference. This is why we wish to show our continued support of the UN Global Compact and its principles, which we see as our first steps towards a more sustainable company. The Communication on Progress encompasses Bacher Work Wear A/S and the subsidiaries Bacher A/S, Kompaniet ApS and Webmore Uniforms A/S. Kind regards, Peter Vallentin CEO, Bacher Work Wear  PRINCIPLE 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of HUMAN RIGHTS internationally proclaimed human rights; and Vision Bacher Work Wear support internationally proclaimed human rights, and we ensure that we  PRINCIPLE 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. It is our policy, at all levels of processes and activiare not complicit in human rights ties of the company that the defined rights are guaranteed for everyone. We want to include all members of the organization even our suppliers to promote a culture with respect for abuses. the law and good practice. Our vision for the future is that we only do business with suppliers who have the same high standard of human rights as Bacher Work Wear. We believe that ongoing dialogue and close cooperation is one of the key elements in achieving the best results. Our aim is that our current and future suppliers not only respect international human rights, but also actively support them. Progress Compliance with the principles of UN Global Compact is a core value to our organisation. We encourage all of our engage parties to participate in ensuring continuous improvement within the area of humanand labour rights. We have initiated the preparation of our Code of Conduct, which we require future key partners to sign. The code is prepared in accordance with the UN Global Compact's ten principles. We have also opened a dialogue with our suppliers about our approach to corporate social responsibility and encourage all our partners to participate in joint efforts. Results We have created a strategy for how our Code of Conduct is implemented with our suppliers. In order to promote transparency, and to reflect our serious approach to social responsibility, we will prepare and publish a Code of Conduct on our website. This will be visible at our website in 2014.  PRINCIPLE 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association LABOUR RIGHTS and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Vision We are aware that many elements must be optimized when undertaking the processes need PRINCIPLE 4: The elimination of all ed to run a socially responsible company. We also know that transforming our business is an forms of forced and compulsory laon-going process, in which the means is of higher value than the goals. At Bacher Work Wear bour; we believe that we have to focus on initiatives, which will create the most impact. We want to focus on the production process of the goods we sell and motivate all our suppliers to  PRINCIPLE 5: The effective abolition promote social responsibility within areas of concern. We will do this through dialogue with of child labour; and our suppliers, and compel them to take responsibility for ensuring that their products are produced under decent working conditions, with respect to workers, trade unions and  PRINCIPLE 6: The elimination of NGOs in producer countries. discrimination in respect of employWe want to take part in the improvement of labour conditions in the global economy and ment and occupation. promote a more ethical industry with a safer working environment. We know that it takes demand to sell products, and consequently our customers plays a major part in facilitating transparency and promoting social responsibility in the industry. We wish to make the responsible choice easier and therefore we will launch a Sustainable Workwear line that will promote our suppliers’ most sustainable products. Progress In collaboration with CSR Consult we have developed a stakeholder analysis, which reviewed all suppliers to Bacher Work Wear, who accounts for more than 1.5% of our procurement. We found that at present 11 out of 18 suppliers relate to employee rights; including rejection of child labour and forced labour, and actively work towards more fair working conditions and a better working environment and labour law. We realise that we do not hold all the answers, and as a result of this, we will examine the market for non-governmental organizations and other relevant partners in the mission of improving labour standards in our supply chain. Results Bacher Work Wear support the International Labour Organisation (ILO) Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, and we work in accordance with Danish law. So far, no reports of violations, by either our own employees or suppliers, have come to our attention. Should it come to our attention that any violations take place, we claim the right to terminate the relationship immediately. The next Communication on Progress will give further details on specific initiatives and their outcome. Our impending Code of Conduct will state, that there must be no discrimination in employment and no kind of child labour. The age for admission to employment shall be no less than the age of completion of compulsory schooling and, in any case, not less than 15 years. Further it will state the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining. SUPPLIERS & CSR New Wave produces this brand and All of their shirts are Oeko-Tex 100 Columbia Sportswear has undergone ID has the following certifications: they relate specifically to employee certified (from dyeing to finishing). everything from transportation, Oeko-tex and BSCI both showcasing relations by their suppliers their They also owns all their factories that lighting, waste to package their socially responsible business Code of Conduct comly to the UN produce the shirts, hence they keep products. They also have operations. In addition, ID has Global Compact principles. track on workers' rights and assure philanthropic projects ( HER-project formulated a Code of Conduct based fair treatment. & Medical Terms etc.). on the UN Global Compact principles http://www.newwave.dk/miljoeetik.html No infofrmation available online http://www.columbia.com/history/About_Us_ www.id.dk/code-of-conduct.aspx History,default,pg.html Lloyd conduct responsible business They expect all suppliers to sign their Large parts of F-Engels workwear is They keep an eye on the vendors in behaviour in everything from Code of Conduct and thus comply certified according to the EU Ecolable the form of visits to the factories, and suppliers, the community to the with REACH & Global Compact. In and öeko-Tex. In addition, they focus expect them to live up to environment for employees. Like us, addition, they are working on labour, energy consuption and international restrictions regarding they believe that sustainability should continuously on certification of all recyclable packaging. working environment & conditions. be seen as a competitive factor. their products to become Oeko-Tex They have initiated studies of chemical http://www.lloyd-hoes.com/en/lloyd-companycertified. content after dyeing. ervice/company/corporate-socialhttp://www.fristadskansas.dk/en/about-fristadswww.f-engel.com/index.php/en/profile/codeNo infofrmation available online responsibility/ kansas/sustainability/ of-conduct For three years, they have supported Specifically Uvex relate to their direct MASCOT Vietnam has obtained SA Snickers follows ISO 14000:2004, an the UN Global Compact. Their COP and indirect impact on the 8000 cert., ensuring employees' rights environmental management system is testimonial to the approach to CSR. environment throughout the value and an effective management system based on the company, its processes They perform self-audits and chain. In addition, they abide to the that controls their suppliers employee and activities. It allocates examines not only the quality but also UN Global Compact principles on relations. responsibility, competences and working conditions. See their COP: labour rights. describes the environmental tasks of everyday life. www.youprofile.com/dk/?page=download http://www.uvex.de/en/about-uvex/ www.mascot.dk/en/About/CSR http://www.snickersworkwear.com/aboutus/standards/ ENVIRONMENT  PRINCIPLE 7: Businesses should Vision support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; At Bacher Work Wear, we acknowledge that we have an impact on the environment directly and indirectly. As an organisation in growth we find great responsibility to lead by example  PRINCIPLE 8: Undertake initiatives in ethical and sustainable business practise. It has encouraged us to strive for the vision of creto promote greater environmental reating a balance between the needs of customers, and a systematic approach to environmentally sponsibility; and friendly solutions. We believe that our focus on improving the environment – at Bacher Work Wear as well as our suppliers will benefit our investors, customers, suppliers and the envi PRINCIPLE 9: Encourage the develronment. We are obligated to comply with applicable Danish environmental laws and regulaopment and diffusion of environmentions, etc., and will impose on our suppliers, through our Code of Conduct, to follow the environmental principles of the UN Global Compact. tally friendly technologies. Progress We take a great responsibility in defining environmental criteria within our line of products and along our supply chain. The prevailing aspect of Bacher Work Wear is the elimination of harmful substances from our products. We aim to create awareness and transparency to ease the choice for our customers through our sustainable work wear line. Results The use of the Internet emit large Currently, several of our suppliers provide products that are Öeko-Tex 100 certified. Furamounts of CO2 due to power thermore several can pride them self with products that are labelled with the EU Ecolabel. We consumption. Therefore, Bacher expect that our work with social responsibility can help to identify new areas in which we can Work Wear Like 2,000 other reduce our environmental impact. Danish and international companies – has chosen to participate in the IngenCO2.dk so we actively Furthermore, our Code of Conduct will compel suppliers to ensure compliance with applicamake an effort to neutralize the CO2 emissions ble laws and regulations pertaining to sustainable procurement, storage, handling and use of which take place every time someone visits to our chemicals. Suppliers must have a valid permit for chemicals that are legally restricted. The supwebsite. plier shall demonstrate compliance with those permits. SUSTAINABLE WORKWEAR We focus on the environmental aspects of our products and hazardous substances used in the production phase. Specifically, we ensure that our products are developed with one of the following PROJECTS certifications: Öeko-Tex 100 (read more below) EU Ecolabel (read more below) DONATIONS Based on Bacher Work Wears long-standing support for sports, we have undertaken It will hopefully mobilize customers to use their power a sponsorship with the Olympic Club Denmark, valid for a year, and the Danish as consumers, and create better exposure for our Handball Federation, valid for three years. suppliers whose products meet the requirements. In addition, we support six teams from Vallensbæk IF and we are the main sponsor for Fremad Amagers football school for kids. Furthermore, we support EgEU Eco-label holmskolens teams in their indoor football tournament. Over the years, we have The European Eco-label scheme enables supported a variety of institutions and initiatives with smaller amounts, including; European consumers, including public and private purchasers, to identify officially Danmarks Indsamlingen approved green products across the European Union, Team Odd Fellow – funds for hospice in Denmark Norway, Iceland and Lichtenstein. The label allows Youth Project in the autumn holiday, Fremad Amager/Urban Plan manufacturers to show their customers that their Christianskirken, assistance to homeless products are manufactured with consideration for the Barnets Glæde (Child's joy) environment. Julemærkefonden Familier med kræftramte børn (Families with children with cancer) Red Cross Youth Kofoeds Skole OEKO-TEX The OEKO-TEX® Standard 100 At Bacher Work Wear our employees have an impact on donations, and we support is an independent testing and projects at the request of employees and their personal preferences. Furthermore certification system for textile raw materials, donations cover: the UN Global Compact, the Children's Bureau, the ship Georg intermediate and end products at all stages of Stage. production. Testing for harmful substances includes: illegal substances, legally regulated substances, known harmful (but not legally regulated) chemicals as well as parameters for health care. ANTI-CORRUPTION  PRINCIPLE 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, Vision including extortion and bribery. Bacher Work Wear follows a strict policy of zero tolerance of all forms of corruption, including bribery. We will not accept any kind of corruption related to our business and we expect all of our employees and partners in the supply chain to consent to this. Progress Our Code of Conduct will address this issue and require that our suppliers have the same position as us – willingness to fight corruption. At present, 10 out of 18 of our suppliers are transparent in terms of their approach to anti-corruption. The goal for the next COP is that 100 % of our suppliers (purchasing volume exceeding 1.5%) sign our Code of Conduct. Results We have not registered or been made aware of any cases of corruption, neither internally or from external partners. If we are made aware of any incidents, it shal result in prompt action and sanctions. In case of gross violations, collaboration with the inflicted part will be terminated.
