United Nations Global Compact METRO GROUP Corporate Responsibility Repor... Seite 1 von 3 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2013/14 Being a member of the United Nations Global Compact – the world’s largest initiative for corporate responsibility – helps METRO GROUP to firmly embed sustainability in its company strategy. As well as this, it provides the right framework for our long-term commitment to responsible and ethical business practices. With this Communication on Progress, METRO GROUP is fulfilling its obligation to demonstrate which guidelines and measures it is using to improve its performance in the fields of human rights, working standards, environmental protection and the elimination of corruption and to ensure that the Global Compact’s ten basic principles are adhered to in strategic decision-making and day-to-day work both now and in the future. Düsseldorf, December 2014 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2013/14 In the following table, we show examples of commitments and management systems that serve the ten principles, measures that we have taken and results that we achieved in the reporting period 2013/14. http://reports.metrogroup.de/2013-2014/corporate-responsibility-report/our-results/uni... 16.12.2014 United Nations Global Compact METRO GROUP Corporate Responsibility Repor... Seite 2 von 3 Human rights and working standards Commitments and Principle management systems Measures 2013/14 Achievements 2013/14 PRINCIPLE 1: METRO GROUP Corporate Producers in defined risk Of the 835 BSCI-relevant Support for Principles countries (based on producers, 58 per cent human rights Business Social have passed the social METRO GROUP Business Compliance Initiative audit in accordance with PRINCIPLE 2: Principles [BSCI] evaluation) that BSCI specifications. Elimination of supply METRO GROUP human rights Anti-discrimination with clothing, shoes, toys See the key performance abuses and consumer durables indicator for suppliers guidelines via its import company suppliers passing the MGB METRO GROUP social audit. PRINCIPLE 3: METRO GROUP guidelines Buying Hong Kong are Freedom of on fair working conditions assisted in implementing association and social partnership the BSCI standard or an The proportion of women and the right equivalent social standard at management levels 1 to to collective system. 3 was 18.5 per cent on the bargaining International standards reporting date, 30 throughout the supply September 2014. chain (BSCI) At national level, METRO PRINCIPLE 4: GROUP continued the Elimination of social dialogue with See the section on all forms of ILO (International Labour employee KPIs. employee representatives forced labour Organization) key labour such as works councils standards, embedded in a and trade unions. This Further developed variety of corporate PRINCIPLE 5: guidelines resulted in many collective commitment to fair Abolition of labour agreements at working conditions and child labour business unit, country or social partnership, groupSocial standards clause in store level – depending on wide information provided supplier contracts the laws and standard via a brochure and an ePRINCIPLE 6: practices in the regions in learning module on the Elimination of question. principles of fair working discrimination OECD principles for multinational companies, conditions. embedded in a variety of METRO GROUP has been corporate guidelines on the Board of Charta der Ongoing dialogue with Vielfalt e. V. since 2013. In international trade union the reporting year, a organisation UNI Global regional diversity network Union and reaffirmation of was founded with 16 other commitment to a good, companies. long-term working partnership and to striving In financial year 2013/14, to ensure fair working METRO GROUP updated its conditions by signing a voluntary commitment to joint declaration in increasing the proportion December 2013. of women in managerial positions. The aim is for Signed a new agreement the proportion of women with the METRO GROUP in managerial positions Euro-Forum in its function (levels 1 to 3) to be 25 per cent throughout the group http://reports.metrogroup.de/2013-2014/corporate-responsibility-report/our-results/uni... 16.12.2014 United Nations Global Compact METRO GROUP Corporate Responsibility Repor... Seite 3 von 3 Commitments and Principle management systems Measures 2013/14 Achievements 2013/14 in the calendar year 2017. as the European works At METRO AG, the target is council in April 2014. for women to make up 25 per cent of the first two Developed resources for management levels below internal safety training the Management Board in and published them on the the calendar year 2017 as intranet. well. Implemented a system for The employee network monitoring the number, Women in Trade (WiT) now source and severity of has some 130 members. It accidents at work. is instrumental in increasing the proportion of women in managerial See the “Employees” positions sustainably, chapter in the Annual promoting internal and Report 2013/14. external dialogue and creating better underlying conditions for women within the group. Active involvement in the area of inclusion and diversity, occupational safety and health management and employer-employee relations. See the “Employees” section of the Corporate Responsibility Report 2013/14 and the “Employees” chapter in the Annual Report 2013/14. Environmental protection Anti-corruption measures http://reports.metrogroup.de/2013-2014/corporate-responsibility-report/our-results/uni... 16.12.2014
