Page 1 of 1 Communication on Progress Introduction Owens Corning is honored to be a member of the United Nations Global Compact since 2010. With its emphasis on sustainability and responsible business practices, the UN Global Compact is wellaligned with our company values. It also provides Owens Corning with a strong platform for embracing and enacting good corporate principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption. The accompanying “Communication on Progress” document provides an overview of Owens Corning’s recent activities in support of Global Compact objectives. OUR PROGRESS Statement of Continued Support As the attached report illustrates, Owens Corning is committed – in both belief and action – to the 10 Principle 1: Businesses should principles of the United Nations Global Compact. This commitment extends beyond making our support and respect the products and operations more sustainable. It involves embracing the broader objectives of protection of internationally sustainability as we balance economic growth with social progress and environmental stewardship. proclaimed human rights. In short, we believe that what is good for people and good for our planet is also good for Owens Principle 2: Businesses should Corning. ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Sustainability is also about responsible behavior and stewardship with regard to our employees and the communities in which they live and work. Owens Corning provides our people with clear Principle 3: Businesses should guidance on how to conduct business ethically and comply with all laws through our Corporate Code uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of of Business Conduct and Corporate Governance policies. These policies and standards of behavior the right to collective bargaining. reflect our values as a company and are incorporated into the way our employees work every day – with customers, colleagues, suppliers, and the broader public. Principle 4: Businesses should support the elimination of all A key dimension of responsible behavior and stewardship relative to our employees is our continued forms of forced and compulsory quest for an injury-free workplace. In 2014 Owens Corning received the highest honor of the labour. National Safety Council (NSC) – the Green Cross for Safety medal. NSC presents the award Principle 5: Businesses should annually to an organization with outstanding safety performance and a commitment to improving the support the effective abolition of quality of life in the communities where its employees work and live. Reflecting our commitment to child labour. responsible business practices, over the past 12 years Owens Corning has eliminated nearly 95 percent of recordable injuries, as defined by the United States Occupational Safety & Health Principle 6: Businesses should Administration. support the elimination of discrimination in respect of Owens Corning made a strong commitment to our global communities by joining the United Nations employment and occupation. Global Compact in 2010. Since then, we are proud of our continued progress in the sustainability Principle 7: Businesses should arena and pleased to again renew our dedication to conducting business responsibly throughout the support a precautionary approach world. to environmental challenges. Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. http://www.one-report.com/report/cop.html?companyid=770;year=2014 1/16/2015 Sustainability Enter Search Terms Commitment Business Overview Products Environment & Safety Community Home > Suppliers Global Reporting Commitment > A Message from Our CEO & CSO A Message From Our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Sustainability Officer Our people and products make the world a better place. That simple and powerful purpose defines Owens Corning today, as well as the company we are building for the future. The people of Owens Corning are committed to expanding our impact through sustainability to deliver on this purpose. Our commitment to sustainability starts with the Board of Directors and runs through the management teams and employees around the globe. We are proud of our accomplishments this past year to further reduce our environmental footprint. But, footprint reduction alone doesn’t define our values. We have initiated the exciting work of understanding, measuring and expanding our handprint – creating a net­ positive impact of our company and its products. Our 2013 Sustainability Report is a record of our achievements. It also includes candid acknowledgment that much more is needed to achieve our aspiration of expanding our impact through sustainability. Our progress is embedded across all aspects of our company and highlighted below: Safety: Extended our industry­leading track record of safety achievement with performance comparable to 2012. Expanded our aspiration in safety beyond accident prevention to “Living Safely.” Operations Sustainability: Continued progress toward meeting our ambitious 2020 environmental footprint goals, including intensity reductions in energy, GHG, particulate, air emissions and water use. Deployed renewable energy solutions at larger scale, including commissioning the largest on­site solar PV system in the state of New York at our Delmar EcoTouch® Insulation plant. Increased our waste to landfill, due in part to the loss of glass fiber recycling outlets. To reverse this trend, we have made securing more reliable glass fiber waste recycling a priority. Product Sustainability: Extended our product life cycle sustainability and transparency. We expect to meet our goal of publishing transparency documentation on all our core products by year­ end 2015. Published our industry­leading FOAMULAR® Insulation Environmental Product Declaration (EPD) in support of the green building market and collaborated broadly with stakeholders to develop meaningful health­related transparency documentation. Recycled one million tons of asphalt shingles in North America, representing approximately 10 percent of the market. Supply Chain Sustainability: Doubled our freight miles driven on natural gas (converted from diesel), paving the way to run 15% Natural Gas Miles in 2014; our goal is 50 percent by 2020. Established networks of shippers, carriers, refueling stations, and trucks utilizing natural gas and expanded supplier collaborations to advance our sustainability goals. Energy Efficiency Collaboration: Published a comprehensive Residential Builders Guide, detailing optimum design solutions for all performance levels and all climate zones, to enable high performance buildings to gain scale. Participated in the launch of a new glass fiber reinforcement product to deliver lighter and stronger thermoplastic solutions for the global automotive market. This product was launched by BASF under the Ultracom™ thermoplastic composite system banner and made possible by the co­development collaborations between Owens Corning, BASF, and TenCate Advanced Composites. Continued to drive net­zero energy building capabilities and improved cost, performance, durability and safety through partnerships with customers, specifiers, architects and builders in both the residential and commercial markets. Climate Advocacy: Signed the Climate Declaration calling on the U.S. policymakers to address climate change and joined the Business for Innovative Climate & Energy Policy (BICEP) advocacy organization. Strategic Philanthropy: Assisted nearly 4,000 families through the donation of insulation and roofing materials for their homes. Expanded our health and educational assistance to China, India and Mexico, including a project in China that is impacting the lives of more than 5,500 children each year by constructing nutrional food kitchens in rural schools. Donated 0.53% of EBIT to non­profit organizations and participated in community programs at over half of our worldwide facilities. Recognition: Awarded the Green Cross for Safety medal from the National Safety Council for leadership and progress in safety. Achieved a perfect score on the Human Rights Campaign Corporate Equality Index for the tenth consecutive year. Listed on the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index for the fourth consecutive year, and received the RobecoSam Dow Jones Sustainability Index 2014 Gold Award, and named Industry Leader in Sustainability. We are proud of our achievements. We have more to do on the path to becoming a net­ positive company. We are expanding collaborations that increase customer value, elevate supplier expectations, and increase our impaction energy efficiency as a key driver for climate change mitigation. We are streamlining our global environmental management systems, increasing transparency in products, and expanding the level and geographic reach of our community investment activities. Thank you for your continued interest in Owens Corning and our sustainability journey. Our commitment to expanding our impact through sustainability is unwavering and we welcome your comments on the progress we are making. You can contact us at sustainability@owenscorning.com Mike Thaman Frank O’Brien­Bernini Chairman and Chief Executive Vice President, Chief Sustainability Officer Officer Tweets Owens Corning 19h @OwensCorning Increase RESNET Grade 1 ratings by WHAT DOtechniques learning proper YOU THINK? for installing fiberglass batt insulation: bit.ly/1xIQQJc Show Media We welcome your comments and suggestions on our progress and on our expanded online Owens Corning reporting. Click here 9 Jan @OwensCorning For Homeowners Compose new Tweet… Find a Retail Store Find a Building Professional Customer Service Literature For Building Professionals Commercial Applications Find a Distributor Customer Service Franchise Opportunities Tradeshows Products Insulation Roofing Commercial Products Trumbull Asphalt Basement Finishing Composites About Owens Corning Media Room For Investors Careers Worldwide Sites Sustainability Contact Us Site Map Join the conversation © 1996­2014 Owens Corning. All rights reserved. The color PINK is a registered trademark of Owens Corning. THE PINK PANTHERTM & ©1964­2014 Metro­Goldwyn­Mayer Studios Inc. All Rights Reserved. Copyright Statement Terms of Use Privacy Policy Page 1 of 2 Back to previous page Human Rights: Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Systems Business Code of Conduct: http://www2.owenscorning.... Supplier Code of Conduct: http://sustainability.owe... Employee Safety: http://sustainability.owe... Careers: http://www.owenscorningca... Actions Owens Corning human rights practices are embedded in our Code of Business Conduct. Owens Corning respects all international human rights standards throughout our global operations. Performance Indicators http://sustainability.owe... Relevant GRI Indicators: HR1 Percentage and total number of significant Agreements w/ investment agreements and contracts that Human Rights include clauses incorporating human rights Clauses concerns, or that have undergone human rights Supplier Code screening. of Conduct (pdf) HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors, Supplier Screening and other business partners that have Tips undergone human rights screening, and actions taken. HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and Human Rights procedures concerning aspects of human rights Training that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and Discrimination corrective actions taken. Incidents HR5 Operations and significant suppliers identified in No operations or which the right to exercise freedom of suppliers have been association and collective bargaining may be identified. violated or at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. HR6 Operations and significant suppliers identified as No operations or having significant risk for incidents of child labor, suppliers have been and measures taken to contribute to the identified. effective abolition of child labor. HR7 Operations and significant suppliers identified as Forced Labor Risk having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or http://www.one-report.com/report/cop.html?companyid=770;principleid=1;year=2014 1/16/2015 Page 2 of 2 compulsory labor. HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the Security Training organization's policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving Indigenous People rights of indigenous people and actions taken. Violations Back to previous page http://www.one-report.com/report/cop.html?companyid=770;principleid=1;year=2014 1/16/2015 GRI Index Page 1 of 1 Agreements w/ Human Rights Clauses GRI HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements and contracts that include clauses incorporating human rights concerns, or that have undergone human rights screening. 2013 2012 2011 Number Percentage Number Percentage Number Percentage Significant investment agreements and 1,880,754 80 1,413,317 77 1,482,774 77 contracts that include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening GRI Reporting Level: The GRI data provided is considered: Full Additional Comments: the Supplier Code of Conduct is referenced for all transactions with a Purchase Order in the US. We plan to expance this reference to other types of contracts in 2014 through a comprehensive contract management process. The number in the data, is the number of transactions, not purchase orders This is they way our data is created. One PO can have many transactions so the number of PO's is much less than this number. % of total spend for each year. References Supplier Code of Conduct (pdf) http://www.one-report.com/report/qgri_index.html?categoryid=714;qid=2658;rid=ODY4N... 1/16/2015 GRI Index Page 1 of 1 Supplier Screening Tips GRI HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors, and other business partners that have undergone human rights screening, and actions taken. 2013 2012 2011 Percentage of contracts with significant suppliers, contractors, and other business partners that 47 70 25 included criteria or screening on human rights Percentage of contracts with significant suppliers, contractors, and other business partners that 0 0 0 were either declined or imposed performance conditions, or were subject to other actions as a result of human rights screening GRI Reporting Level: The GRI data provided is considered: Full Additional Comments: Owens Corning is in the midst of revamping the supplier management process and has determined new tools for identifying those suppliers wtih contracts and who are actively managed being significant suppliers or having high criticality or risk. A major change in this assessment and management process is contract management. In 2014 additional resources will be provided to address this. http://www.one-report.com/report/qgri_index.html?categoryid=714;qid=2659;rid=OTk1M... 1/16/2015 GRI Index Page 1 of 1 Human Rights Training GRI HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. 2013 2012 2011 Total number of hours devoted to training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of 4500 6000 7476 human rights that are relevant to operations Percentage of employees trained in policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights 30 31 54 that are relevant to operations GRI Reporting Level: The GRI data provided is considered: Full Additional Comments: All salaried employees (approximately 4,500) are trained on the EEOC guidelines through our annual online Business Code of Conduct training. http://www.one-report.com/report/qgri_index.html?categoryid=714;qid=2672;rid=MTA2N... 1/16/2015 GRI Index Page 1 of 1 Discrimination Incidents GRI HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken. 2013 2012 2011 Total number of 8 7 20 incidents of discrimination Incidents (reporting year Status of incident Corrective only) actions taken 8 Reviewed Remediation plan being implemented Remediation plan implemented, results reviewed through routine internal management review process Incident no longer subject to attention Reviewed Remediation plan being implemented Remediation plan implemented, results reviewed through routine internal management review process Incident no longer subject to attention Reviewed Remediation plan being implemented Remediation plan implemented, results reviewed through routine internal management review process Incident no longer subject to attention Reviewed Remediation plan being implemented Remediation plan implemented, results reviewed through routine internal management review process Incident no longer subject to attention Reviewed Remediation plan being implemented Remediation plan implemented, results reviewed through routine internal management review process Incident no longer subject to attention GRI Reporting Level: The GRI data provided is considered: Full http://www.one-report.com/report/qgri_index.html?categoryid=715;qid=2660;rid=MTg0O... 1/16/2015 GRI Index Page 1 of 1 Forced Labor Risk GRI HR7 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. Owens Corning has a policy which strictly prohibits forced labor. Owens Corning will not tolerate such conduct at its facilities or those of its suppliers. All Owens Corning facilities are audited routinely to ensure compliance. GRI Reporting Level: The GRI data provided is considered: Full http://www.one-report.com/report/qgri_index.html?categoryid=718;qid=2663;rid=ODgyO... 1/16/2015 GRI Index Page 1 of 1 Security Training GRI HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization's policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. 2013 2012 2011 Percentage of security personnel who have received training on human rights policies and/or 100 100 100 procedures Training requirements regarding human rights issues also apply to third party Yes organizations providing security personnel GRI Reporting Level: The GRI data provided is considered: Full http://www.one-report.com/report/qgri_index.html?categoryid=719;qid=2220;rid=NzYwN... 1/16/2015 GRI Index Page 1 of 1 Indigenous People Violations GRI HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken. 2013 2012 2011 Total number of identified 0 0 0 incidents involving indigenous rights Incidents (reporting year only) Status of incident Actions taken Reviewed Remediation plan being implemented Remediation plan implemented, results reviewed through routine internal management review process Incident no longer subject to attention Reviewed Remediation plan being implemented Remediation plan implemented, results reviewed through routine internal management review process Incident no longer subject to attention Reviewed Remediation plan being implemented Remediation plan implemented, results reviewed through routine internal management review process Incident no longer subject to attention Reviewed Remediation plan being implemented Remediation plan implemented, results reviewed through routine internal management review process Incident no longer subject to attention Reviewed Remediation plan being implemented Remediation plan implemented, results reviewed through routine internal management review process Incident no longer subject to attention GRI Reporting Level: The GRI data provided is considered: Full http://www.one-report.com/report/qgri_index.html?categoryid=720;qid=2221;rid=NzI3ND... 1/16/2015 Page 1 of 1 Back to previous page Human Rights: Principle 2 Businesses should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Systems Business Code of Conduct: http://www2.owenscorning.... Supplier Code of Conduct: http://sustainability.owe... Actions Owens Corning has a Supplier Code of Conduct, which is mirrored from the employee Corporate Code of Business Conduct. Owens Corning began its supplier program in 2010 and embarked on surveying suppliers for compliance in 2012. Performance Indicators Relevant GRI Indicators: HR1 Percentage and total number of significant Agreements w/ investment agreements and contracts that include Human Rights clauses incorporating human rights concerns, or Clauses that have undergone human rights screening. Supplier Code of Conduct (pdf) HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors, Supplier Screening and other business partners that have undergone Tips human rights screening, and actions taken. HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the Security Training organization's policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. Back to previous page http://www.one-report.com/report/cop.html?companyid=770;principleid=2;year=2014 1/16/2015 GRI Index Page 1 of 1 Agreements w/ Human Rights Clauses GRI HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements and contracts that include clauses incorporating human rights concerns, or that have undergone human rights screening. 2013 2012 2011 Number Percentage Number Percentage Number Percentage Significant investment agreements and 1,880,754 80 1,413,317 77 1,482,774 77 contracts that include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening GRI Reporting Level: The GRI data provided is considered: Full Additional Comments: the Supplier Code of Conduct is referenced for all transactions with a Purchase Order in the US. We plan to expance this reference to other types of contracts in 2014 through a comprehensive contract management process. The number in the data, is the number of transactions, not purchase orders This is they way our data is created. One PO can have many transactions so the number of PO's is much less than this number. % of total spend for each year. References Supplier Code of Conduct (pdf) http://www.one-report.com/report/qgri_index.html?categoryid=714;qid=2658;rid=ODY4N... 1/16/2015 GRI Index Page 1 of 1 Supplier Screening Tips GRI HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors, and other business partners that have undergone human rights screening, and actions taken. 2013 2012 2011 Percentage of contracts with significant suppliers, contractors, and other business partners that 47 70 25 included criteria or screening on human rights Percentage of contracts with significant suppliers, contractors, and other business partners that 0 0 0 were either declined or imposed performance conditions, or were subject to other actions as a result of human rights screening GRI Reporting Level: The GRI data provided is considered: Full Additional Comments: Owens Corning is in the midst of revamping the supplier management process and has determined new tools for identifying those suppliers wtih contracts and who are actively managed being significant suppliers or having high criticality or risk. A major change in this assessment and management process is contract management. In 2014 additional resources will be provided to address this. http://www.one-report.com/report/qgri_index.html?categoryid=714;qid=2659;rid=OTk1M... 1/16/2015 GRI Index Page 1 of 1 Security Training GRI HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization's policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. 2013 2012 2011 Percentage of security personnel who have received training on human rights policies and/or 100 100 100 procedures Training requirements regarding human rights issues also apply to third party Yes organizations providing security personnel GRI Reporting Level: The GRI data provided is considered: Full http://www.one-report.com/report/qgri_index.html?categoryid=719;qid=2220;rid=NzYwN... 1/16/2015 Page 1 of 1 Back to previous page Labour Standards: Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Systems Owens Corning recognizes the rights of its employees to seek union representation or to remain self represented, and honors their choices. The company has forged productive relationships with unions and work councils throughout the world, and we value their partnership. Approximately 50 percent of our hourly employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. Actions Owens Corning recognizes the rights of its employees to seek union representation or to remain self represented, and honors their choices. The company has forged productive relationships with unions and work councils throughout the world, and we value their partnership. Approximately 50 percent of our hourly employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. Performance Indicators Relevant GRI Indicators: LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective Collective bargaining agreements Bargaining Coverage LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant Notice Operational operational changes, including whether it is Changes specified in collective agreements. HR5 Operations and significant suppliers identified in No operations or which the right to exercise freedom of association suppliers have and collective bargaining may be violated or at been identified. significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. Back to previous page http://www.one-report.com/report/cop.html?companyid=770;principleid=3;year=2014 1/16/2015 GRI Index Page 1 of 1 Collective Bargaining Coverage GRI LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements % of workforce covered by collective bargaining 2013 2012 2011 Type of collective bargaining agreement agreement Home country national industry enterprise Worldwide 65 68 50 national industry enterprise GRI Reporting Level: The GRI data provided is considered: Full http://www.one-report.com/report/qgri_index.html?categoryid=707;qid=2242;rid=MjUwN... 1/16/2015 GRI Index Page 1 of 1 Notice Operational Changes GRI LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes, including whether it is specified in collective agreements. Minimum number of weeks notice typically provided to employees and their elected representatives prior to the 9 implementation of significant operational charges that could substantially affect them: For organizations with collective bargaining agreements, are the notice period and/or provisions for consultation Yes and negotiation specified in collective agreements? GRI Reporting Level: The GRI data provided is considered: Full Additional Comments: Our practice varies by country. We tend to be near industry norms. http://www.one-report.com/report/qgri_index.html?categoryid=707;qid=2243;rid=NjI2Mz... 1/16/2015 Page 1 of 1 Back to previous page Labour Standards: Principle 4 Businesses should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Systems Business Code of Conduct: http://www2.owenscorning.... Supplier Code of Conduct: http://sustainability.owe... Actions Owens Corning’s Corporate Code of Business Conduct Policy and Supplier Code of Conduct specifically indicate that there will be no tolerance for forced or compulsory labor. Performance Indicators Relevant GRI Indicators: HR7 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having Forced significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, Labor and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of Risk forced or compulsory labor. Back to previous page http://www.one-report.com/report/cop.html?companyid=770;principleid=4;year=2014 1/16/2015 GRI Index Page 1 of 1 Forced Labor Risk GRI HR7 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. Owens Corning has a policy which strictly prohibits forced labor. Owens Corning will not tolerate such conduct at its facilities or those of its suppliers. All Owens Corning facilities are audited routinely to ensure compliance. GRI Reporting Level: The GRI data provided is considered: Full http://www.one-report.com/report/qgri_index.html?categoryid=718;qid=2663;rid=ODgyO... 1/16/2015 Page 1 of 1 Back to previous page Labour Standards: Principle 5 Businesses should support the effective abolition of child labour. Systems Business Code of Conduct: http://www2.owenscorning.... Supplier Code of Conduct: http://sustainability.owe... Actions Owens Corningâs Corporate Code of Business Conduct Policy and Supplier Code of Conduct specifically indicate that there will be no tolerance for child labor. Owens Corning defines âchild laborâ as work or service extracted from anyone under the age of 16, the minimum age for employment in that country, or the age for completing compulsory education in that country, whichever is higher. Performance Indicators Relevant GRI Indicators: HR6 Operations and significant suppliers identified No operations or as having significant risk for incidents of child suppliers have labor, and measures taken to contribute to the been identified. effective abolition of child labor. Back to previous page http://www.one-report.com/report/cop.html?companyid=770;principleid=5;year=2014 1/16/2015 Page 1 of 1 Back to previous page Labour Standards: Principle 6 Businesses should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Systems Business Code of Conduct: http://www2.owenscorning.... Supplier Code of Conduct: http://sustainability.owe... Diversity: http://jobs.owenscorningc... Actions Owens Corning employees or employees of suppliers are expected to work in an environment free from harassment on any basis including, but not limited to, harassment on the basis of race, color, sex, age, national origin, sexual orientation, gender identity, cultural affiliation, religion, physical or mental disability, and personal characteristics or circumstances. In 2011 Owens Corning renewed its commitment to diversity and leadership with the development of six Affinity Groups: African American Resource Group; Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, Transgender and Advocates; Hispanic Diversity Council; Owens Corning Multi-Cultural Network; Women’s Information Network; and Connections. These groups have been very active in 2013. Performance Indicators Relevant GRI Indicators: LA2 Total number and rate of new employee hires Employee Turnover and employee turnover by age group, gender, and region. LA13 Composition of governance bodies and Diversity Indicators breakdown of employees per employee 2013 Proxy category according to gender, age group, Statement minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. LA14 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of Female to Male women to men by employee category, by Salary Ratio significant locations of operation. HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and Discrimination corrective actions taken. Incidents Back to previous page http://www.one-report.com/report/cop.html?companyid=770;principleid=6;year=2014 1/16/2015 GRI Index Page 1 of 1 Discrimination Incidents GRI HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken. 2013 2012 2011 Total number of 8 7 20 incidents of discrimination Incidents (reporting year Status of incident Corrective only) actions taken 8 Reviewed Remediation plan being implemented Remediation plan implemented, results reviewed through routine internal management review process Incident no longer subject to attention Reviewed Remediation plan being implemented Remediation plan implemented, results reviewed through routine internal management review process Incident no longer subject to attention Reviewed Remediation plan being implemented Remediation plan implemented, results reviewed through routine internal management review process Incident no longer subject to attention Reviewed Remediation plan being implemented Remediation plan implemented, results reviewed through routine internal management review process Incident no longer subject to attention Reviewed Remediation plan being implemented Remediation plan implemented, results reviewed through routine internal management review process Incident no longer subject to attention GRI Reporting Level: The GRI data provided is considered: Full http://www.one-report.com/report/qgri_index.html?categoryid=715;qid=2660;rid=MTg0O... 1/16/2015 GRI Index Page 1 of 2 Employee Turnover GRI LA2 Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender, and region. % of operations included in data: 100 2013 2012 2011 Total number of employees leaving employment 1710 1814 Rate of employees leaving employment 12% 12% Total number of employees hired 2260 2080 Rate of employees hired 15% 15% Number and rate of employees leaving by gender Number of males leaving 1406 1480 Rate of males leaving 12% 13% Number of females leaving 304 334 Rate of females leaving 12% 13% Number and rate of employees hired by gender Number of males hired 1845 1699 Rate of males hired 15% 15% Number of female hired 414 381 Rate of females hired 16% 15% Number and rate of employees leaving by age group Number of <30 age group 507 624 Rate of <30 age group 22% 29% Number of 30-50 age group 776 826 Rate of 30-50 age group 9% 10% Number of >50 age group 427 364 Rate of >50 age group 10% 9% Number and rate of employees hired by age group Number of <30 age group 1083 1050 Rate of <30 age group 55% 48% Number of 30-50 age group 1000 924 Rate of 30-50 age group 12% 12% Number of >50 age group 176 106 Rate of >50 age group 4% 3% Number and rate of employees leaving by region Number leaving in home country 709 Rate leaving in home country 10% Number leaving in OECD countries (include home country if appropriate) 1344 http://www.one-report.com/report/qgri_index.html?categoryid=706;qid=2649;rid=NzcyM... 1/16/2015 GRI Index Page 2 of 2 Rate leaving in OECD countries (include home country if appropriate) 12% Number leaving in non-OECD countries (include home country if appropriate) 366 Rate leaving in non-OECD countries (include home country if appropriate) 11% Number and rate of employees hired by region Number hired in home country 1030 Rate hired in home country 14% Number hired in OECD countries (include home country if appropriate) 1727 Rate hired in OECD countries (include home country if appropriate) 15% Number hired in non-OECD countries (include home country if appropriate) 532 Rate hired in non-OECD countries (include home country if appropriate) 15% We publicly disclose information regarding employee-turnover rate C46 Link / document: http://sustainability.owe... C46 We only disclose our overall turnover rate, not broken out into other demographics. GRI Reporting Level: The GRI data provided is considered: Full http://www.one-report.com/report/qgri_index.html?categoryid=706;qid=2649;rid=NzcyM... 1/16/2015 GRI Index Page 1 of 1 Diversity Indicators GRI LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. Male Female Minority Age groups groups Number % Number % Number % % % % <30 30>50 yrs old 50 yrs yrs old old Governance 10 83 2 17 1 8 8 92 body (e.g., board) members Male Female Minority Age Groups groups Employees Global % in Global Global % in Global Global % in Global % % % by job number home % number home % number home % <30 30>50 category country country country yrs old 50 yrs (per yrs old company old breakout) Total (sum 12102 51 2616 46 of all must match LA1) Managers 697 71 29 152 70 30 Officers 52 87 13 7 100 All other 2244 51 49 1167 59 41 Staff Primary 9109 46 54 1290 47 53 Total 16 56 28 Workforce Data publicly available: No GRI Reporting Level: The GRI data provided is considered: Full Additional Comments: As in years past we are attaching our Proxy Statement to support the answer of this question. References 2013 Proxy Statement http://www.one-report.com/report/qgri_index.html?categoryid=710;qid=2655;rid=Nzk2N... 1/16/2015 GRI Index Page 1 of 1 Female to Male Salary Ratio GRI LA14 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by significant locations of operation. GRI Reporting Level: The GRI data provided is considered: Not Reported Reason for Omission: No Data Provided Business Sensitive Explanation in Additional Comments below Additional Comments: We feel this information is business confidential, therefore, we will not disclose the data. http://www.one-report.com/report/qgri_index.html?categoryid=710;qid=2656;rid=MTU5O... 1/16/2015 Page 1 of 1 Back to previous page Environment: Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Systems Environmental, Health & Safety Policy: http://sustainability.owe... Product Safety: http://sustainability.owe... Environmental Footprint: http://sustainability.owe... Environmental Remediation: http://sustainability.owe... Biodiversity: http://sustainability.owe... Actions Owens Corning seeks to ensure that our products and technology comply with or exceed all applicable laws, regulations and approval standards to protect the environment and human life or health. Our product stewardship programs are designed to ensure the integrity of our products and the processes used to develop, produce and manage them. Performance Indicators Relevant GRI Indicators: 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the Precautionary precautionary approach or principle is Approach addressed by the organization. Back to previous page http://www.one-report.com/report/cop.html?companyid=770;principleid=7;year=2014 1/16/2015 GRI Index Page 1 of 1 Precautionary Approach GRI 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization. Owens Corning with respect to the precautionary approach, ensures that our products and technology comply with or exceed all applicable laws, regulations and approval standards to protect the environment and human life and health. Our product stewardship programs are designed to ensure integrity of our products and the processes used to develop, produce and manage them. Owens Corning is confident that these efforts are consistent with and meet the expectation of the precautionary approach. GRI Reporting Level: The GRI data provided is considered: Full http://www.one-report.com/report/qgri_index.html?categoryid=677;qid=2167;rid=MjI0Mz... 1/16/2015 Page 1 of 3 Back to previous page Environment: Principle 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Systems 2020 Environmental Footprint Reduction Goals: http://sustainability.owe... Environmental, Health & Safety Policy: http://sustainability.owe... Product Safety: http://sustainability.owe... Environmental Footprint: http://sustainability.owe... Environmental Remediation: http://sustainability.owe... Biodiversity: http://sustainability.owe... Business Code of Conduct: http://www2.owenscorning.... Supplier Code of Conduct: http://sustainability.owe... Actions Our people and products make the world a better place. That simple and powerful purpose defines Owens Corning today, as well as the company we are building for the future. The people of Owens Corning are committed to expanding our impact through sustainability to deliver on this purpose. Our commitment to sustainability starts with the Board of Directors and runs through the management teams and employees around the globe. We are proud of our accomplishments this past year to further reduce our environmental footprint. But, footprint reduction alone doesn't define our values. We have initiated the exciting work of understanding, measuring and expanding our handprint – creating a net-positive impact of our company and its products. Our 2013 Sustainability Report is a record of our achievements. It also includes candid acknowledgment that much more is needed to achieve our aspiration of expanding our impact through sustainability. Our progress is embedded across all aspects of our company and highlighted below: Safety: • Extended our industry-leading track record of safety achievement with performance comparable to 2012. • Expanded our aspiration in safety beyond accident prevention to “Living Safely.” Operations Sustainability: • Continued progress toward meeting our ambitious 2020 environmental footprint goals, including intensity reductions in energy, GHG, particulate, air emissions and water use. • Deployed renewable energy solutions at larger scale, including commissioning the largest on-site solar PV system in the state of New York at our Delmar EcoTouch™ Insulation plant. • Increased our waste to landfill, due in part to the loss of glass fiber recycling outlets. To reverse this trend, we have made securing more reliable glass fiber waste recycling a priority. Product Sustainability: • Extended our product life cycle sustainability and transparency. We expect to meet our goal of publishing http://www.one-report.com/report/cop.html?companyid=770;principleid=8;year=2014 1/16/2015 Page 2 of 3 transparency documentation on all our core products by year-end 2015. • Published our industry-leading FOAMULAR® Environmental Product Declaration (EPD) in support of the green building market and collaborated broadly with stakeholders to develop meaningful health-related transparency documentation. • Recycled one million tons of asphalt shingles in North America, representing approximately 10 percent of the market. Supply Chain Sustainability: • Doubled our freight miles driven on natural gas (converted from diesel), paving the way to run 15% Natural Gas Miles in 2014; our goal is 50 percent by 2020. • Established networks of shippers, carriers, refueling stations, and trucks utilizing natural gas and expanded supplier collaborations to advance our sustainability goals. Energy Efficiency Collaboration: • Published a comprehensive Residential Builders Guide, detailing optimum design solutions for all performance levels and all climate zones, to enable high performance buildings to gain scale. • Participated in the launch of a new glass fiber reinforcement product to deliver lighter and stronger thermoplastic solutions for the global automotive market. This product was launched by BASF under the Ultracom™ thermoplastic composite system banner and made possible by the co-development collaborations between Owens Corning, BASF, and TenCate Advanced Composites. • Continued to drive net-zero energy building capabilities and improved cost, performance, durability and safety through partnerships with customers, specifiers, architects and builders in both the residential and commercial markets. Climate Advocacy: • Signed the Climate Declaration calling on the U.S. policymakers to address climate change and joined the Business for Innovative Climate & Energy Policy (BICEP) advocacy organization. Strategic Philanthropy: • Assisted nearly 4,000 families through the donation of insulation and roofing materials for their homes. • Expanded our health and educational assistance to China, India and Mexico, including a project in China that is impacting the lives of more than 5,500 children each year by constructing nutrional food kitchens in rural schools. • Donated 0.53% of EBIT to non-profit organizations and participated in community programs at over half of our worldwide facilities. Recognition: • Awarded the Green Cross for Safety medal from the National Safety Council for leadership and progress in safety. • Achieved a perfect score on the Human Rights Campaign Corporate Equality Index for the tenth consecutive year. • Listed on the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index for the fourth consecutive year, and received the RobecoSam Dow Jones Sustainability Index 2014 Gold Award, and named Industry Leader in Sustainability. We are proud of our achievements. We have more to do on the path to becoming a net-positive company. We are expanding collaborations that increase customer value, elevate supplier expectations, and increase our impact on energy efficiency as a key driver for climate change mitigation. We are streamlining our global environmental management systems, increasing transparency in products, and expanding the level and geographic reach of our community investment activities. Performance Indicators Relevant GRI Indicators: EN2 Percentage of materials used that Use of Recycled Input are recycled input materials. 2014 SCS recycled certification Canada Fiberglass products 2014 SCS recycled content certification heavy density fiberg... 2014 SCS recycled content certification unfaced light densit... 2014 SCS recycled content certification Foamular 2014 SCS recycled content faced fiberglass insulation EN5 Energy saved due to Energy Saved conservation and efficiency http://www.one-report.com/report/cop.html?companyid=770;principleid=8;year=2014 1/16/2015 Page 3 of 3 improvements. EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect Reduce Indirect Energy energy consumption and reductions achieved. EN10 Percentage and total volume of Water Reused water recycled and reused. EN13 Habitats protected or restored. Restored Habitats EN14 Strategies, current actions, and Biodiversity Strategy future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity. EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse Greenhouse Gas Reductions gas emissions and reductions achieved by follow: EN21 Total water discharge by quality Water Discharge and destination. EN22 Total weight of waste by type and Total Waste disposal method. EN26 Initiatives to mitigate Mitigate Product Impact environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation. EN27 Percentage of products sold and Sold Products Packaging their packaging materials that are Reclaimed reclaimed by category. 2013 Recycling Sustainability Webpage 2013 Roofing web page, Recycling EN30 Total environmental protection Environmental Protection expenditures and investments by Expenditures type. Back to previous page http://www.one-report.com/report/cop.html?companyid=770;principleid=8;year=2014 1/16/2015 GRI Index Page 1 of 1 Use of Recycled Input GRI EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. Recycled Input Materials 2013 2012 2011 Volume: C2 % used: Data publicly available: Yes C2 Owens Corning has chosen not to report in volumes as different products have different units of measure and ceritfication levels can be seen for each product line. GRI Reporting Level: The GRI data provided is considered: Not Reported Additional Comments: The % of company revenues is reported above which includes our composites glass and building materials segments, but in just looking at our building materials business 34% of all building materials produced use recycled content above 30% and adding our XPS foam insulation at 20% recycled content raises the total to 40% of building materials revenue. Our North American residential fibergalss insulation is Scientific Certification Systems certified to at least 58% recycled content and accounted for 20% of our worldwide Building Materials revenues in 2013. Our North American commercial and industrial fibergalss insulation is also Scientific Certification Systems certified to includes a minimum of 57% recycled content and accounted for 14% of Building Materials revenues in 2013. Certification documents can be found at http://www.scscertified.c... Remaining products in building materials are Extruded polystyrene foam products, asphalt and roofing shingles. We have 20% certified recycle content in our foam products and some plants in our roofing production process are recycling up to about 10% but this varies by location, so most of our building products are using some level of recycle content and for those that are not, we are seeking ways to introduce recycled materials. References 2014 SCS recycled certification Canada Fiberglass products 2014 SCS recycled content certification heavy density fiberg... 2014 SCS recycled content certification unfaced light densit... 2014 SCS recycled content certification Foamular 2014 SCS recycled content faced fiberglass insulation http://www.one-report.com/report/qgri_index.html?categoryid=694;qid=2176;rid=NzEyMj... 1/16/2015 GRI Index Page 1 of 1 Energy Saved GRI EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. Unit (in joules or multiples of joules): GJ 2013 2012 2011 Total energy saved 140400 279080 233481 Publicly disclosed. GRI Reporting Level: The GRI data provided is considered: Full Additional Comments: Given we are manufacturing company, our operations are energy intensive and thus we focus on strategizing when, where and how we should invest in energy efficiency improvements. We are focusing our investments on improvements, upgrades and innovations on energy efficiency. In 2013 OC launched new initiatives around lighting retrofit, compressed air optimization, plant interior lighting upgrades, ultra-sound detection of air leaks, parking lighting, and cooling tower upgrades that stand to generate energy savings of more than 39,000 MWh and potentially drive change across our entire enterprise. http://www.one-report.com/report/qgri_index.html?categoryid=695;qid=2179;rid=ODg4M... 1/16/2015 GRI Index Page 1 of 1 Reduce Indirect Energy GRI EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved. Existing initiatives to reduce indirect energy use: Owens Corning has adopted online meeting collaboration software between employees and outside vendors, video conferencing, and expansion of virtual conference rooms to global sites. Owens Corning has arrangements with a carrier to use LPG fueled trucks in servicing facilities. Additionally we participate in the EPA Smart Way Shipper Program that uses carriers that are more energy efficient. Stating these items above, currently we do not track these reductions in detail. Unit (in joules or multiples of joules): 2013 2012 2011 Reduction of indirect energy used in energy-intensive materials Reduction of indirect energy used in subcontracted production Reduction of indirect energy used in business-related travel Reduction of indirect energy used in employee commuting Assumptions and methodologies used to calculate indirect energy use, and indicate source of information: GRI Reporting Level: The GRI data provided is considered: Full Additional Comments: Owens Corning has adopted online meeting collaboration software between employees and outside vendors, video conferencing, and expansion of virtual conference rooms to global sites. Owens Corning has arrangements with a carrier to use LPG fueled trucks in servicing facilities. Additionally we participate in the EPA Smart Way Shipper Program that uses carriers that are more energy efficient. Stating these items above, currently we do not track these reductions in detail. http://www.one-report.com/report/qgri_index.html?categoryid=695;qid=2181;rid=MzQ1N... 1/16/2015 GRI Index Page 1 of 1 Water Reused GRI EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. Report in cubic meters (m3) 2013 2012 2011 Total volume of water recycled/reused 532889 401114 852267 Recycled water as a percentage of total water withdrawal 5 4 8 Water recycling program exists: Yes Total amount of recycled water used is publicly disclosed: Yes The percentage of total water use that is satisfied through the use of recycled water is publicly disclosed: Yes GRI Reporting Level: The GRI data provided is considered: Full Additional Comments: Owens Corning has defined an enterprise wide Water Policy covering all business units and geographies. This policy was initiated in 2012 and finalized in 2013 by a dedicated core team consisting of environmental leaders from business units, facilities and the corporate office. This core team was supported by water experts and external consultants to help them document the product-specific water balance maps, calculation methodologies for recycling, reuse & re-circulated water, and water intensity numbers. We continue to collect water related information from our facilities to understand water use, sewer discharge costs, named sources of water extraction and wastewater discharge destinations both for our facilities that are direct dischargers and those that discharge indirectly through municipal treatment providers. In 2013, this data was collected from all facilities using our proprietary in house excel based tool (as defined in section 2.8.3 above) and was utilized to further refine our water balance maps, evaporation and recycling rates. Furthermore this data was mapped to the water risk assessment results (as calculated by Aquaduct) and to the results of the water verification study (as conducted by the 3rd party verification) to map our Top 10 plants for implementing special water programs and initiatives. In the previous years Owens Corning reported the values of both recycled and recirculated water together. One of our business units is showing over 2000% recirculated water in 2013. Going forward we will be reporting recycled and recirculated water separately to enable better tracking and management of our water resources. http://www.one-report.com/report/qgri_index.html?categoryid=697;qid=2184;rid=NjM3N... 1/16/2015 GRI Index Page 1 of 1 Restored Habitats GRI EN13 Habitats protected or restored. GRI Reporting Level: The GRI data provided is considered: Full Additional Comments: Owens Corning is not restoring any lands as a part of raw materials extraction or any other land disturbing business. Owens Corning is not in businesses that remove minerals or other resources on or under the land. We focus on meeting regulatory requirements for all releases of air, water, waste, implementing footprint reductions beyond compliance and follow our corporate environmental policies and guidelines, and conduct periodic assessments to assure proper operations. We engage stakeholders as necessary. Environmental considerations including natural resource protection are taken into account as part of capital project planning and internal approval. We have a new proactive program to promote the use of more native vegetation on our properties to enhance indigenous and migrating wildlife. Owens Corning does have three small closed landfills and a closed and dismantled plant location in the Pinelands of New Jersey, a listed Biosphere site. They comprise a total of 164 acres. The landfills are properly capped, vegetated, routinely inspected and they attract wildlife. The former manufacturing property is undergoing groundwater remediation, but we don't believe the site is having any effect on biodiversity. http://www.one-report.com/report/qgri_index.html?categoryid=696;qid=2187;rid=MTg3N... 1/16/2015 GRI Index Page 1 of 1 Biodiversity Strategy GRI EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity. Owens Corning has assessed and continues to assess our biodiversity risks and have determined we have no risk or opportunities related to biodiversity for all of our manufacturing locations. Owens Corning evaluates its impact on sensitive sites and species by evaluating our operational activities, impacts and locations against the location databases of various sensitive sites and species on an annual basis. We have a good understanding of our risk profile in the biodiversity aspect. We conduct annual evaluations of all of our current operating and new facilities with respect to proximity to special global bio diverse sites some of which added new diverse sites to their listings for 2013: UNESCO World Heritage Sites Owens Corning has no global manufacturing facilities that are either in or adjacent to any of the nature sites and mixed cultural/nature sites listed on the list. UNESCO Biosphere Reserves Owens Corning has no global operating manufacturing facilities that are either on or adjacent to any Biosphere sites. Owens Corning does have three small closed landfills and a closed and dismantled plant location in the Pinelands of New Jersey, a listed Biosphere site. They comprise a total of 164 acres. The landfills are properly capped, vegetated, routinely inspected and they attract wildlife. The former manufacturing property is undergoing groundwater remediation, but we don't believe the site is having any effect on biodiversity. RAMSAR Convention on Wetlands Owens Corning has no facilities either on or adjacent to any of the listed wetlands. AZE (Alliance for Zero Extinction) epicenters of imminent extinctions which uses the IUCN red List of Threatened SpeciesOwens Corning has no facilities either on or adjacent to any of the AZE listed sites. Natura 2000 (Europe) Owens Corning has no facilities that are either on or adjacent to any of these sites. Owens Corning also organizes various events on Earth day and encourages all their facilities worldwide to participate. This year numerous events were planned at Owens Corning facilities, including: planting wild flower seeds going paper free for one day incineration of thousands of pounds of leftover paint, stains and varnishes instead of sending it to landfills planting trees opening of an environmental friendly community garden at a research and technology location GRI Reporting Level: The GRI data provided is considered: Full http://www.one-report.com/report/qgri_index.html?categoryid=696;qid=2188;rid=MTA3N... 1/16/2015 GRI Index Page 1 of 2 Greenhouse Gas Reductions GRI EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved by Owens Corning follow: Theme Description of Reductions % Total Investment Start date Duration initiative/activity in GHG/CO2 emissions in of initiative of emissions (currency): initiative achieved (years) Fuel switching Our Compton, CA roofing 1,003 less 12/01/2011 2 (e.g. investment in and asphalt plant installed metric % than 'green electricity') a fuel cell to offset their tonnes 1% purchased electricity in 2011. The start date was December 1, 2011. Most of the benefits of this change occurred in 2012. Research & % development in low carbon technologies Production of low % carbon technologies Generation of % renewable energy Product/service % innovation Carbon capture % and storage (sequestration) *Demand-side % management (e.g. working with customers) New business % model (e.g. switch from manufacturing to service model) Breakthrough % project any initiative resulting in >25% reduction in total emissions Other Natural gas leak detection 16,496 less 01/01/2012 1 program metric % than tonnes 1% Other Elimination of high 408,907 % 9 01/01/2010 3 greenhouse gas (GHG) metric tons blowing agents from our global extruded polystyrene (XPS) foam operations Other % Operations % 100 covered (in percent) GRI Reporting Level: The GRI data provided is considered: Full http://www.one-report.com/report/qgri_index.html?categoryid=698;qid=2192;rid=MzQw... 1/16/2015 GRI Index Page 2 of 2 Additional Comments: •Energy Projects in the Building Materials and Composite Businesses -In 2013 , Owens Corning has implemented and completed 60 small Energy Projects in the Building Materials and Composite Businesses across the globe. These projects included initiatives such as lighting upgrades to large scale programs which helped Owens Corning achieve an estimated 19,182 metric tonnes CO2e of annual CO2e savings. •Low/No Cost Energy Savings activities in the Building Materials and Composite Businesses In 2013 , Owens Corning has implemented and completed 105 Low Cost and/or No Cost Energy savings activities in the Building Materials and Composite Businesses. An example of our continuous improvement initiatives: Owens Corning has developed an energy network and assigned energy leaders to share best practices periodically. This has helped helped Owens Corning achieve an estimated 20,466 metric tonnes CO2e of annual CO2e savings. http://www.one-report.com/report/qgri_index.html?categoryid=698;qid=2192;rid=MzQw... 1/16/2015 GRI Index Page 1 of 1 Water Discharge GRI EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. Unit: Cubic Meter 2013 2012 2011 †Company can identify Volume Volume of Volume Volume of Volume Volume of discharges of water planned effluents or planned effluents or planned effluents or from operations by and process and process and process destination, treatment unplanned water in unplanned water in unplanned water in and by quantity and water discharges (if water discharges (if water discharges (if quality using standard discharges applicable discharges applicable discharges applicable effluent parameters. indicate indicate indicate parameters): parameters): parameters): POTW 4552560 5061146 4758531 Destination: (Municipality) Destination: Surface Water 1288178 1060401 782101 Destination: Other 1885361 829061 898251 Treatment method: Water discharge reused by 833200 4324 another organization Data publicly available: GRI Reporting Level: The GRI data provided is considered: Full Additional Comments: The following are water pollutants in metric tonnes discharged from facilities that track and report. Some of the facilities that discharge to municipality treatment works do not have contaminant concentrations. However these treatment works are required to meet local and country treatment and surface water quality standards. (Company discharges reaching the environment have been treated where required.) We continue to improve our reporting information which explains increasing trends and is not an indication of more impact on the environment. 2011 TSS 356.43 MT 2011 BOD 157.60 MT 2011 COD 1,543.64 MT 2012 TSS 921.14 MT 2012 BOD 329.11 MT 2012 COD 2,284.44 MT 2013 TSS 939.15 MT 2013 BOD 347.28 MT 2013 COD 2,508.97 MT Owens Corning tracks and reports its discharge quantities across all facilities. Each of our facilities is governed by a waste water discharge permit which outlines the quality of discharge. Utilizing onsite & offshore effluent treatment systems, we are ensuring that the discharge water quality is as per the permit levels. In most cases, we are maintaining our water quality above the specified base minimum thresholds. In 2013, Owens Corning’s water discharges totaled to 7,726,099 cubic meters. This represents an increase by 11% in absolute value as compared to the prior year 2012, which can be directly linked to production output. Discharges declined into the municipal waste water system while it is increased for surface water and discharges offsite to other treatment sources like POTW (Publically Owned Treatment Works). In addition, there were no significant breaches or fines regarding non compliance of water discharges. http://www.one-report.com/report/qgri_index.html?categoryid=698;qid=2195;rid=NDI3Mj... 1/16/2015 GRI Index Page 1 of 3 Total Waste GRI EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. Unit: Metric Tons How the method of disposal was determined: From manifests and bills of lading Waste by method of disposal Data Coverage 2013 Hazardous NonTotal 2013 Target % / % of (e.g. revenues) hazardous Compost 217 217 Reuse Recycling 2835 238015 240849 100 units of production Recovery Incineration 264 692 955 Incineration for energy recovery 684 1226 1910 Landfill 1059 269000 270058 100 units of production Deep well injection On-site storage Returned to supplier 136 136 Others or Unknown 1436 695 2130 Total waste coverage: % / % of 2013 Total: 6277 509979 516256 100 units of production 2013 Target: 2012 Hazardous NonTotal 2012 Target % / % of (e.g. revenues) hazardous Compost 15 15 Reuse Recycling 1925 244103 246029 100 units of production Recovery Incineration 6 841 847 Incineration for energy recovery 57 1503 1560 Landfill 91 256393 256484 100 units of production Deep well injection On-site storage Returned to supplier 47 47 http://www.one-report.com/report/qgri_index.html?categoryid=698;qid=2196;rid=OTk5O... 1/16/2015 GRI Index Page 2 of 3 Others or Unknown 2298 226 2524 Total waste coverage: % / % of 2012 Total: 4378 503128 507506 100 units of production 2012 Target: 2011 Hazardous NonTotal 2011 Target % / % of (e.g. revenues) hazardous Compost 10 10 Reuse Recycling 592 274237 274829 100 units of production Recovery Incineration 1 643 644 Incineration for energy recovery 241 619 860 Landfill 54 215654 215708 100 units of production Deep well injection On-site storage Returned to supplier 759 759 Others or Unknown 2259 145 2405 Total waste coverage: % / % of 2011 Total 3146 492068 495214 100 units of production 2011 Target: 2010 Hazardous NonTotal Target for % / % of (e.g. revenues) hazardous 2010 Compost 10 10 Reuse Recycling 342 179709 180051 100 units of production Recovery Incineration 521 521 Incineration for energy recovery 24 463 487 Landfill 195 250135 250330 100 units of production Deep well injection On-site storage Returned to supplier 464 464 Others or Unknown 2784 915 3699 Total waste coverage: % / % of http://www.one-report.com/report/qgri_index.html?categoryid=698;qid=2196;rid=OTk5O... 1/16/2015 GRI Index Page 3 of 3 2010 Total 3346 432217 435563 100 units of production 2010 Target: Third party verification Data publicly available: Included in disclosure: GRI Reporting Level: The GRI data provided is considered: Full Additional Comments: In 2013, Owens Corning is reporting a 6% increase in their waste intensity to landfills, as compared to the base year of 2010 which is attributable to losses in large recycling opportunities at several major facilities in the current calendar year. Although we recognize an increase in our overall waste to landfill Owens Corning has evaluated several waste opportunities which have resulted in significant reductions in our waste to landfill, including: • process waste as alternative raw material for cement kilns • plant waste with high BTU content as alternative fuel for cement kilns • applications for scrap glass in ceramic industry • scrap glass as an alternative raw material input for applications that are typically wood-based • scrap glass as filler for poly resin-based applications • process waste used in road paving applications Owens Corning measures internally the amount of waste to landfill, the amount of waste diverted from the landfill (recycling, reuse, returned to the supplier) and the amount not diverted on a plant by plant basis. Our data additionally includes each waste stream for our inventory. The combination of the data listed above allows to better define areas of improvement and areas where we can implement large scale changes across the region and/or globe. Internally Owens Corning has set annual reduction targets for waste-to-landfill intensity of 10% per year over a period from 2014 – 2020. We feel this goal strongly correlates to our aggressive externally published goal of waste-to-landfill Intensity reduction of 70%. Owens Corning focuses its strategy on intensity goals and does not establish absolute goals to measure progress. Our business volumes tend to vary based on market conditions in our key businesses and we can see wide variation from year to year as a result. http://www.one-report.com/report/qgri_index.html?categoryid=698;qid=2196;rid=OTk5O... 1/16/2015 GRI Index Page 1 of 1 Mitigate Product Impact GRI EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation. All new and significantly modified existing products sold by Owens Corning undergo a comprehensive Product Stewardship Review to ensure that they perform as claimed and are both safe and environmentally sound to make, use and dispose. We have conducted more than 1000 reviews since 1997 and more than 710 since 2006 when the Product Stewardship program was made a mandatory element of our Business Code of Conduct Policy. Product reviews address all elements of Owens Corning’s Environmental, Health, Safety and Product Stewardship Policy, and are carried out by highly qualified Product Stewardship Review Board members. Reviews are conducted at various stages, including the design, development, test market, manufacture and distribution phases. As part of the product stewardship process, developers are asked to complete a questionnaire that generates a sustainability map of the product throughout its life cycle. This Sustainability Mapping Tool is used to evaluate how the new product or process will impact the company’s sustainability goals and to drive decisions in the design phase that will achieve a portfolio of more sustainable products. Examples of Products that have been assessed: Through the innovation of EcoTouch® insulation with PureFiber® Technology, Owens Corning customers now enjoy highperformance residential and commercial insulation that is formaldehyde free, made with a biobased binder formulation and certified to have a minimum of 58 percent recycled glass content. In 2013, Owens Corning continued to make product platform conversions using bio based materials for binder, including equipment, refrigeration and appliance insulation. The company also created a binder-less insulation product using PureSolution Technology™ with initial application in range appliances. The use of HBCD fire retardant in XPS foam has garnered attention due to the nature of the compound, and Owens Corning has identified a Next Generation Flame Retardant that was positively reviewed in the EPA’s Design for the Environment report. Conversion of foam plants was initiated in the 4th quarter of 2013. Certification is continuing with a product launch planned in mid-2014. Owens Corning has been using Life Cycle Assessments (LCA) for their products since 2006 with a 2015 Company goal which is on track to have full LCAs on all of our core products. We have Environmental Product Declarations (EPD's) on 4 major Building Material product lines. GRI Reporting Level: The GRI data provided is considered: Full http://www.one-report.com/report/qgri_index.html?categoryid=699;qid=2200;rid=NDY2O... 1/16/2015 GRI Index Page 1 of 1 Sold Products Packaging Reclaimed GRI EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category. Category of % of reclaimed % of reclaimed % of reclaimed How data was collected product sold products and their products and their products and their packaging materials in packaging materials in packaging materials in 2013 2012 2011 Roofing 35 23 2 Reported from Owens C2 Shingles Corning network of third party shingle recycling sites. C2 includes product only; end of life recycled shingles in the Owens Corning network of recyclers vs shingles sold. 2010 and 2011 included only Heritage Env. results, 2012 included increased network beyond Heritages sites. GRI Reporting Level: The GRI data provided is considered: Full Additional Comments: We have no reclaim packaging programs in place today. References 2013 Recycling Sustainability Webpage 2013 Roofing web page, Recycling http://www.one-report.com/report/qgri_index.html?categoryid=699;qid=2201;rid=NzYyM... 1/16/2015 GRI Index Page 1 of 1 Environmental Protection Expenditures GRI EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. Currency: USD 2013 2012 2011 Waste disposal Emissions treatment Remediation Prevention Environmental Total environmental protection 5,000,000 6,000,000 3,000,000 Data publicly available: GRI Reporting Level: The GRI data provided is considered: Not Reported http://www.one-report.com/report/qgri_index.html?categoryid=702;qid=2204;rid=Mzc4N... 1/16/2015 Page 1 of 2 Back to previous page Environment: Principle 9 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Systems Environmental, Health & Safety Policy: http://sustainability.owe... Product Safety: http://sustainability.owe... Actions Owens Corning is continually seeking better technologies for producing products as well as enhancing the characteristics of the products it sells. Through the innovation of EcoTouch® insulation with PureFiber® Technology, Owens Corning customers can now enjoy high-performance residential and commercial insulation that is formaldehyde free, made with natural materials* and certified to have a minimum of 58 percent recycled glass content. All Owens Corning Residential Insulation products are being manufactured using our patent pending PureFiber® Technology platform. Performance Indicators Relevant GRI Indicators: EN2 Percentage of materials used that Use of Recycled Input are recycled input materials. 2014 SCS recycled certification Canada Fiberglass products 2014 SCS recycled content certification heavy density fiberg... 2014 SCS recycled content certification unfaced light densit... 2014 SCS recycled content certification Foamular 2014 SCS recycled content faced fiberglass insulation EN5 Energy saved due to conservation Energy Saved and efficiency improvements. EN10 Percentage and total volume of Water Reused water recycled and reused. EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse Greenhouse Gas Reductions gas emissions and reductions achieved by follow: EN26 Initiatives to mitigate Mitigate Product Impact environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation. EN27 Percentage of products sold and Sold Products Packaging their packaging materials that are Reclaimed reclaimed by category. http://www.one-report.com/report/cop.html?companyid=770;principleid=9;year=2014 1/16/2015 Page 2 of 2 2013 Recycling Sustainability Webpage 2013 Roofing web page, Recycling Back to previous page http://www.one-report.com/report/cop.html?companyid=770;principleid=9;year=2014 1/16/2015 GRI Index Page 1 of 1 Use of Recycled Input GRI EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. Recycled Input Materials 2013 2012 2011 Volume: C2 % used: Data publicly available: Yes C2 Owens Corning has chosen not to report in volumes as different products have different units of measure and ceritfication levels can be seen for each product line. GRI Reporting Level: The GRI data provided is considered: Not Reported Additional Comments: The % of company revenues is reported above which includes our composites glass and building materials segments, but in just looking at our building materials business 34% of all building materials produced use recycled content above 30% and adding our XPS foam insulation at 20% recycled content raises the total to 40% of building materials revenue. Our North American residential fibergalss insulation is Scientific Certification Systems certified to at least 58% recycled content and accounted for 20% of our worldwide Building Materials revenues in 2013. Our North American commercial and industrial fibergalss insulation is also Scientific Certification Systems certified to includes a minimum of 57% recycled content and accounted for 14% of Building Materials revenues in 2013. Certification documents can be found at http://www.scscertified.c... Remaining products in building materials are Extruded polystyrene foam products, asphalt and roofing shingles. We have 20% certified recycle content in our foam products and some plants in our roofing production process are recycling up to about 10% but this varies by location, so most of our building products are using some level of recycle content and for those that are not, we are seeking ways to introduce recycled materials. References 2014 SCS recycled certification Canada Fiberglass products 2014 SCS recycled content certification heavy density fiberg... 2014 SCS recycled content certification unfaced light densit... 2014 SCS recycled content certification Foamular 2014 SCS recycled content faced fiberglass insulation http://www.one-report.com/report/qgri_index.html?categoryid=694;qid=2176;rid=NzEyMj... 1/16/2015 GRI Index Page 1 of 1 Energy Saved GRI EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. Unit (in joules or multiples of joules): GJ 2013 2012 2011 Total energy saved 140400 279080 233481 Publicly disclosed. GRI Reporting Level: The GRI data provided is considered: Full Additional Comments: Given we are manufacturing company, our operations are energy intensive and thus we focus on strategizing when, where and how we should invest in energy efficiency improvements. We are focusing our investments on improvements, upgrades and innovations on energy efficiency. In 2013 OC launched new initiatives around lighting retrofit, compressed air optimization, plant interior lighting upgrades, ultra-sound detection of air leaks, parking lighting, and cooling tower upgrades that stand to generate energy savings of more than 39,000 MWh and potentially drive change across our entire enterprise. http://www.one-report.com/report/qgri_index.html?categoryid=695;qid=2179;rid=ODg4M... 1/16/2015 GRI Index Page 1 of 1 Water Reused GRI EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. Report in cubic meters (m3) 2013 2012 2011 Total volume of water recycled/reused 532889 401114 852267 Recycled water as a percentage of total water withdrawal 5 4 8 Water recycling program exists: Yes Total amount of recycled water used is publicly disclosed: Yes The percentage of total water use that is satisfied through the use of recycled water is publicly disclosed: Yes GRI Reporting Level: The GRI data provided is considered: Full Additional Comments: Owens Corning has defined an enterprise wide Water Policy covering all business units and geographies. This policy was initiated in 2012 and finalized in 2013 by a dedicated core team consisting of environmental leaders from business units, facilities and the corporate office. This core team was supported by water experts and external consultants to help them document the product-specific water balance maps, calculation methodologies for recycling, reuse & re-circulated water, and water intensity numbers. We continue to collect water related information from our facilities to understand water use, sewer discharge costs, named sources of water extraction and wastewater discharge destinations both for our facilities that are direct dischargers and those that discharge indirectly through municipal treatment providers. In 2013, this data was collected from all facilities using our proprietary in house excel based tool (as defined in section 2.8.3 above) and was utilized to further refine our water balance maps, evaporation and recycling rates. Furthermore this data was mapped to the water risk assessment results (as calculated by Aquaduct) and to the results of the water verification study (as conducted by the 3rd party verification) to map our Top 10 plants for implementing special water programs and initiatives. In the previous years Owens Corning reported the values of both recycled and recirculated water together. One of our business units is showing over 2000% recirculated water in 2013. Going forward we will be reporting recycled and recirculated water separately to enable better tracking and management of our water resources. http://www.one-report.com/report/qgri_index.html?categoryid=697;qid=2184;rid=NjM3N... 1/16/2015 GRI Index Page 1 of 2 Greenhouse Gas Reductions GRI EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved by Owens Corning follow: Theme Description of Reductions % Total Investment Start date Duration initiative/activity in GHG/CO2 emissions in of initiative of emissions (currency): initiative achieved (years) Fuel switching Our Compton, CA roofing 1,003 less 12/01/2011 2 (e.g. investment in and asphalt plant installed metric % than 'green electricity') a fuel cell to offset their tonnes 1% purchased electricity in 2011. The start date was December 1, 2011. Most of the benefits of this change occurred in 2012. Research & % development in low carbon technologies Production of low % carbon technologies Generation of % renewable energy Product/service % innovation Carbon capture % and storage (sequestration) *Demand-side % management (e.g. working with customers) New business % model (e.g. switch from manufacturing to service model) Breakthrough % project any initiative resulting in >25% reduction in total emissions Other Natural gas leak detection 16,496 less 01/01/2012 1 program metric % than tonnes 1% Other Elimination of high 408,907 % 9 01/01/2010 3 greenhouse gas (GHG) metric tons blowing agents from our global extruded polystyrene (XPS) foam operations Other % Operations % 100 covered (in percent) GRI Reporting Level: The GRI data provided is considered: Full http://www.one-report.com/report/qgri_index.html?categoryid=698;qid=2192;rid=MzQw... 1/16/2015 GRI Index Page 2 of 2 Additional Comments: •Energy Projects in the Building Materials and Composite Businesses -In 2013 , Owens Corning has implemented and completed 60 small Energy Projects in the Building Materials and Composite Businesses across the globe. These projects included initiatives such as lighting upgrades to large scale programs which helped Owens Corning achieve an estimated 19,182 metric tonnes CO2e of annual CO2e savings. •Low/No Cost Energy Savings activities in the Building Materials and Composite Businesses In 2013 , Owens Corning has implemented and completed 105 Low Cost and/or No Cost Energy savings activities in the Building Materials and Composite Businesses. An example of our continuous improvement initiatives: Owens Corning has developed an energy network and assigned energy leaders to share best practices periodically. This has helped helped Owens Corning achieve an estimated 20,466 metric tonnes CO2e of annual CO2e savings. http://www.one-report.com/report/qgri_index.html?categoryid=698;qid=2192;rid=MzQw... 1/16/2015 GRI Index Page 1 of 1 Mitigate Product Impact GRI EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation. All new and significantly modified existing products sold by Owens Corning undergo a comprehensive Product Stewardship Review to ensure that they perform as claimed and are both safe and environmentally sound to make, use and dispose. We have conducted more than 1000 reviews since 1997 and more than 710 since 2006 when the Product Stewardship program was made a mandatory element of our Business Code of Conduct Policy. Product reviews address all elements of Owens Corning’s Environmental, Health, Safety and Product Stewardship Policy, and are carried out by highly qualified Product Stewardship Review Board members. Reviews are conducted at various stages, including the design, development, test market, manufacture and distribution phases. As part of the product stewardship process, developers are asked to complete a questionnaire that generates a sustainability map of the product throughout its life cycle. This Sustainability Mapping Tool is used to evaluate how the new product or process will impact the company’s sustainability goals and to drive decisions in the design phase that will achieve a portfolio of more sustainable products. Examples of Products that have been assessed: Through the innovation of EcoTouch® insulation with PureFiber® Technology, Owens Corning customers now enjoy highperformance residential and commercial insulation that is formaldehyde free, made with a biobased binder formulation and certified to have a minimum of 58 percent recycled glass content. In 2013, Owens Corning continued to make product platform conversions using bio based materials for binder, including equipment, refrigeration and appliance insulation. The company also created a binder-less insulation product using PureSolution Technology™ with initial application in range appliances. The use of HBCD fire retardant in XPS foam has garnered attention due to the nature of the compound, and Owens Corning has identified a Next Generation Flame Retardant that was positively reviewed in the EPA’s Design for the Environment report. Conversion of foam plants was initiated in the 4th quarter of 2013. Certification is continuing with a product launch planned in mid-2014. Owens Corning has been using Life Cycle Assessments (LCA) for their products since 2006 with a 2015 Company goal which is on track to have full LCAs on all of our core products. We have Environmental Product Declarations (EPD's) on 4 major Building Material product lines. GRI Reporting Level: The GRI data provided is considered: Full http://www.one-report.com/report/qgri_index.html?categoryid=699;qid=2200;rid=NDY2O... 1/16/2015 GRI Index Page 1 of 1 Sold Products Packaging Reclaimed GRI EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category. Category of % of reclaimed % of reclaimed % of reclaimed How data was collected product sold products and their products and their products and their packaging materials in packaging materials in packaging materials in 2013 2012 2011 Roofing 35 23 2 Reported from Owens C2 Shingles Corning network of third party shingle recycling sites. C2 includes product only; end of life recycled shingles in the Owens Corning network of recyclers vs shingles sold. 2010 and 2011 included only Heritage Env. results, 2012 included increased network beyond Heritages sites. GRI Reporting Level: The GRI data provided is considered: Full Additional Comments: We have no reclaim packaging programs in place today. References 2013 Recycling Sustainability Webpage 2013 Roofing web page, Recycling http://www.one-report.com/report/qgri_index.html?categoryid=699;qid=2201;rid=NzYyM... 1/16/2015 Page 1 of 1 Back to previous page Anti-corruption: Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Systems Business Code of Conduct: http://www2.owenscorning.... Supplier Code of Conduct: http://sustainability.owe... Actions Owens Corning has an anti-corruption policy and expects all employees and suppliers to comply with it. Each year all employees are required to complete a training course on the Owens Corning Corporate Code of Business Conduct Policy and attest to their adherence to it. Performance Indicators Relevant GRI Indicators: SO2 Percentage and total number of business Corruption Risk units analyzed for risks related to corruption. SO3 Percentage of employees trained in Anti-Corruption organization's anti-corruption policies and Training procedures. SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of Corruption corruption. Response Back to previous page http://www.one-report.com/report/cop.html?companyid=770;principleid=10;year=2014 1/16/2015 GRI Index Page 1 of 1 Corruption Risk GRI SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption. 2013 2012 2011 Total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption 4 4 4 C2 Percentage of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption 100 100 100 C2 Reported by Region: Asia Europe NAmerica Latin America GRI Reporting Level: The GRI data provided is considered: Full Additional Comments: Reported by Region: Asia, Europe, North America, and Latin America http://www.one-report.com/report/qgri_index.html?categoryid=725;qid=2223;rid=NjIyOD... 1/16/2015 GRI Index Page 1 of 1 Anti-Corruption Training GRI SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization's anti-corruption policies and procedures. 2013 2012 2011 Percentage of total number of management employees who have received anti-corruption 100 100 100 training Percentage of total number of non-management employees who have received anti-corruption 100 100 100 training GRI Reporting Level: The GRI data provided is considered: Full Additional Comments: Owens Corning staff employees (approx 4,500) receive online anti-corruption training as part of the business code of conduct training reported in the Human Rights Training Section GRI HR3. All other employees receive face-to-face training. http://www.one-report.com/report/qgri_index.html?categoryid=725;qid=2224;rid=NTUyO... 1/16/2015 GRI Index Page 1 of 1 Corruption Response GRI SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. 2013 2012 2011 Total number of incidents in which employees were dismissed or disciplined for corruption 0 0 0 Total number of incidents when contracts with business partners were not renewed due to 0 0 0 violations related to corruption Please explain any litigation or investigation regarding bribery or corrupt practices brought against the company or its employees over the last three years, including a description of the investigation or litigation, the allegations, the company's response, and the current status of any legal proceedings. Please also explain the outcomes, including any fines, penalties, or settlements paid in connection with those proceedings: Internal anonymous report of corruption through the Business Conduct Helpline alleging corrupt activity in Mexico. The matter was fully investigated through internal resources and external legal and accounting resources. The matter was closed with no finding of wrong doing. GRI Reporting Level: The GRI data provided is considered: Full http://www.one-report.com/report/qgri_index.html?categoryid=725;qid=2225;rid=MTMx... 1/16/2015 Sustainability Page 1 of 4 Sustainability Enter Search Terms Home > Commitment Business Overview Products Environment & Safety Products > Recycling Community Suppliers Global Reporting Recycling Owens Corning is one of the largest users of recycled glass in the world, using over 1 billion pounds annually of curbside consumer containers and pre-consumer recycled glass. It only takes a six pack of beer bottles or one wine bottle to insulate a standard 16” on center 8’ cavity. Not only does this decrease community landfill waste, but it also lowers our energy use when manufacturing insulation, since starting with raw materials such as sand requires more energy. In addition, we’re the first roofing manufacturer to establish a program for recycling shingles. Recycled Content When it comes to using recycled glass content in our insulation, we use as much as we can get. Through the years, we have increased our use of recycled glass, working in collaboration with municipalities and partners throughout the supply chain to increase recycled glass collection and processing. However, looking forward, we are finding that demand is higher than supply, and still three quarters of today’s glass waste is being landfilled. This is a problem we would like to solve. http://sustainability.owenscorning.com/contents/products/Recycling/ 1/16/2015 Sustainability Page 2 of 4 Our light density fiberglass insulation is certified to have a minimum of 58 percent recycled content and in some areas we have as much as 73 percent, while continuing to provide the same energysaving performance our customers expect. ® Our Foamular XPS products use a minimum of 20 percent recycled content, utilizing waste from various foam manufacturing operations. Both product lines are certified by Scientific Certification Systems for recycled content, providing building professionals documentation that these products can contribute to meeting green building guidelines such as LEED® certification. Other Owens Corning products, including roofing products, have recycled content dependent on where they are produced. Contact 1-800-GET-PINK® for more information on recycled content in any of our products. Shingle Recycling Owens Corning Roofing and Asphalt, LLC is the first roofing manufacturer to establish a program for recycling shingles. We connect contractors with convenient recycling facilities through a national strategic alliance with Earth911.com and Heritage Environmental Services. As part of this groundbreaking program, contractors take the Preferred Contractor Shingle Recycling Pledge, committing to recycle their shingle tear-offs. Currently there are over 100 major cities with recycling locations. Sixty percent of the United States population is covered by these locations allowing us to add the label “Shingles are Recyclable.” Homeowners can also commit to recycling by taking their version of the Shingle Recycling Pledge and selecting a contractor who recycles shingles from Owens Corning’s contractor locator page. Since the program began in 2009, we’ve recycled over 1.6 million tons of shingles, the equivalent of approximately 525,000 roofs. Every recycled roof is comparable to recycling more than 100 percent of a year’s worth of household waste. The recycled shingles provide oil in the form of asphalt for beneficial reuse typically in paving. Giving Glass a Second Life Owens Corning and Boulevard Brewery in Kansas City, Missouri, USA, created what some call America’s first self-contained metropolitan recycling system. The brewery was looking for ways to recycle its glass bottles, and the nearby Owens Corning plant in Kansas City, Kansas,, was seeking ways to increase its use of recycled glass. Meanwhile there was no glass recycling program for local http://sustainability.owenscorning.com/contents/products/Recycling/ 1/16/2015 Sustainability Page 3 of 4 residents. With the help of Owens Corning, Boulevard Brewery opened Ripple Glass, a state-of-the-art processing facility for glass recycling and reclamation. Residents are now able to drop off their jars and bottles at 60 locations around the city. Ripple collects, sorts and crushes the glass, and then ships it to Owens Corning to be melted and spun into fiberglass insulation. The result is a win-win for the community and the environment. Read the case study . Document Library ◦ Materials Safety Data Sheet (MSDS) Database ◦ EHS and Product Stewardship Policy ◦ EcoTouch Flame Spread 25 Transparency Summary ◦ EcoTouch Foil Faced Insulation Transparency Summary ◦ FOAMULAR XPS Insulation Transparency Summary ◦ Kraft-Faced Insulation Transparency Brief ◦ Unfaced Insulation Transparency Brief ◦ Unbonded Loosefill Transparency Brief ◦ NAIMA Heavy Density Mineral Wool Board Transparency Summary ◦ NAIMA Light Density Mineral Wool Board Transparency Summary ◦ Sustainability Literature WHAT DO YOU THINK? We welcome your comments and suggestions on our progress and on our expanded online reporting. Click here For Homeowners • Find a Retail Store • Find a Building Professional • Customer Service • Literature For Building Professionals • Commercial Applications • Find a Distributor • Customer Service • Franchise Opportunities http://sustainability.owenscorning.com/contents/products/Recycling/ 1/16/2015 Sustainability Page 4 of 4 • Tradeshows Products • Insulation • Roofing • Commercial Products • Trumbull Asphalt • Basement Finishing • Composites About Owens Corning • Media Room • For Investors • Careers • Worldwide Sites • Sustainability • Contact Us • Site Map Join the conversation © 1996-2014 Owens Corning. All rights reserved. The color PINK is a registered trademark of Owens Corning. THE PINK PANTHERTM & ©1964-2014 Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Studios Inc. All Rights Reserved. • Copyright Statement • Terms of Use • Privacy Policy http://sustainability.owenscorning.com/contents/products/Recycling/ 1/16/2015 Sustainability | Owens Corning™ Roofing Page 1 of 4 Roofing and Asphalt Contact Us Careers Sustainability search owenscorning.com  Browse Shingles & Total Protection Roofing Basics Accessories Roofing System™ Warranty Find a Contractor I am a  Homeowner  43601 ○ Roofing Roofing Basics Sustainability Sustainable Roofing – Guides, Energy Solutions and Recycling Opportunities As a world leader in building materials and composite solutions, Owens Corning delivers a broad range of high-quality products and services. But did you know that Owens Corning also offers leadership in creating sustainable solutions for the roofing industry? Check out some Owens Corning sustainable roofing practices below. http://www.owenscorning.com/roofing/basics/shingle-recycling/ 1/16/2015 Sustainability | Owens Corning™ Roofing Page 2 of 4 Click to start Sustainable Roofing Guides and Rating Systems designing your roof ∠ Here are more details on what Owens Corning Roofing and Asphalt is doing to guide you in meeting your sustainable roofing goals and green rating systems: Learn More ENERGY STAR® rated roofing Owens products — Corning Roofing and save on energy costs, beautifully Asphalt Shingle In areas with Recycling substantial sunlight, Program Owens Corning™ Turn your old roof into a road and Roofing can help save pave the way to a energy† costs with better world. Learn our ENERGY STAR® more about Owens Corning Roofing rated roofing and Asphalt products. The Shingle Recycling Program. following Owens Corning™ shingles are ENERGY STAR® rated for their ability to reflect the sun's rays and keep roofs cool, resulting in a more comfortable living space below. Related Pages Learn More How Much Do You Need for Roofing? Shingle recycling — help pave ∠ the way to a better world What to Expect When Getting a New Roof ∠ http://www.owenscorning.com/roofing/basics/shingle-recycling/ 1/16/2015 Sustainability | Owens Corning™ Roofing Page 3 of 4 Owens Corning SureNail® Roofing and Asphalt, Technology for LLC was the first Roofing Shingles ∠ roofing manufacturer to help create a SureNail® and process that increases WeatherGuard® shingle recycling and Technologies ∠ material reuse across the country. We’re working with shingle recyclers to turn old shingles into new roads. Learn More Asphalt products are the most recycled products in the United States.^ The Owens Corning Roofing and Asphalt Shingle Recycling Program is available in most major markets around the United States, and many of our shingle products are labeled as recyclable on the package. ^ Per NAPA Information Series 138, 2nd Annual Asphalt Pavement Industry Survey on Reclaimed Asphalt Pavement, Reclaimed Asphalt Shingles, and Warm Mix Asphalt Usage; 2009-2011, produced April 2013. If you’re replacing your roof, consider working with an Owens Corning™ Roofing Preferred Contractor who recycles. Take our Shingle Recycling Pledge to show your commitment to recycling old shingles. # Estimated roof surface temperature reduction based on 1998 NIST study, Analytical Study of Residential Buildings with Reflective Roofs. A temperature reduction is representative of a change from a typical roof to a Cool Roof (solar reflectance 10 to 25) in most climates. * Homeowners can claim a credit of 10% up to $500 of the purchase price of qualifying products. There is a $500 lifetime limitation on this credit. All Owens Corning products listed on page 1 of the Manufacturer’s Certification Statement qualify for up to $500. Circumstances vary widely, so homeowners should consult with their tax adviser for further guidance. Visit www.energystar.gov and www.irs.gov for more information. † Savings vary. Find out why in the seller's fact sheet on R-values. Higher R-values mean greater insulating power. http://www.owenscorning.com/roofing/basics/shingle-recycling/ 1/16/2015 Sustainability | Owens Corning™ Roofing Page 4 of 4 ENERGY STAR® and the ENERGY STAR mark are registered trademarks of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. LEED® is a registered trademark of U.S. Green Building Council. Our Products: Contact Us: About Us: Social Media: Roofing and Asphalt Investors Call 1-800-GET-PINK® Residential Insulation (1-800-438-7465) In Our Communities Commercial Insulation Company History Warranty Management Owens Corning is a proud Basement Finishing System Media Room member of ARMA Submit Product Questions Composites Careers / Jobs Give Us Feedback MSDS Tradeshows Literature © 1996–2014 Owens Corning | Privacy Policy | Site Map | Unsubscribe The color PINK is a registered trademark of Owens Corning. THE PINK PANTHER ™ & © 1964–2014 Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Studios Inc. All Rights Reserved. http://www.owenscorning.com/roofing/basics/shingle-recycling/ 1/16/2015 SCS Global Services does hereby certify that an independent assessment has been conducted on behalf of: Owens Corning Sales, LLC One Owens Corning Parkway, 2/B; Mail Drop 2-22, Toledo, OH, USA Edmonton, AB, CA; Toronto, ON, CA For the following product(s): ™ ® ® ™ ™ ® EcoTouch QuietZone PINK FIBERGLAS Insulation, EcoTouch PINK ™ ® FIBERGLAS Insulation with PureFiber Technology, PROPINK® FIBERGLAS® ® Blown-in Insulation, and AttiCat Expanding Blown-in Insulation (made in Canada) This product meets all of the necessary qualifications to be certified for the following claim: MINIMUM 73% Minimum 73% Recycled Glass Content, with at least 64% Post-consumer Recycled RECYCLED CONTENT 64% POST-CONSUMER and the balance (9%) Pre-consumer Recycled Glass Content (Canadian plant-wide 9% PRE-CONSUMER weighted average). Conforms to the SCS Recycled Content Standard V6-0. Registration # SCS-MC-02496 Valid from: October 1, 2013 to September 30, 2014 Robert J. Hrubes, Ph.D., Executive Vice President 2000 Powell Street, Ste. 600, Emeryville, CA 94608 USA SCS Global Services does hereby certify that an independent assessment has been conducted on behalf of: Owens Corning Sales, LLC One Owens Corning Parkway, 2/B; Mail Drop 2-22, Toledo, OH, USA Newark, OH, USA; Waxahachie, TX, USA; Mexico City , Mexico For the following product(s): ™ Owens Corning High Density Fiberglass Products, including FIBERGLAS 700 Series Insulation, ® ® ® QuietR & QuietZone Air Handling Products and other Air Handling Products (SoftR All® Service Duct Wrap and EcoTouch Flexible Duct Media), Pipe Insulation Products, OEM Insulation Products, Acoustic Blankets and Boards, Shaftwall Insulation, Curtainwall Insulation, Fiberglas™ Products, and Owens Corning Mexico Fiberglass Products MINIMUM 57% RECYCLED CONTENT 5% POST-CONSUMER This product meets all of the necessary qualifications to be certified for the following claim: 52% PRE-CONSUMER Minimum 57% Recycled Glass Content, with at least 5% Post-consumer Recycled and the balance (52%) Pre-consumer Recycled Glass Content (plant-wide weighted average) Conforms to the SCS Recycled Content Standard V6-0 Registration # SCS-MC-02066 Valid from: October 1, 2013 to September 30, 2014 Robert J. Hrubes, Ph.D., Executive Vice President 2000 Powell Street, Ste. 600, Emeryville, CA 94608 USA SCS Global Services does hereby certify that an independent assessment has been conducted on behalf of: Owens Corning Sales, LLC One Owens Corning Parkway, 2/B; Mail Drop 2-22, Toledo, OH, USA Newark, OH, USA; Mt. Vernon, OH, USA; Kansas City, KS, USA; Santa Clara, CA, USA; Waxahachie, TX, USA; Fairburn, GA, USA; Delmar, NY, USA; Edmonton, AB, CAN; Toronto, ONT, CAN; Nephi, UT, USA; Lakeland, FL, USA For the following product(s): ® Owens Corning Light Density Fiberglass Products, including EcoTouch Unfaced ® Batts and Rolls, Bonded Loosefill Insulation and EcoTouch Metal Building Insulation Products This product meets all of the necessary qualifications to be certified for the following claim: Minimum 65% Recycled Glass Content, with at least 41% Post-consumer Recycled MINIMUM 65% RECYCLED CONTENT 41% POST-CONSUMER and the balance (24%) Pre-consumer Recycled Glass Content (plant-wide 24% PRE-CONSUMER weighted average) Conforms to the SCS Recycled Content Standard V6 -0 Registration # SCS-MC-01025 Valid from: October 1, 2013 to September 30, 2014 Robert J. Hrubes, Ph.D., Executive Vice President 2000 Powell Street, Ste. 600, Emeryville, CA 94608 USA SCS Global Services does hereby certify that an independent assessment has been conducted on behalf of: Owens Corning Sales, LLC One Owens Corning Parkway, 2/B; Mail Drop 2-22, Toledo, OH, USA Delmar, NY, USA; Fairburn, GA, USA; Kansas City, KS, USA; Santa Clara, CA, USA; Waxahachie, TX, USA For the following product(s): ® Owens Corning Light Density Fiberglass Products, including EcoTouch Faced Batts & Rolls (Kraft, Foil, and other materials) and Unbonded Loosefill Products, ® ® including PROPINK L77 unbonded loosefill insulation and AttiCat unbonded loosefill insulation. MINIMUM 58% This product meets all of the necessary qualifications to be certified for the following claim: RECYCLED CONTENT 36% POST-CONSUMER Minimum 58% Recycled Content, with at least 36% Post-consumer Recycled Glass 22% PRE-CONSUMER and 22% Pre-consumer Recycled Glass Content and at least 1% Recycled Paper Fiber Content (plant-wide weighted average). Conforms to the SCS Recycled Content Standard V6-0. Note: Only Kraft faced products contain recycled paper content Registration # SCS-MC-02676 Valid from: October 1, 2013 to September 30, 2014 Robert J. Hrubes, Ph.D., Executive Vice President 2000 Powell Street, Ste. 600, Emeryville, CA 94608 USA SCS Global Services does hereby certify that an independent assessment has been conducted on behalf of: Owens Corning Sales, LLC Gresham, OR, USA; Tallmadge, OH, USA; Rockford, IL, USA; Valleyfield, QC, Canada For the following product(s): Rigid Polystyrene Insulation which includes Foamular brand, ASTM C578 Types IV, V, VI, VII, X; Canadian Foamular and CodeBord, CAN/ULC S701 Types 3 & 4 MINIMUM 20% RECYCLED CONTENT This product meets all of the necessary qualifications to be certified for the following claim: PRE-CONSUMER Minimum 20% Pre-consumer Recycled Polystyrene Content (weighted, four-plant average) Conforms to the SCS Recycled Content Standard V6 -0 Registration # SCS-MC-01132 Valid from: October 1, 2013 to September 30, 2014 Robert J. Hrubes, Ph.D., Executive Vice President 2000 Powell Street, Ste. 600, Emeryville, CA 94608 USA Owens Corning Supplier Code of Conduct Purpose and Expectations The Owens Corning Code of Business Conduct Policy reflects our core values in the form of our Ten Guiding Principles – Principles designed to ensure that employees act with integrity and in an ethical manner, avoiding even the appearance of impropriety. These principles also address the principles found in the United Nations Global Compact for which Owens Corning is dedicated to incorporating as a signatory. Owens Corning’s Ten Guiding Principles are: 1. Value Human Health and our Environment 2. Act with Integrity 3. Treat Others Respectfully 4. Compete Vigorously but Lawfully 5. Honor Trade Restrictions 6. Create a No Conflicts Culture 7. Keep Accurate Records 8. Respect and Preserve Confidential Information 9. Ensure that Commitments are Properly Made 10. Properly Use Company Electronic Systems This Supplier Code of Conduct (“Code”) has been developed to incorporate these Ten Guiding Principles as well as international norms on human rights, the protection of the environment, and the prevention of corruption into our sourcing activities. The Code outlines the expectations that we have regarding the operations of our Suppliers. Owens Corning defines “Suppliers” as any organization or entity that directly provides goods and/or services to Owens Corning. The Code is meant to act as a reference during our selection and retention of all Suppliers that provide goods or services supporting our operations worldwide. While Owens Corning understands and respects that there are different legal and cultural environments in which our Suppliers conduct their operations, this Code will provide our Sourcing Organization with a foundation to assist in contracting decisions and Supplier selection, and a framework by which to hold our Suppliers accountable to the Guiding Principles and international norms. In an effort to create a responsible and effective supply chain, Owens Corning will seek business partners who share the same commitment to human rights and our Guiding Principles. Owens Corning is dedicated to the continuous improvement of this Code. The Code will be modified and/or updated accordingly following any significant change in law or regulation impacting our operations in any country around the world, or in such cases where Owens Corning believes it is necessary. Page 1 of 7 Owens Corning Supplier Code of Conduct Legal Compliance Suppliers are expected to comply with all applicable legislation, including laws, regulations and legal requirements on human rights, labor, the environment, anti-corruption, and trade and customs. The Code also references international norms, such as International Labour Organization (ILO) Conventions. Owens Corning expects the Supplier to comply with country-specific or local legislation, the international norms explicitly referenced in the Code, or Owens Corning’s-specific standards, whichever standard is higher. Should conflicts arise between local legislation and international norms or Owens Corning-specific standards, the Supplier is expected to notify Owens Corning. Environmental, Health, Safety & Product Stewardship The operations of our Suppliers must comply with all applicable environmental, health and safety laws, regulations and legal requirements in the countries in which they operate. Suppliers are expected to provide: • Their employees with a safe, clean, and healthy work environment and living environment, if Suppliers provide employees with accommodation • Their employees with adequate training related to health, safety, product stewardship and the environment • Adequate management systems for environmental, health and safety, and product stewardship programs • Products that are safe and environmentally sound to use and dispose of • Products that perform as claimed • Useful information on the performance and safe use of their products and • Programs to reduce the environmental impact of their products such as: o Optimization of energy consumption with a view to reducing greenhouse gas emissions o Optimization of consumption of natural resources o Reduction of quantities of waste released and development of reclamation and recycling solutions, and o Reduction of discharges into natural surroundings and other sources of pollution. Suppliers are expected to establish goals and monitor the reduction of their environmental footprint. In procuring raw materials, suppliers are expected to verify that all materials used in the manufacture of Owens Corning products or sale of products to Owens Corning were sourced in compliance with all applicable environmental laws, regulations and legal requirements. To ensure safe handling, movement, storage, recycling, reuse, and disposal, Suppliers are expected to identify and manage substances that pose a hazard if released to the environment and comply with applicable labeling laws and regulations for recycling and disposal. Page 2 of 7 Owens Corning Supplier Code of Conduct Raw Materials Procurement – Conflict Minerals Owens Corning does not tolerate the use of raw materials that directly or indirectly contribute to armed conflict or human rights abuses in any of its products. At a minimum, the supplier is expected to: • Have a policy that addresses the responsible procurement of conflict minerals (currently defined in section 1502(e)(4) of the Dodd Frank Wall Street Reform Act) • Train appropriate personnel on this policy • Implement a risk assessment (supply chain mapping) of all conflict minerals sources and • Develop an appropriate risk mitigation strategy for those suppliers identified as “high-risk” in the supply chain mapping exercise. Owens Corning encourages the supplier to verify the supply chain due diligence practices of their suppliers in regards to conflict minerals and to join or build partnerships with industry organizations implementing due diligence in the mineral supply chain. Employment Standards Suppliers are expected to hire, compensate, provide benefits and access to training, promote, terminate and/or retire employees without regard to race, color, religion, national origin, political affiliation, union membership, marital status, pregnancy, age, disability, gender, gender identity, sexual orientation, or any other characteristic unrelated to the ability to do a job. Suppliers are expected to provide their employees with compensation benefits and working hour schedules in compliance with all applicable laws and collective agreements. Suppliers are expected not to employ child labor. Owens Corning will not knowingly engage a Supplier that directly or indirectly through a third party employs child labor on the Supplier’s premises. We define “child labor” as work or service extracted from anyone under the age of sixteen (16), the minimum age for employment in that country, or the age for completing compulsory education in that country, whichever is higher. Owens Corning supports the participation in legitimate workplace apprenticeship programs, as long as they comply with all applicable laws and are consistent with Articles 6 and 7 of the ILO Minimum Age Convention No. 138 on vocational or technical education and light work. If children below the legal working age are found in the workplace, suppliers are expected to take measures to remove them from work and to help seek viable alternatives and access to adequate services and education for the children and their families. Suppliers are expected to comply with all legal requirements for the work of authorized young workers (workers under the age of eighteen (18)), particularly work that is likely to jeopardize the health or safety of those young workers. It is expected that specific attention will be paid to requirements pertaining to hours of work, wages, working conditions, and the handling of certain materials. Page 3 of 7 Owens Corning Supplier Code of Conduct Suppliers are expected not to employ forced, slave, convict or bonded labor. Owens Corning will not knowingly engage a Supplier that directly or indirectly through a third party employs forced, slave, convict or bonded labor on the Supplier’s premises. In accordance with Article 2 of the ILO Forced Labour Convention No. 29, Owens Corning defines “forced labor” as any work or service not voluntarily performed and extracted from an individual under the menace of penalty and/or subject to unduly burdensome conditions such as, but not limited to, the surrender of government-issued identification, passports, or work permits, or any other limitations inhibiting the employees free will with respect to work. Owens Corning defines “convict” labor as any labor performed by a legally convicted person on or outside of prison grounds. The definitions of slave and bonded labor as defined by Owens Corning are reflected in the Supplementary Convention on the Abolition of Slavery, the Slave Trade, and Institutions and Practices Similar to Slavery under Articles 1 and 7. Suppliers are expected to not employ persons who were trafficked into employment on the Supplier’s premises or engage in human trafficking, as defined in Article 3 of the Protocol to Prevent, Suppress and Punish Trafficking in Persons Especially Women and Children, supplementing the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime. While Suppliers may favor or encourage a self-represented work force, Suppliers are expected to: • Allow employees the freedom to join labor organizations or to not join such organizations, and the freedom to bargain collectively as determined by the employees themselves without coercion, interference, retaliation or harassment, in compliance with all applicable laws, and • Allow alternative means of worker representation, organization, ability to address grievances and resolve disputes, if freedom of association and collective bargaining is lawfully restricted. Employees of Suppliers are expected to work in an environment free from harassment and abuse, including, but not limited to, sexual and physical harassment and psychological, verbal and physical abuse. If disciplinary procedures are practiced by Suppliers, the procedures are expected to be • In compliance with all applicable legislation • Applied in a standardized fashion and • Documented in a policy on which all members of management are trained and of which all employees are informed upon hire. Grievance Mechanisms Suppliers are expected to introduce an adequate system to address employee grievances and resolve disputes that: • Protects the employee’s privacy and allows for anonymous reporting of grievances • Protects the employee against retaliation • All members of management are trained on and • Is communicated to all employees. Page 4 of 7 Owens Corning Supplier Code of Conduct Conflicts of Interest, Gifts and Entertainment Owens Corning is committed to ethical business practices. Conflicts of interest in practice or in appearance run counter to fair treatment and good procurement policies. Our Suppliers are expected to know that Owens Corning employees are directed to avoid any relationship, influence, or activity that might impair, or appear to impair, Owens Corning’s ability to make objective business decisions. Owens Corning employees must identify situations that could bias, or appear to bias, buying decisions. Owens Corning employees who buy goods or services directly, or are otherwise involved in the procurement process, shall refrain from the following: • The solicitation of any gift, excessive entertainment, or favor of any significant value. o Excessive entertainment to include that which: requires travel; has cash value greater than $500; occurs frequently; is provided for the exclusive benefit of the employee without Supplier participation; is provided where no business is conducted; includes family members or guests of the employee (outside of spouse or significant other) at the expense of the Supplier. • The receipt of a product or service constituting more than a modest social amenity or normal supplier sales promotion which may appear to be capable of influencing the employee’s decision. Owens Corning employees may accept unsolicited meals, refreshments, or entertainment of reasonable value on an infrequent basis in connection with normal business discussions. Suppliers are expected to respect the limitations placed on Owens Corning employees, as stated above, and refrain from putting them in an uncomfortable situation by offering them gifts or other favors that they may not accept. Foreign Corrupt Practices Suppliers to Owens Corning are expected to fully comply with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 (“FCPA”), the OECD Convention on Combating Bribery of Foreign Officials in International Business Transactions, the UK Bribery Act and such other comparable laws in each country in which they operate. Antitrust & Competition Laws Suppliers are expected to be in compliance with both the letter and the spirit of all antitrust/competition and trade practice laws. These laws include federal and state antitrust and trade practice laws in the United States as well as the legal provisions applicable to competition and trade practices in each of the other countries where the Supplier operates. Page 5 of 7 Owens Corning Supplier Code of Conduct Trade Restrictions Suppliers are expected to comply fully with all applicable United States trade laws and customs regulations as well as those laws applicable in the countries where they do business. Applicable United States trade laws and customs regulations include such matters as: country of origin labelling, U.S. embargoes, sanctions, export controls, and restrictions on doing business with “specially designated nationals” and “blocked persons”. The U.S. government maintains and updates almost daily lists of such “specially designated nationals” and “blocked persons” with whom business dealings may be prohibited or severely restricted under U.S. law. A copy of this list is available at http://www.treas.gov/offices/enforcement/ofac/sdn/. Suppliers taking part in any international transactions are also expected to become C-TPAT certified, maintain an equivalent supply chain certification through their government or local customs authorities, or verify they meet the minimum security standards which can be found at www.cbp.gov. Subcontracting Suppliers are expected to hold their subcontractors and suppliers accountable to principles in line with this Code. Communication Suppliers are expected to adequately communicate the elements of this Code or a comparable Business Conduct Policy to its leadership, its employees and its subcontractors and suppliers. Monitoring and Compliance Owens Corning maintains the right to take actions, including inspections of the Supplier’s facilities and worker accommodations and review of any applicable documentation to ensure our Code has been implemented and is being followed by our Suppliers. Suppliers are expected to keep accurate records to prove compliance with the Code. It is the expectation of Owens Corning that our Suppliers will take corrective actions within a time frame jointly agreed upon by the Supplier and Owens Corning to remedy any identified noncompliance. An independent line of communication is provided for Suppliers to address infractions or the inability to adhere with this Code of Conduct due to the actions of an Owens Corning employee through the independent Business Conduct Help Line at +1-800-241-5689 or collect to +1-770-263-4741. Contact Information 1.800.GET.PINK, discuss with your Owens Corning account representative or write to this email address: sustainability@owenscorning.com Page 6 of 7 Owens Corning Supplier Code of Conduct Document History Version 1.0: Released June, 2010 Version 2.0: Released June 2012 References • United Nations Global Compact www.unglobalcompact.org • Owens Corning Corporate Code of Business Conduct Policy http://www.owenscorning.com/acquainted/governance/ethics.asp • United Nations Environment Programme http://www.unep.org/ • Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR) http://www.un.org/en/documents/udhr/ • International Labour Organization http://www.ilo.org/global/lang--en/index.htm • Supplementary Convention on the Abolition of Slavery, the Slave Trade, and Institutions and Practices Similar to Slavery http://www2.ohchr.org/english/law/slavetrade.htm • Protocol to Prevent, Suppress and Punish Trafficking in Persons Especially Women and Children, supplementing the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime http://www2.ohchr.org/english/law/protocoltraffic.htm • OECD Due Diligence Guidance for Supply Chains of Minerals from Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas and its supplements http://www.oecd.org/dataoecd/62/30/46740847.pdf • United States Department of Justice – Foreign Corrupt Practices Act http://www.justice.gov/criminal/fraud/fcpa/ • The UK Bribery Act Overview http://www.fco.gov.uk/en/global-issues/conflict-minerals/legally-binding-process/uk-bribery-act • OECD Convention on Combating Bribery of Foreign Officials in International Business Transactions http://www.oecd.org/document/20/0,3343,en_2649_34859_2017813_1_1_1_1,00.html • U.S. government lists of such “specially designated nationals” and “blocked persons” http://www.treas.gov/offices/enforcement/ofac/sdn/ • C-TPAT and US Customs and Border Protection security standards www.cbp.gov. Page 7 of 7
