Step by step shaping a sustainable TeliaSonera Sustainability Report 2013 TeliaSonera Sustainability Report 2013 Content Content CEO statement 3 Freedom of expression 15 United Nations Global Compact Principles 4 Customer privacy 19 Summary 5 Anti-corruption work 20 Our approach 6 Sustainability in the supply chain 22 Sustainability in TeliaSonera 6 Environmental responsibility 24 Policy framework 8 Our performance 27 Stakeholder engagement 10 GRI Report 2013 27 Our priorities 14 Auditor’s review 49 Key targets 14 Contacts and feedback 50 2 TeliaSonera Sustainability Report 2013 CEO statement CEO statement Prior to joining TeliaSonera, I had long discussions requires a different mindset in all parts of the organization, about sustainability and reputation with the new Board including the very design of services and networks and of Directors. The company was just experiencing a very we need to work hard to make this happen. turbulent period and was exposed to heavy criticism for Another area where we can and must do more is to claimingly failing to conduct ethical business. Our disfight corruption and bribery. Therefore, we have now cussions boiled down to three simple yet very important put further emphasis and resources on this highly imquestions: Can we change this? Are we serious about portant task. An anti-corruption policy was established changing this? And do we have the right prerequisites, in March 2013 and this fall a global Anti-corruption tools and mindset to create the change? program was initiated as part of TeliaSonera’s Ethics I would not be leading TeliaSonera today if I was not and Compliance framework at the same time as we convinced that the answer to these questions are and are reviewing and improving the existing policy with the must be ‘yes’; I truly believe that we can change, and turn leanings we are getting. past events into something positive. But this change will We have started to implement the group environnot come easy. After a few months with TeliaSonera, I can mental targets in all business units, identifying ways to see that we have a long road ahead of us in some sustainincrease energy efficiency and to reduce CO2 emissions. ability areas while we have made more progress in others. We now have more than 500 base stations solar powIn order for us to make change happen, we need a ered in Eurasia and 43 percent of our total purchased good foundation for our sustainability work going forward, electricity is green electricity, to give a few examples. with firm governance and compliance in place. In April last But despite these actions we have failed to show positive year, a new Board Sustainability and Ethics Committee progress against our environmental targets. The reason was formed with the task to review the group’s internal for this is that we have actually improved our energy and and external sustainability work. Also, a new Ethics and emission data collection so the data quality and accuCompliance function was established to enforce compliracy has improved from all business units. It’s evident ance with ethical and legal requirements. that I am not happy with this progress but it’s all part of We also need to ensure that the sustainability strategy building a good foundation for our sustainability work is embedded into our business strategy, operations and going forward. daily agenda, with clear and measurable key perforOccupational health and safety was missing from our mance indicators. This is a key priority for us to develop list of sustainability focus areas. Today, we are not granuin 2014 also giving our key stakeholders the possibility to lar enough on group level how many accidents occur to influence the outcome. our contractors while working for us. We need to know, in During 2013, we put much focus on freedom of expresorder to know what to improve. All with one clear purpose sion and privacy and adopted a new group policy to respect to ensure a safe working environment for our employour customers’ rights. Moving from policy to practice will ees and partners. Some of our business units have done be a challenge but we are committed to and will continue to good work in this field but we need a common approach put focus and resources to see this through. and action plan. That’s the reason why we have started to Our Privacy Policy was adopted already in early 2011, formulate a group policy, targets and measurements. setting high and consistent group standards to protect I highly value the United Nations Global Compact our customers’ privacy. However, progress on policy (UNGC) and will assure that TeliaSonera continues to implementation has so far been fairly slow. I regret to be committed to follow the UNGC 10 principles. In this see that, since customer privacy is part of our DNA. This report we show the progress we have made in implementing the principles. One investor that left us because we were too slow in our sustainability actions told me that our business is important for societies to develop and that we should turn past experiences into a catalyst for change. The investor also hoped to return when we get our act together. I was really encouraged by this. It stands to show that our purpose is not only to deliver services to our customers but that we bring something more to society. But we need to do it the right way. All the way. That’s what our road to change is all about. Johan Dennelind President and CEO 3 TeliaSonera Sustainability Report 2013 UN Global Compact Principles United Nations Global Compact Principles TeliaSonera’s progress in relation to the principles of the UN Global Compact is outlined in the table below. Our statement of continuing support for the Global Compact is incorporated in the CEO Statement on page 3. Additional information on governance issues related to the topics covered by the principles can be found in GRI disclosures 4.1-4.10. Four of our business units – Omnitel and TEO in Lithuania, Moldcell in Moldova and Kcell in Kazakhstan – are themselves also signatories to the Global Compact. This sustainability report also represents the Communication On Progress for these business units. Principle Human Rights Actions taken to implement Outcomes 1 Support and respect the protection of internaSee Freedom of expression page 15; CusSee Freedom of expression page 15 tionally proclaimed human rights tomer privacy page 19; Anti-corruption work page 20 Disclosure on Management Approach (DMA): HR1; HR2; HR3; HR4 Human Rights; HR4 2 Make sure that we are not complicit in human See Freedom of expression page 15; CusSee Freedom of expression page 15 rights abuses tomer privacy page 19 Anti-corruption work page 20 DMA: Human Rights; HR4 HR1; HR2; HR3; HR4 Labor 3 Uphold the freedom of association and the DMA: Human Rights, Labor practices and LA4; HR5 effective recognition of the right to collective decent work bargaining 4 Uphold the elimination of all forms of forced See Sustainability in the supply chain page 22 HR7 and compulsory labor DMA: Human Rights; Labor practices and decent work 5 Uphold the effective abolition of child labor See Sustainability in the supply chain page 22 HR6 DMA: Human Rights 6 Uphold the elimination of discrimination in DMA: Human Rights, Labor practices and HR4 respect of employment and occupation decent work; EC7; HR4 Environment 7 Support a precautionary approach to See Environmental responsibility page 24 EC2; EN18 environmental challenges GRI disclosure 4.11 DMA: Economic, Environment; EN18; EN26 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater See Environmental responsibility page 24 EN3; EN4; EN5; EN16; EN17; EN18; environmental responsibility DMA: Environment; EN6; EN18; EN26 EN22; EN23; EN28; PR4 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of See Environmental responsibility page 24 EN5; EN18 environmentally friendly technologies DMA: Environment; EN6; EN18; EN26 Anti-corruption 10 Work against corruption in all its forms, See Anti-corruption work page 20 SO2; SO3; SO4; SO6 including extortion and bribery DMA: Society 4 TeliaSonera Sustainability Report 2013 Summary Summary TeliaSonera’s sustainability work encompasses all our of expression and privacy. This sustainability report efforts to realize our economic, environmental and reflects our alignment with these principles. To support social responsibilities and opportunities through rethe implementation of the principles the new Telia­ sponsible business practices. We are committed to the Sonera Policy on Freedom of Expression in TelecomUnited Nations’ Universal Declaration of Human Rights munications and a related internal instruction were and the core conventions of the International Labour approved by the Board in December. Organization. We have also committed ourselves to the Our Privacy Policy sets high and consistent standOECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises and are ards to protect our customers’ privacy. Although we a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact. have made this issue a high priority across the Group, The main sustainability focus areas in 2013 were: progress so far has been slow. • Freedom of expression and privacy We realize that we need to do more work to fight cor• Customer privacy ruption and bribery in all the markets where we oper• Anti-corruption ate. In fall 2013 we initiated an anti-corruption program • Sustainability along our supply chain as part of our Ethics and Compliance framework. As • Environmental responsibility part of the program country specific risk assessments were launched, and during 2014 we aim to replace Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) was added as a our current internal whistle-blowing mechanism with new priority area in the fall 2013. The results of a materialan externally administered and accessible “speak-up ity review confirmed that these priorities remain the most channel” which will also enable external parties such as material sustainability issues for our stakeholders today. suppliers to file reports. We improved our sustainability governance in April During 2013 we started to use EcoVadis as an evalu2013 by establishing a new Board-level Sustainability ation tool to asses our suppliers’ sustainability pracand Ethics Committee. To ensure future compliance tices. This will help us to identify high-risk suppliers, with ethical and legal requirements our new Group and help our suppliers to understand our sustainability Ethics and Compliance office, established in Seprequirements. tember, has been assigned to design and implement In January 2013 new Group-level environmental a comprehensive Ethics and Compliance framework targets were approved. Our goals for 2020, with regard covering many of our key sustainability priority areas. to the baseline year 2012, are to: Progress on our ethics and compliance programs will • Reduce our carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions by 20 in future be reported to newly established executivepercent per subscription equivalent level Governance, Risk, Ethics and Compliance (GREC) • Increase our energy efficiency by 20 percent per meetings. subscription equivalent. In July we launched a project to increase our employees’ awareness and observance of our Code of In 2013 we were not able to make progress towards Ethics and Conduct and our other sustainability polithese targets. Our total emissions (scope 1 and 2) cies, instructions and guidelines. The project involved increased by 18 percent to 384,558 (325,990) metric an e-learning scheme targeting all TeliaSonera emtons and our energy efficiency decreased by 3 perployees. By the end of the year more than 95 percent cent. These trends were largely due to our efforts to of employees invited to participate had completed this improve the quality of the data we compile from all of e-learning scheme. our business units. In spite of these negative trends we According to the survey responses our annual are working towards our targets by identifying energy Employee Commitment Score for 2013 rose slightly efficiency hotspots and ways to reduce our CO2 emisto 75 (74) out of a maximum possible 100.The survey sions. We will continue striving to utilize more renewresponse rate of 87 percent was the same as in 2012. able energy, such as the solar energy we currently use This high level of participation enables us to utilize the in our Eurasia region at more than 500 base stations. survey’s findings as a basis for improvements. This We have also continued to purchase green electricity, year we added sustainability related questions to get which accounts for 43 percent of our total purchased a better picture of how our employees perceive our electricity. sustainability work and how it is communicated. Issues related to freedom of expression represent This report complies with the Global Reporting Initiaa high risk to our industry. We are working to demontive’s G3.1 Guidelines and telecommunications sector strate our respect for this fundamental human right. In supplement. TeliaSonera has self-declared the report March 2013 we signed up to the Industry Dialogue’s at the application level B+. This application level has guiding principles on telecommunications and freedom been checked by a third party, PwC, who also conducted assurance for this report. 5 TeliaSonera Sustainability Report 2013 Our approach Sustainability at TeliaSonera Our sustainability work encompasses all our efforts to realize our economic, environmental and social responsibilities and opportunities through responsible business practices. This involves ensuring environmental and social susAt TeliaSonera we are committed to achieve this by: tainability along the supply chain, respecting human n ensuring that we act in accordance with our shared rights, complying with ethical business practices in values, operate by the letter and the spirit of the law all markets, improving the protection of customers’ and follow international norms for ethical business privacy, taking care of the well-being of our employees, practices; reducing our own carbon footprint and those of our customers, protecting children online, and supporting n ensuring that everyone along our whole value chain research related to exposure to electromagnetic fields. respects the same level of standards; and Ultimately we recognize that it is our duty to have a n integrating good governance practices and sustainapositive effect on society, the environment, our employbility into our daily operations. ees and our own value chain, and to minimize and mitigate any negative impacts our operations might have. Sustainability priorities and Our sustainability vision is for TeliaSonera to: n be seen as the preferred partner in the value chain, future focus areas bringing development, fostering ethical business The focus of our sustainability work in 2013 has been: practices, and preventing the unethical use of our ■■ Freedom of expression and privacy see page 15 products and services; ■■ Customer privacy see page 19 ■■ Anti-corruption see page 20 n bring value to our customers by helping them to ■■ Sustainability along our supply chain see page 22 reduce their environmental footprint through the pro■■ Environmental responsibility see page 24 ducts and services we provide, and through our own actions; and In our sustainability performance reporting we have been following the progress of the these priorities via n pro-actively provide accessible, reliable, balanced key targets (page 14). We recognize that we are lacking and transparent information on our sustainability a group sustainability strategy with key performance performance to our shareholders, investors, analysts indicators. In 2014 our focus is to develop the strategy and other interested stakeholders. and embed it as part of our business strategy. Telecommunication is one of the cornerstones of a In 2014 we will also continue the work to establish modern society and TeliaSonera is a key player in the ethics and compliance programs and to include occuindustry. Our core business is to meet one of the most pational health and safety as a priority area. profound and basic human needs – to communicate. By investing in vital infrastructure and providing affordaOur commitments ble communication services, we contribute to people’s daily lives and to the development of the societies in Sustainability is high on the agendas of our Group Manwhich we operate. agement Team and Board. In April 2013 a new Board We expect to be criticized by stakeholders on our Sustainability and Ethics Committee was established sustainability performance if we do not meet their to review the group’s internal and external reporting, expectations. Managing our business in a sustainable policies, action plans and risk management systems way is crucial to our current and future success. We related to sustainability and ethical issues. are an international company with a common vision, In September a new Ethics and Compliance function strategy and brand reflected throughout our local busiwas also established. We have made commitments to nesses. How we act in any one market will clearly affect several prominent international ethical norms. It is of the whole TeliaSonera Group. It is important to our the utmost importance that we ensure that all Teliacustomers, employees, business partners and owners, Sonera employees are aware of these commitments, that we are seen as a responsible company. what they mean, and how we aim to integrate them into our day to day business. These ethical norms will also 6 TeliaSonera Sustainability Report 2013 Our approach be used to shape our ambitions when we establish an ethics and compliance framework covering most of our Sustainability risk management key sustainability priorities. TeliaSonera has chosen to work in a number of complex TeliaSonera is committed to the United Nations’ markets. In order to safeguard our business it is crucial Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the core that we are aware of any risks that might harm our opconventions of the International Labour Organization. erations, our customers or our brand. We must also be We have also made commitment to observe the OECD able to prioritize and effectively manage these risks. Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises and are signaThe framework for our group-level risk management, tory to the United Nations Global Compact. Four Telia­ the processes we apply in this work and the main risks, Sonera subsidiaires TEO and Omnitel in Lithuania, including ethics and sustainability risks, are described Kcell in Kazakhstan and Moldcell in Moldova are also in the Annual Report, Corporate Governance Statesignatories of their national Global Compact Networks. ment, section Enterprise Risk Management and Annual Our associated company Turkcell in Turkey has also Report, Consolidated Financial Statements, note C34. signed the UN Global Compact. Risks and Uncertainties. All these commitments are incorporated into our Human rights issues and corruption represent high Code of Ethics and Conduct. This policy document covrisks to us, due to the geographical regions where we ers all the companies in which we have management work and the nature of our industry. control. According to our self-assessment Telia­Sonera’s The main risks include: sustainability management is in line with the ISO 26000 Guidance on Social Responsibility. n Complicity in human rights violations due to failure to uphold customer privacy and network integrity n Excessive governmental requests or demands to the detriment of freedom of expression and privacy n The risk that telecom services could be used in the sexual exploitation of children n Risks related to illegitimate financial transactions or inappropriate political contributions to government parties or the authorities in connection with license negotiations n Labor rights in certain regions n Sustainability risks arising from our suppliers’ operations n The ethical conduct of associated companies and joint ventures n Environmental protection n Occupational health and safety issues In February 2014 we finalized the new group M&A guidelines and included sustainability risk evaluation as integral part of the M&A process. This report, the Annual Report, Consolidated Financial Statements, note C34. Risks and Uncertainties, and www.teliasonera.com/sustainability/impacts/ managing-sustainability-risks/ explain how we work to manage these risks. 7 TeliaSonera Sustainability Report 2013 Our approach Policy framework TeliaSonera’s policies, instructions and guidelines all train our employees to understand all the commitarticulate our corporate culture and constitute statements TeliaSonera has made on international ethical ments of intent establishing our rules of conduct and standards, and to be aware of and fully observe our outlining responsibilities within our organization. They sustainability-related policies, instructions, principles have been designed to guide decisions and achieve and guidelines. Our business unit management teams favorable outcomes. also held their own workshops on this issue, aiming to Our Code of Ethics and Conduct (www.teliasonera. identify areas for improvement. com/about-us/corporate-governance/code-of-ethicsThis project is due to be run in all of the countries and-conduct/) forms the foundation for our sustainawhere we operate by the first quarter of 2014, with a bility work and the basis for the following sustainabilitytarget of 90 percent completion rate of invited employrelated policies, instructions, principles and guidelines: ees for the e-learning scheme. 20 December, 2013, ■■ Group Privacy Policy 95.4 percent of the invited employees (81 percent of ■■ Group Anti-Corruption Policy, and Guiding Principles the total number of employees) had already conducted ■■ Group Procurement Policy and Group Supplier Code the e-learning. of Conduct The awareness raising program was rolled out in four ■■ Group Freedom of Expression Policy, and Group phases between July 2013 and March 2014: Phase 1. Instruction Azerbaijan, Finland, Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan; Phase ■■ Group Policy on Sponsoring and Donations, and 2. Nepal, Tajikistan and Sweden; Phase 3. Estonia, Group Instruction Lithuania, Moldova and Latvia; Phase 4. Denmark, ■■ Group Insider Trading Policy Norway, Spain, Turkey, Georgia and TeliaSonera Inter■■ Group Policy on Electromagnetic Fields (EMF) with national Carrier’s remaining smaller markets. regard to mobile telephony ■■ Position paper on Conflict Minerals: TeliaSonera’s Percentages of employees who received the survey and standpoint on Tantalum and Coltan completed the e-learning, as of 14 February 2014: Completion All policies above can be found at www.teliasonera. Country rate % com/about-us/public-policies/. We also align with Azerbaijan 95.8 the Telecommunications Industry Dialogue on FreeDenmark 66.2 dom of Expression and Privacy Guiding Principles Estonia 98.5 (www.telecomindustrydialogue.org/). Finland 96.1 Georgia 73.2 Our Code of Ethics and Conduct and Group policies Kazakhstan 95.2 apply to companies in which we have management Latvia 100 Lithuania 97.6 control. In our associated and minority-owned comMoldova 98.0 panies we promote ethical business practices, respect Nepal 99.4 for human rights, and good governance via our board Norway 66.4 representation and active ownership practices. Spain 83.2 Sweden 89.4 Raising awareness of our Code Tajikistan 97.2 of Ethics and Conduct Turkey Uzbekistan 50.0 98.1 In July 2013 the group launched a project designed TSIC countries 72.8 to increase our employees’ awareness of our Code of Other 100 Ethics and Conduct. The project involves an e-learning Total 91.5 scheme targeting all TeliaSonera employees. We also 8 TeliaSonera Sustainability Report 2013 Our approach Ethics and Compliance Office investigations and disciplinary/corrective actions and continuous improvement. To enforce compliance with ethical and legal requireAn effective ethics and compliance framework is the ments TeliaSonera’s new Group Ethics and Compliance primary means for TeliaSonera to ensure awareness and Office was established in September 2013. The Chief management of the critical ethical and legal risks. The Ethics and Compliance Officer reports to the CEO. most significant risks are managed according to our ethThe Ethics and Compliance Office will consist of a core ics and compliance framework through thematic ethics team, complemented by a cross functional network and compliance programs. The top five risks identified to achieve presence in all countries. The core team and managed through the ethics and compliance frameand network, in all high risk countries (see risk map at work are: anti-corruption, freedom of expression and www.teliasonera.com/sustainability/impacts/managprivacy, customer privacy, anti-trust and occupational ing-sustainability-risks/), will be in place during the first health and safety. Other emerging ethical and legal risks quarter of 2014. will be included in the framework as deemed necessary. The Ethics and Compliance Office is responsible Progress on our ethics and compliance programs for ensuring a systematic and consistent approach is reported to executive level Governance, Risk, Ethics towards managing ethical and legal requirements, and Compliance (GREC) meetings. The role of GREC risks and opportunities. The TeliaSonera’s Ethics is to enforce executive level ownership of these issues and Compliance Framework consists of eight comand to ensure they receive appropriate management pliance dimensions (see below): risk assessment, attention and procedures throughout the line organiorganization, policies and procedures, training and zation. The programs will be subject to continuous communication, due care, internal reporting/hotline, improvement with the help of audits and monitoring. Ethics and compliance framework 4. Education & Communication & 8. Continous Improvement / Audit 6. Internal Reporting / Hotline / Occupational health and safety 5. Due Care – Third party Dd & 3. Policies & Instructions 7. Forensic Investigation & Anti-trust 1. Risk Assesment Customer privacy 2. Organization Guidelines Implementation Supply Chain Non-retaliation Disciplinary Actions & Monitor /Measures & report Freedom of expression and privacy Anti-corruption Compliance dimension TeliaSonera’s Ethics and Compliance Framework consists of eight compliance dimensions and is built on the model described as “effective compliance” and “adequate procedures” set by e.g. the Society of Corporate Compliance and Ethics, the U.S. Sentencing Guidelines, the UK Bribery Act and Anti-Trust Offices throughout Europe. 9 TeliaSonera Sustainability Report 2013 Our approach Stakeholder engagement Stakeholder engagement forms a fundamental part of Our key stakeholders are our customers, owners any company’s sustainability management. The main and investors, employees, suppliers and business objective is to help companies make more sustainable partners, as well as the authorities, civil society and decisions, understand their key environmental and media. For information about how we engage our key social impacts, and identify risks. Stakeholder engagestakeholders see www.teliasonera.com/sustainability/ ment also provides an important channel to increase impacts/key-stakeholders/. stakeholders’ awareness of complex issues. In 2012 and 2013 TeliaSonera was criticized in Swedish media and elsewhere for indirectly violating human Materiality review rights related to freedom of expression and privacy. We As a large company with a major impact on the comwere also criticized for corruption and money launmunities where we operate, it is crucial that we align dering in relation to our investments in licenses and our sustainability priorities with, and work to meet the frequencies in Uzbekistan in 2007 and 2010. Many of expectations of, our stakeholders. TeliaSonera’s key stakeholders consequently want to In 2013 we conducted a materiality review to ensure be kept up to date on our sustainability work at regular that our sustainability work focuses on the issues that basis. are most material to our stakeholders. Through a surDialogue with our Photo: Maria Huber/Regeringskansliet major owners In November 2013 we invited Swedish public service television’s economic development. As Teliaour major owners for a bi-annual investigatory program ‘Uppdrag Sonera CEO Johan Dennelind put dialogue on the progress of our susGranskning’, which has covered it: “We now openly acknowledge the tainability work. This time we did not and criticized TeliaSonera’s opmoral dilemmas we face and show only want to have a dialogue on our erations in Uzbekistan. Mr. Ahunov our criticism. It is only by staying in progress but also bring in external expressed that many challenges a market that we can try to advocate critical views on difficult sustainabilremain in the country and in the change in the country. If we don’t ity subjects. region. Freedom of expression and feel comfortable with the local laws TeliaSonera has been criticized privacy are at risk and although governing surveillance we have a on freedom of expression and progress is being made it can be responsibility to say so.” corruption issues related to our slow. Foreign companies are always The event was highly appreciated operations in Uzbekistan. To openly at a risk of missteps. Despite this, by those attending, and described discuss these issues we had invited he remarked that companies such as a major step forward with regard exiled Uzbek opposition politician as TeliaSonera and any other major to the need for open and transparPulat Ahunov to present his views. European companies’ presence ent communication on the challengMr. Ahunov has lived in Sweden in Uzbekistan is overall positive for es facing TeliaSonera in the field of since 1995 and has featured in the the country’s political climate and sustainability. 10 TeliaSonera Sustainability Report 2013 Our approach vey conducted among around 100 selected stakeholdEmployee Commitment Score – ECS ers, including employees, owners, investors, business TeliaSonera Total LinC BinC customers and non-governmental organizations, we % gained a picture of the areas where our key stakeholder 90 groups believe we should focus our sustainability efforts. 80 Based on the stakeholder survey the most important sustainability issues in the order of importance are: 70 ■■ Anti-corruption ■■ Freedom of expression and privacy 60 ■■ Customer privacy 50 ■■ Respecting labor laws – own and suppliers’ operations 40 Q4 Q1 Q4 Q2 Q4 Q4 Q4 Q3 Q4 Q4 ■■ Good occupational health & safety practices – own 2005 2006 2006 2007 2007 2008 2009 2011 2012 2013 and suppliers’ operations Benchmark High (BinC) 84%: Achieved by 20% of analyzed workgroups. Benchmark Low (LinC) 64%: Achieved by 45% of analyzed workgroups ■■ Sustainability as part of performance management Source: TNS Sifo, IT-Telecom studies 2010–2012. ■■ Protecting children online (from sexual abuse) ■■ Fair marketing practices Services scored 73 (73), Business Services rose to 76 ■■ Transparent tax reporting (72), Finland scored 71 (71), and Group Functions 70 ■■ Energy and energy efficiency (69). Each business area has subsequently decided what kinds of actions need to be taken in response to Based on the criticism and contacts with key staketheir respective findings. holders during 2013 we didn’t feel that it was necessary This year sustainability questions were added for to organize a separate dialogue session with stakeholdthe first time to the survey. Employees were asked how ers to further discuss the results. As seen above the rethey perceive our sustainability work and if they think sults of the survey confirmed that our key sustainability they get enough information on the subject. The overall focus areas are the ones also considered most material score on this issue across the group was 59, reflectby our stakehoders. ing the high and critical stakeholder attention to the subject during the past year. This scoring reveals that Dialogue with stakeholders we need to improve our internal communications with regard to our ongoing work in sustainability. During 2013, TeliaSonera has maintained sustainabilityrelated dialogues with external stakeholders including corporate customers, owners and investors, socially Other stakeholder contacts responsible investment (SRI) rating agencies, our Other important contacts with stakeholders during peers in the ICT and telecom industry, NGOs, and many 2013 included: authorities and regulatory bodies. ■■ Participation in the EU CEO Coalition’s initiative to The newsroom on the TeliaSonera website provides make the internet a better place for children, and the regular information for all of our stakeholders on how parallel scheme Safer Use of Connected Devices and we are progressing with our sustainability work. The Online Services by Children and Young People in the newsroom also highlights international developments EU (see page 44). related to human rights, and provides information, ■■ Active participation in the Industry Dialogue on freewhen possible, on major shutdowns of local networks dom of expression and privacy (see page 15). and content wherever possible within the limitations ■■ Participation in dialogues covering issues of interest of confidentiality regulations (www.teliasonera.com/ regarding internet freedoms, including: newsroom/). ■■ The Stockholm Internet Forum’s Internet Freedom We have conducted employee commitment surfor Global Development in May 2013. veys annually since 2004 to support our business by ■■ Joint planning and arranging of, and participation indicating where we have made progress, and where in, a multi-stakeholder Learning Forum in Brussels, we can still improve our performance at all levels of our Belgium, in November 2013, jointly arranged by the organization. Global Network Initiative (GNI) and the TelecomThe survey results have improved year by year since munications Industry Dialogue on Freedom of 2007. This year we once again reached a stable score Expression and Privacy. of 75 (74) out of 100 on group level. The response ■■ We are also active members of a number of organizarate was 87 percent and this high level of participation tions that aim to influence public policy on sustainenables us to utilize the survey results as a basis for ability issues, including the Group Speciale de Mobile improvements. Association (GSMA) and the European TelecommuniOur Business area (BA) Mobility Service scored cations Network Operator’s Association (ETNO). 73 (72), BA Eurasia achieved 86 (84), BA Broadband 11 TeliaSonera Sustainability Report 2013 Our approach ■■ In January 2014 we joined the Global e-SustainaIn September 2013 the Swedish Prosecutor’s bility Initiative, GeSI, where together with major ICT Office started a pre-trial investigation into bribery companies and organizations we will work to provide and money laundering as a result of the allegations information, resources and best practices for achievpresented in media. The pre-trial investigation is ing integrated social and environmental sustainability expected to be concluded in the fall of 2014 at the through ICT. earliest. TeliaSonera would like to see the pre-trial investigation finished as soon as possible. The comFor more information on our collaboration within the pany has a good dialogue with the prosecutor. ICT sector see www.teliasonera.com/sustainability/imTeliaSonera’s previous Board commissioned an pacts/key-stakeholders/. independent investigation conducted by the Swedish law firm Mannheimer Swartling. The resulting report, Criticism from stakeholders published on 1 February 2013, found no evidence that TeliaSonera had committed bribery or participated in During 2012 and 2013 we received criticism concerning money laundering. However, the report criticized how certain business practices and business risks related to TeliaSonera had conducted its investments in Uzbekicorruption, freedom of expression and privacy. Much stan and concluded that the due diligence assessof this criticism has since abated, since we have been ment of the local counterpart in the investment had able to demonstrate that we are working seriously to been insufficient. The report also concluded that the ensure that these risks are identified and resolved; but company had not fully complied with its own Code of some criticism is continuing, mainly regarding freedom Ethics and Conduct. The CEO of TeliaSonera decided of expression and privacy and anti-corruption in our to leave as a consequence of the report. Eurasia region. Such criticism can be expected to conOur new Board of Directors announced in April tinue as long as we operate in challenging markets. 2013 that it would commission a thorough review of transactions and agreements made in the past few ■■ In May, June and July 2013 the Swedish public years, and of the company’s partners in Eurasia. The service television channel SVT continued to criticize responsibility for conducting this review was given to TeliaSonera for co-operating with governments in the the international law firm Norton Rose Fulbright LLP. countries of the former Soviet Union by giving nationThe aim of the review was to give TeliaSonera’s new al intelligence agencies access to our networks and Board of Directors a clear picture of the company’s to subscribers’ private data, such as their geographitransactions in Eurasia, and to perform a risk assesscal location and the content of their communications. ment from a business ethical perspective. TeliaSonSVT also accused TeliaSonera of involvement in era’s present processes and routines will also be bribery and money laundering, and of paying bribes analyzed in order to assess whether they are suitable in exchange for protection from government agenand sufficient for managing the identified risks. cies in Uzbekistan. In September 2013 TeliaSonera decided to sell ■■ In October a Swedish public radio channel reported back its indirect ownership in Nepal Satellite, a reon how government surveillance in Georgia is regugional operator in Nepal, to Zhodar Investment. This lated, based on Thomas Hammarberg’s (The Council was due to the increased uncertainty regarding the of Europe’s former Commissioner for Human Rights) regulatory and legal environment for consolidation report “Georgia in transition”. We concurred with this and the granting of licenses in Nepal. Norton Rose criticism and described how we have been working Fulbright, K&L Gates and UBS were used as advisors actively to influence a change in the local legislation. in this transaction. We also debated this issue in a studio discussion In November 2013 four senior employees had to with an investor. To find out more about our work in leave the company based on findings from the NorGeorgia see page 18. ton Rose Fulbright review of transactions and agreements in Eurasia. On the basis of the information and The international political and legal framework for conclusions available in November it was evident to human rights issues is complex. Freedom of expresTeliaSonera’s Board and CEO that the procedures sion and privacy are essential rights that have a followed in certain transactions had not been in line particular bearing on telecom operators’ business. with sound business practices. This lead to a loss of It is increasingly important for TeliaSonera and other trust with regard to the four individuals, who had to operators to be able to respect these rights in situleave the company. ations where national authorities impose demands regarding surveilance of telecommunications and ■■ In October 2013 we were criticized in the Swedish internet traffic in order to safeguard national security media after our subsidiary Ucell in Uzbekistan had and combat crime. For more details see Freedom of sponsored a viola concert at a music festival organexpression page 15. ized by the Fund Forum, an organization managed by 12 TeliaSonera Sustainability Report 2013 Our approach the daughter of the President of Uzbekistan, Gulnara Karimova. The criticism focused on whether the Indexes and recognitions charity’s foreign currency proceeds has been used Sustainability indexes are important tools that enfor their intended purposes. International human able investors, analysts and companies themselves rights organizations also called on various players to to benchmark their sustainability management and boycott this event due to human rights violations in performance. Such indexes can give us valuable Uzbekistan. information on areas where we need to make improveEven though TeliaSonera allows grants to be made ments, while also identifying best practices. Inclusion in to selected stakeholder events and activities, the sustainability indexes can also promote interest in the sponsorship in question would not have happened company among responsible investors and business had the decision been made at a higher level in the customers. company. Our new policy and instruction on sponIn 2013 TeliaSonera continued to be included in the soring and donations establishes a stricter decisionfollowing indexes: making process for all sponsorships and donations. ■■ FTSE4Good (www.ftse.com): Telia­Sonera has been included in this index since 2009. FTSE4Good anaSwedish and Finnish lyzes sustainability practices related to human rights, labor rights and corruption. state ownership ■■ The Carbon Disclosure Project (www.cdproject.net): At the end of 2013, TeliaSonera had 529,394 shareholdThe CDP initiative evaluates companies’ environmeners, primarily in Sweden and Finland. Shareholdings tal performance and assesses how well they address outside these two countries amounted to 25.6 percent, risks and opportunities related to climate change. compared to 22.4 percent in 2012. With their respecTeliaSonera has participated in this global investor tive shareholdings of 37.3 percent and 10.1 percent, initiative since 2004. In the CDP’s Global 500 for 2013 the States of Sweden and Finland are the largest TeliaSonera’s greenhouse gas disclosure score and shareholders. Other influential shareholders include a emissions management performance both improved. number of major institutional investors and funds. We increased our disclosure score from to 69 in 2012 The Swedish and Finnish states prioritize sustainto 83 out of 100, and our performance band from D ability issues, and strive to increasingly exercise their to B. These improvements can be explained by the ownership influence in such contexts. external assurance of the TeliaSonera 2012 SusThe Swedish government requires state-owned entainability Report and the adoption of Group-wide terprises to define and adopt sustainability targets and environmental targets in early 2013. ■■ The Folksam Index for Corporate Responsibility 2013 develop long-term sustainable business plans where sustainability is integrated into business strategies and (www.folksam.se/testergodarad/skotersigforetagen/ day-to-day management. As of 2014, these sustainansvarsfulltforetagande/): This index is compiled ability objectives will be followed up through dialogues every other year. Folksam, one of Sweden’s largin the same way that financial objectives are already est insurance companies, assesses 250 Swedish monitored. companies’ work on human rights and environmental Solidium, a holding company belonging to the issues. TeliaSonera ranked 23rd in the ratings’ enviState of Finland and owning the shares, believes ronmental section and 20th on human rights. ■■ OMX GES Sustainability Sweden, Sustainthat a high-quality sustainability policy is one of the prerequisites for running successful business operaability Sweden Ethical, and Sustainability Nordic tions and generating long-term financial value. Good (www.ges-invest.com): The OMX GES indexes are management of sustainability issues provides efficient based on research conducted by GES Investment risk management. Services. They focus on companies’ environmental, Both the Swedish and Finnish governments expect social and/or governance management perforcompanies in which they have ownership to report on mance. In 2013 the TeliaSonera share qualified for their sustainability work using the Global Reporting inclusion in all three of these indexes. Initiative (GRI) guidelines. TeliaSonera has an active dialogue with both state In January 2014 Teliasonera was owners. We meet their representatives several times a included in the Ethibel EXCELLENCE year to discuss the risks and opportunities associated Investment Register. This selection by with sustainable business. Forum ETHIBEL (www.forumethibel. org) indicates that the company performs better than average in its sector in terms of Corporate Social Responsibility. 13 TeliaSonera Sustainability Report 2013 Our priorities Key targets Area Key achievements in 2013 Actions for 2014 Long-term ambition Freedom of Implementation of the industry guidImplement the TeliaSonera Group TeliaSonera should have a full unExpression ing principles related to freedom of Policy on Freedom of expression derstanding of the freedom of exexpression and privacy started by 1) and Group Instruction. Define pression impacts of our operations, Shared learning in the context of the Group guidance, processes, respect freedom of expression, ‘Industry Dialogue’ and GNI collabotraining, compliance, monitoring provide remedy and pro-actively rations 2) Adoption of the TeliaSonera and review. Continued shared work to reduce negative impacts Group Policy on Freedom of Expreslearning within the ‘Industry Diaalong the value chain. sion in Telecommunications and logue’ and GNI collaborations. Group Instruction. Intensified stakeholder dialogue. Customer Governance process defined. ProImplementation work to conTeliaSonera should have a robust privacy cess tool for continuous measuretinue, including training and a process in place to protect privacy, ment of compliance developed. Group Instruction. Privacy issues taking technological and business to be taken into consideration in developments into account, as well all developments and changes as users’ expectations. within TeliaSonera. Anti-corruption Code of Ethics and Conduct Continue the roll-out of the antiTeliaSonera should have a robust e-learning tool roll out started. corruption program. Completion process in place to prevent, detect Anti-corruption policy and Guiding of countryand company-speand deter corruption and bribery Principles issued. Anti-corruption cific risk assessments. Targeted throughout the Group’s operations. program initiated as part of the Ethics and face-to-face training sesand Compliance Framework. Country sions. and company specific risk assessments initiated. Continued dialogue with Transparency International. Sustainability in Supplier portal in place. Supplier Continue to implement the All main suppliers should respect the supply chain audit and assessment framework sustainability roadmap for the and observe TeliaSonera’s Supplier in place. Gift registry tool and instrucsupply chain. Code. A comprehensive tions implemented for the employees monitoring system should be in in Group Procurement. Training in place to enable suppliers’ perforresponsible supply chain carried mance to be followed effectively. out for all procurement employees including Eurasia. Environmental Business areas further concretized Continue to develop implemenGroup-wide environmental targets responsibility operational plans focusing on energy tation plans for the environmenshould be achieved by 2020 with efficiency target. Review of 2012 basetal targets. Develop a group annual review of performance and line environmental data for the targets. e-waste plan. ambition levels. Training of all business units on energy and environmental reporting. New: OccupaA new group function has been Complete business unit OHS The OHS culture should be part of tional Health and created to oversee OHS pracassessments. Group OHS policy all employees’ everyday working Safety (OHS) tices throughout the group. Assessto be approved, objectives and life. Our OHS work should be recments of OHS practices have been implementation plan in place. ognized as a good benchmarking launched in all business units. example. This key target table has been revised from the SustainWe have also continued our work concerning the ability Report 2012. During 2013 we added a new susprotection of children. During 2013 we reported on our tainability priority area, Occupational Health and Safety participation in the EU CEO Coalition – ‘Better Internet (OHS). This reflects our responsibility to ensure that our for Kids’ (ec.europa.eu/digital-agenda/en/creatingemployees and suppliers are offered a safe and healthy better-internet-kids/). The coalition has defined actions work environment. As most of our construction and within five areas: the takedown of child sexual abuse maintenance work is outsourced, we acknowledge that material, reporting mechanisms, content classification, the biggest OHS risks are found in our supply chain. parental controls and age-appropriate privacy settings. Our long-term ambition is to make sure that our suppliRead more in GRI SO10 page 44. ers also understand and are trained in OHS issues, as well as our own employees. 14 TeliaSonera Sustainability Report 2013 Our priorities Freedom of expression The internal Human Rights Impact Assessment (HRIA) In March 2013, together with our fellow founding conducted by the support and review of the Danish members of the Industry Dialogue, Telia­Sonera pubInstitute for Human Rights was concluded in Februlished signed guiding principles on telecommunication ary 2013. The assessment covered all of our majorityand freedom of expression and privacy. These princiowned companies, with the exception of TeliaSonera ples were the result of two years of dialogue including International Carrier (TSIC) where the HRIA covered stakeholder outreach. The Industry Dialogue has also six countries. The HRIA did not reveal any major new or formally established its own governance and signed a previously unknown, sustainability risks. Its findings incontract initiating a two-year collaboration with the multidicate that the main areas which need continued focus stakeholder Global Network Initiative (GNI). By working are freedom of expression, privacy and anti-corruption. together, these two initiatives aim to advance freedom We will therefore continue to focus on and strengthen of expression and privacy rights in the Information and our activities in these areas. Communication Technology (ICT) sector more effectiveIssues related to freedom of expression pose a ly. The collaboration also provides a common platform high risk to the telecom industry, including TeliaSonfor exchanging best practices, learning, and tools. A era. Freedom of expression hot spots include mass review process will assess progress over the two years surveillance, network shutdowns, localization of mobile from launch March 2013 and assess whether and how phones, the blocking or restriction of access and oblithe two initiatives could continue to work together. gations to transmit mandatory communications issued The Industry Dialogue’s Guiding Principles are availby the government authorities. able on our website in Arabic, Chinese, English, French, We work to demonstrate our respect for freedom Russian, Spanish and Turkish (www.teliasonera.com/ of expression both collaboratively in the context of the about-us/public-policies/ and www.telecomindusTelecommunications Industry Dialogue on Freedom of trydialogue.org/). Expression and Privacy (www.telecomindustrydialogue. In November 2013 the Industry Dialogue and the GNI org/), as well as internally within TeliaSonera through our held their first joint Learning Forum in Brussels, Belimplementation of the guiding principles agreed through gium, enabling civil society organizations, academics, the Industry Dialogue. investors, government officials, international organizaStates, through legislation and decisions by authoritions and ICT companies to share their perspectives on ties, define the scope of surveillance of communications. current challenges relating to freedom of expression TeliaSonera is putting tools in place to fulfill our responand privacy. Issues that had emerged due to revelasibility and commitment to respect freedom of exprestions about large-scale communications surveillance sion. But we are yet to show how our point-of-challenge by governments were addressed. At the event we makes a difference on the ground, for our customers. shared TeliaSonera’s view advocating clear and transparent legal provisions on proportionality and necessity The Industry Dialogue for all government surveillance of communications. We argued that all government surveillance of communicaThe Industry Dialogue is the initiative of a group of tions should be conducted under the supervision of a international telecommunication operators and vendors court or some other independent judicial body. We also who joined forces in 2011, aiming to define guiding encourage governments to be transparent about the principles on telecommunications and freedom of scope of their surveillance of communications and how expression and privacy in the context of the UN Guiding they use the information they compile. Principles on Business and Human Rights. The particiIn relations between TeliaSonera and authoripating companies have a global footprint, providing ties which require surveillance, the right to privacy is services and equipment to consumers, businesses, widely understood as an essential requirement for the and governments worldwide. The initiative is also open realization of the right to freedom of expression. At to other telecommunications companies committed Telia­Sonera we also have direct obligations towards to advancing freedom of expression and privacy in the our customers in this respect. Customer data privacy sector. issues are addressed in more detail on page 19. 15 TeliaSonera Sustainability Report 2013 Our priorities TeliaSonera’s implementation of the Industry Dialogue’s guiding principles Telecommunications Industry Dialogue (ID) on Freedom of Expression and Privacy Guiding Principles Telecommunications companies should, to the fullest extent that does not place them in violation of domestic laws and regulations, including license requirements and legal restrictions on disclosure: TeliaSonera’s alignment 1. Create and/or maintain relevant policies, with Board oversight or equivalent, outlining commitment to prevent, assess, and mitigate to the best of their ability the risks to freedom of expression and privacy associated with designing, selling, and operating telecommunications technology and telecommunications services; A TeliaSonera Group Policy on Freedom of Expression in Telecommunications has been adopted, based on the ID Principles. This Policy, which covers both traditional telecommunications and Internet-related issues, also addresses Industry Dialogue Principle 4 below. The Policy is available on www.teliasonera.com/about-us/public-policies/. It addresses TeliaSonera’s commitments in relation to requests or demands with potentially serious impacts on freedom of expression in telecommunications, i.e. targeted surveillance in exceptional cases; mass surveillance, where the authorities demand unrestricted real-time network access; shutdown of all or parts of a network; blocking or restricting access to specific services, Internet websites or content; blocking or restricting individual customers’ access to services or networks; obligations to transmit mandatory communications issued by the government authorities; and proposals for new laws or significant imposed operational changes. TeliaSonera has also adopted an internal Group Instruction for implementation of the TeliaSonera Group Policy on Freedom of Expression in Telecommunications. During 2014 TeliaSonera will provide further detailed guidance for relevant personnel concerning how the aforementioned Policy and Instruction are to be implemented. 2.  onduct regular human rights impact assessments and use due diligence processes, as appropriate to the C company, to identify, mitigate and manage risks to freedom of expression and privacy – whether in relation to particular technologies, products, services, or countries – in accordance with the Guiding Principles for the Implementation of the UN ‘Protect, Respect and Remedy’ framework; During 2012 TeliaSonera worked with the Danish Institute for Human Rights to support and review an internal analysis within our majority-owned operations of negative impacts that could lead to involvement in human rights violations. Freedom of expression and privacy were included as focus areas. This human rights impact assessment, which was concluded in February 2013, did not raise any major new or previously unknown sustainability risks. The results indicated that freedom of expression and privacy are areas which need continued focus. In April 2013, the new TeliaSonera Board Ethics and Sustainability Committee was established. In September 2013 TeliaSonera established a new Ethics and Compliance function. 3. C  reate operational processes and routines to evaluate and handle government requests that may have an impact on freedom of expression and privacy to: a) Ensure that government demands are reviewed by appropriately qualified and experienced personnel in order to assess their compliance with legal and due process. For demands for continuous access, such review will take place at the time of the initial request: b) Establish in advance guidance to relevant personnel on how to interpret government demands as specifically as possible; Uncontroversial and daily routine requests for lawful targeted surveillance from police or other authorities, including requests for TeliaSonera to provide details of specific individual customers’ communications (usually historic communications metadata, traffic data and location data, and/or content), form part of many investigations made by law enforcement authorities in criminal cases. During 2013 TeliaSonera established a Security Incident Management Center to harmonize best practices for implementation throughout the TeliaSonera group. Requests or demands with potentially serious impacts on freedom of expression, such as those listed above in relation to ID Principle 1, including targeted surveillance in exceptional cases, will be the subject of enhanced decision-making in line with the TeliaSonera Freedom of Expression Policy and Instruction. 4. Adopt, where feasible, strategies to anticipate, respond and minimize the potential impact on freedom of expression and privacy in the event that a government demand or request is received that is unlawful or where governments are believed to be misusing products or technology for illegitimate purposes which may include, if appropriate: i. Reviewing the demand with the relevant authority in order to seek clarification or modification; ii. Seeking judicial review (court-procedure), where available; iii. Appealing to other relevant branches of the administration, such as regulators or governmental departments; iv. Seeking alternative measures that would minimize or mitigate the practical impact on freedom of expression and privacy; v. Engaging UNor other supranational bodies and/or other government/institutions for diplomatic support; and vi. Engaging other stakeholders, such as media/NGOs, as appropriate, in support of freedom of expression and privacy; See TeliaSonera’s alignment to ID Principle 1 above. The Group Instruction sets out the practical steps that should be taken whenever a company/business unit receives a request or demand with potentially serious impacts on freedom of expression in telecommunications. These steps include assessments that may need to be conducted, as well as an escalation procedure to be used if needed. During 2014 more detailed practical guidance related to the Policy and Instruction will be issued. 16 TeliaSonera Sustainability Report 2013 Our priorities 5. Always seek to ensure the safety and liberty of company personnel who may be placed at risk; The Group Instruction for implementation of the TeliaSonera Group Policy on Freedom of Expression in Telecommunications includes that an assessment of any risks to the safety and liberty of company personnel should be conducted when relevant. 6. Raise awareness and train relevant employees in related policies and processes; TeliaSonera’s Code of Ethics and Conduct awareness project covers issues regarding freedom of expression and privacy (see Raising awareness of our Code of Ethics and Conduct page 8). Additional training and awareness-raising will be needed for relevant personnel, based on our Freedom of Expression Policy and the related Instruction. Implementation of this policy will be structured according to TeliaSonera’s ethics and compliance program (see Ethics and Compliance Office page 9). The importance of our commitments in relation to freedom of expression were highlighted in a statement issued by our CEO in December 2013 (see www.teliasonera.com/sustainability/human-rights/ceo-statement-freedomof-expression-policy/). 7. Share knowledge and insights, where relevant, with all relevant and interested stakeholders to improve understanding of the applicable legal framework and the effectiveness of these principles in practice, and to provide support for the implementation and further development of the principles; TeliaSonera actively participates in the Industry Dialogue, notably in its collaboration with the GNI, and in interactions with different groups of interested stakeholders. TeliaSonera holds regular meetings with the investor community. 8. Report externally on an annual basis, and whenever circumstances make it relevant, on their progress in implementing the principles, and as appropriate on major events occurring in this regard; TeliaSonera’s approach and activities on these issues are reported in this section of our Sustainability Report. TeliaSonera aims to enhance transparency by reporting on requests and demands with potentially serious impacts on freedom of expression in telecommunications. See www.teliasonera.com/newsroom/news/2013/government-requests-ineurasia/. At TeliaSonera we believe that national laws and regulations should determine the scope and mechanisms for transparency reporting relating to the total number of requests for access to customer data. We encourage governments to be transparent about the scope of their surveillance of communications and how they use the information compiled. Nonetheless, TeliaSonera has responded to a request by an NGO in Finland to publish the total number of such requests. See www.teliasonera.com/newsroom/news/2013/feature/. 9. Help to inform the development of policy and regulations to support freedom of expression and privacy including, alone or in cooperation with other entities, seeking to mitigate potential negative impacts from policies or regulations; Active participation in the Stockholm Internet Forum and in the ID and GNI Learning Forum in Brussels. See “Lobbying for better legislation” – an example of best practice on page 18. Chairing the Industry Dialogue during its first term, March to September 2013. 10. Examine, as a group, options for implementing relevant grievance mechanisms, as outlined in Principle 31 of the UN Guiding Principles for Business and Human Rights; This issue will continue to be explored through the Industry Dialogue in the future. The principles will apply to participating companies where they have operational control. Where they do not have  operational control, participating companies will seek to use their influence to promote the principles. Within TeliaSonera we have used our influence to promote the ID Principles at MegaFon, and are also planning to do so at Turkcell. The participating companies aim, together as a group, to compile and make available guidance and informa tion on the main laws, regulations and standards telecommunications companies operate under, to be used for informational purposes. Work through the Industry Dialogue remains ongoing. In November 2012 TeliaSonera published information on ‘Human rights within the international legal framework for telecom operators’ which can be found at www.teliasonera.com/en/ about-us/public-policies/. 17 TeliaSonera Sustainability Report 2013 Our priorities Lobbying for better Photo: Wikipedia/Vladimer Shioshvili legis­lation During 2013, as a part of its human Geocell has also started to coopermendations to improve the legal rights work, Geocell carried out an ate with Transparency International framework for surveillance were assessment of the risks which could in Georgia, who have published a consequently issued. potentially lead to conflict with hureport on Internet Freedoms. GeoThe conference was followed man rights. Geocell consequently cell participated in a public conferby separate meetings between contributed to an initiative by the ence on secret surveillance and Georgian government representagovernment of Georgia to elaborate personal data protection organized tives and the EU Commissioner for a new draft law on surveillance, by Georgian Civil Society National Enlargement and European Neighemphasizing the need to guarantee Platform and media representatives, borhood Policy, with Transparency freedom of expression and privacy supported by Open Society Georgia International Georgia, EU’s former not only on paper, but in reality. Foundation. In the conference, Commissioner for human rights Issues of concern include representatives of both the public and with the Swedish and Finnish amendments to Georgian legislation and business sector participated, ambassadors to Georgia. allowing law enforcement authoritogether with Transparency InternaThe Georgian government has ties to have real time access to teltional, the Georgian Young Lawyers’ initiated the elaboration of a new ecom networks. These issues need Association and the Innovations and draft law on the surveillance of comto be examined in detail with regard Reforms Center. The conference munications. Geocell will continue to human rights principles as well as provided an overview of the current to be engaged in this process with the perspectives of national security situation and made an assessment the goal of developing clear and and crime combating. of Georgia’s legislation as comtransparent legal norms and princiGeocell has entered into a diapared to international standards ples that will guarantee freedom of logue with government representaestablished by the European Court expression and privacy. tives to discuss sensitive issues. of Human Rights. Specific recomFacts about: Surveillance of communications Governments and the authorities tent of communications and n Access to location information, conduct various types of surveillance access to historical content i.e. access to information on of communications, by imposing n Real-time access to traffic data the location of mobile termiobligations on telecommunications n Access to historical traffic data nals/phones companies in connection with crimiwhich the provider has stored 2. Signals intelligence, i.e. intellinal investigations and national secufor commercial purposes gence-gathering through analysis rity issues. Government surveillance n Access to subscription data and processing of communication of communications can be classified which the provider has stored signals into general categories, such as: for commercial purposes 3. Real-time access without ren Access to historical traffic data quests, technical systems for 1. Lawful interception (based on and to subscription data stored more extensive monitoring of requests from law enforcement in response to mandatory telecommunications authorities): requirements for such storage 4. Shut-down, blocking or restricn Real-time access to the con(EU-regulation) tion of access 18 TeliaSonera Sustainability Report 2013 Our priorities Customer privacy Data traffic and storage is growing rapidly which poses One particularly challenging area is the purging of challenges to all kinds of players in the field of ICT, data. Procedures for the purging of systems have been including TeliaSonera. TeliaSonera strives to operinitiated and we are planning to further develop a proate highly secure communication networks and takes cess for automatic purging, which is already realized in actions to prevent unauthorized access to our customsome countries. ers’ personal data. We are committed to protect and Proof of concept procedures for a new compliance safeguard our customers’ privacy, as is clearly stated in tool have been completed and evaluated. our Code of Ethics and Conduct. Our Privacy Policy was decided in early 2011, setOur Group Privacy Policy further defines Telia­ ting high and consistent group standards to protect Sonera’s on-going work in respect of customer privacy. customer privacy. Despite defined as a high group This policy covers: user-consent; the collection, priority, progress so far has been slow. Privacy officers, processing and retention of data; data accuracy; risk with clear responsibilities, have not yet been appointed assessments; requirements imposed on suppliers; in all parts of the organization. Such privacy officers are technical and organisational measures; integrity breach needed for maintenance and governance. Overall, the reporting and confidentiality. mind-shift to build privacy by design into our services We are executing the policy by establishing robust and networks has not yet happened. processes designed to ensure that the entire TeliaSonDuring the year we acknowledged 14 substantiated era group also complies with national laws and meets customer privacy complaints, including 7 from outside end-users’ expectations. Our governance process parties and 7 from regulatory bodies. The most serious defines roles and responsibilities along our line organicases related to customers in Sweden and Estonia zation. Implementation activities are based on on-going whose invoices and call details were visible to other prioritizations. Priorities and local measures to address people for a short time. In all cases we cooperated with these issues vary, reflecting the different stages of dethe national data protection authorities by duly reportvelopment in different markets. A risk-based approach ing the cases and making sure that the underlying is taken when we work to close gaps with regard to our technical problems were corrected. Group Privacy Policy. Every upgrading of network infraA further 7 leaks, thefts and losses of customer data structure brings an additional opportunity to review and were identified in our Nordic operations between May implement compliance. Privacy issues are to be taken 2013 and year-end, although these incidents did not reinto consideration during all significant developments sult in formal complaints. They involved errors such as (‘privacy by design’). We are also providing relevant the exposure of customer’s e-mail addresses, the loss employees with further specific training on privacy of a USB stick with customer data, and invoices sent to issues. the wrong customers. 19 TeliaSonera Sustainability Report 2013 Our priorities Anti-corruption work It is our duty to prevent and fight corruption and bribery CEO came in to office in September 2013, and a new in any form. Corruption disturbs competitive markets Ethics and Compliance function was established at the and leads to the misallocation of resources. It undersame time, headed by a newly hired Group Ethics and mines the law, violates ethical and responsible business Compliance Officer. practices and disturbs public trust. TeliaSonera does The Group Management Team resolved to hold a not accept any form of bribery or other corrupt busiGovernance, Risk, Ethics and Compliance (GREC) ness practices. To enforce this statement we issued a meeting on a quarterly basis starting in November 2013. specific Anti-corruption Policy in March 2013 and GuidOur new Board appointed the law firm Norton Rose ing Principles in January 2014. Fulbright to conduct a review of the transactions and We recognize that we have not done enough to agreements made in the past few years, and of the fight corruption and bribery and have now put further company’s partners in TeliSonera’s business area emphasis and resources on this important topic. During Eurasia. We will also initiate compliance investigations the fourth quarter of 2013 we initiated a global Antiif red flags are raised during the Norton Rose Fulbright Corruption Program as part of TeliaSonera’s Ethics and investigation, internal audits or the risk assessment Compliance Framework. This program consists of eight procedures described below. Read more on Norton compliance dimensions built on a model described Rose Fulbright’s findings in Criticism from stakeholders as an “effective compliance program” and “adequate page 12. procedures” by organizations and legislation including the Society of Corporate Compliance and Ethics, the US Foreign Corruption Practices Act, US Sentencing Risk assessments Guidelines, the UK Bribery Act, and anti-trust offices Our sustainability risk map at www.teliasonera.com/ throughout Europe. Furthermore, remediation activities sustainability/impacts/managing-sustainability-risks/ are included in the program. summarizes the main human rights and business practice risks in countries where TeliaSonera operates. Commitment at top Some of these countries are ranked as having high levels of corruption according to Transparency Internamanagement level tional’s corruption perception index. The strong commitment of our management at all During the fourth quarter of 2013 country-specific levels, based on the “walk the talk” principle, is crucial risk assessments regarding corruption and bribery to foster a culture throughout our organization recogrisks were initiated in our seven high risk markets. nizing that bribery and other corrupt business practices Three assessments were completed during 2013 and are never acceptable. four will be completed by the first quarter of 2014. Our Anti-Corruption Program is continuously moniThese assessments will continue in 2014 with all other tored in line with a yearly plan drawn up by the Chief TeliaSonera’s markets. Thereafter our Ethics and ComEthics and Compliance Officer. This plan is approved by pliance function will conduct yearly follow-ups on these the CEO, and also communicated to the Governance, risk assessments in selected markets and business Risk, Ethics and Compliance (GREC) meeting of the units. Group Management Team and the Board’s SustainabilThe risk assessments also include an action plan to ity and Ethics Committee. remediate any issues noted. The risk assessments and The Group Management Team and all of Telia­ action plans are then followed-up as part of our AntiSonera’s other management teams are responsible corruption program. for understanding and cascading our Anti-Corruption Policy and Guiding Principles. They are also expected Training and communications to act as strong role models. work Remediation A mandatory web-based training program on the TeliaSonera Code of Ethcis and Conduct was introduced During 2012 and 2013 a case of suspected corruption during 2013, covering topics such as human rights, became apparent within TeliaSonera, leading to several freedom of expression and anti-corruption. The training corrective actions. course ends with a signature process that enables all A new Board was elected in April 2013 which estabemployees to confirm that they participated in the trainlished a specific new committee operating under the ing. Read more in Policy framework page 8. Board: the Sustainability and Ethics Committee. A new As part of our Anti-corruption Program, face-to-face 20 TeliaSonera Sustainability Report 2013 Our priorities and classroom training sessions are to be initiated actions related to anti-competitive behavior. On 12 April during the first quarter of 2014. These sessions will 2013 the Swedish Market Court fined TeliaSonera AB initially focus on high risk markets, functions and roles, the sum of SEK 35 million for abusing the company’s before being cascaded throughout the entire organizadominant market position by way of a margin squeeze in tion during 2014. Our Ethics and Compliance function the ADSL market during the period April 2000–January will continue to conduct awareness campaigns and 2003. In 2013 TeliaSonera was not subject to any other communications through various channels such as our significant fines or sanctions related to non-compliance intranet, e-mail, management meetings and our ethics with laws and regulations. As a consequence of allegaand compliance network. tions made in the media, in 2012 the Swedish Prosecutor’s Office started a pre-trial investigation into bribery Compliance and whistle-blowing and money laundering related to TeliaSonera’s investments in Uzbekistan. See Criticism from stakeholders All TeliaSonera employees have a responsibility to page 12. report any violations of laws or our own Code of Ethics and Conduct. It is vital that everyone should be able to speak up and bring their concerns into the open so that Relations with governments and problems can be resolved quickly before serious harm authorities may occur. Employees should first seek to address the Operator licenses, frequencies and other prerequisites issue with their manager or a local human resources for our operations are controlled by governments and representative. If employees are for some reason unother authorities. Technical aspects of our infrastruccomfortable with this procedure, they may also contact ture, such as deployment of fiber and masts, and the our Legal function, other managers within Human minimum working conditions of our employees, are Resources, our Internal Audit, our Security Department also governed by national legislation. Engaging with or our Ethics and Compliance function. governments and relevant authorities is therefore a An internal whistle-blower function has been natural part of our business. As in all of our operations, established as an alternative way for employees to in such contexts TeliaSonera observes fair business report violations of laws or our Code of Ethics and practices and acts in accordance with the relevant Conduct in cases where they do not feel conformable standards in order to uphold fair competition and avoid reporting through the normal channels. This current taking any inappropriate advantages. whistle-blower function cannot yet be used by external TeliaSonera does not engage in the politics of the stakeholders. countries in which we operate, nor do we make political Towards the end of 2013 a process aiming to replace donations. We do not comment on politics or make the current internal whistle-blowing function was initipolitical statements when representing our company. ated. The aim is to source a solution known as a “speak TeliaSonera does engage in dialogues regarding up channel” that will be made accessible through all regulatory policies that affect our business and the TeliaSonera intranets and our supplier portal enabling human rights of our customers. In these dialogues we employees and external stakeholders to report matters aim to promote a regulatory environment that encourof concern anonymously. This speak up channel will ages investment and innovation, and promotes equal be administered externally and managed by our Ethics opportunity. We regularly engage transparently with and Compliance function. regulators throughout our markets, in order to share Cases will be consolidated in to a case management our experiences and opinions. system, with consolidated reports submitted to the TeliaSonera’s public policy engagements are in line GREC meeting of the Group Management Team for dewith our sustainability related policies. During 2013 this cisions on relevant disciplinary action. Reports will also work focused on the following areas; be sent to the Board Audit Committee and Sustainabil■■ Openness/net neutrality: Our position is defined in a ity and Ethics Committee. document available at www.teliasonera.com/aboutus/public-policies/. Cases during 2013 ■■ Radio spectrum: Our position is defined in a document available at www.teliasonera.com/about-us/ During 2013 we received 14 whistle-blowing reports. public-policies/. These reports were related to areas such as human ■■ Copyright and access to content: TeliaSonera fully resources, procurement processes and corruption supports the positions of the European Telecommuallegations. Based on each report an investigation was nications Network Operators’ Association (ETNO), initiated. Nine of the investigations were closed after available at www.etno.eu/ due examination. Five of the investigations remain on■■ Protection of children online: For details on our posigoing. One of the investigations resulted in a change in tion see page 44. management. ■■ The UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human In our normal course of business during 2013 TeliaRights, focusing on freedom of expression and priSonera has been involved in a limited number of legal vacy. For information on our position see Freedom of expression page 15. 21 TeliaSonera Sustainability Report 2013 Our priorities Sustainability in the supply chain TeliaSonera’s annual purchasing volume amounts to During 2013 TeliaSonera’s Group Procurement policy SEK 59 billion. The majority of these purchases in terms and Group Instructions have been updated to reflect of volume and capital involve infrastructure equipment the importance of sustainability across our supplier and services related to the building, development and base. Sustainability issues form an integral part of our maintenance of our fixed and mobile networks and IT insupplier evaluation criteria. In order to respond to our frastructure. In addition we purchase mobile handsets, policy requirements, TeliaSonera’s Chief Procurement other consumer electronic devices, and electricity. Officer has approved a new Sustainability roadmap for In order to work proactively to mitigate risks and our supply chain. This roadmap aims to ensure compliensure compliance in our supply chain, we have to adance in ways that are efficient and effective both for dress our key challenges: TeliaSonera and our suppliers. Responsibility for ensur•A  large number of suppliers makes it difficult to effecing sustainability in the supply chain is held by the Chief tively assess where to focus review and follow-up Procurement Officer, and driven from a Group Procure•P  urchases are made without reference to contracts or ment perspective as part of TeliaSonera’s value chain. not from approved suppliers Until the first half of 2013 we used our own supplier •M  any of our suppliers, especially in Eurasia, are not sustainability assessments for all types of suppliers. used to customer requirements and reviews related This assessment method contributed to our suppliers’ to sustainability questionnaire fatigue, needed regular updates, and •A  ccurate documentation and other bases for sustainmade it difficult to provide feedback on improvement ability reporting are often insufficient or completely areas for individual suppliers. It was also difficult to lacking. identify risks through this procedure. For these reasons we have now developed a new suppler screening proTeliaSonera’s Group Procurement function is respongram with the following elements: sible for procurements in the Nordic and Baltic coun• Risk assessment and mapping of the supply chain tries, and also significant infrastructure procurements for each product/service category in our majority-owned operations in Eurasia. In 2014 • Between the fourth quarter of 2013 and the fourth the Group Procurement will also be responsible for all quarter of 2014, high risk suppliers* and preferred procurements in Eurasia. suppliers will be evaluated by Eco­Vadis to determine In our most significant locations – Sweden, Finland, supply chain sustainability risks the Baltic countries and our Eurasia region – our pro• Suppliers will be evaluated and the results will be curements are split between local and global suppliers. used in tendering and as part of supplier monitoring This contributes considerably to the wider economic and supplier selection. development of the countries where we operate. We emphasize the importance of managing sustainaEcoVadis is a company that specializes in collaborative bility issues along our supply chain to ensure that we can sustainability performance assessment. Suppliers are meet our own sustainability commitments. Focus areas able to share their consequent performance results during 2013 have included risk awareness, risk manageand actions with their other customers, thereby reducment and monitoring processes. At the end of 2013, ing supplier questionnaire fatigue. The methodology our Supplier Code of Conduct was incorporated into 90 applied by EcoVadis is based on internationally recpercent of significant and approved supplier contracts. ognized standards such as Global Reporting Initiative, The diagram below illustrates how our requirements ISO 26000 and the UN Global Compact. The EcoVadis and supplier due care procedures form an integral part evaluation system focuses on suppliers’ environmental, of our sourcing and purchasing processes. social and ethical practices, including their management of their own supply chains, based on 150 product/service categories. External stakeholder requirements, Policies The assessment process involves a comprehenand instructions, Group priority actions sive set of questions tailored according to suppliers’ size, product/service categories and location risks. Feedback loop Document reviews are carried out to verify suppliers’ responses. This means that TeliaSonera is now shifting Supply Supplier Performance strategy selection Purchase management * High risk suppliers are defined on the basis of the country where they produce or deliver their goods and services, the types of goods of services they produce or deliver, and whether they are considered as Supplier due care business critical suppliers. 22 TeliaSonera Sustainability Report 2013 Our priorities away from low value supplier assessments to assessbeen duly trained. ments that are verified and based on international Supplier audits may be initiated by Group Procurestandards. ment as well as within local operations. Clear criteria During 2013 a sustainability assessment of suppliers are defined for when a supplier should be audited. using EcoVadis was carried out by our sourcing manIn our Nordic and Baltic countries the field services agers. The EcoVadis evaluation has helped suppliers purchasing category was in focus during 2013. This to better understand the requirements of TeliaSonera involved audits of selected suppliers. These audits were Supplier Code and to develop a compliance roadmap. carried out as part of Joint Audit Cooperation (JAC). Under a process launched in 2013 the provision of Founded in 2010, JAC is an association of telecom basic sustainability training for personnel involved in operators having a shared approach to sustainability sourcing will become a permanent activity. This training supply chain auditing. In 2013 JAC conducted 38 supaims to enable personnel to understand the importance plier audits of which five were conducted by TeliaSonof their role, and most importantly how to maintain a era. JAC has now since the formation conducted in professional relationship with suppliers. This training total 112 supplier audits. Read more about JAC at www. has been completed in our Nordic operations and in teliasonera.com/sustainability/impacts/supply-chain/ Eurasia, where personnel involved in sourcing have joint-audit-cooperation/. Training suppliers in Photo sustainability In October 2013, Moldcell organability reporting group. An action the training it was noted in Ucell that ized the first sustainability workshop plan for upcoming activities will the quality of the sustainability data for its suppliers, providing 14 major subsequently be submitted to the from the suppliers improved. suppliers with detailed information CEO and shareholders. We believe that these workabout TeliaSonera’s sustainability In November Azercell conducted shops were the first of their kind work and priorities. In order to guide its first sustainability awareness sesheld in these countries. While the suppliers through the process of sion for suppliers. The participatmain purpose of the workshops sustainability reporting to Moldcell, ing suppliers were informed about was to train suppliers in our review a presentation was made to show sustainability processes within and reporting requirements, and the links between sustainability and TeliaSonera and Azercell, related to thereby improve the quality of revenue, all suppliers were offered a achievements and plans, and Teliathe resluting information, they also set of relevant documents, and reSonera’s Supplier Code of Conserve as capacity building tools for ceived guidance on how to succeed duct. Additional emphasis was put suppliers seeking to become more with the reporting process. on anti-corruption and health and competitive by adopting sustainable Moldcell subsequently received safety issues, which were also the business practices and promoting positive feedback on the workshop topics on which participants asked sustainability along the wider value from participants. To build on this the most questions. chain. workshop, an internal meeting was Similar training was carried out in set up within the Moldcell’s sustainUcell with all major suppliers. After 23 TeliaSonera Sustainability Report 2013 Our priorities Environmental responsibility Our Code of Ethics and Conduct commits us to work work to make continuous improvements. Quality and actively to improve our positive environmental impacts environmental management systems cover Teliaand reduce our negative impacts. Sonera’s operations in Sweden, where 54 percent of Our positive indirect environmental impacts relate employees (15 percent of the Group headcount) are to the services that we provide which can reduce our covered by an ISO 9001 and 14001 certification. Since customers’ own energy consumption and greenhouse 2012 TeliaSonera Finland’s head office in Helsinki has gas emissions. Teleand videoconferencing services had a ‘LEED Gold’ certification. offered mainly in the Nordic and Baltic countries reduce customers’ need to travel, and various ‘machine to machine’ (M2M) services can be used to increase efOur environmental targets ficiency in areas such as logistics planning. Our most important priority is to continuously seek The SMARTer report by GeSI (www.gesi.org/SMARTout ways of working and technical solutions that help er2020) points out that while the ICT industry’s share of us increase energy efficiency in our own operations. global greenhouse gas emissions is relatively small (1.9 This also relates closely to our financial performance, percent in 2011, and forecast to be an estimated 2.3 as electricity and fuels account for a significant part of percent in 2020), the industry’s potential to help other our operational expenses. Increasing energy efficiency sectors to reduce their emissions is up to seven times also has the positive effect of reducing greenhouse gas higher than its own emissions. This means that in all emissions. In many of our markets, such as Nepal and phases of our service delivery, from product developTajikistan where access to grid electricity is limited or ment to marketing, sourcing and technical roll-out, we unavailable, we need to run generators 24/7 to power need to understand and incorporate effective ways to certain base stations. leverage this potential. In 2013 group-level environmental targets were The biggest part of our negative environmental footapproved aiming to increase our energy efficiency and print relates to the energy needed to keep our networks reduce our greenhouse gas emissions in all parts of our and services accessible 24/7. The greenhouse gas operations. Our business areas are responsible for de(GHG) emissions, mainly carbon dioxide (CO₂), from veloping and executing their own related action plans. this energy production make up the largest part of our Progress towards these targets is reported annucarbon footprint, so this is where we are focusing our ally to the Group Management Team, and targets will efforts. be revised as we develop our data collection. In 2013 Waste management is an important issue for Teliaa steering group was formed, consisting of members Sonera and our whole industry. Our own operations of our group sustainability function and business area generate various kinds of waste, ranging from regular representatives, to work towards integrating these taroffice waste such as paper and household waste, to gets into business plans, to share best practices, and to construction waste such as asphalt and cables. Some coordinate efforts to get the most out of investments. of it is considered hazardous, such as electronic waste Based on the 2012 baseline, our goals for 2020 are (e-waste) and dismantled telephone poles from our fixed to: line operations in Sweden and Finland. We do not yet ■■ Reduce our CO₂ emissions by 20 percent per subhave a full picture of our waste footprint in all markets, as scription equivalent* in many of the markets where we operate waste man■■ Increase our energy efficiency by 20 percent per agement infrastructure is poorly developed. In 2014 the subscription equivalent* target is to develop a group e-waste plan. Indirect negative environmental impacts along In 2013 on group level we were unable to deliver our value chain relate mainly to outsourced logistics, positive progress on our environmental targets, as construction and maintenance operations, and the energy efficiency decreased 3 percent and emissions manufacturing of the equipment we purchase. We are increased 15 percent per subscription equivalent, dedeveloping ways to standardize data collection from our spite an increase in the amount of subscriptions. Some suppliers to improve our understanding. During 2013 we business units showed positive progress against the have collected information from our biggest suppliers on the greenhouse gas emissions they have generated while working for us. * Subscription equivalent is used to differentiate between the different bandwidth and energy requirements for different subscriptions – our Environmental management systems and schemes products vary from very low consumption M2M subscriptions up to can be valuable tools for making sure that we consider high consumption 4G mobile or IPTV subscriptions. The targets are environmental aspects in our daily operations, and based on our electricity consumption and Scope 1 and 2 emissions. 24 TeliaSonera Sustainability Report 2013 Our priorities environmental targets. The negative trend measured on fewer sites increases energy efficiency as the total group level is mostly caused by our efforts to improve cooling need is reduced. the data quality in energy reporting from all busi■■ Renewable energy certificates (REC) purchased in ness units. During the year all business units received Sweden and Finland allowed us to abate our GHG targeted training in sustainability and energy reporting. emissions by 54,813 tons (12 percent of Group emisThe 2013 figures, together with a major revision and resions). In Sweden we purchase ‘Bra Miljöval’ (‘Good calculation of 2012 energy and emissions figures, now Environmental Choice’) hydroelectricity approved by provide a more accurate picture of our actual energy the Swedish Society for Nature Conservation. consumption and carbon footprint. The extensive 4G ■■ Continued roll-out of solar power capacity in Nepal, rollout, where the new equipments installed in base Tajikistan and Uzbekistan, with further installations stations require more energy, is also contributing to the planned for 2014. Especially in Nepal and Tajikistan increase in our energy consumption. For more details where access to grid electricity is limited, this is a on our energy and emissions performance, see GRI necessary solution to maintain network coverage indicators EN3, EN4, EN16 and EN17 on pages 35-37. uptime that also helps to drastically reduce GHG emissions. We now have over 500 solar powered Despite of the overall negative development on envibase stations in operation in these countries. ronmental targets, a number of important initiatives ■■ Using energy efficient free cooling for base stations were taken as part of the action plans: mainly in the Nordic countries where the temperature ■■ Business area Broadband Services continued to reis favorable. duce the number of data centers and technical sites ■■ The completion of further data centers built accordin Sweden and Finland. Concentrating equipment in ing to the Green Room Concept. TeliaSonera’s Green Room Concept Patented by TeliaSonera, and company. The Green Room Concept several thousand square meters already implemented and ready for is usable more or less everywhere of classrooms located nearby, uslarge-scale production, the Teliaexcept in tropical regions. It has ing connecting heat exchangers. Sonera Green Room Concept is a been estimated that if the concept By generating annual savings for cutting-edge cooling solution for could be applied in every data Akademiska Hus in the range of data centers. Conceptualized and center around the world, the total one million SEK, this project clearly developed by TeliaSonera emenergy savings would amount to generates a good return on investployees, the Green Room Concept about 1 percent of global electricity ment, while also demonstrating the enables power usage effectiveness consumption. potential for TeliaSonera to improve (PUE) figures as low as 1.06 – a By putting the Green Room energy efficiency by considering huge difference from the current Concept into practice in cooperaoutside the box solutions. As a global average of 1.8-2.0. This diftion with the commercial real estate major infrastructure developer and ference means that, on average, developer Akademiska Hus, we are owner in many regions, TeliaSonera a data room built using the Green taking data center energy efficiency hopes to find similar opportunities Room Concept’s cooling layout and to the next level. At the Fredhäll elsewhere in our operations – and equipment would use almost 40 site in central Stockholm, Sweden, also to inspire others. percent less energy – representing the excess heat generated from major savings potential for any ICT the data center is utilized to heat 25 TeliaSonera Sustainability Report 2013 Our priorities Our goal is to expand on all these initiatives in 2014 to materials such as glass-fiber in these poles to find a create positive development towards our environmental suitable, more environmentally friendly alternative. targets. Many of our business units run energy efficiency and waste-related office programs. Examples include the Other environmental initiatives Green Office initiative at Kcell in Kazakhstan, and similar initiatives at head offices of EMT in Estonia and TEO A number of local e-waste initiatives continued or were in Lithuania. These programs have helped to reduce initiated during 2013. Despite the fact that there is no the environmental footprints of these offices while also e-waste management infrastructure in Georgia, Geoincreasing awareness of how all of us can make envicell launched an initiative to collect hazardous mobile ronmental improvements in our daily work. We estimate phone components such as batteries in the company’s that such programs realized in TeliaSonera’s business stores for suitable treatment abroad. Other business units during 2013 saved a total of 2.5 GWh of electricity. units such as Omnitel in Lithuania have been doing this During 2013 TeliaSonera, the Royal Institute of for years, facilitating the resale of used phones. Technology in Stockholm and Ericsson have jointly In Sweden and Finland where the amounts of waste conducted groundbreaking research related to lifethat we generate are the largest, we measure closely cycle assessments for ICT systems and products. The and follow up our performance. Our business leasing research findings have partly been presented at conferoperations make sure that all phones and devices are ences and in articles during 2013, and comprehensive taken back and refurbished for further use or properly findings will be fully published in a peer-reviewed scidismantled and recycled. entific article during spring 2014. This research will help We continue to seek replacements for the chemically to improve understanding of the environmental impacts impregnated wooden poles used in fixed line networks, of ICT products and services; knowledge which can be which are classified as hazardous waste. During 2013 a applied globally to help the entire ICT industry reduce its total of 16,700 metric tons of such poles were dismanenvironmental impact. tled. We are meanwhile pioneering the testing of new 26 TeliaSonera Sustainability Report 2013 Our performance GRI Report 2013 = Fully reported = Partially reported = Not reported TeliaSonera has self-declared this report as prepared 3. Reporting parameters in accordance with GRI G3.1 Application Level B+. The Application Level has been checked by a third party, 3.1 Reporting period for information provided nnn PwC. Calendar year 2013 3.2 Date of most recent previous report nnn March 2013 1. Strategy and Analysis 3.3 Reporting cycle nnn 1.1 CEO Statement nnn Annual See CEO statement page 3. 3.4 Contact point for questions nnn 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and nnn See Contacts and feedback page 49. ­opportunities See Sustainability at TeliaSonera page 6. 3.5 Process for defining report content nnn See Stakeholder engagement page 10. 3.6 Boundary of the report nnn 2. Profile The scope of our consolidated sustainability data generally follows established principles of 2.1 Name of the organization nnn financial reporting. Data includes companies TeliaSonera AB under TeliaSonera’s control, i.e. wholly-owned 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services nnn or majority-owned companies where direct or inSee Annual report, Markets and brands. direct ownership gives TeliaSonera 50 percent of 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, innnn the voting rights. Companies with less than two cluding main divisions, operating companies, employees have been excluded from reporting subsidiaries, and joint ventures unless stated otherwise. Performance data from associated companies is not consolidated. See Annual report, Markets and brands. 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters nnn 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or nnn boundary of the report Stockholm, Sweden No specific limitations. 2.5 Number of countries where the organization nnn operates, and names of countries with either 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidinnn major operations or operations that are spearies, leased facilities, outsourced operacifically relevant to the sustainability issues tions, and other entities that can significantly covered in the report affect comparability from period to period See Annual report, Markets and brands. and/or between organizations 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form nnn We consolidate and report data from our whollySee Annual Report, Corporate Governance and majority-owned companies. Data from our Statement, section Parent Company. joint ventures Svenska UMTS-Nät AB (Sweden) and TT-Netværket A/S (Denmark) was con2.7 Markets served (including geographic breaknnn solidated and reported partially for EN and LA down, sectors served, and types of customindicators, and fully for IO8. As our sustainability ers/beneficiaries) reporting processes are still under developSee Annual report, Markets and brands. ment, the degree of data completeness varies 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization nnn which might affect comparability between years. See www.teliasonera.com/about-us/ Limitations are reported with the respective teliasonera-in-brief/. indicators. 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting pennn 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases nnn riod regarding size, structure, or ownership of calculations, including assumptions and See Annual Report, Board of Directors’ Report, techniques underlying estimations applied sections Group Development in 2013 and Acquito the compilation of the indicators and other sitions and Divestitures. information in the report 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period nnn See Indexes and recognitions page 13. 27 TeliaSonera Sustainability Report 2013 Our performance GRI G3.1 Guidelines and telecommunications 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members nnn sector supplement have been applied in the of the highest governance body, senior mancompilation of data and calculations. Some of agers, and executives the reported data may have been estimated. See Annual Report, Corporate Governance WRI, IEA and Defra emission factors have been Statement, section Remuneration to Executive used as a basis for calculating greenhouse Management. gas (GHG) emissions. Leased assets such as vehicles and shops are generally considered 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governnnn part of Scope 2. ance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements nnn See Annual Report, Corporate Governance of information provided in earlier reports, and Statement, section Board of Directors. the reasons for such re-statement Data in energy and greenhouse gas emissions 4.7 Process for determining the composition, nnn indicators (EN3, EN4, EN16, EN17) for 2012 has qualifications and expertise of the membeen revised and recalculated. Now 2012 data bers of the highest governance body and its better reflects actual performance. The new committees, including any consideration of 2012 figures are significantly higher than those gender and other indicators of diversity reported last year. LA4 has been recalculated. See Annual Report, Corporate Governance Statement, section Nomination Committee. 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting nnn periods in the scope, boundary, or measure4.8 Internally developed statements of mission nnn ment methods applied in the report or values, codes of conduct, and principles This year we are fully reporting data from LMT relevant to economic, environmental, and in Latvia and Tcell in Tajikistan. We changed the social performance and the status of their process for data collection from suppliers which implementation resulted in better Scope 3 emissions coverage. See Annual Report, Corporate Governance Statement, section Group-wide Governance 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard nnn Framework. Disclosures in the report See GRI report pages 27-30. 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body nnn for overseeing the organization’s identifica3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to nnn tion and management of economic, enviseeking external assurance for the report ronmental, and social performance, includSee Auditor’s Review page 49. ing relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles 4. Governance, commitments and See Annual Report, Corporate Governance stakeholder engagement Statement, sections Group-wide Governance 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, inFramework and Enterprise Risk Management. nnn cluding committees under the highest govern4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governnnn ance body responsible for specific tasks, such ance body’s own performance, particularly as setting strategy or organizational oversight with respect to economic, environmental, and See LA13 and Annual Report, Corporate social performance Governance Statement, sections Governing See Annual Report, Corporate Governance Bodies, Board of Directors and CEO and Group Statement, section Board of Directors. Management. 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precaunnn 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest govnnn tionary approach or principle is addressed by ernance body is also an executive officer the organization See Annual Report, Corporate Governance For TeliaSonera the precautionary principle Statement, section Board of Directors. relates mainly to exposure to electro-magnetic 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board fields (EMF) which is a public concern due to nnn structure, state the number and gender of the increased number of mobile terminals, base members of the highest governance body stations and mobile handsets. Teliasonera’s apthat are independent and/or non-executive proach to EMF is explained in SO10. Our overall members precautionary approach to service and product development is addressed through our Code See Annual Report, Corporate Governance of Ethics and Conduct, Supplier Code, policies Statement, section Board of Directors. and risk management framework. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees nnn 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmennnn to provide recommendations or direction to tal, and social charters, principles, or other inthe highest governance body itiatives to which the organization subscribes See Annual Report, Corporate Governance or endorses Statement, sections Shareholders. See Our commitments page 6. 28 TeliaSonera Sustainability Report 2013 Our performance 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as indusnnn 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, innnn try associations) and/or national/international cluding frequency of engagement by type and advocacy organizations by stakeholder group See Stakeholder engagement page 11 and See Stakeholder engagement page 10 and www.teliasonera.com/sustainability/impacts/ www.teliasonera.com/sustainability/impacts/ key-stakeholders/. key-stakeholders/. 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the nnn 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised nnn organization through stakeholder engagement, and how the See Stakeholder engagement page 10 and organization has responded to those key topics www.teliasonera.com/en/sustainability/ and concerns, including through its reporting impacts/key-stakeholders/. See Criticism from stakeholders page 12. 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakennn holders with whom to engage See Stakeholder engagement page 10. 5. Disclosure on management approach Economic Description of management approach Material aspects: Economic performance; Our approach to economic performance is guided by our Group-wide Governance FrameMarket presence; Indirect economic impacts work, see Annual Report, Corporate Government statement, section Group-Wide Governance Framework. Goals, performance & contextual information See Annual Report, Board of Directors’ Report, sections Business Area Development in 2013 and Outlook for 2014. Policies See Annual Report, Corporate Government statement, section Group-Wide Governance Framework; Code of Ethics and Conduct at www.teliasonera.com/about-us/corporate-governance/ code-of-ethics-and-conduct/. Environment Description of management approach Material aspects: Materials, Energy; Water; EmisSee Environmental responsibility page 24; Environment at www.teliasonera.com/sustainability/ sions, effluents and waste; Products and services; environment; Annual Report, Board of Directors’ Report, section Environment. Compliance Goals, performance and contextual information See Sustainability at TeliaSonera, Our approach page 6 and Key targets page 14. Organizational responsibility Overall responsibility for environmental issues lies with the Group Head of Sustainability, who reports to the Group Head of Communications. See also Sustainability governance at www. teliasonera.com/sustainability/impacts/governance/. Monitoring and follow-up Sustainability reporting; Sustainability data management system; Reporting to Carbon Disclosure Project; Regular internal reporting and follow-up on progress towards environmental targets. Policies See Code of Ethics and Conduct and Supplier Code at www.teliasonera.com/sustainability/ impacts/supply-chain/ and additional environmental requirements for suppliers at www. teliasonera.com/sustainability/supplier-portal/; OECD Guidelines for Multi­national Enterprises; UN Global Compact; Local environmental policies for example where operations are certified according to ISO 14001 or LEED. Social: Labor practices and decent work Description of management approach Material aspects: Employment; Labor/manageWe comply with national labor laws wherever we operate. Our approach to labor practices is ment relations; Occupational health and safety; guided by our Code of Ethics and Conduct which is in turn based on the UN Declaration on Human Training and education; Diversity and Rights and the core conventions of the International Labor Organization. Group Human Resources equal opportunity (HR) and HR Country Services are trained in and follow the UN and ILO conventions as well as our own Code of Ethics and Conduct, using them in designing contracts. We aim to provide and constantly improve a safe and healthy workplace, both for our own employees and for contracted labor. This is governed by local health and safety committees. Through TeliaSonera’s European Works Council (EWC) we maintain an active relationship with the employee representatives of our subsidiaries and affiliated companies in the member states of the European Union. Regular performance and career development reviews are in place in most of the countries where we operate and are conducted according to local standards and agreements. Goals, performance and contextual information See Sustainability at TeliaSonera, Our approach page 6 and Key targets page 14. 29 TeliaSonera Sustainability Report 2013 Our performance Organizational responsibility The most senior HR position is Senior Vice President, Head of Group HR, who is a part of the Group Management. Each business area has its own designated HR Vice President, who plays a strategic and operational role in supporting the integration of employee issues into business planning. Monitoring and follow-up See Anti-corruption work, Compliance and whistle-blowing page 21; HR data management systems; Employee Commitment Score survey. Policies See Code of Ethics and Conduct, Group Privacy Policy at www.teliasonera.com/about-us/ public-policies/; Global Recruitment policy; Local occupational health and safety policies. Social: Human rights Description of management approach Material aspects: Investment and procurement See Freedom of expression page 15 ; Sustainability in the supply chain page 22; Freedom of practices; Non-discrimination; Freedom of associaexpression and privacy at www.teliasonera.com/sustainability/human-rights/. tion and collective bargaining; Child labor; Forced and compulsory labor; Assessment; Remediation Goals, performance and contextual information See Sustainability at TeliaSonera, Our approach page 6 and Key targets page 14. Organizational responsibility See Sustainability governance at www.teliasonera.com/sustainability/impacts/governance/. Monitoring and follow-up See Anti-corruption work, Compliance and whistle-blowing page 21, Sustainability in the supply chain page 22; Managing sustainability risks at www.teliasonera.com/sustainability/impacts/ managing-sustainability-risks/. Policies See Code of Ethics and Conduct; Group Privacy Policy; Group Freedom of expression policy and Supplier Code of Conduct at www.teliasonera.com/about-us/public-policies/. Social: Society Description of management approach Material aspects: Local communities; Corruption; Our approach is driven by the TeliaSonera Code of Ethics and Conduct ; See Anti-Corruption Public policy; Anti-competitive behavior; Compliwork page 20, Sustainability in the supply chain page 22; EC1 and SO10. ance Goals, performance and contextual information See Sustainability at TeliaSonera, Our approach page 6 and Key targets page 14. Organizational responsibility See Sustainability governance at www.teliasonera.com/sustainability/impacts/governance/. Monitoring and follow-up See Anti-corruption work, Compliance and whistle-blowing page 21; Managing sustainability risks at www.teliasonera.com/sustainability/impacts/managing-sustainability-risks/. Policies See Code of Ethics and Conduct; Group Privacy Policy; Group Sponsoring and Donations Policy; Supplier Code of Conduct at www.teliasonera.com/about-us/public-policies/. Social: Product responsibility Description of management approach Material aspects: Customer health and safety; Customer health and safety is ensured by compliance with national laws and international Product and service labeling; Marketing regulations. Concerns related to the protection of children and electro-magnetic fields (EMF) communications; Customer privacy; Compliance are addressed in SO10. TeliaSonera strives to operate secure communication networks and take actions to prevent unauthorized access to personal data. We are committed to protect and safeguard our customers’ privacy, as is clearly stated in our Privacy Policy and Code of Ethics and Conduct. In marketing communications we strive to provide clear pricing schemes, balanced product information and sound marketing practices related to content, especially when addressing minors. Our local marketing departments work closely with our legal departments to ensure compliance with national marketing regulations. Goals, performance and contextual information See Sustainability at TeliaSonera, Our approach page 6 and Key targets page 14. Organizational responsibility See Sustainability governance at www.teliasonera.com/sustainability/impacts/governance/; Freedom of expression and privacy at www.teliasonera.com/sustainability/human-rights/. Monitoring and follow-up NPS customer satisfaction program; Contract terms communicated to sales representatives; Customer service guidelines for handling and escalation of complaints; Mechanisms in place in case of disputes. Policies See Group Privacy Policy and Group Sponsoring and Donations Policy at www.teliasonera.com/ about-us/public-policies/. 30 TeliaSonera Sustainability Report 2013 Our performance 6. Performance data Tajikistan and Uzbekistan amount to approximately SEK 41 billion. Most of TeliaSonera’s infrastructural investments in 6.1 Economic Eurasia involve procurements from global suppliers, but the fact that many of our suppliers are local contributes considerably to the wider economic development of the countries Economic performance where we operate. EC1. Direct economic value generated and nnn ­distributed Employees TeliaSonera offers direct employment for 26,013 people in TeliaSonera provides network access and telecommunications 29 countries. In 2013 our personnel expenses totalled SEK services to our customers; we buy infrastructural equipment 12,226 million (12,438), of which SEK 9,400 million (9,863) related to the building, development and maintenance of our was paid in wages and salaries. fixed and mobile networks and IT systems and services; and The salaries paid by TeliaSonera have a direct effect on our we purchase mobile handsets and other consumer electronic employees’ purchasing power, and consequently also the devices from our contractors and suppliers. We pay salaries, wider economic vitality of local communities. dividends and taxes that benefit our employees, local communities and national economies. These actions all generate Shareholders direct monetary flows affecting TeliaSonera’s stakeholders. At the end of 2013 TeliaSonera had 529,394 shareholders We create value for our stakeholders in many different ways. registered on the Stockholm and Helsinki stock exchanges. The table below shows how the value that we add to our prodTeliaSonera’s shareholders are rewarded through dividends ucts is distributed among stakeholders. and any increases in share prices. According to TeliaSonera’s dividend policy, ordinary Customers dividend shall be at least 50 percent of net income attributIn 2013 TeliaSonera’s net sales amounted to SEK 101,700 able to owners of the parent company. The total sum paid out million (104,898). Our main markets were Sweden (35.0 perin dividend in 2013 amounted to SEK 12,341 million. In 2013 cent), Finland (21.1 percent) and Eurasia (19.5 percent). TeliaSonera’s share price increased by 21.5 percent on the NASDAQ OMX Stockholm Stock Exchange. Suppliers The states of Sweden and Finland are TeliaSonera’s largest In 2013 TeliaSonera purchased materials and services with shareholders, with ownership stakes of 37.3 percent and 10.1 a total value of SEK 70,575 million (72,638). We play an percent, respectively. important role in the businesses of many of our suppliers and contractors. Public sector TeliaSonera is particularly a significant industrial investor in During 2013 TeliaSonera paid a total of SEK 3,051 million in our Eurasia region, contributing to the development of local income taxes to the public sectors of the countries where we economies through employment and the construction and operate. The table below shows the sums paid by country. maintenance of mobile infrastructure. Capital expenditure TeliaSonera received grants amounting to SEK 3 million (9) investments made since 2003 in TeliaSonera’s mobile operafor research and development purposes from various national tions in Azerbaijan, Georgia, Kazakhstan, Moldova, Nepal, governments. Generation of value added¹ 2013 2012 2011² SEK million % of net sales SEK million % of net sales SEK million % of net sales Customers + Net sales 101,700 104,898 104,804 Suppliers – Operating expenses 54,243 53 56,953 54 55,761 53 – Capital expenditure 16,332 15,685 15 17,384 17 = Value added 31,125 16 32,260 31,659 Distribution Employees – Personnel expenses 12,226 12 12,438 12 12,636 12 Shareholders – Dividends paid 12,341 12 12,341 12 12,349 12 – Share repurchase 9,943 10 Creditors – Interest expenses, net 2,770 3 3,069 3 2,419 2 Public sector – Income tax expenses 4,601 5 3,314 3 5,753 6 = Distributed to stakeholders 31,938 31,162 43,100 ¹ The items in the table are not all calculated exactly according to the GRI guidelines. We follow our own principles of financial reporting. ² Certain restatements have been made, see TeliaSonera Annual Report, Consolidated Financial Statements, Note C1. Basis of Preparation. 31 TeliaSonera Sustainability Report 2013 Our performance Income taxes paid 2013 2012 2011 EC2. Financial implications and other risks and opnnn MSEK Actual Actual Actual portunities due to climate change Sweden 942 1,717 2,461 Finland¹ 0 5 3 See Annual Report, Consolidated Financial Statements, note Norway 187 357 639 C34. Risks and Uncertainties. Lithuania 38 29 14 Latvia 22 20 53 Estonia 94 121 180 EC3. Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit nnn Kazakhstan 651 729 791 plan obligations Azerbaijan 370 293 370 Tajikstan 93 87 65 See Annual Report, Consolidated Financial Statements, notes C21. Provisions for Pensions and Employment Contracts and Georgia 40 22 30 C26. Financial Risk Management. Nepal 379 329 223 Russia 105 659 Turkey 17 33 7 EC4. Significant financial assistance received from nnn Other countries² 113 192 173 government Total 3,051 4,593 4,999 ¹ Tax payments reduced by usage of tax-deductible impairment losses and capital See EC1 Shareholders and Public sector. losses incurred in 2002 and 2003. ² Approximately 15 countries. Market presence Society EC6. Policy, practices, and proportion of spending nnn In 2013 TeliaSonera spent SEK 107 million (73) on various on locally based suppliers at significant locacommercial, philanthropic and community investment activitions of operation ties and projects. The main reason for the big increase in the total reported figure this year was that TeliaSonera sponsored See Sustainability in the supply chain page 20. the Eurovision Song Contest in 2013. Some 57 percent of these activities and projects were realized in the Nordic countries, 28 percent in Eurasia region and EC7. Procedures for local hiring and proportion of nnn 15 percent in the Baltic countries and Spain. Activities related senior management hired from the local comto culture and sports accounted for 67 percent, while activities munity at significant locations related to children, young people and education accounted for a total of 17 percent. TeliaSonera has a global recruitment policy that covers the whole group. Our recruitment policy is based on equal opporEurasia Baltic, Spain Nordics tunities and prohibits any kind of discrimination. It therefore grants no preference based on any applicant’s location, and SEK million employees are hired based on competence. Across all of our 120 operations at least half of management is from the country concerned. 100 Indirect economic impact 80 EC8. Development and impact of infrastructure nnn 60 investments and services provided primarily for public benefit 40 See EC1 Society. 20 Philanthropic activities and community projects are chosen by TeliaSonera local companies, who have a better understand0 2011 2012 2013 ing of local needs and sustainability issues. In early 2014 we adopted a new Sponsoring and Donations Policy and Instruction that sets new requirements for assessing and selecting activities and projects. This will in the future improve the follow-up, impact assessment and reporting. Read more about the policy at www.teliasonera.com/aboutus/public-policies/. 32 TeliaSonera Sustainability Report 2013 Our performance Project Aim Extent Impact Azercell mobile eye and dental To provide eye and dental care Azercell in Azerbaijan owns and operUp to date, the mobile dental clinic clinics to children in orphanages. ates mobile clinics that visit orphanages has served 3,575 children and the and provide treatment that would othermobile eye clinic has helped 2,010 wise be unavailable to the children. The children. mobile dental clinic has been running since 2009, the mobile eye clinic since 2011. Azercell agro-marketing project To use mobile technology to The project provides advisory service During 2013 the trial stage covered help farmers in Azerbaijan. to farmers on improvement of their 200 farmers. In 2014 Azercell plans to productivity, and creates a marketing roll out the project in all of Azerbaijan. platform for the farmers to support their sales and get better prices. Ncell part of Save the ChilTo improve the quality of eduProjects to build or equip infrastructure More than 24,500 students in 55 dren’s Adopt a School program cation in primary and secondand facilities related to schools like schools have benefited from the supin Nepal ary schools in rural areas. classrooms, toilets, drinking water acport so far. cess and manual and digital libraries. Childhood partnership in Nepal In 2013 TeliaSonera and Ncell During the first year Childhood supChildhood will assure that the funds decided to fund Childhood, a ported Shakti Samuha, a NGO working are used accordingly and will also three year project in Nepal in with trafficked children and women, and closely follow the impact. During the area of child protection. Voice of Children, a NGO working with 2014 Childhood will focus on finding Childhood will choose local street children. more local organizations to possibly organizations whose work support. they fund and whom they also professionally support. Omnitel and Swedbank coTo increase pupils’ educational Participation in this project is open By 2015, involvement of 95 percent operation in the professional motivation and to help them and free of charge to all Lithuanian of schools, and 400 organizations volunteering work project “Who choose their future profession schools and organizations. Students will participate. During the National needs it?” in Lithuania through practical experience and professionals connect via www. Career Week in November 2013, of different environments. kamtoreikia.lt/ to plan, develop and more than 7,000 school children from implement career-focused content in 150 schools participated in over 300 lessons, excursions and mentoring. engagements. mHealth project by Moldcell in To support the medical treatInvolves sending SMS with medical In 2013 over 900 beneficiaries were Moldova ment of tuberculosis patients information to patients suffering from enrolled in the program; the number with low income. Carried out tuberculosis. The mobile phones, SIMis planned to increase to 3,000 in together with the Ministry cards and SMS traffic are provided free 2014. The mHealth project also of Health in all regions of of charge by Moldcell. consists of a commercial service for Moldova. pregnant women and young mothers. TEO in Lithuania supports To reduce suicides and antiTwo national support lines provide 24/7 With TEO’s and other organizations’ national child and youth support bullying among Lithuania’s support to youth and children who need support, the child and youth lines lines youth. to discuss their life situation; many callanswered 300,000 calls and e-mails. ers are contemplating suicide. In 2014 other similar initiatives will be supported by TEO. 33 TeliaSonera Sustainability Report 2013 Our performance EC9. Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts nnn Positive economic impacts TeliaSonera’s role Changing the productivity By bridging the digital divide and improving the accessibility of telecom services we increase competitiveof economies ness and economic growth, communication, technological development and transition to a knowledge-based economy. Mobile communications account for 3 to 9.5 percent in the GDPs of the Eurasian countries and around 1 percent of national GDP figures in Western Europe. Economic development in We foster economic development by directly and indirectly creating job opportunities, using local suppliareas of high poverty ers, making investments in infrastructure and financially contributing to societies by paying tax and investing in community development projects. Emerging markets represent a considerable growth opportunity for TeliaSonera, while at the same time we can support these countries’ rapid progress in becoming information societies as they make technological leaps directly enabled by the opportunities that mobile networks can offer. Demand for our services in these regions is driven by a growing young population, rising standards of living and the limited availability of fixed telecommunication networks. Economic recovery of We are prepared to assist in rescue work and provide disaster relief during extreme weather conditions and disaster areas natural disasters as well as other major emergencies. Most of our companies in Eurasia have ongoing cooperation with national authorities to increase mobile coverage and network redundancy, and have mobile base stations that can be deployed in areas affected by disasters to help coordinate relief work and rebuilding. Overcoming barriers for access Affordable and easy to use services are important for bridging the digital divide, enabling digital inclusion and use of telecommunication and enhancing digital equality and literacy for people of all backgrounds. In response to such needs we offer products and services special discount prices mainly for students, families and people in rural areas where people with low incomes depend on telecommunications services. To overcome language barriers, in addition to the national language we always aim to offer our services in regional dialects and minority languages, particularly in Eurasia. Many of our operators offer additional services for the visually and hearing impaired to help them use ICT and mobile technology to improve their quality of life. 34 TeliaSonera Sustainability Report 2013 Our performance Our total indirect energy consumption increased to 1,591 6.2 Environmental GWh, an increase of 6 percent. The major part of the reported indirect energy electricity, heating and cooling is used for Materials running our base stations and data centers, but also includes TeliaSonera does not produce or manufacture any physical energy consumed in offices, stores and co-location sites. products. While issues related to production are outside of our The main increase comes from our Eurasia operations and own reporting scope, we acknowledge that efficient material can be attributed to higher reporting quality as well as ongouse and effective recycling possibilities are highly relevant for ing network roll-out. Our Nordic countries which account for our suppliers who produce mobile handsets, other consumer 54 percent of the indirect energy consumption managed to electronic devices, and technical equipment related to the decrease their total consumption. Renewable Energy Certifibuilding, development and maintenance of our fixed and cates (REC) purchased for the total electricity consumption mobile networks. Therefore we prefer to deal with suppliers in Sweden and Finland accounted for 43 percent of group who strive to use raw materials efficiently and adopt a life cycle electricity consumption (46 percent in 2012). approach to the production, use and dismantling of devices and equipment. EN5. Energy saved due to conservation and nnn efficiency improvements Energy For conversion to TJ, multiply the corresponding GWh figure with 3.6. Energy saved in 2013 Examples of initiatives (estimated) EN3. Direct energy consumption by primary energy nnn Energy efficiency measures 0.7 GWh source at Sonera’s head office in Helsinki Removal of old sites and up1.8 GWh including using exDirect energy consumption by grading of cooling solutions by cess heating from data sites region, GWh 2013 2012 2011 Elion in Estonia to heat two offices Nordic 8 9 10 Technology Shift, SAUNA and 7.2 GWh Baltic 25 21 23 Green Room site optimization Eurasia 211 135 124 in Sweden Other countries1 2 2 3 Optimization of ventilation, 0.9 GWh Direct energy consumption, total 246 167 160 cooling and solar panel instal1 Yoigo in Spain and TSIC countries outside Nordic, Baltic and Eurasia. lation at Telia Denmark’s head office In 2013 our direct energy use amounted to 246 GWh. The main New and upgraded solar Estimated 3 GWh of solar reason for the large increase compared to 2012 is the improved powered sites in place in Ncell energy generated in total in reporting quality and scope from all business units. 2012 figures in Nepal, Tcell in Tajikistan and Ncell, Tcell and Ucell were also revised and now give a better picture of actual energy Ucell in Uzbekistan use. We have also included figures for the energy generated by Installation of free cooling sys2.1 GWh solar powered base stations in Ncell in Nepal, Tcell in Tajikistan tems by Ucell in Uzbekistan and Ucell in Uzbekistan, 3 GWh in total. Direct energy consumption includes fuel for generators Over 50 on-going and 30 finalized energy saving initiatives, generally used to provide back-up power to operate networks both small and large, were reported by our business units, and provide electricity to office buildings during electricity mainly relating to energy efficiency improvements in offices outages, as well as natural gas and fuel used in the vehicles and other buildings and the replacement of older techniwe own or lease. The large figure for Eurasia reflects the need cal equipment. In total, energy savings of over 25 GWh were for using back-up generators in areas where, or periods when, reported. Since we were unable to calculate savings for all of access to grid electricity is limited or unavailable. these initiatives the actual savings figure should be higher than this. We will continue to review how we can better report on our energy saving initiatives and calculate actual savings. EN4. Indirect energy consumption by primary nnn source Indirect energy consumption by region, GWh 2013 20121 2011 Nordic 852 867 885 Baltic 173 190 131 Eurasia 393 285 152 Other countries2 173 160 92 Indirect energy consumption, total 1,591 1,502 1,260 1 2012 figure has been revised and now includes energy data from LMT in Latvia and Tcell in Tajikistan which was missing in the 2012 sustainability report. 2 Yoigo in Spain and TSIC countries outside Nordic, Baltic and Eurasia. 35 TeliaSonera Sustainability Report 2013 Our performance and Finland we use cold surface water for cooling data centEN6. Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewnnn ers and other network production facilities. This does not afable energy based products and services, and fect the quality of the water, but allows us to save considerable reductions in energy requirements amounts of electricity. With one exception (Ncell in Nepal accounting for 5 percent See EN5 and EN26. of total withdrawal) all water is drawn from municipal water sources. Service Effect Teleand video­ -E nergy efficiency through coordinated Emissions, effluents and waste conferencing communications -L ower greenhouse gas emissions due to EN16. Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas nnn reduced travel emissions by weight Wireless heating/coolM  ore efficient energy management ing control systems Reduced travel need for monitoring Greenhouse gas emissions by Mobile banking and -R educed need to travel to bank offices and for region, metric tons CO₂ 2013 2012 2011 digital signatures signing contracts and official documents Direct emissions Machine-to-machine -O ptimization of logistical flows and vehicle (M2M) solutions fleet management Nordic 1,956 2,273 2,472 Streamlining of industrial processes Baltic 5,903 5,469 5,637 Electricity metering and telemetry in remote Eurasia 53,292 34,857 31,499 locations and facilities such as wind turbines Other countries1 442 637 689 Direct emissions, total 61,593 43,236 40,297 Our services have a great potential for reducing the energy Indirect emissions consumption or travel needs of our customers, also enabling Nordic 81,637 82,122 84,807 them to reduce costs and save time. In addition to developBaltic 93,842 101,797 84,867 ing and providing these services in more and more markets, Eurasia 141,228 95,152 44,476 we are working towards greater energy efficiency in our own Other countries 61,071 58,627 32,514 operations, which will increase the net positive impact of using Indirect emissions, total 377,778 337,698 246,934 these services. + Emissions abated from Renewable Energy Certificates (REC) 54,813 54,944 56,512 Water Direct and indirect emissions, total 384,558 325,990 230,719 EN8. Total water withdrawal by source nnn 1 Yoigo in Spain and TSIC countries outside Nordic, Baltic and Eurasia. Total water withdrawal by region, m³ Our total direct (Scope 1) and indirect (Scope 2) CO₂ emis2013 sions amounted to 384,558 metric tons, an increase of 18 Nordic 1 94,496 percent compared to 2012. During the year we conducted a Baltic 2 41,299 revision and recalculation of our historic emissions and manEurasia 123,619 aged to increase energy data quality mainly from our Eurasian Other countries 3 3,156 business units. These factors are the major reason for the Total 262,570 increase. We have revised the 2012 baseline for the group 1 No data from NetCom in Norway. environmental targets according to these new figures. 2 No data from EMT and Elion in Estonia. Our Eurasia region accounted for 87 percent of Scope 1 3 Yoigo in Spain. emissions, mainly because of the extensive use of energy fuels for back-up generators required to run the networks. Compared to other industries TeliaSonera has a very small TeliaSonera International Carrier operations located across water footprint, and we have no significant impact on water the globe account for around 16 percent of total emissions. quality or accessibility anywhere in our operations. Purchasing of Renewable Energy Certificates (REC) in SweThe table above represents water withdrawal for our office den and Finland helped us abate 12 percent of total emisbuildings and production facilities that use water. In Sweden sions. 36 TeliaSonera Sustainability Report 2013 Our performance EN17. Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas nnn EN18. Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emisnnn emissions by weight sions and reductions achieved See Environmental responsibility page 24 and EN26. Greenhouse gas emissions by region, metric tons CO₂ 2013 2012 2011 Reducing greenhouse gas emissions is a top priority in our Nordic environmental work. We can achieve this not only by reducing Business travel1 5,742 7,464 7,759 our energy consumption and further utilizing renewable enrgy Other indirect emissions2 20,269 22,082 21,243 such as solar and hydro power, but also through purchasing Nordic, total 26,011 29,546 29,002 renewable electricity. This also helps to stimulate renewable energy investments. In 2013 TeliaSonera purchased voluntary Baltic Renewable Energy Certificates (REC) in Finland and Sweden Business travel 500 1,128 526 to abate emissions amounting to 54,813 metric tons CO₂ Other indirect emissions 2,427 1,754 883 (54,944 tons in 2012), 12 percent of group emissions. Baltic, total 2,927 2,882 1,409 Whenever possible we try to purchase or lease environmentally friendly vehicles, either with low emissions or that run on Eurasia eco-friendly fuels. Business travel 2,700 2,441 602 Other indirect emissions 15,451 1,553 438 EN22. Total weight of waste by type and disposal nnn Eurasia, total 18,151 3,994 1,040 method Other countries3 Business travel 56 406 435 Waste quantities by region, metric Other indirect emissions 1,766 628 888 tons 2013 2012 2011 Other countries, total 1,822 1,034 1,323 Nordic 31,359 30,701 28,325 Other relevant indirect emissions, Baltic 1,868 2,200 707 total 48,911 37,456 32,774 Eurasia 714 439 331 of which business travel 8,998 11,439 9,322 Other countries1 8 9 8 of which other indirect emissions 39,913 26,017 23,452 Weight of waste, total 33,949 33,349 29,370 1 Mainly air travel and employees’ own cars used in business. of which hazardous waste 23,057 21,012 19,044 2 Includes upstream and downstream emissions from construction and of which electronic waste 839 623 286 maintenance operations, and logistics. 1 Yoigo in Spain. 3 Yoigo in Spain and TSIC countries outside Nordic, Baltic and Eurasia. Total reported waste volume increased slightly compared to In 2013 we revised and extended our process of collecting 2012. The Nordic region accounted for 92 percent of reported Scope 3 emissions data from our suppliers in all markets. All waste, of which 53 percent is dismantled telephone poles business units contacted their major suppliers and requested which are considered hazardous waste because of their imdata regarding their emissions generating activities when pregnation. Thousands of poles in Sweden and Finland were working for us. The Scope 3 emissions, 48,911 metric tons dismantled as part of the technology shift from fixed to mobile CO₂ which is 31 percent higher than last year, can be attribnetworks. Hazardous waste also includes waste categories uted to this increased reporting from suppliers to our Eurasia such as lead batteries, and construction waste. region business units. We plan to further expand this supplier In all regions we rely on waste contractors and other supplireporting in the future to get an even better picture of the ers to provide us with accurate waste reporting. Only reporting emissions from our suppliers’ operations as this figure does for Sweden and Finland should be considered complete. not represent the full picture, even from our major suppliers. Waste reporting in our Eurasian region is particularly difficult, Our emissions from business travel decreased 21 percent, which is represented by the small figure for this region. In many mainly because of reduced air travel. Emissions from business countries waste treatment facilities and systems are lacking and travel account for 2 percent of total reported group emissions it is difficult or impossible to get reliable information on how much (scope 1-3). waste has been generated or treated in our operations. Electronic waste remains another challenge to report. The reported figure increased by 35 percent compared to 2012 which can be attributed to better reporting, but the figure still remains largely incomplete. 37 TeliaSonera Sustainability Report 2013 Our performance Products and services EN26. Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts nnn of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation See EN3, EN5, EN18 and EN22. The most significant environmental impacts related to delivering our services are greenhouse gas emissions and waste. Our main sources of emissions and waste relate to the running, building and maintenance of our networks; only a small part comes from business travel, offices and shops. To reduce emissions and energy costs we are enhancing our utilization of solar power for base stations in Nepal, Uzbekistan and Tajikistan. During 2013 installations were made at over 250 sites by Ncell in Nepal, Ucell in Uzbekistan and Tcell in Tajikistan. So far over 500 solar powered sites have been installed by Ncell, Ucell and Tcell. In areas where grid electricity is not always accessible or its quality is poor, using solar power is the best way to ensure network coverage. Regarding waste, the ongoing technology shift from fixed telephony to mobile networks and the updating of older generation equipment present a considerable challenge in minimizing waste volumes and ensuring proper waste treatment. Compliance EN28. Monetary value of significant fines and total nnn number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations No cases of non-compliance. 38 TeliaSonera Sustainability Report 2013 Our performance 6.3 Labor rights and decent work LA2. Total number and rate of new employee hires nnn and employee turnover by age group/gender and region Employment LA1. Total workforce by employment type/contract nnn New employee hires and employee turnover by country and region, broken down by gender New Employee New Employee employees turnover employees turnover Country hired 2013 2013 (%) hired 2012 2012 (%) Total workforce by country Sweden 557 5.2 1,154 4.6 Permanent Temporary Finland 95 1.9 150 2.6 Workforce as employees employees Total of 31 Dec. 2013 2013 2013 2012 2011 Norway 76 11.0 260 18.6 Sweden 8,317 465 8,782 9,236 8,844 Denmark 188 13.7 293 19.2 Finland 3,298 159 3,457 4,037 4,278 Lithuania 547 15.9 588 17.4 Norway 765 7 772 1,101 1,185 Latvia 116 9.0 182 8.5 Denmark 1,069 14 1,083 1,147 1,298 Estonia 365 8.2 360 8.2 Lithuania 3,311 330 3,641 3,908 3,971 Spain 3 1.9 8 2.0 Latvia 904 0 904 918 932 Kazakhstan 293 17.1 376 17.4 Estonia 2,112 27 2,139 2,190 2,155 Azerbaijan 59 8.9 77 8.2 Spain 104 5 109 110 103 Uzbekistan 87 9.5 112 11.0 Kazakhstan 1,425 146 1,571 1,612 1,578 Tajikistan 53 13.8 60 7.4 Azerbaijan 824 0 824 833 821 Georgia 21 4.1 29 10.6 Uzbekistan 829 0 829 853 849 Moldova 48 11.9 24 8.8 Tajikistan 447 0 447 469 439 Nepal 26 5.7 36 17.7 Georgia 311 0 311 327 330 Russia 1 0.0 0 0.0 Moldova 364 0 364 358 356 Turkey 2 0.0 2 14.0 Nepal 513 0 513 481 532 Other countries 15 4.4 16 8.8 Russia 39 1 40 39 48 Total 2,552 8.3 3,727 9.2 Turkey 36 0 36 31 32 New employee hires and employee turnover by age Other countries 186 5 191 188 232 Total 24,854 1,159 26,013 27,838 27,983 New Employee New Employee employees turnover employees turnover Age hired 2013 2013 (%) hired 2012 2012 (%) At the end of 2013, TeliaSonera had 26,013 employees in 29 < 30 years 1,629 16.5 2,593 19.3 countries. 47 percent were located in Sweden and Finland. 96 31–50 years 855 5.9 1,064 6.3 percent of these employees had a permanent contract, while 4 > 51 years 68 1.8 70 1.5 percent were temporarily employed. Total 2,552 8.3 3,727 9.2 Total workforce by business area New employee hires and employee turnover by gender PermaTemponent emrary emNew Employee New Employee Workforce as ployees ployees Total employees turnover employees turnover of 31 Dec. 2013 2013 2013 2012 2011 Gender hired 2013 2013 (%) hired 2012 2012 (%) Mobility Services 6,060 287 6,347 6,720 7,456 Female 1,126 8.3 1,548 8.9 Broadband Services 11,571 692 12,263 13,571 13,071 Male 1,426 8.3 2,179 9.5 Eurasia 4,758 146 4,904 4,980 4,994 Total 2,552 8.3 3,727 9.2 Other operations and corporate 2,465 34 2,499 2,567 2,462 Employee turnover rate measures the percentage of employTotal 24,854 1,159 26,013 27,838 27,983 ees that have left the company voluntarily during the year. Turnover rates vary considerably between countries and units. Broadband Services is the business area with the largest number of employees, accounting for 47 percent of our total workforce. For data by gender see LA13. 39 TeliaSonera Sustainability Report 2013 Our performance Labor/management relations represented in formal joint management-worker occupational health and safety (OHS) committees. Elsewhere practices LA4. Percentage of employees covered by nnn vary between countries: some have employee representatives collective bargaining agreements elected for consultation on OHS topics and some companies have other ways to involve employees and get their feedback By country as of 31 Dec. 2013 (%) 2012 (%) for monitoring and advice on OHS programs. Employees’ Sweden¹ 100 100 feedback is respected and needed in all countries. Finland¹ 96 95 Norway 9 20 LA7. Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost nnn Denmark 54 56 days, and absenteeism, and total number Estonia 75 75 of work-related fatalities, by region and by Latvia 55 57 gender. Lithuania 52 50 Spain¹ 100 100 Lost-Time Injury Frequency (LTIF)1 and Sickness Absence Rate Nepal¹ 88 88 (SAR)2 by region Uzbekistan 60 60 SAR 2013 SAR 2012 LTIF 2013 (%) LTIF 2012 (%) Tajikistan 80 80 Nordic 0.51 3.0 0.71 2.8 Other countries² 100 100 Baltic 0.36 1.6 0.68 1.6 Reported entities’ share of Eurasia 0 1.5 0.10 1.4 Telia­Sonera total workforce (%) 70 70 Other countries 0 0.7 0 1.2 ¹ Excluding top management. Total3 0.37 2.3 0.58 2.2 ² International Carrier France, Russia and Italy 2013 and International Carrier France, Italy and Austria 2012. ¹ Total number of lost-time injuries per million possible working hours. ² Total hours of sickness absence per possible working hours (full year average). ³ 2012 figures were reported and recalculated based on the new group definitions The following TeliaSonera countries are not included in the list approved in 2013. as their percentage is zero: Kazakhstan, Azerbaijan, Georgia, Moldova, Czech Republic, Germany, Hong Kong, Hungary, In 2013 TeliaSonera established group common definitions on Netherlands, Poland, Singapore, UK, United States and Lost-Time Injury Frequency (LTIF) and sickness absence rate Turkey. (SAR). Collecting information on this was in some cases chalAs stated in our Code, TeliaSonera employees have the right lenging as these definitions can differ significantly from definito choose whether or not to be represented by a trade union tions in national legislation and in the reporting to authorities. for the purpose of collective bargaining. No employee shall Our LTIF and SAR figures are in line with those of the industry be discriminated against for exercising these rights. All emwhere we operate. ployees should be aware of the basic terms and conditions of There have been no fatal accidents involving TeliaSonera their employment. TeliaSonera respectfully cooperates with leemployees during 2011, 2012 and 2013. Among our construcgitimate employee representatives and national labor unions. tion and maintenance contractors whom we asked to report fatal accidents while working for us, two were reported, both LA5. Minimum notice periods regarding significant nnn from Nepal. Both fatal accidents took place in traffic and were operational changes, including whether it is not directly work related. We will continue to ask and work with specified in collective agreements suppliers to make sure we have the full picture of the number of fatal accidents and how this can be addressed. TeliaSonera’s employees are in most cases working in an ofNotice periods vary between different countries, and are fice environment, call centers or stores. In many countries our regulated either by law, collective bargaining agreements or employees are located in modern office premises where OHS personal contracts. issues such as ergonomics are taken into consideration and Statutory notice periods may be as short as two weeks or monitored. This has helped us maintain a low lost-time injury as long as six months. In most countries the minimum notice frequency. Compared to 2012 the LTIF in 2013 was lower in all period is at least one month. In some countries including regions. All reported LTIF injuries were minor and very few led Sweden and Finland we have offered longer notice periods or to long-term sick leave. exit packages involving monetary compensation that exceeds Sickness absence rates in TeliaSonera’s companies are the notice period salary defined in legislation or collective also on a reasonable level. In some companies where we have bargaining agreements. had challenges with sickness absence we have managed to decrease it through successful programs. Good examples Occupational health and safety come from Telia in Sweden and NetCom in Norway which LA6. Percentage of total workforce represented both have had high sickness absence rates. These companies nnn in formal joint management worker health launched programs where line managers and HR interfered and safety committees that help monitor and with potential long term sick leaves already in an early stage, advise on occupational health and safety and progress was closely monitored. These programs have programs had significant and permanent positive effects in these business units. Supported by the upcoming OHS policy, we will continue In the Nordic countries, Estonia and in TEO in Lithuania, in our work to evaluate and implement long-term OHS action Russia, Czech Republic and Tajikistan all employees are 40 TeliaSonera Sustainability Report 2013 Our performance plans to further lower sick leave and reduce the number of formance, develop personal skills and reward performance. injuries within our own and suppliers’ operations. Regular performance and career development reviews are in place in most countries. As of 2014 the process is being introduced in all employee levels and most of the fully owned LA9. Health and safety topics covered in formal nnn business units, covering 19,000 employees in total. Perforagreements with trade unions mance management processes are conducted according to local standards and agreements. In the TeliaSonera companies which are following collective bargaining agreements, excluding Norway, Denmark, France, Diversity and equal opportunity Spain, Tajikistan and Russia, those agreements also cover OHS topics. In all cases where OHS topics are included at LA13. Composition of governance bodies and breaknnn least cooperation with employees on OHS matters is agreed down of employees per category according to upon. Other topics which are included, such as health bengender, age group, minority group memberefits, risk assessment, OHS organization and action plans, ship and other indicators of diversity personal protective equipment, training or similar vary from country to country. Total workforce by gender, by region Total workTraining and education Country Female % Male % force 2013 Nordic 5,783 41 8,311 59 14,094 LA10. Average hours of training per year per emnnn Baltic 3,203 48 3,481 52 6,684 ployee by gender, and by employee category Eurasia 2,259 46 2,636 54 4,895 Other countries 99 29 241 71 340 Training hours/ Total 11,344 44 14,669 56 26,013 employee 2013 TeliaSonera group 21 Managers by gender Nordic 23 Total Total Baltic 21 workforce workforce Total workEurasia 13 Gender 2013 % 2012 % force 2011 % Other companies 48 Female 1,125 35 1,166 34 1,137 34 Male 2,120 65 2,262 66 2,208 66 Time and resources spent on training varies between regions Total 3,245 100 3,428 100 3,345 100 and employee groups where some business units devote major resources to training employees. One example is Yoigo Female employees account for 44 percent of TeliaSonera’s in Spain where all employees are offered company-financed total workforce, 36 percent of the board members (4/11), training in English. and 20 percent of the Group Management Team (2/10). The We will continue to develop our methods of measuring how gender balance of total workforce has stayed the same during much time and resources are spent on training, and how we 2011–2013. maximize the benefit of this training to further strengthen the competency of our employees. Total workforce by age group Total Total workforce workforce Total workLA12. Percentage of employees receiving regular Age 2013 % 2012 % force 2011 % nnn performance and career development reviews, < 30 years 7,618 29 8,345 30 8,115 29 by gender 31-50 years 13,616 52 14,289 51 14,551 52 > 51 years 4,779 18 5,205 19 5,318 19 In 2009 TeliaSonera introduced a group-wide performance Total 26,013 100 27,838 100 27,983 100 management process that until 2013 applied to senior and middle-level managers and specialists across the whole In terms of age structure there are considerable differences Group. across the group. Overall, 29 percent of our workforce are During 2013 this process was changed and extended under 30 years old, 52 percent are between 31 and 50, and to involve additional employee levels. Moldova, Nepal and 18 percent are over 51 years old. In the Eurasian countries the Tajikistan and a few entities in the Nordic countries started to figures show a different picture, with 52 percent under 30, 46 use the group common process which will be fully implementpercent aged between 31 and 50, and just 2 percent over 51. ed in the Nordic countries and in Eurasia. Today there is one From the ten Group Management members 5 were below 51 process for variable pay for eligible managers and one for all years old. From the eleven members of the Board of Directors specialists and employees. The process translates TeliaSon3 were below 51 years. era’s business objectives into action and is designed to help managers define and cascade strategic business objectives, review and provide constructive feedback on individuals’ per41 TeliaSonera Sustainability Report 2013 Our performance 6.4 Human rights No reported cases. Investment and procurement practices Freedom of association and collective bargaining HR1. Percentage and total number of significant nnn HR5. Operations identified in which the right to nnn investment agreements that include human exercise freedom of association and collecrights clauses or that have undergone human tive bargaining may be at significant risk, and rights screening actions taken to support these rights TeliaSonera has not had any major acquisitions in a new counSee Sustainability risk management page 7 and www.teliatry since 2008 when the company entered Nepal. sonera.com/sustainability/impacts/managing-sustainabilityIn February 2014 we finalized the new group M&A guidelines risks/. and included sustainability risk evaluation as an integral part of the M&A process. Child labor HR2. Percentage of significant suppliers, contracHR6. Operations identified as having significant nnn nnn risk for incidents of child labor, and measures tors and other business partners that have undergone human rights screening, and taken to contribute to the elimination of child actions taken labor See Sustainability in the supply chain page 22. See Sustainability risk management page 7 and www.teliasonera.com/sustainability/impacts/managing-sustainabilityrisks/. HR3. Total hours of employee training on policies nnn and procedures concerning aspects of human Forced and compulsory labor rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. HR7. Operations identified as having significant risk nnn for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, See Raising awareness of our Code of Ethics and Conduct and measures taken to the elimination of page 8. forced or compulsory labor As of 20 December 2013 95.4 percent of the invited employSee Sustainability risk management page 7 and www.teliaees (21,000) had conducted the Code of Ethics and Conduct sonera.com/sustainability/impacts/managing-sustainabilitye-learning program, meaning that approximately 13,300 hours risks/. had been used for Code of Ethics and Conduct training. Assessment Non-discrimination HR10. Percentage and total number of operations nnn HR4. Total number of incidents of discrimination nnn that have been subject to human rights reand actions taken views and/or impact assessment See Freedom of expression page 15 and Sustainability in the supply chain page 22. Remediation HR11. Number of grievances to human rights filed, nnn addressed and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms See Cases during 2013 page 21. 42 TeliaSonera Sustainability Report 2013 Our performance 6.5 Society Local communities SO9. Operations with significant potential or actual nnn negative impacts on local communities See SO10. 43 TeliaSonera Sustainability Report 2013 Our performance SO10. Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with significant potential or actual negative nnn impacts on local communities Impact in all markets Prevention and mitigation Customer privacy and Freedom of expression in the context of possible governmental surveillance and customer privacy represents a growing freedom of expression challenge for the whole telecommunications industry. See Freedom of expression page 15 and Customer privacy page 19 for more information. Electromagnetic fields There is growing public concern regarding exposure to electromagnetic fields (EMF) due to the increasing numbers of mobile terminals, base stations and mobile handsets in use. TeliaSonera acknowledges these concerns and is committed to work pro-actively and transparently in related initiatives. We cooperate with the authorities, associations and organizations, and support independent research in this area. TeliaSonera acts in accordance with EU recommendations designed to limit the exposure of workers and the general public to electromagnetic fields. All base stations supplied to TeliaSonera comply with the relevant guidelines issued by the International Commission on Non-Ionizing Radiation Protection (ICNIRP) and national authorities. With regard to handsets, the ICNIRP guidelines and the European CENELEC standards are followed allowing a maximum specific absorption rate (SAR) value of 2 Watts per kilogram for mobile phones. We expect our suppliers to adapt their products as necessary if any new scientific findings or standards indicate that exposure levels should be modified. TeliaSonera’s mobile services depend on a well-planned network of base stations. Stakeholders are consulted and health concerns and visual implications are duly discussed before the locations of masts or towers are determined. Procedures for engaging with local communities in relation to decisions on the locations of base stations may vary by country, as differences in local planning legislation need to be taken into account. TeliaSonera fulfil permit conditions and other requirements set by the local authorities in all countries. We follow the EMF norms recommended by the World Health Organization and the United Nations set by ICNIRP to ensure human health and safety. We have a public EMF policy and a dedicated steering committee within our Mobility business area responsible for coordinating Group-wide measures and activities. TeliaSonera takes all questions regarding the safety of mobile phones and base stations seriously, and we have set up an independent Scientific Advisory Board to ensure that we are always updated on the latest issues and research. TeliaSonera remains strongly committed to support related scientific research through the GSM Association (www.gsma.com/ publicpolicy/mobile-and-health/gsma-research/). All related GSMA projects are being funded by the mobile phone industry together with governments and national health agencies in ways that ensure the scientific independence of the research. For more information see www.teliasonera.com/about-us/public-policies/. Protection of children Children are a vulnerable group of users of many of our services. Telecommunication services can also be used as a vehicle for the sexual abuse of children. Protecting of children is a vital issue for TeliaSonera. We have taken an ethical standpoint against child sexual abuse material. We see it as our duty to protect children in collaboration with the authorities and other stakeholders. This is the only area of content on the internet where we take an active stand. We believe that a multi-stakeholder approach, involving politicians, non-governmental organizations and the industry is the only way to identify long-term solutions to tackle this complex issue. Our work is guided by a group-level Instruction on efforts to combat child sexual abuse. TeliaSonera actively co-operates with national police forces to block child sexual abuse material on the DNS level. We are also working with the software provider Netclean who provides a whitebox solution called ‘Child SafeGuard’ designed to block child sexual abuse material on the IP-level in cooperation with the Internet Watch Foundation. Child SafeGuard is placed in TeliaSonera’s IP transit network in Sweden and Spain. We are implementing the Child SafeGuard solution in our Eurasian markets. We are very interested to share our experiences with other players in the industry within the GSMA Mobile Alliance Against Child Sexual Abuse Content (www.gsma.com/ publicpolicy/myouth/mobiles-contribution-to-child-protection/mobile-alliance/). We have also installed NetClean software in our internal systems to block access to child sexual abuse images. If anyone using our internal systems types the address of a web page containing child sexual abuse images, the search will be blocked and a warning page will appear on the screen. The purpose of blocking access to child sexual abuse images is twofold. It enables us to protect our customers and employees who might accidentally reach pages containing such images. More importantly, we hinder the recruitment of new abusers of such material, and thereby stem the demand for more sexual abuse of children. In 2014 we will continue to work to enhance transparency regarding takedown procedures in order to maintain public support for blocking for child sexual abuse material and to protect users against the possible use of voluntary blocking in other contexts than combating child sexual abuse material. TeliaSonera’s commitments made within the EU and ICT Industry’s joint coalition ‘Better Internet for Kids’ initiative were delivered and published by the EU at the beginning of 2013 (ec.europa.eu/digital-agenda/node/61973/). Our commitments cover the promotion of a mobile app for reporting illegal content, increased visibility and awareness-building of parental controls and continued measures against child sexual abuse material. Together with our industry peers, we are continuing to work on the ‘Better Internet for Kids’ initiative within the self-regulatory ICT Coalition (the ‘ICT Coalition for the Safer Use of Connected Devices and Online Services by Children and Young People in the EU’, www.ictcoalition.eu/). In 2013 TeliaSonera and Ncell launched a partnership with Childhood Foundation in Nepal in the area of child protection. Read more in EC8. 44 TeliaSonera Sustainability Report 2013 Our performance Corruption 6.6 Product responsibility SO2. Percentage and total number of business units nnn analyzed for risks related to corruption Customer health and safety See Risk assessments page 20. PR1. Life cycle stages in which health and safety nnn impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of SO3. Percentage of employees trained in organizannn significant products and service categories tions’ anti-corruption policies and procedures subject to such procedure See Raising awareness of our Code of Ethics and Conduct See SO9 and SO10. page 8. More specialized face to face training related to antiTeliaSonera’s most important responsibilities in relation to corruption has been initiated in January 2014 and will be rolled product life cycles concern the electromagnetic fields (EMF) out in the company during the year. emitted by mobile phones and base stations. SO4. Actions taken in response to incidents of nnn PR2. Total number of incidents of non-compliance nnn corruption with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and See Cases during 2013 page 21. services, by type of outcomes Public policy No significant incidents. SO5. Public policy positions and participation in nnn Product and service labelling public policy development and lobbying PR4. Total number of incidents of non-compliance nnn See Relations with governments and authorities page 21. with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labelSO6. Total value of financial and in-kind contribuling, by type of outcomes nnn tions to political parties, politicians and related institutions by country Yoigo in Spain was charged a small fine by a regional consumer agency regarding a clause in a customer agreement. No No contributions were given. According to our Anti-corruption other regional consumer agency shared this interpretation. Policy we do not give political contributions. PR5. Practices related to customer satisfacnnn Anti-competitive behavior tion, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction SO7. Total number of actions for anti-competitive nnn behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices During 2013 we discontinued the EPSI survey and impleand their outcomes mented a comprehensive Net Promoter improvement program (NPS) which focuses on driving change towards customer We have been involved in 2 completed legal actions related to centricity by making incremental improvements to customer anti-competitive behavior, one of which resulted in a signifiexperience, decreasing customer churn. cant fine. The NPS program is implemented across our Nordic and In a decision issued by the Swedish Market Court on 12 Baltic business units and is currently being rolled out in April 2013, TeliaSonera AB was fined SEK 35 million for abuse Eurasia. It is supplemented by other means for tracking cusof a dominant market position by way of a margin squeeze in tomer satisfaction in terms of brand consideration and preferthe ADSL market during the period April 2000–January 2003. ence, which gives us useful insights into customer satisfaction trends. Compliance Findings from the NPS program and brand consideration tracking are regularly reported to Group Management in adSO8. Monetary value of significant fines and total nnn dition to being reviewed and addressed at local operational number of non-monetary sanctions for nonlevel. compliance with laws and regulations TeliaSonera was not subject to other significant fines for non-compliance. In September an incident revealed that Omnitel in Lithuania had not been providing location data to the Emergency Call Center automatically for SIM-less calls. The regulator obligated Omnitel to rectify this omission, and a solution was implemented before the end of the year. 45 TeliaSonera Sustainability Report 2013 Our performance Marketing communications SEK million PR6. Programs for adherence to laws, standards nnn 20,000 and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications including advertising, promotion and sponsorship 15,000 TeliaSonera is committed to the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, which calls for responsibility in marketing 10,000 communications. Special care is taken in relation to marketing that targets minors, with a strict ban on marketing that directly targets 5,000 children. For TeliaSonera, responsible marketing includes transparent marketing offerings with understandable communication messages. Our local marketing departments work closely with our legal departments to ensure compliance with 0 2011 2012 2013 national marketing regulations and local customer protection Mobility Services Broadband Services policies. Eurasia Other operations PR7. Total number of incidents of non-compliance nnn with regulations and voluntary codes concernHealth and safety ing marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by IO3. Practices to ensure health and safety of field nnn type of outcomes personnel involved in the installation, operation and maintenance of masts, base stations, We had 8 incidents, of which two resulted in a minor fine or laying cables and other outside plant penalty. Four of the cases related to EMT in Estonia and comparative marketing practices, where all necessary corrections See Sustainability in the supply chain page 22, Key targets were made. page 14 and LA7. Customer privacy Most or our field work is outsourced, but the safety of all field workers and maintenance personnel is a vital issue for us. Our PR8. Total number of substantiated complaints nnn revised Supplier Code puts a greater emphasis on Occuparegarding breaches of customer privacy and tional Health and Safety (OHS) issues. Suppliers operating losses of customer data within TeliaSonera’s sphere of responsibility, including those working inside our premises or doing construction or mainSee Customer privacy page 19. tenance work for TeliaSonera, are covered by the following requirements: Compliance • Suppliers must assign responsibility for OHS issues within their own organizations PR9. Monetary value of significant fines for nonnnn • Suppliers must ensure that written OHS instructions have compliance with laws and regulations conbeen communicated to all employees cerning the provision and use of products and • Suppliers must document all accidents in their contractors’ services operations and communicate them to TeliaSonera No cases reported in 2013. Employees involved in field work will receive training in health and safety, and be provided with safety equipment and regular check-ups. Field workers will also receive other support in6.7 Telecommunications Sector Supplement cluding additional training and any statutory benefits. In Eurasia, our policies covering health and safety control Investment procedures require management systems designed to ensure that significant risks are identified, assessed and controlled IO1. Capital investment in telecommunication nnn through effective standards. These standards are defined network infrastructure broken down by in the regional Code of Health and Safety. Azercell’s health country/region and safety management system is in accordance with the ISO9001:2000 standard, while Moldcell and Kcell have been To improve network coverage, TeliaSonera continuously inrecognized by local authorities as among the best local OHS vests in both mobile and fixed infrastructure. In 2013 we spent benchmarking examples. SEK 16,332 million (15,685) on such investments, expanding TeliaSonera Finland, in collaboration with our competitors coverage to more places where people live, work, travel and and contractors, has launched an OHS network whose role is spend their leisure time. The service levels and coverage of to develop a joint OHS policy and set common OHS practices our networks are in compliance with provisions defined in local for field work locations. These practices include instructions regulations and frequency licenses in all markets. for work carried out on masts, roofs, walls, racks and ladders, 46 TeliaSonera Sustainability Report 2013 Our performance as well as safety instructions related to electromagnetic fields. Access to telecommunication products and services: Accidents of the most severe types have been avoided thanks Bridging the digital divide to proactive OHS training, the compulsory use of protective equipment, and clear safety instructions. PA1. Policies and practices to enable the deploynnn ment of telecommunications infrastructure and access to telecommunications products IO4. Compliance with ICNIRP standards on exponnn and services in remote and low population sure to RF emissions from handsets density areas See SO10. See EC9. TeliaSonera complies with guidelines on handsets issued by the International Commission on Non-Ionizing Radiation PA2. Policies and practices to overcome barriers for nnn Protection (ICNIRP). access and use of telecommunication products and services including: language, culture, illiteracy, and lack of education, income, disIO5. Compliance with ICNIRP guidelines on nnn abilities and age exposure to RF emissions from base stations See EC9. See SO10. All base stations supplied to TeliaSonera comply with the PA3. Policies and practices to ensure availability nnn guidelines issued by ICNIRP. and reliability of telecommunications products and services and quantify, where possible, for specified time periods and locations of down IO6. Policies and practices with respect to Specific nnn time Absorption Rate (SAR) of handsets We strive to enhance availability and reliability in our mobile See SO10 and www.teliasonera.com/about-us/public-polinetworks by constantly investing in improvements. We have cies/. a systematic 24/7 approach to disaster recovery, covering back-up power supplies, transmission redundancy and Infrastructure special solutions for recovery. In emergency situations and disasters TeliaSonera is prepared to manage the continuIO7. Policies and practices on the siting of masts nnn ity of services according to the relevant policies on business and transmission sites including stakeholder continuity and crisis management. We strive to develop and consultation, site sharing and initiatives to maintain durable networks that can withstand disturbances reduce visual impacts and recover from possible disasters. In many areas we have cooperated with the national authorities on the preparation of See SO10. crisis management plans and emergency policies. Especially in Eurasia the operational risks are high, and sevIO8. Number and percentage of stand-alone sites, nnn eral factors contribute to the need for robust business contishared sites and sites on existing structures nuity planning. Operations in Nepal, Tajikistan and Kazakhstan are at a high risk of earthquakes. Floods or landslides can severely impact operations in Moldova. Instability related to the Numbers of base stations by type of site 2013 2012 2011 political situation, regulatory issues or lack of basic infrastrucStand-alone sites 15,627 18,170 11,828 ture such as grid electricity needs to be planned for. To ensure Shared stand-alone sites 12,104 14,205 11,155 business continuity in Eurasia we invest broadly in technical Sites on existing structures 27,251 17,681 23,116 equipment such as better battery and generator solutions, solar panels and earthquake-proof data centers. Total 54,982 50,056 46,059 * Figures includes sites operated by our joint ventures in Sweden and Denmark PA4. The level of availability of telecommunicannn Whenever possible and commercially viable, we share base tions products and services in areas where the stations with other mobile network operators to reduce cost organization operates and environmental impact by limiting the total number of sites needed. The number of sites increased by 10 percent See Annual Report, Markets and brands. compared to 2012, representing the continued roll-out on all markets to increase coverage. PA5. Number and types of telecommunication nnn products and services provided to and used by low and no income sectors of the population See EC9. 47 TeliaSonera Sustainability Report 2013 Our performance PA6. Programs to provide and maintain telecommunnn PA9. Total amount invested in programs and activinnn nication products and services in emergency ties in electromagnetic field research situations and disaster relief TeliaSonera did not finance any related research during 2013. TeliaSonera is ready and willing to assist in rescue work and disaster relief in cases of major emergencies and disasters. PA10. Initiatives to ensure clarity of charge and tariffs nnn Maintaining telecommunications services is vital to facilitate the rescue work and for helping affected people to contactfamily and friends. See PR6 and our Openness position paper at All TeliaSonera business units have contingency plans to www.teliasonera.com/about-us/public-policies/. handle events such as natural disasters or extreme weather. Crisis management teams are in place in each Eurasian busiResource efficiency ness unit to ensure rapid response whenever and wherever TA1. Examples of the resource efficiency of nnn there is an emergency, and there are mobile base stations that telecommunication products and services can be set up in areas affected by disasters. Ucell in Uzbekidelivered stan and Azercell in Azerbaijan have the capacity to send alert text messages about ongoing natural disasters or other risks. See Environmental responsibility page 24 and EN6. Together with the UNDP, Ncell is continuously assessing the Early Warning System (EWS) in Nepal, looking for possibilities to get mobile base stations set up in difficult areas which TA2. Examples of telecommunications products, nnn otherwise would not have network coverage. During the year, services and applications that have the potenTcell in Tajikistan has been working together with local rescue tial to replace physical objects (e.g.. Travel by services to develop plans and a system for coordinating videoconferencing) rescue work. See EN6. Access to Content PA7. Policies and practices to manage human rights nnn TA5. Description of practices relating to intellectual nnn issues relating to access and use of telecomproperty rights and open source technologies. munications products and services See Annual Report, Board of Directors‘ Report, section InSee Freedom of expression page 15 and SO10. novation, Research and Development. Customer relations PA8. Policies and practices to publicly communinnn cate on EMF related issues See SO10 and our EMF policy at www.teliasonera.com/aboutus/public-policies/. 48 TeliaSonera Sustainability Report 2013 Auditor’s review Auditor’s Limited Assurance Report on TeliaSonera’s Sustainability Report To the readers of the TeliaSonera AB (publ) Sustainability Report 2013 Introduction We have been engaged by the Management of TeliaSonera AB (publ) to undertake a limited assurance engagement of the TeliaSonera Sustainability Report for the year 2013, except page 4. Responsibility of the Board and Management The Board of Directors and Executive Management are responsible for the ongoing activities regarding environment, occupational health & safety, social responsibility, and sustainable development, and for the preparation and presentation of the Sustainability Report in accordance with applicable criteria. Responsibility of the Auditor Our responsibility is to express a limited assurance conclusion on the Sustainability Report based on the procedures we have performed. We have conducted our limited assurance engagement in accordance with RevR 6 Assurance of Sustainability Reports issued by FAR. A limited assurance engagement consists of making inquiries, primarily of persons responsible for the preparation of the Sustainability Report, and applying analytical and other limited assurance procedures. The procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement vary in nature from, and are less in extent than for, a reasonable assurance engagement conducted in accordance with IAASB’s Standards on Auditing and Quality Control, and other generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. The procedures performed consequently do not enable us to obtain assurance that we would become aware of all significant matters that might be identified in an audit. Accordingly, we do not express a reasonable assurance opinion. The criteria on which our procedures are based are the parts of the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines G3.1, published by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), which are applicable to the Sustainability Report, as well as the accounting and calculation principles that the company has developed and disclosed. We consider these criteria suitable for the preparation of the Sustainability Report. We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion below. Limited Assurance Conclusion Based on the limited assurance procedures we have performed, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the TeliaSonera Sustainability Report, is not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the above stated criteria. Stockholm, 6 March 2014 PricewaterhouseCoopers AB Anders Lundin Fredrik Ljungdahl Authorised Public Accountant Expert Member of FAR 49 TeliaSonera Sustainability Report 2013 Contacts and feedback Contacts and feedback Feedback on this report Receiving feedback is an important part of our ­sustainability reporting process. Your feedback can help TeliaSonera to address the environmental and social i­ssues that matter most to our stakeholders. We welcome feedback, which can be submitted by email to sustainability-group at teliasonera.com Contact TeliaSonera Mailing address: TeliaSonera AB SE–106 63 Stockholm Sweden Visiting address: Stureplan 8, Stockholm Telephone: +46 (0)8 504 550 00 Fax: +46 (0)8 504 550 01 Group Sustainability Eija Pitkänen Mailing address: TeliaSonera AB SE–106 63 Stockholm Sweden Telephone: +358 2040-24100 Fax: +358 2040 63677 Email: sustainability-group at teliasonera.com Production: TeliaSonera AB Group Sustainability in c ­ ooperation with Narva Photos: TeliaSonera, Martina Huber/Regeringskansliet och Vladimer Shioshvili/Wikipedia. TeliaSonera provides network access and telecommunication services that help our customers communicate in an easy, efficient and environmentally friendly way. International strength combined with local excellence is what makes us truly unique – and provides a world class customer experience, all the way from the Nordic countries to Nepal. 50
