UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress 2014 Advanced Level November 2014 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2014 | Advanced Level COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS About this Document The document presented by Beraca is a result of a systematic work from its Sustainability area, which acts in a transversal format and which is fully integrated with the company’s Presidency and Director Board, signatory of the United Nations Global Compact since 2007. Beraca’s previous edition of the Communication On Progress was published in 2011, two years after the release of the first Sustainability Report following the criteria of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). This time, besides the format, the company brings information about a larger number of criterias, demonstrating a constant evolution of its results. For the stakeholders who wish to know more about the company’s activities and achievements, it’s indicated to read the most recent Sustainability Report, which covers the years 2011 and 2012. Beraca´s Sustainability Report can be accessed through www.beraca.com/rs. Sustainability Report Communication on Progress 2 / 12 November 2014 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2014 | Advanced Level COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Beraca Institutional Beraca is a Brazilian company with seven domestic sites, one in France and one in the USA. Covering the entire national territory and with distribution networks in more than 40 countries around the world, the company stands out for their specialized development of high-performance technology, solutions and raw materials for the water treatment, cosmetic, animal nutrition and food & beverage industries. Based on a Triple Bottom Line, which balances out the environment, the human being and the economic aspect, the company’s results have been recognized in Brazil and other countries. Among the recent highlights, it’s worth to mention that in 2014 Beraca was recognized as one of the Global Growth Company by the World Economic Forum, and also the most sustainable company in Brazil on the Chemical Sector by the Guia Exame de Sustentabilidade, promoted by the Exame Magazine from Editora Abril – one of the most recognized Brazilian publishers. For additional information, please access www.beraca.com 3 / 11 12 November 2014 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2014 | Advanced Level COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Statement of Continued Support To believe and to value the transformation power achievements in some topics, such as: Corporate of the Human Being. This is the daily commitment Governance, Compliance, Traceability of of almost 300 professionals who make Beraca a biodiversity raw material, International Strategic reference in the market in which it operates. Among Alliances, and Results Evaluation. We can proudly our activities, we always promote a closer look say that, we have intensified and amplified the not only to the economic and financial progress, number of connections with the society, the but also to the human being development in a Academy, the Government and Independent levelheaded way. We are committed to enhance Organizations, which have the important role of and to promote the sustainable usage and overseeing and promoting the advancement of management of the natural resources especially some topics that are often viewed as sensitive by water and biodiversity. specific sectors. For this reason, Sustainability is not only We know that there is still a lot to be done, however, comprehended as a simple corporative trending. In as we said earlier, we have the most important asset fact, for many years Sustainability is what guides all to continue on our evolution path: the belief that the activities of the company, occupying a central the human being can be the protagonist of his own position since the strategies definition steps, until history. the results mensuration. Actually, a clear evidence of this is the fact that once again we decided to On behalf of Beraca we want to say thanks to the publish the Communication on Progress with the support of our stakeholders and we reinforce the purpose of demonstrating our engagement with commitment to move forward in the pursuit of the criteria sustained by the United Nations Global practices increasingly responsible, smart, efficient Compact agenda. and in the pursuit for Sustainability. Due to a combination of investments and Marco Antonio Sabará and Ulisses Sabará continuous effort, we have conquer considerable Presidents of Beraca 4 / 12 November 2014 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2014 | Advanced Level COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Summary Following below it’s possible to evaluate Beraca’s position to the guidelines proposed by the United Nations Global Compact Communication On Progress. The company offers the email sustentabilidade@beraca.com to support its stakeholders in case of questions or interest for additional information. IMPLEMENTING THE TEN PRINCIPLES….................................................................................................................................. 6 • CRITERION 1 – The COP describes mainstreaming into corporate functions and business units • CRITERION 2 – The COP describes value chain implementation ROBUST HUMAN RIGHTS MANAGEMENT POLICIES & PROCEDURES..................................................................................... 7 • CRITERION 3 – The COP describes robust commitments, strategies or policies in the area of human rights • CRITERION 4 –The COP describes effective management systems to integrate the human rights principles • CRITERION 5 The COP describes effective monitoring and evaluation mechanisms of human rights integration ROBUST LABOUR MANAGEMENT POLICIES & PROCEDURES................................................................................................. 8 • CRITERION 6 – The COP describes robust commitments, strategies or policies in the area of labour • CRITERION 7 – The COP describes effective management systems to integrate the labour principles • CRITERION 8 –The COP describes effective monitoring and evaluation mechanisms of labour principles integration ROBUST ENVIRONNEMENTAL MANAGEMENT POLICIES & PROCEDURES............................................................................. 9 • CRITERION 9 – The COP describes robust commitments, strategies or policies in the area of environmental stewardship • CRITERION 10 – The COP describes effective management systems to integrate the environmental principles • CRITERION 11 – The COP describes effective monitoring and evaluation mechanisms for environmental stewardship ROBUST ANTI-CORRUPTION MANAGEMENT POLICIES & PROCEDURES............................................................................. 10 • CRITERION 12 – The COP describes robust commitments, strategies or policies in the area of anti-corruption • CRITERION 13 – The COP describes effective management systems to integrate the anticorruption principle • CRITERION 14 – The COP describes effective monitoring and evaluation mechanisms for the integration of anti-corruption TAKING ACTION IN SUPPORT OF BROADER UN GOALS AND ISSUES................................................................................... 11 • CRITERION 15 – The COP describes core business contributions to UN goals and issues • CRITERION 16 – The COP describes strategic social investments and philanthropy • CRITERION 17 – The COP describes advocacy and public policy engagement • CRITERION 18 – The COP describes partnerships and collective action • CRITERION 19 – The COP describes CEO commitment and leadership • CRITERION 20 – The COP describes Board adoption and oversight • CRITERION 21 – The COP describes advocacy and public policy engagement 5 / 12 November 2014 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2014 | Advanced Level IMPLEMENTING THE TEN PRINCIPLES CRITERION 1 The COP describes mainstreaming into corporate functions and business units The model of sustainability management is executed transversely with actions performed by multipliers and executive decisions taken by the committee. In this model, the committee has the figure Place responsibility for execution of of a sponsor, which has the role to validate the decisions of the sustainability and planning comsustainability strategy in relevant corporate mittee, giving visibility and priority within the organization’s programs, and present the demands functions (procurement, government affairs, of the presidency for the management and execution of the committee. Nowadays, sponsors are human resources, legal, etc) ensuring Beraca’s presidents, also future members of the Board of Directors, with high political and decino function conflicts with company’s sion-making power within the company hierarchy. 4. sustainability commitments and objectives GRI Sustainability Report Beraca conducts business that adds value not only remunerating its shareholders, but also promoting human development and the preservation of environmental goods essential to life on earth. Thus, Beraca adapted the tripod to this reality. Economic: pillar was turned into Adequate Profitability. Beraca’s business may not be profitable only in the present but also in the future. This means monetize the entire value chain, respecting its values and policies, paying appropriate prices to suppliers, paying employees at market value and delivering additional benefits to customers. Environment: pillar was changed to Water Conservation and Biodiversity. Beraca’s business must preserve its sources of raw materials and use them sustainably. Thus, Beraca assumes tangible commitments with its surroundings and its stakeholders. Because of its business character, it is essential that Align strategies, goals and incentive structures the water and biodiversity subjects are prioritized, without prejudice to other environment issues. of all business units and subsidiaries with corporate sustainability strategy Social: pillar was changed to Human Development in a balanced way. Beraca’s business should contribute to the development of all human being and should be focused on health, nutrition and beauty which are essentials items for balanced human development. Thus, Beraca seeks to contribute to that people may develop through education, sports, culture and health. More importantly, Beraca understands that its business exists only because it is made of people and believes that investing in people also means investing in its business. A fourth element operates throughout the tripod, defining how the different levels are related with. For Beraca, the relationship between all the elements should be conducted based on ethical and transparent precepts”. GRI Sustainability Report CRITERION 2 The COP describes value chain implementation INDICATORS ANSWERS In the past two years, Beraca established important connections within its production chain, approaching the end customer and government authorities to supplier communities. Transparently, Analyze each segment of the value chain Beraca puts interested end customers and institutions in direct contact with the communities that carefully, both upstream and downstream, have their partnership opportunities expanded. Beraca also make itself available to act as a bridge when mapping risks, opportunities and for future negotiations and support. This approach is possible because of the traceability that impacts Beraca supports in its productive chain, generating benefits for all involved. GRI Sustainability Report 6 / 12 November 2014 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2014 | Advanced Level ROBUST HUMAN RIGHTS MANAGEMENT POLICIES & PROCEDURES CRITERION 3 The COP describes robust commitments, strategies or policies in the area of human Beraca invests in guidance and scheduled audits to prevent the occurrence of child labor in supplier communities. The subject also includes contractual clauses that inhibit the practice. At 2012 Statement of policy stipulating human rights Beracom, held in Belém, a representative of the Social Accountability International in Brazil spoke expectations of personnel, business partners about it with more than 50 community leaders, reinforcing the company’s commitment to the aband other parties directly linked to operations, olition of child labor. products or services GRI Sustainability Report Starting in 2010, Beracom Beraca Dialogue, Community Leaders and Partners in Amazon was born as an intensive training workshop for leaders of the supplier communities and it was Statement of policy publicly available and consolidated as one of the main tools of engagement with this audience. The second and third communicated internally and externally to editions of the event were held in 2011 and 2012 in Belém, Pará The event now has over three days, all personnel, business partners and other with a significant increase of attendees. There were about 50 in 2011 and about 80 in 2012. relevant parties GRI Sustainability Report CRITERION 4 The COP describes effective management systems to integrate the human rights Beraca is committed to respect Human rights. Our SocioBiodiversity Enhancement Program policy enhances this commitment with the supplier local communities by respecting their culture, comOn-going due diligence process that includes plying with International Labor Regulations and promoting a sustainable relationship with all its an assessment of actual and potential human stakeholders. Our SocioBiodiversity Enhancement program. rights impacts. SocioBiodiversity Enhacenment Program Policy CRITERION 5 The COP describes effective monitoring and evaluation mechanisms of human rights integration Beraca runs every year employees performance surveys covering several themes including human rights. Monitoring drawn from internal and external feedBeraca´s Compliance Manual covers topics that supports the internal implementation of human back, including affected stakeholders. rights. Compliance Manual 7 / 12 November 2014 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2014 | Advanced Level ROBUST LABOUR MANAGEMENT POLICIES & PROCEDURES CRITERION 6 The COP describes robust commitments, strategies or policies in the area of labour All suppliers and subcontractors are required to comply with the Group’s General Terms of Purchase Reference to principles of relevant and Payment, which include respect for the Fundamental Conventions of the International Labour international labour standards (ILO Organization and local legislation, particularly in terms of the minimum wage, working time, health Conventions) and other normative and security. international instruments in company policies Compliance Manual Beraca respects the individuality and dignity of the people, this is directly reflected in the policies of the company. Beraca do not abide any behavior which could be construed as a violation of labor regulations, Reflection on the relevance of the labour whether committed by employees or other parties with whom it interacts. The company do not principles for the company tolerate t the use of child labor or forced labor in any related activity of the supply chain. Beraca also do not accept any type of discrimination or prejudice related to age, ethnicity, race, color, disability, nationality, politics, religion, marital status and sexual orientation. Compliance Manual It is explicit stated on Beracas Compliance Manual the expectation for employees and other related parties to comply with national and international regulations that promote: Written company policy to obey national labour law, respect principles of the relevant • Support and respect for human rights international labour standards in company • Freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining operations worldwide, and engage in • Relationships guided fair competition by prohibiting corruption in all its forms, including dialogue with representative organization of extortion and crime. the workers (international, sectoral, national). GRI Sustainability Report / Compliance Manual CRITERION 7 The COP describes effective management systems to integrate the labour principles In 2014, Beraca has undertaken to organize trainning and workshops for its employees covering Internal awareness-raising and training on all policies stated in its Compliance Manual. The compliance manual cover topics related to human the labour principles for management and rights, anti-corruption, stakeholders relationship, competition principles, labour rights. employees Compliance Manual CRITERION 8 The COP describes effective monitoring and evaluation mechanisms of labour principles integration Performance Evaluation: Conducted every year with all the company’s employees, the evaluation System to track and measure performance involves three categories operational, administrative and leadership. The tool aims to promote based on standardized performance metrics the identification of development needs, allowing employees to make the diagnosis, evaluate and improve their individual performance. Process to positively engage with the suppliers to address the challenges (i.e., partnership Beraca recognizes the importance of understanding its stakeholders and its expectations, therefore approach instead of corrective approach) the company invests quality time engaging and building sustainable relationhips and partnerships through schemes to improve workplace with this public. practices 8 / 12 November 2014 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2014 | Advanced Level ROBUST ENVIRONNEMENTAL MANAGEMENTPOLICIES & PROCEDURES CRITERION 9 The COP describes robust commitments, strategies or policies in the area of environmental stewardship In order to enhance its commitment to an environmental sustainable development, Beraca is committed to the following initiatives and organizations: Brazilian Business Movement for Biodiversity (MEBB): initiative to mobilize the business sector to make commitments and press for internal and external regulations regarding use of Brazilian biodiversity. Companies that adhere to MEBB establish their commitment to sustainable development, promotion of economic growth within the best business practices, and seek to contribute to the construction and improvement of the regulatory framework for access to Brazilian biodiversity Biodiversity in Good Company: companies that adhere to the commitment promote the Reference to relevant international protection and sustainable use of biodiversity, in partnership with other stakeholders, whether conventions and other international political or society Union for Ethical Bio Trade (UEBT): The Union for Ethical BioTrade is a instruments (e.g. Rio Declaration on nonprofit association that promotes the “supply with respect” of ingredients from biodiversity. Environment and Development) Caring for climate: is the UN Global Compact, the UN Environment Programme and the secretariat of the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change‘s initiative aimed at advancing the role of business in addressing climate change. Global Compact: Initiative proposed by the United Nations (UN) to encourage companies to adopt policies of corporate social responsibility and sustainability. Beraca is a member of the Brazilian Committee of the Global Compact. The Compact promotes a dialogue between companies, UN, trade unions, non-governmental organizations and other partners to develop a more inclusive and sustainable global market. Environmental Policy Beraca through its Environmental Policy seeks to implement preservation of the environment and sustainable development in all its activities and business segments. Written company policy on environmental Our units promote actions for the rational use of natural resources seeking to minimize waste stewardship generation by setting targets for water and energy consumption; orienting employees about the importance of recycling and promoting the improvement of the environmental quality of our operations and products along the supply chain. Energy • Reduce by 10% the energy use per unit of output. Water • Reduce by 15% the use of water per unit produced or busy. Specific commitments and goals for specified • Use 15% of reused or rain on the total amount of water consumed water. years Solid Waste • Recycle 30% or more of all solid waste generated in the units. • Reduce by 10% the total solid waste generation of non-productive. Document: Sustainability Strategic Planning CRITERION 10 The COP describes effective management systems to integrate the environmental principles Beraca´s audit program assesses progress and compliance with our policies and standards, and Environmental risk and impact assessments audits are also carried out at supplier sites. Assessments of lifecycle impact of products, Beraca´s audit program assesses progress and compliance with our policies and standards, and ensuring environmentally sound management audits are also carried out at supplier sites. policies Internal awareness-raising and training on In 2014, Beraca has undertaken to organize trainning and workshops for its employees covering all environmental stewardship for management policies related to environmental and sustainable pratices focusing in each specific business area. and employees 9 / 12 November 2014 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2014 | Advanced Level CRITERION 11 The COP describes effective monitoring and evaluation mechanisms for environ mental stewardship System to track and measure performance Beraca has created internal indicators with the aim of measuring performance in its difference based on standardized performance metrics business areas, set up goals and look for constant improvement. Leadership review of monitoring and Environmental results are presented to the Strategy and Sustainable Development Committee of improvement results the Board. ROBUST ANTI-CORRUPTION MANAGEMENT POLICIES & PROCEDURES CRITERION 12 The COP describes robust commitments, strategies or policies in the area of anti-corruption Beraca´s Chief Executive Officer renews Beraca’s commitment to the United Nations Global Support by the organization’s leadership for Compact every year which includes anticorruption. anti-corruption GRI Sustainability Report Beraca´s Manual of Compliance publicy states a zero tolerance approach to corruption .The anti-corruption policy contained in the Compliance Manual applies to all employees, officers and directors of the Group . The company is also committed to the Business Pact for Integrity and Publicly stated formal policy of zero-tolerance Against Corruption and to the ten principles of the global compact which addresses compliance to of corruption anti-corruption practices. GRI Sustainability Report CRITERION 13 The COP describes effective management systems to integrate the anticorruption principle Beraca´s anti-corruption commitment is supported by Human Resources procedures via the ethical Human Resources procedures supporting “Compliance Manual”, we regularly communicate, internally and externally, on the implementation the anti-corruption commitment or policy, of our anticorruption policies. including communication to and training for all employee Compliance Manual 10 / 12 November 2014 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2014 | Advanced Level CRITERION 14 The COP describes effective monitoring and evaluation mechanisms for the integration of anti-corruption All concerns raides are carefully considered and examined, so that measures can be taken, where applicable in case of violation with Beraca’s anti-corruption principles. Process to deal with incidents Compliance Manual TAKING ACTION IN SUPPORT OF BROADER UN GOALS AND ISSUES CRITERION 15 The COP describes core business contributions to UN goals and issues Beraca conducts business that adds value not only remunerating its shareholders, but also promoting human development and the preservation of environmental goods essential to life on earth. Beraca´s sustainability triple bottom (TBL) line was design to reflect how the company´s Align core business strategy with one or more business model has been built taking into consideration all the values proposed inside of the TBL relevant UN goals/issues such as: human development, preservation of the environment, ethics and corruption. GRI Sustainability Report CRITERION 16 The COP describes strategic social investments and philanthropy Beraca invested 3.10% of its invoicing in Sustainability in 2012 and 3.56% in 2011. The model of sustainability management is executed transversely with actions performed by multipliers and Pursue social investments and philanthropic executive decisions taken by the committee. In this model, the committee has the figure of a contributions that tie in with the core sponsor, which has the role to validate the decisions of the sustainability and planning committee, competencies or operating context of giving visibility and priority within the organization’s programs, and present the demands of the the company as an integrated part of its presidency for the management and execution of the committee. sustainability strategy GRI Sustainability Report CRITERION 17 The COP describes advocacy and public policy engagement Beraca shows its commitment to several institutions and initiatives that promotes the importance of actions in relation to the UN goals. Publicly advocate the importance of action in Business Pact for Integrity and Against Corruption relation to one or more UN goals/issues Brazilian Business Movement for Biodiversity (MEBB) Biodiversity in Good Company Union for Ethical Bio Trade (UEBT). GRI Sustainability Report CRITERION 18 The COP describes partnerships and collective action Beraca seeks to build partnership with clients, NGOs, and other key stakeholders to create projects that enhance the lives in the supplier communities and guarantees sustainable development. Develop and implement partnership projects One example is the PACE PROJECT In Piauí, Beraca initiated Project Água, Cidadania e Ensino with public or private organizations (UN (Pace), which involves the production chain of buriti oil, in partnership with the end customer and entities, government, NGOs, or other groups) NGOs The school is the point of reference that brings together the initiatives undertaken in the on core business, social investments and/or community. There, a reservoir was built so that the water may be removed and treated for the advocacy benefit of the community as a whole. The school received renovations and gained a library. Thus, the community benefits from increased economic activity in the region. GRI Sustainability Report 11 / 12 November 2014 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2014 | Advanced Level CRITERION 19 The COP describes CEO commitment and leadership CEO publicly delivers explicit statements and demonBeraca´s Chief Executive Officer renews Beraca’s commitment to the 10 principles of the Global strates personal leadership on sustainability and Compact every year. commitment to the UN Global Compact CRITERION 20 The COP describes Board adoption and oversight Sustainability decisions are taken by the committee. In this model, the committee has the figure of a sponsor, which has the role to validate the decisions of the sustainability and planning committee, Board establishes, where permissible, a committee or giving visibility and priority within the organization’s programs, and present the demands of the assigns an individual board member with responsibilipresidency for the management and execution of the committee. Nowadays, sponsors are Beraca’s ty for corporate sustainability presidents, also future members of the Board of Directors, with high political and decision-making power within the company hierarchy. CRITERION 21 The COP describes advocacy and public policy engagement Started in 2010, Beracom Beraca Dialogue, Community Leaders and Partners in Amazon was born as an intensive training workshop for leaders of the supplier communities and it was consolidated as one of the main tools of engagement with this audience. The second and third editions of the event were held in 2011 and 2012 in Belém, Pará The event now has over three Consult stakeholders in dealing with implementation days, with a significant increase of attendees. There were about 50 in 2011 and about 80 in 2012. dilemmas and challenges and invite them to take active part in reviewing performance The participation of government both state and federal was significant, generating opportunities for community leaders to discuss public policy issues for the region directly with the proper power level. In a survey conducted after the event, the participants pointed out the opportunity to exchange experiences among the leaders as one of the main advantages of this dialogue. 12 / 12
