Annual Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 Corporate Social Responsibility Global Compact Communicating on Progress A /S Uglands Rederi has traditionally had and has a strong focus on sustainable business practice. Safety has Compact is a strategic policy initiative for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies always been the number one priority, but with ten universally accepted principles other key elements such as environmental in the areas of human rights, labour, the and social impact as a consequence of environment and anti-corruption. This conducting our business have received has been integrated as part of the increased focus. Knowing that company A/S Uglands Rederi company policy and activities affect society in many ways, the corporate culture. and that the company is affected by As member of this initiative an annual its surroundings, it is important for “Communication on Progress” is required, A/S Uglands Rederi to contribute to and has been submitted, which is creating and maintaining a positive and available on the Global Compact website. sustainable shipping environment. This is a public disclosure to stakeholders As a consequence of the above, on progress made in implementing the A/S Uglands Rederi joined the UN Global ten principles. Compact during 2012. The UN Global THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT TEN PRINCIPLES HUMAN RIGHTS (GRI Reference) Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of interG4-HR 3, 5 nationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2 Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human G4-HR 3, 5 rights abuses. LABOUR STANDARDS Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the G4-10, 11 effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; G4-LA 1 Principle 4 Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced G4-HR 3, 4 and compulsory labour; Principle 5 Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour: G4-HR 3, 4 Principle 6 Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in G4-10, 11 respect of employment and occupation. G4-LA 1, G4-HR 3 ENVIRONMENT Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environProfile disclosure mental challenges; and G4-EN: Principle 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater 3, 6, 8, 15*, 19*, environmental responsibility; and 21*, 23, 24 and G4-HR5 Principle 9 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, G4-SO 3 including extortion and bribery. Note: The GRI references above are standard disclosures and core elements only. * Partly reported. Implementation of the UN Global Compact ten principles 2012 T he most important corporate social engagement is to provide a safe, sustainable and long term business and (PSV) Juania with the SALT 100 design will be delivered containing several new and progressive solutions, tailored to meet UR through policy and procedures strives not to contribute to any kind of forced labour, child labour and discrimination work environment for the employees, the oil companies' needs for a modern, in respect of employment, occupation, business partners and the local fuel efficient and operationally flexible gender, age and culture. For more community. A/S Uglands Rederi (UR) Platform Supply Vessel. Fleet renewal with information click here. supports several initiatives in various eco-friendly design and technology is an UR has had procedures and guidelines communities, believing that social ongoing process and will continue in the in place related to averting corruption engagement in communities where years to come. For more information click through gifts and other more specific business is conducted, contributes here. office related subjects. In 2012, antito creating shared value for both the UR supports and respects the protection corruption efforts were intensified by company and society as a whole. UR is of internationally proclaimed human formalizing an anti-corruption procedure engaged in different social activities both rights. In 2012, steps were taken to more specifically focused for the fleet in Norway and in the Philippines, seeking improve performance in this area by and crew onboard. The said procedure to continually renew and improve its renewing and expanding the “supplier has been implemented, strengthening approach to the local community. declaration” (a questionnaire to the existing routines, enabling an In 2013, in accordance with ISO suppliers related to Quality, Environment, enhanced and systematical stance standards, efforts to ensure continuous Social Responsibility, Transparency against corruption. Employees are trained improvement in safety and environmental and Health & Safety). The supplier in accordance with recommendations performance were made. As continued declaration provides guidance when from UNODC, Global Compact and The focus on reducing energy consumption choosing suppliers identifying those Norwegian Shipowners' Association. and seeking environmentally friendly that support a precautionary approach UR is still considering membership technologies are important, both for to environmental and social challenges, in organizations and networks where the company and its stakeholders, a undertake initiatives to promote greater corruption can be combated together newbuilding contract for an eco-design environmental responsibility, and with other shipping companies and supramax bulk carrier was signed in 2013. encourage the development and diffusion organizations at a higher level. For more In 2014, the new platform supply vessel of environmentally friendly technologies. information click here. Global Reporting Initiative standards and voluntary initiatives; accordingly. For UR the following five demonstrate organizational commitment stakeholders have been identified and to sustainable development; and indirectly engaged; compare organizational performance over time. Owner UR is through its improvement cycle Employees continuously seeking best practice. In this Clients/Main Suppliers G lobal Reporting Initiative, as the most widely applied standard for reporting on the ten principles of Global Compact, respect, UR has performed a materiality analysis in order to identify aspects that have the most material value for the Partners/Financial Institutions Local Community(ies) has been chosen as the company’s company. Improvement initiatives can The above process was an agenda item reporting framework. The objective of the therefore be focused on these aspects. A and confirmed in the latest Management Global Reporting Initiative is to create a materiality analysis can be described as Review, a key stone part of the annual platform where the reported information a CSR checklist. It enables the company improvement cycle. is transparent, reliable, comparable to perform a self-evaluation as well as The company has engaged the five and precise. an evaluation by external stakeholders: stakeholders as follows; The Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) owner, employees, clients/main suppliers, vision is that disclosure on economic, partners/financial and insurance Owner: The Owner participated in the environmental, and social performance institutions, local community(ies). decision to become a UN Global Compact is as commonplace and comparable as To facilitate the materiality analysis, company and to report in line with GRI. financial reporting, and important to stakeholders were identified. The Owner is also part of the board of organizational success. “Stakeholder” is a term for those parties directors. Sustainability reports based on the GRI that are affected by or affect the company. framework can be used to benchmark They may also have constructive Employees: As a result of an external organizational performance with respect feedback/criticism worthwhile for the audit, an internal working environment to laws, norms, codes, performance company to listen to and take action questionnaire amongst the employees was recommended and executed JJUC.no home page. Through sponsor These three aspects will then be reported during May 2013. In addition, through meetings and participation, opinions in the GRI 4 report as core aspects. The Department Management review, and viewpoints are exchanged. In aspects are of material value both for the Master review and Management review addition, as a participant company company and society at large and as such processes employees are able to voice in “Samfunnsansvar på Agder” the are viewed without boundaries’. As this their opinions and suggest improvements. company has presented its CSR work and will be the first annual report in line with received constructive feedback both pro’s GR 4 and it is the first materiality analysis, Clients/Main Suppliers: Clients are and con’s. Samfunnsansvar på Agder the results are considered too give valid requested and encouraged to give represents a number of local companies guidance. customer satisfaction feedback in line of varying sizes and products, ensuring a The AS Uglands Rederi Global Reporting with ISO 9001. In addition, offshore broad perspective. Initiative report is structured as a matrix related tenders require the companies’ naming the GRI element/indicator and CSR status to be given. The company’s The above brief description of how referenceing the documents and page main suppliers have also been requested stakeholders have been engaged and where relevant information is publicly to read and return the supplier afforded an opportunity to influence the noted. When not referenced, specific declaration signed and/or commented. company’s ability to account for their information may be noted. This is the 80% of said suppliers have responded. views, is acknowledged as indirect. The company’s second GRI report, however process of engaging stakeholders will be the first GRI4 version. For further Partners: Cooperating Partners such more direct the next time around when information and details, please review as financial institutions and partners the materiality analysis is renewed. This the company’s home page www.jjuc.no. in ownership are well informed of the will be done in approximately 2-3 years’ This report has not ben subjected company’s CSR activities and have the time, tentatively 2015 or latest 2016. The to verification by an external body opportunity to voice their opinions and frequency and method of engagement nor submitted specifically to GRI for thoughts in regular meetings and other are also subject to discussion during the verification purposes. The report is made formal and informal points of contact. In annual Management Review Meeting. and published in an honest and open addition, they are receivers of the annual The materiality analysis performed manner representing the status of CSR report and are through this informed of during the fall of 2013, both the internal and the Global Compact – GRI status for the company’s CSR position and work. company and stakeholder analysis, 2013. highlighted three aspects that warrant the Local Community: UR has a long company’s focus as follows: reputation in supporting and working interactive with the local community. Environmental work The term “JJ Ugland Companies” has Anti-Corruption work often been used as the sponsoring Supply chain with a special focus on entity. General reference is made to the labour conditions GRI Element / Indicator Page/Reference (Annual report/other) Indicator PROFILE Strategy and Analysis G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision maker of the Annual Report page 5 organization http://www.jjuc.no/files/Letter-ofCommitment.pdf G4-2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities 3, 4 Annual Report page 5, 6, 8-14 Organizational Profile G4-3 Name of the organization A/S Uglands Rederi G4-4 Primary brands, products, and/or services Shipowner, management chartering and operations, Annual Report page 6, 8-13 G4-5 Location of organization’s headquarters Grimstad, Norway G4-6 Report the number of countries where the organization Norway, Brazil, the Philippines and operates, and names of countries where either the Canada (worldwide) organization has significant operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report. G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form Family owned (Note 11, Annual Report) G4-8 Report the markets served (including geographic Annual Report, Note 7 and page 6, 9, breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers and 11 & 13. beneficiaries). G4-9 A. Report the scale of the organization, including: Annual Report page 6, 8-13, 15-17 Total number of employees Note 7, Note 11 Total number of operations Net sales (for private sector organizations) or net revenues (for public sector organizations) Total capitalization broken down in terms of debt and equity (for private sector organizations) Quantity of products or services provided G4-10 A. Report the total number of employees by Annual Report page 11 & 13 employment contract and gender. B. Report the total number of permanent employees by employment type and gender. C. Report the total workforce by employees and supervised workers and by gender. D. Report the total workforce by region and gender. E. Report whether a substantial portion of the organization’s work is performed by workers who are legally recognized as self-employed, or by individuals other than employees or supervised workers, including employees and supervised employees of contractors. F. Report any significant variations in employment numbers (such as seasonal variations in employment in the tourism or agricultural industries). G4-11 Report the percentage of total employees covered by http://www.jjuc.no/files/Labour.pdf collective bargaining agreements. G4-12 Describe the organization’s supply chain. 2, http://www.jjuc.no/files/SupplierDeclaration.pdf G4-13 Report any significant changes during the reporting Nothing to report period regarding the organization’s size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain, including: Changes in the location of, or changes in, operations, including facility openings, closings, and expansions Changes in the share capital structure and other capital formation, maintenance, and alteration operations (for private sector organizations) Changes in the location of suppliers, the structure of the supply chain, or in relationships with suppliers, including selection and termination Commitments to External Initiatives G4-14 Report whether and how the precautionary approach or http://www.jjuc.no/company-policies principle is addressed by the organization. Ref. annual improvement circles. Accessible in manual for all employees. G4-15 List externally developed economic, environmental and Global Compact-GRI-ISO9000social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which ISO14000-OHSAS18001 the organization subscribes or which it endorses. G4-16 List memberships of associations (such as industry The Norwegian Shipowner’s associations) and national or international advocacy Association (NSA), Nordisk Defence organizations in which the organization: Club (Nordisk) Holds a position on the governance body Participates in projects or committees Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues Views membershipas strategic G4-17 A. List all entities included in the organization’s Annual Report, Note 1 & 5 consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents. B. Report whether any entity included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents is not covered by the report. G4-18 A. Explain the process for defining the report content 3 and the Aspect Boundaries. B. Explain how the organization has implemented the Reporting Principles for Defining Report Content. G4-19 List all the material Aspects identified in the process for 4 defining report content. G4-20 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary 4 within the organization, as follows: Report whether the Aspect is material within the organization If the Aspect is not material for all entities within the organization (as described in G4-17), select one of the following two approaches and report either: The list of entities or groups of entities included in G417 for which the Aspect is not material or The list of entities or groups of entities included in G417 for which the Aspects is material Report any specific limitation regarding the Aspect Boundary within the organization G4-21 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary 4 outside the organization, as follows: Report whether the Aspect is material outside of the organization If the Aspect is material outside of the organization, identify the entities, groups of entities or elements for which the Aspect is material. In addition, describe the geographical location where the Aspect is material for the entities identified Report any specific limitation regarding the Aspect Boundary outside the organization G4-22 Report the effect of any restatements of information GRI G4 Core provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements. G4-23 Report significant changes from previous reporting GRI G4 Core periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries. Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 Provide a list of stakeholder groups engaged by the 3 organization. G4-25 Report the basis for identification and selection of 3 stakeholders with whom to engage. G4-26 Report the organization’s approach to stakeholder 3 engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group, and an indication of whether any of the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process. G4-27 Report key topics and concerns that have been raised 3 through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. Report the stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns. Report Profile G4-28 Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) for Calendar/fiscal year information provided. G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if any). 2012 G4-30 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial). Annual G4-31 Provide the contact point for questions regarding the Deputy Managing Director Arnt Olaf report or its contents. Knutsen G4-32 A. Report the ‘in accordance’ option the organization Annual Corporate Social Report 2013 has chosen. B. Report the GRI Content Index for the chosen option (see tables below). C. Report the reference to the External Assurance Report, if the report has been externally assured. GRI recommends the use of external assurance but it is not a requirement to be ‘in accordance’ with the Guidelines. G4-33 A. Report the organization’s policy and current practice 4 with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. B. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, report the scope and basis of any external assurance provided. C. Report the relationship between the organization and the assurance providers. D. Report whether the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in seeking assurance for the organization’s sustainability report. Governance G4-34 Report the governance structure of the organization, http://www.jjuc.no/about-us including committees of the highest governance body. Identify any committees responsible for decisionmaking on economic, environmental and social impacts. Ethics and Integrity G4-56 Describe the organization’s values, principles, standards http://www.jjuc.no/company-policies and norms of behavior such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics. Specific Standard Disclosures G4-DMA A. Report why the Aspect is material. Report the 3 impacts that make this Aspect material. B. Report how the organization manages the material Aspect or its impacts. C. Report the evaluation of the management approach, including: The mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of the management approach The results of the evaluation of the management approach Any related adjustments to the management approach The Environment G4-EN3 ENERGY CONSUMPTION WITHIN THE ORGANIZATION http://www.jjuc.no/annual-ums-hseqA. Report total fuel consumption from non-renewable report sources in joules or multiples, including fuel types used. B. Report total fuel consumption from renewable fuel sources in joules or multiples, including fuel types used. C. Report in joules, watt-hours or multiples, the total: Electricity consumption Heating consumption Cooling consumption Steam consumption D. Report in joules, watt-hours or multiples, the total: Electricity sold Heating sold Cooling sold Steam sold E. Report total energy consumption in joules or multiples. F. Report standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. G. Report the source of the conversion factors used. G4-EN6 REDUCTION OF ENERGY CONSUMPTION http://www.jjuc.no/annual-ums-hseqA. Report the amount of reductions in energy report consumption achieved as a direct result of conservation and efficiency initiatives, in joules or multiples. B. Report the types of energy included in the reductions: fuel, electricity, heating, cooling, and steam. C. Report the basis for calculating reductions in energy consumption such as base year or baseline, and the rationale for choosing it. D. Report standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. G4-EN8 SIGNIFICANT INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS, http://www.jjuc.no/annual-ums-hseqINCLUDING THE EXTENT OF IMPACTS report A. Report examples of the significant identified positive and negative indirect economic impacts the organization has. These may include: Changing the productivity of organizations, sectors, or the whole economy Economic development in areas of high poverty Economic impact of improving or deteriorating social or environmental conditions Availability of products and services for those on low incomes Enhancing skills and knowledge amongst a professional community or in a geographical region Jobs supported in the supply chain or distribution chain Stimulating, enabling, or limiting foreign direct investment Economic impact of change in location of operations or activities Economic impact of the use of products and services B. Report the significance of the impacts in the context of external benchmarks and stakeholder priorities, such as national and international standards, protocols, and policy agendas. G4-EN15 DIRECT GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) EMISSIONS (SCOPE 1) http://www.jjuc.no/annual-ums-hseqA. Report gross direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions in metric report tons of CO2 equivalent, independent of any GHG trades, such as purchases, sales, or transfers of offsets or allowances. B. Report gases included in the calculation (whether CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, or all). C. Report biogenic CO2 emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent separately from the gross direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions. D. Report the chosen base year, the rationale for choosing the base year, emissions in the base year, and the context for any significant changes in emissions that triggered recalculations of base year emissions. E. Report standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. F. Report the source of the emission factors used and the global warming potential (GWP) rates used or a reference to the GWP source. G. Report the chosen consolidation approach for emissions (equity share, financial control, operational control). G4-EN19 REDUCTION OF GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) EMISSIONS http://www.jjuc.no/annual-ums-hseqA. Report the amount of GHG emissions reductions report achieved as a direct result of initiatives to reduce emissions, in metric tons of CO2 equivalent. B. Report gases included in the calculation (whether CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, or all). C. Report the chosen base year or baseline and the rationale for choosing it. d. Report standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. E. Report whether the reductions in GHG emissions occurred in direct (Scope 1), energy indirect (Scope 2), other indirect (Scope 3) emissions. G4-EN21 NOX, SOX, AND OTHER SIGNIFICANT AIR EMISSIONS http://www.jjuc.no/annual-ums-hseqA. Report the amount of significant air emissions, in report kilograms or multiples for each of the following: NOX SOX Persistent organic pollutants (POP) Volatile organic compounds (VOC) Hazardous air pollutants (HAP) Particulate matter (PM) Other standard categories of air emissions identified in relevant regulations B. Report standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. C. Report the source of the emission factors used. G4-EN23 TOTAL WEIGHT OF WASTE BY TYPE AND DISPOSAL http://www.jjuc.no/annual-ums-hseqMETHOD report A. Report the total weight of hazardous and nonhazardous waste, by the following disposal methods: Reuse Recycling Composting Recovery, including energy recovery Incineration (mass burn) Deep well injection Landfill On-site storage Other (to be specified by the organization) B. Report how the waste disposal method has been determined: Disposed of directly by the organization or otherwise directly confirmed Information provided by the waste disposal contractor Organizational defaults of the waste disposal contractor G4-EN24 TOTAL NUMBER AND VOLUME OF SIGNIFICANT SPILLS http://www.jjuc.no/annual-ums-hseqA. Report the total number and total volume of report recorded significant spills. B. For spills that were reported in the organization’s financial statements, report the additional following information for each such spill: Location of spill Volume of spill Material of spill, categorized by: Oil spills (soil or water surfaces) Fuel spills (soil or water surfaces) Spills of wastes (soil or water surfaces) Spills of chemicals (mostly soil or water surfaces) Other (to be specified by the organization) C. Report the impacts of significant spills. Employment G4-LA1 TOTAL NUMBER AND RATES OF NEW EMPLOYEE HIRES http://www.jjuc.no/files/Labour.pdf AND EMPLOYEE TURNOVER BY AGE GROUP, GENDER AND REGION A. Report the total number and rate of new employee hires during the reporting period, by age group, gender and region. B. Report the total number and rate of employee turnover during the reporting period, by age group, gender and region. Human Rights G4-HR3 TOTAL NUMBER OF INCIDENTS OF DISCRIMINATION AND CORRECTIVE ACTIONS TAKEN A. Report the total number of incidents of discrimination during the reporting period. B. Report the status of the incidents and the actions taken with reference to the following: Incident reviewed by the organization None reported incidents Remediation plans being implemented Remediation plans have been implemented and results reviewed through routine internal management review processes Incident no longer subject to action G4-HR4 OPERATIONS AND SUPPLIERS IDENTIFIED IN WHICH 2, THE RIGHT TO EXERCISE FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION http://www.jjuc.no/files/SupplierAND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING MAY BE VIOLATED OR Declaration.pdf AT SIGNIFICANT RISK, AND MEASURES TAKEN TO SUPPORT THESE RIGHTS A. Report operations and suppliers in which employee rights to exercise freedom of association or collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk either in terms of: Type of operation (such as manufacturing plant) and supplier Countries or geographical areas with operations and suppliers considered at risk B. Report measures taken by the organization in the reporting period intended to support rights to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining. G4-HR5 OPERATIONS AND SUPPLIERS IDENTIFIED AS HAVING 2, SIGNIFICANT RISK FOR INCIDENTS OF CHILD LABOR, http://www.jjuc.no/files/SupplierAND MEASURES TAKEN TO CONTRIBUTE TO THE Declaration.pdf EFFECTIVE ABOLITION OF CHILD LABOR A. Report operations and suppliers considered to have significant risk for incidents of: Child labor Young workers exposed to hazardous work B. Report operations and suppliers considered to have significant risk for incidents of child labor either in terms of: Type of operation (such as manufacturing plant) and supplier Countries or geographical areas with operations and suppliers considered at risk C. Report measures taken by the organization in the reporting period intended to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor. Society G4-SO3 TOTAL NUMBER AND PERCENTAGE OF OPERATIONS 2, ASSESSED FOR RISKS RELATED TO CORRUPTION AND http://www.jjuc.no/files/AntiTHE SIGNIFICANT RISKS IDENTIFIED Corruption.pdf A. Report the total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption. B. Report the significant risks related to corruption identified through the risk assessment. Enclosures: Annual HSSEQ Performance Report Section 5
