Engineering & Building Co. EBCO (BITAR) Communication on Progress United Nations Global Compact June 2013 to October 2014 Statement of continued support by our General Manager: To our stakeholders: Engineering & Building Co. EBCO (BITAR) hereby reaffirms its support for the United Nations Global Compact and commitment to its principles. Our operations and strategies will continue to be aligned with the initiative mission and objectives. We believe that being socially responsible is the right thing to do. Our company therefore is moving from a state of harm minimization to value creation with the purpose of achieving sustainable development and long term growth. Our engagement with the Global Compact initiative is our first step towards making a difference in our community. We have already started, and we plan to continue. Sincerely yours, Eng. Jalal Bitar General Manager Engineering & Building Co. EBCO (BITAR) Communication on Progress United Nations Global Compact June 2013 to October 2014 Human Rights Assessment, policy and goals  EBCO (BITAR) Employee Handbook was finalized and distributed to all employees. The handbook has been prepared for the information and guidance of the staff. A presentation was given in head office and all sites explaining in details every clause of the Employee Handbook. The Handbook included all employment policies, the wages and salaries, time away from work and the code of conduct which includes the nonharassment policy, the violence policy and many others. The Company respects the rights of every employee to be treated fairly and with respect.  Suggestion/generating ideas: EBCO (BITAR) is investing in a proactive environment rather than reactive. Taking initiative and improving the current system are considered essential in every employee evaluation. Monthly meetings are being carried in every site and in head office to listen to employee’s concerns, suggestions and new ideas. Implementation  Every new employee who joins the Company will be briefed about what is expected from him/her and what he/she shall expect from the Company in return. Labour Assessment, policy and goals  EBCO (BITAR) issued its “Occupational Health & Safety Manual” in September 2014.  Our Safety Policy clearly states: “Safety is among our core values. Safety always comes first. We are committed to: Conducting our business with respect and care for people and the environment. Utilizing natural resources responsibly. Continually improving our safety, health and environmental performance. Complying with all applicable legal and other agreed requirements. Promoting dialogue with stakeholders about safety, health and environmental performance. Our Operational Health & Safety Manual is intended to protect the Company’s employees, subcontractors, owners, and the general public from any work-related Engineering & Building Co. EBCO (BITAR) Communication on Progress United Nations Global Compact June 2013 to October 2014 accidents, and its properties from any loss or damage as well as protect the environment in compliance with customer requirements and related laws and regulations. Safety is everybody’s responsibility.”  The Manual covered all safety procedures related to the construction field and the actions and sanctions system to be applied when a non-conformity occurs. The Safety Organization has been highlighted along with the needed forms to be filled. The Objectives of the Occupation Health & Safety Manual are as follow: 1Protect human capital from casualties caused by work-related risks by making sure they are not exposed to accidents, injuries or occupational illness. 2Preserve physical assets such as facilities including equipment and devices and protect them from damage and loss as a result of accidents and misuse. 3Provide and apply all occupational health and safety conditions that ensure a safe environment and prevent from endangering both the human and physical capital. 4Spread a sense of security and reassurance in the hearts of employees and workers while performing their duties. Implementation  EBCO (BITAR) created the idea of a “Safety Week” whereby intensive after work workshops will be given to the Safety Officers in charge and a campaigning will take place in all sites. The “Safety Week” will happen twice a year.  Our first “Safety Week” took place from September 14, 2014 to September 19, 2014. During this week, our Safety Campaign was launched under the slogan “ ‫بدنا‬ ‫ ”سالمتك‬in Arabic, meaning “We want your Safety”. The posters were placed in all sites to remind the workers and employees to abide by all safety standards.  Also, from Monday to Friday after work hours, a safety workshop took place given by professional individuals about first aid, fire prevention, evacuation and others. The last day was a practice day whereby live examples were demonstrated and assessed. Measurement of outcomes  During our next Safety Week, which shall happen 6 months after, we will be able to measure the number of accidents and non-conformities, by comparing them to same period last year. Engineering & Building Co. EBCO (BITAR) Communication on Progress United Nations Global Compact June 2013 to October 2014 Environment Starting November 2013, EBCO (BITAR) partnered with T.E.R.R.E Liban, an NGO devoted to the creation and implementation of environmental education within Lebanon and has been a leader in the promotion of environmental solutions for sustainable development in implementing our recycling program, as part of our Corporate Social Responsibility initiative. All papers collected will be contributed to the NGO. A presentation was given to all departments and sites introducing this program, defining our goals and the proper instructions to follow. Our slogan is “ ‫”ايد بايد منجمع و منفيد‬, meaning “hand in hand, we collect and we benefit”. On September 20, 2014, the total number of waste papers contributed was 815kg. This program is an on-going initiative and has become part of our day-to-day operations. Anti-Corruption The only policy that has been put in place regarding anti-corruption and bribery is the Gifts Policy. It states, “every customer is entitled to courteous and outstanding service. Since such service is given impartially to all, gratuities are not expected. Therefore, employees are not allowed to accept gifts of any kind from customers or suppliers. Any offers to EBCO (BITAR) personnel, which appear to be attempts at commercial bribery, shall be reported immediately to HR department.”
