1 Report Instruction Report Instruction Time frame: Time frame of the report is from January 1st to December 31st of 2013. Some parts may go beyond the above mentioned time frame. Release cycle: The Social Responsibility Report of China United Network Communications Group Co., Ltd.is an annual report. Coverage: The report covers China United Network Communications Group Co., Ltd. and its subsidiaries. For the convenience of expression, “China Unicom”, “the Group”, “the Company” and “We” are used respectively in proper position in the report. Reference: ● Program to the State-owned Enterprises Directly under the Central Government on Implementing the Harmonious Development Strategies during the Twelfth Five-Year Plan Period by the State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission of the State Council (SASAC) of the People’s Republic of China; ● Compilation Guide to the Report on Corporate Social Responsibility by the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE); ● Compilation Guide to the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Report for Chinese Enterprises (CASS-CSR 3.0) by the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences (CASS); ● Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G3 edition) by Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). Data: The 2013 data cited in the report is the final statistical data, and in case there is a difference between the financial data and the annual report, the annual report shall prevail. Quality assurance: The board and all directors of the board assure that all information disclosed are real, complete and correct. Language and availability: Both Chinese and English versions are provided, available both in print and online at the websites below: Online Chinese version: www.chinaunicom.com Online English version: http://unglobalcompact.org Contact us: Address: No.21, Financial Street, Xicheng District, Beijing; Corporate Development Department of China Unicom Post code: 100033 Fax: +86-10-66258674 Email: yangwei3@chinaunicom.cn 2 3 Corporate Social Responsibility Report China Unicom 2013 From the Chairman From the Chairman At present, the international community trained employees with vocational skills for their is paying higher attention to corporate social sustainable development. We promoted work responsibilities (CSR), and CSR is becoming a safety, improved living conditions of employees standard and hard requirement that companies and helped disadvantageous employees so should meet. In China, the related government that they would feel warm in the company. agencies, industry associations and the We believed in the win-win philosophy and capital market are putting forward stricter CSR collaborated with key parties of the ecosystem for requirements, and CSR has become an important common development of all links of the industry indicator in the evaluation of enterprises. We are chain. We established a fair and transparent now facing new challenges in social responsibility mechanism for vendor selection and made management and practices. As a member of the centralized and E-procurement. We put forward UN Global Compact, we follow the ten global higher requirements on partners in terms of compact principles, live up to expectations of energy saving and environment protection, stakeholders and integrate social responsibilities credibility, safety and healthy operation and into daily operation of the company to become an legal compliance so as to guarantee healthy and outstanding corporate citizen. sustainable development of the whole supply chain. We made efforts to save energy and In 2013, we deepened the total risk promoted use of energy-saving technologies in management, abided by laws and regulations, productions and operations, further increased cracked down on corruptions, strengthened material recycling, promoted sharing of telecom internal audit, helped with maintenance of infrastructure, and built a culture of ecological the market competition order and pursued protection. We cared for people’s life and gave sustainable and healthy development. We back to the society. We assisted 8 programs in continued to build a ubiquitous and user-oriented Tibet for three years, carried out poverty relief network with advanced technologies. In urban projects in targeted poor counties, actively areas, ports above 20M accounted for 63%; in participated in public service activities and rural area, ports above 4M accounted for 76%. volunteer work, and contributed to community We continued to make innovations, completed development. several urgent, difficult, dangerous and arduous communications tasks during key events and The year of 2014 ushers in the 4G era, natural disasters. We strengthened network and the mobile Internet will drive changes security protection, stroke a hard blow at spam in all walks of life with an unprecedented SMSs to clean the network environment. We power of innovation. Facing opportunities completed the Village Connection Program and challenges in the new era, we will keep which enabled telephone connections in 400 us aware of the social expectations on China natural villages and broadband connections Unicom, communicate and collaborate with other in 2551 administrative villages, developed a forces to promote innovations and the national variety of information applications related to the economic transformation, provide more smart-life rural areas, agriculture and farmers , and set applications and chart a green and low-carbon up nearly 300,000 information service channels era of mobile Internet! in rural, remote and poor areas. We optimized package plans, priced products transparently and kept customer information confidential so that customers can enjoy service without worries. Chairman of the China United Network We promoted construction of smart cities and Communications Group Co.,Ltd made strategic cooperation with 175 cities. We added on an e-commerce model for all services, The year of 2013 witnessed fast development of new continued to build on-line channels and improve technologies such as mobile Internet, big data and cloud services in business stores in order to provide computing. People’s demands for information services surged customers with faster and better services. We up and became increasingly diversified. In order to meet such increased compensation competitiveness, demands, we stepped up to adjust the business structure, improve explored dual-path career development, created service quality, strengthen the supporting systems and increase a new mechanism for selecting and engaging business vitality. We believed that innovations can change the persons, and satisfied requests concerning Chang Xiaobing world, and we made active efforts to contribute to the national the core interest of employees. We greatly February, 2014 economic and social development. 6 7 Corporate Social Responsibility Report China Unicom 2013 Corporate Profile Corporate Governance Considering actual conditions of the Company, China Unicom strictly abides by the laws and regulations of the mainland Corporate Profile China, Hong Kong and the United States, learns advanced corporate governance experience at home and abroad, constantly improves the corporate governance structure and the internal management system, builds effective internal control and risk control system, regulates corporate operations and improve corporate governance level. The convening, holding, voting procedures of the meeting of shareholders, of the board of directors and of the supervisory board are strictly under the provisions of related laws and regulations as well as the internal rules of the Company to ensure fair treatment towards all shareholders, especially minority shareholders, and the enjoyment and enforcement of their corresponding rights based on the shares they hold. Listed companies, through the organization of extensive Board of Directors and the establishment of the Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and other affiliated committees to the Board, effectively regulate the internal control system related to financial statements and bring the specialties of board directors into full play to enhance the duty-performing capability of the Board and scientific decision making. Furthermore, under fully compliance with the legal and regulatory requirements for information disclosure at the location where listed companies are regulated, China Unicom amply fulfills its information disclosure obligations and takes the initiative to communicate and make exchanges with investors via meetings, calls, website, email and other forms of communication to provide investors with the China United Network Communications Group Co., Ltd. opportunity to learn corporate strategies and latest service development in time. (hereinafter referred to as “China Unicom”) was officially established in 2008 on the basis of the merger of former China Netcom and former China Unicom. It has subsidiaries in 31 provinces (autonomous regions and municipalities) across China and many countries and regions around the world. It is the only Chinese Directors & Senior Management telecom operator listed on the stock exchanges in New York, Hong Kong and Shanghai. In 2013, China Unicom ranked 258 in Fortune Top 500, an increase of 75 positions over the previous year; and ranked 14 among all telecom operators around the world, an increase of 3 positions over the previous year. LU Yimin President, TONG Jilu With the second largest fixed and mobile telephone networks CHANG Xiaobing Vice Chairman Director of the Board, and the Internet in the world, China Unicom mainly operates Chairman and and Deputy Secretary Vice President and the fixed and mobile communications service, domestic and Secretary of Party of Party Leadership Member of Party international communications facilities, satellite IPLC service, Leadership Group Group Leadership Group data communications service, network access service, valueadded telecom services and the system integration service related to information and communications businesses. China Unicom launched a full-service brand “WO” on April 28 of year 2009, which is a brand with completely new service ideas and innovation spirits. By the end of 2012, China Unicom had 430million subscribers in total, with corporate assets reaching RMB 574.6 billion yuan. LI jianguo LI Fushen China Unicom has a modern communications network characterized by its nationwide coverage and global reach, and its Head of Disciplinary Director of the Board, Inspection Team Vice President, LI Gang new-generation mobile communications network WCDMA is also the largest in the world. Aiming at providing full-scale and high-quality of Party Leadership Chief Accountant and Vice President and information and communications services to customers, China Group and Member Member of the Party Member of Party Unicom has been promoting broadband-based fixed and mobile of Party Leadership Leadership Group Leadership Group networks, expanding the international coverage and improving Group the layout of sales outlets. By the end of 2012, the number of 3G base stations reached 407 thousand, 119070 thousand broadband access interfaces were put in place, and the international roaming service covered 574 operators in 250 countries and regions. In 2013, China Unicom got the 4G license. In the 4G era, China Unicom will expand its leading 3G advantages to provide customers with faster and better mobile broadband experience. ZHANG Jun’an JIANG Zhengxin SHAO Guanglu Vice President and Vice President and Vice President and Member of Party Member of Party Member of Party Leadership Group Leadership Group Leadership Group 8 9 Corporate Social Responsibility Report China Unicom 2013 Corporate Profile Brand Profile Organizational Structure In 2009, China Unicom launched a full-service brand “WO” at Aiming for the mobile Internet era, China Unicom established a cloud data company to further push forward the development the time of the 3G business entering into the market. “WO” provides of the cloud technology as well as the big data. China Unicom set up a network technology institute to enhance network technology WO 3G, WO Family, WO Pai and WO Business to individuals, research and improve the capability of network service. In order to adapt to the rapid pace of mobile Internet development and speed households, teenagers and enterprises as well as WO Service to up IT system integration and full-service e-commerce, China Unicom incorporated the former Information Service Department and all customers. In 2013, in order to effectively accomplish resource the E-commerce Department into the Information and E-commerce Department; and in order to further streamline the functional integration and focus on the promotion of core advantages, the departments, China Unicom incorporated the former Strategic Investment Department into the Corporate Development Department. Company, taking the occasion of the upcoming 4G era, optimized the Major Projects Construction and Management Office brand structure by eliminating “WO 3G” and “WO Family” and further General Affairs Department incorporating the “WO” brand as a whole to lead the promotion of Network Finance Department mobile and broadband services. Company Operations & Maintenance Department Network Construction Department In 2013, China Unicom’s brand value was increasingly promoted. On the basis of Global Brands 500 issued by Brand Disciplinary Inspection / Supervision Office Finance, China Unicom’s brand is worth USD 9.5 billion, ranking 11 Labor Union among all telecom operators in the world, up by 19.7 percentage Party & Staff Affairs Department points over the previous year, and 16% higher than the average Legacy Assets Management Department growth rate of Top 10 operators. According to the research, China Technology Department Unicom’s brand equity index grew 44% over the previous year; and Legal and Risk Management Department the “WO” brand is widely recognized with the recognition up by 11% Regulatory Department while the “WO” brand equity index is up by 67%. The market sees Audit Department “WO” a modern, innovative, vigorous and enthusiastic brand. Procurement and Inventory Management Department China United Human Resources Department Headquarters Finance Department Network Communications Departments Planning and Management Department Group Co., Ltd. Corporate Development Department Shareholding Structure General Affairs Department / Office of the Board Product Innovation Department / Information Security Department ICT Application and E-Commerce Department Marketing Operation Monitoring Center For the purpose of prevention of stock price volatility and based on the confidence in the sustainability of China United Network Customer Care Department Communications Company Limited (hereinafter referred to as the “Company Limited”), the Company increases the holding of the Global Business Department Company Limited’s shares in due course. From 3 May to 31 December of 2013, the Company increased 184,518,024 shares, Corporate Customer Department accounting for 0.87% of total equity. Now the Company holds 63.09% of the Company Limited’s equity and has made a commitment to Marketing & Sales Department maintain the holding during the period of implementation of the holding increasing plan and within legal time limit. ੦ࠣ঳ࠓ Overseas operation companies (6 companies) China Unicom Cloud Data Co., Ltd. China Unicom Communications Construction Co., Ltd. China United Network Communications Group Company Limited China Unicom Payment Co., Ltd. Beijing Xinyuan Hotel China Unicom Import and Export Co., Ltd. UNISK (Beijing) Information Technology Co., Ltd. Three Other Sponsors Public Shareholders Directly Affiliated Unicom V-SENS Communications Technology Co., Ltd. Organizations Unicom Xingye Science and Technology Trade Co., Ltd. and China Information Technology Designing & Consulting Institute Co., Ltd. 74/1:& 1/12& 47/:1& subsidiaries China Unicom System Integration Co., Ltd. China Unicom Info Navi Co., Ltd. China United Network Communications Limited China Unicom Broadband Online Co., Ltd. Unicom Network Technology Institute Unicom Research Institute Unicom University 211& 28/:1& 93/21& Henan Branch Xinjiang Branch Shandong Branch Ningxia Branch Telefonica Intemacional Jiangxi Branch Qinghai Branch China Netcom Group Corporation (BVI) China Netcom (BVI) Limited Other Public Shareholders Fujian Branch Gansu Branch S.A.U Anhui Branch Shaanxi Branch Zhejiang Branch Tibet Branch 44/:9& 51/9:& 6/12& 31/23& Jiangsu Branch Yunnan Branch Provincial-level Shanghai Branch Guizhou Branch Branch Heilongjiang Branch Chongqing Branch China United (Hong Kong) Limited Jilin Branch Sichuan Branch Liaoning Branch Hainan Branch Inner Mongolia Branch Guangxi Branch Shanxi Branch Guangdong Branch Hebei Branch Hubei Branch Tianjin Branch Hunan Branch Beijing Branch 10 11 Corporate Social Responsibility Report China Unicom 2013 Management of Social Responsibility 12 13 Corporate Social Responsibility Report China Unicom 2013 Management of Social Responsibility Three Stages Management of Social Responsibility Outcome year Promotion year By referring to Dow Jones SustainStandardization year At the time of persistent optimization of ability Indices, trying to achieve world In 2013, China Unicom conducted some special promotion activities for CSR management. Under the guidance of international the CSR management system, keeping first-class sustainability performance; and domestic social responsibility standards and seeing domestic and global leading enterprises as a model, China Unicom conducted Building a three-level linkage CSR up with the best practice in the world, increasing the Group’s competitiveinternal inspections seriously and found out the following aspects that could be further improved in the future: the need to well planning system, forming a PDCA management updating social responsibility-related ness, the capacity of sustainability CSR work, the need to build a sound CSR governance body, the need to further deepen the communication for responsibility, the cycle by seeing four management topics in real time, incorporating CSR and international influence and need to intensify the research on CSR and the need to make clear of the responsibility boundary. Aiming for the above-mentioned modules (CSR planning and into business procedures and functional becoming a global first-class deficiencies, the Company took the measures below for improvement and promotion. management, management of management, extending social enterprise that is widely respected. executive capability, management of responsibility from inside to the full performance and index, management industry chain the value chain, creating of communication and improvement) innovative and influential cases. as the core, setting up China Unicom CSR management system. (I) Planning of Social Responsibility 2014 2015 2016 For the purpose to lead a systematic CSR work, China Unicom compiled the China Unicom CSR Planning (2014-2016) to make clear of the goal and the way to achieve the goal, and well prepare the ultimate blue print for future work and implementation. As for the CSR management, China Unicom confirmed six key points to be improved for the next three years and seven key topics. (II) Promotion of Responsibility Governance On the basis of the Social Responsibility Steering Committee established at the beginning of year 2011, China Unicom further Goal of CSR defined the departments in charge of CSR management and corresponding contacts in the headquarters, provincial branches and the subsidiaries to make clear of the obligations of each CSR management department. The goal is, within three years and through three stages, to become an innovation service leader for information-based life with “higher management level, formidable capability for practice and good social image”. China Unicom Social Responsibility Steering Committee An innovation service leader for information-based life with Organizing daily work “higher management level, formidable capability for practice and good social image” • Appointing specific contacts for social • Formulating CSR planning responsibility work and management system Enhancing CSR work Corporate Development Other departments • Implementing major of the Group Department in the headquarters CSR projects set by the • Drawing up annual CSR Reporting to the Corporate Group and organizing Development Department characteristic CSR Formidable capacity report Higher management level Good social image activities for practice Reporting to the Corporate Enhancing CSR work Development Reporting to Enhancing CSR work Building a responsible corporate At the same time of a growth of Actively developing characteristic Department the Corporate culture and a sustainable economic benefits, integrating the performing practices; increasing Development development strategy; idea of social responsibility into the social communication performance Department incorporating social responsibility corporate operation system and and operation transparency; into corporate decision-making, management system; adding and enabling the social image of “a Provincial branch 1 Provincial branch 31 Tvctjejbsz!2 Tvctjejbsz!29 system procedures, business maintaining value and increasing responsible enterprise” to be … … operations and daily management; competitive advantages; promoting recognized widely by stakeholders. creating a CSR management the capability of creation of value • Seeing the Corporate Development Department of the • Making clear of the department responsible for CSR system with a clear strategy, for stakeholders; playing an provincial branch as the CSR management department management normative governance, smooth important role in improving communication and outstanding people’s livelihood, enhancing • Implementing major CSR projects set by the Group • Implementing major CSR projects set by the Group capacity. social development and building ecological civilization. • Organizing characteristic CSR activities • Organizing characteristic CSR activities Organizational structure of China Unicom social responsibility 14 15 Corporate Social Responsibility Report China Unicom 2013 Management of Social Responsibility Full Lifecycle Management of CSR Report Selection Procedure of CSR Topics China Unicom started the work of compilation of the social responsibility report in Oct 2013. The Group’s Corporate Development Identification of the source: Taking the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices as a principal benchmark, taking into account of Department is the center of the report working group and is responsible for topic selection based on stakeholders’ daily communication the international standards, national policy requirements, concerns of the public, trends of topics of domestic and international and for the confirmation of the framework. The conciliation panel is comprised of the Group’s relevant 21 departments, 31 provincial communications enterprises and the CSR topics selected by the Corporate Development Department. branches (including prefecture-level cities) and 16 subsidiaries, responsible for the provision of report materials and suggestions. The Group’s Corporate Development Department puts forward necessary contents and detailed requirements for compilation of the social Formation of the topic pool: Firstly, establishing general topics by referring to the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices, international responsibility report and works together with the conciliation panel to collect the materials required. Once finished, the report will be standards and trends, national policy requirements and the concerns of the public; secondly, coming into being professional topics reviewed by the Company’s top management and be issued publicly via the capital market, website, email and delivery and some through the analysis of communications enterprises at home and abroad; finally, shaping China Unicom’s CSR topics in line with the other ways. The social responsibility report contains the information feedback board, and the feedback information from stakeholders Company’s development planning and operating practices. will be collected and sorted out with great care and be replied, as a key point, in the social responsibility report of the next year. Classification of the priority: Building a topic selection matrix based on the “impact on China Unicom businesses” and the “importance to stakeholders” to give priority ranking to the topics in the pool. Review and confirmation: Reviewing the social responsibility topics selected and making a final decision on these topics. Reference:! General topics: Professional topics: Corporate topics: (III) Confirmation of CSR Topics Dow Jones Sustainability · International standards and trends · international communications enterprises · Corporate development planning Source Indices · national policy requirements · domestic communications of · concerns of the public enterprises · related enterprises China Unicom has established a topic selection procedure under the principle of “keeping up with the guidance, updating on a topics regular basis and boosting sustained improvement”. After confirmation of the topics and the goal, China Unicom conducts dynamic management to these topics by closely following domestic and international trends as well as referring to the advanced enterprises. China Unicom updates the topics constantly to ensure scientific CSR practices and to achieve effective, high-level and influential practices. Topic 1 Topic 2 Formation …… Input of the topic pool · External reference · Internal diagnosis high International CSR trends Improvement Confirmation Questionnaire Importance to stakeholders Domestic CSR trends of topics Dow Jones of topic list Interview of the top Sustainability management Requirements of SASAC Indices Interview of the staff Analysis of enterprises Classification middle CSR of going ahead of the rest CSR appraisal and the priority Interview of the monitoring stakeholders Implementation and monitoring of topics low middle high Impact on China Unicom businesses Keeping up Updating on Sustained improvement Review with the guidance a regular basis and confirmation Key topic 1 Key topic 2 Selection of social responsibility-related topics …… 16 17 Corporate Social Responsibility Report China Unicom 2013 Management of Social Responsibility China Unicom CSR Core Topics Performance of CSR Practices high China Unicom has established a system for collection of the best CSR practices, through which the Group’s top management and experts sort out the best cases and recommend them to SASAC and Global Compact. The case winning an award will be posted Participation of Electromagnetic Bridging the Information Network smoothness stakeholders radiation digital divide protection and security in China Unicom’s official website and the internal office network. Furthermore, the provincial branch winning an award will thus be awarded in their performance evaluation. In 2013, China Unicom’s provincial branches and subsidiaries reported 131 CSR practices Importance to stakeholders in total, of which 3 cases were recommended to participate in the selection of “Outstanding CSR Practice of State-owned Enterprises Energy conservation Customer directly under the Central Government” initiated by SASAC and 6 cases were recommended to participate in the selection of Global Climate strategy Brand management and emission reduction relationship and material recycling management Compact Best Practice. Self-dependent In the collection of “2013 Outstanding CSR Practice of State-owned Enterprises directly under the Central Government” Corporate citizenship Corporate Anti-corruption Supply chain organized by SASAC, state-owned enterprises directly under the central government reported totally 157 cases, of which 50 cases innovation and philanthropy governance and audit managemen management were awarded the “Outstanding CSR Practice” and 10 were awarded the “Best CSR Practice”. Construction of a Safe School Bus System and a Protective Screen for Children by Chuzhou Branch of Anhui Unicom recommended by China Unicom was Human resources simultaneously selected as the “2013 Outstanding CSR Practice” and the “2013 Best Practice”. In the selection of the “2013 Best Environment Labor performance Comprehensive risk Production safety development and reporting indicators management management Practice” launched by Global Compact Network China, Construction of an Inspection and Supervision Mechanism to Ensure the talent retention Compliance of Corporate Operations recommended by China Unicom was selected as the “Global Compact China Best Practice”. middle Operational eco-efficiency (V) CSR Research Environmental policy and management China Unicom’s strategic partner Telefonica is a global leading enterprise for social responsibility. Telefonica has been selected by Dow Jones Sustainability Indices for many times and has ever been selected by “Fortune” as the “2011 World’s Most Respected low Environment Economy Society middle Impact on China Unicom’s businesses high Telecommunication Company”. In 2013, China Unicom and Telefonica had a series of deep discussions on the risk management, supply chain management and the sustainability index via forum, video conferencing, email and some other ways, which achieved valuable results. Topics selection matrix Topic one: Reinforcing compliance management to achieve the Company’s sustainable development. China Unicom continuously pays attention to the development of the industry; actively participates in various exchanges Topic two: Consolidating the foundation for CSR implementation to build a green, safe and smooth network. organized by non-government organizations, academic institutions and the media; closely follows the trends of domestic and Topic three: Bridging the digital divide to enable all people to enjoy the convenience brought by the information technology. international social responsibility development; positively boosts the implementation of social responsibility-related guides and Topic four: Improving service capability to create reliable and satisfactory services. standards into Chinese enterprises and makes contributions to the development of social responsibility. Topic five: Enhancing partnership management to build a cooperative win-win supply chain for CSR. Topic six: Encouraging green and low-carbon development to make contributions to the harmony and coexistence of ecological Exchanges and seminars participated by China Unicom in 2013 civilization. Top seven: Insisting on the people-oriented idea to construct the best platform for work and life. Date Sponsor Topic Annual summary on China CSR report and evaluation, i.e. (IV) Promotion of CSR Performance Jan Research Center for Corporate Social Responsibility, CASS Seminar on Compilation Guide to the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Report for Chinese Enterprises (CASS-CSR 3.0) CSR Evaluation System Global Compact, Responsible Investment Principles, Sustainable business and investment rights, risks and obligations Apr Global Enterprises and Human Rights Initiative, in the global context On the basis of the 2012 CSR evaluation system, China Unicom further optimized the system with 3 levels, 5 items, 14 aspects Global Compact Network China, Tsinghua University and 44 indicators. Jun Global Compact CEO R&D on sustainability Economic development ŕ Economic development: including 2 aspects (revenue, profit) and 5 indicators Jul Southern Weekly Annual CSR meeting of Chinese enterprises ŕ Network operation: including 4 aspects (network construction, network quality, scientific innovation, production safety) and 11 Aug KPMG Seminar on “Social Responsibility Report in a new era” Environment Network indicators protection operation ŕ Key stakeholders: including 4 aspects (staff, customers, investors , Oct Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) The 4th China GRI Reporting conference the media) and 10 indicators ŕ Anti-corruption: including 2 aspects (system construction, righteous Nov Global Compact Global Compact 2013 survey and honest staff team) and 4 indicators ŕ Environment protection: including 2 aspects (energy conservation and Research Center for Corporate Social Responsibility, Nov R&D of “CSR Reporting Information Platform System” emission reduction, recycling ) and 14 indicators CASS Anti-corruption Key stakeholders Dec Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Annual CSR meeting of China’s capital market of 2013 Framework of China Unicom CSR evaluation system 18 19 Corporate Social Responsibility Report China Unicom 2013 Management of Social Responsibility (VI) Intensification of Communication Expectations of Stakeholders and Response of China Unicom In 2013, China Unicom intensified the communication with the stakeholders with open-minded attitudes, for which China Unicom’s Ways of social image and influence further expanded. Stakeholders Expectations Response of China Unicom Communication Disclosing the results of operations based on the information Communication with the Management for CSR ● ★ Disclosure of ◆ Maintaining and adding disclosure requirements and ensuring that all shareholder information the value of assets have equal access to the information The Initiative on Chinese Enterprises Tackling Climate Change co-sponsored by China Enterprise Confederation, China ★ Provision of ◆ Standardization of ● Continuing to regulate the governance structure and keeping Investors Federation of Industry Economics and China Association for Public Companies and signed by the Company’s Chairman CHANG materials corporate governance on improving relevant decision-making procedures and the ★ Face-to-face ◆ Prevention of business institutional system Xiaobing shows that China Unicom is willing to make efforts to tackle the climate change. In the high-level roundtable forum of “Chinese communication risks ● Establishing a internal control and risk management system Enterprises Overseas Sustainable Development” held by UNDP, the Company’s President LU Yimin pointed out that by virtue of the and carrying out in-depth risk assessments “Chinese Enterprises Overseas Sustainable Development” project, China Unicom would like to build a new bridge of international cooperation, form a new channel of information obtaining and build a new mechanism for experience sharing so as to help Chinese ★ Seminar ◆ High-quality network ● Increasing the construction of mobile and broadband networks ★ Customer ◆ Inexpensive and highand continuing to optimize the networks enterprises to “go out” . activity quality information ● Simplifying packages, making tariffs transparent and Customers ★ Satisfaction service accelerating the introduction of IT applications survey Convenient service Improving the business and the hotline service and putting the Expanding the Role of the CSR Report ◆ ● ★ Members club ◆ Healthy network commitments for mobile and broadband services in place environment ● Carrying out comprehensive management of spam messages Since 2013, China Unicom has designed and printed the CSR report and took the initiative to send it to the stakeholders including the government, Global Compact, the media, VIP customers and provincial branches; and meantime, China Unicom opened a special ★ Employees ◆ Participation in the ● Enabling employees to participate in the democratic column on its official Weibo to release information upon the implementation of CSR. China Unicom has made full use of its information survey management work management ★ Discussion with platform to post the report on the internal office network to help all the staff understand the Group’s CSR performance and deepen the ◆ Salaries increased ● Salary distribution tilting to the frontline staff Staff the management understanding of incorporating CSR into daily work. steadily ● Expanding the career development path of professional staff ★ The workers’ ◆ Career planning ● Improving working conditions, carrying out arts and sports congress ◆ Staff care activities and helping poor employees ★ Training Reinforcing the Communication with Internal Stakeholders ◆ Following relevant To help the staff learn more about CSR, China Unicom launched the “China Unicom CSR Questionnaire” in the whole system, Government ★ Meeting rules and regulatory ● Managing the enterprise by law and strengthening internal and ★ Reporting requirements auditing including the headquarters, provincial branches and subsidiaries, based on the grass-roots employees’ understanding to CSR and the supervision ★ Exchanging and ◆ Enhancing the ● Vigorously promoting the construction of an information-based evaluation to CRS performance. The questionnaire contained 73 questions, involving background information, CSR consciousness, institutions visiting development of social society CSR contents, CSR practices and CSR performance and implementation. The Group’s 50,000 employees participated in the survey information voluntarily and filled in the questionnaire online. ★ Discussion ● Adhering to the “openness, innovation, cooperation, win-win” ◆ Win-win cooperation ★ Business concept of cooperation ◆ Wide cooperation Partners training Expanding cooperation areas and creating more synergy value Reinforcing the Communication with External Stakeholders ● ◆ Driving the development ★ Satisfaction ● Opening up the upstream and downstream of the industrial of the industrial chain survey chain and working together with our partners to create value The Company created a transparent and responsible image via its self-owned media. The Company reinforced the construction of China Unicom’s official blog to build a good corporate image, answer questions, settle disputes, enhance communication with ◆ Sharing advanced ★ Forum and ● Sharing experience at different levels customers and spread excellent models. China Unicom has had nearly 3 million fans with the articles in the blog being read 1 billion Players in the experience meeting ● Good interoperability times, which effectively disseminates the Company’s positive energy. industry ◆ Fair competition ★ Visiting ● Co-construction and sharing ◆ Cooperation The Company actively listened to customers’ voice on the network media and took full advantage of the social media for timely response. In the IWOM monitoring in Nov 2013, it was found that customers’ positive feedback to China Unicom’s customer service ● Carrying out energy conservation and emission reduction and ◆ Green operation exceeded 80 percentage points, the positive feedback to China Unicom’s 3G exceeded 68 percentage points, the positive feedback to ensuring green construction and green operation ◆ Learning corporate ★ Communication ● Inviting the media to report the Company and releasing speed of the broadband exceeded 84 percentage points and the positive feedback to the speed of broadband installation exceeded 94 information with information via the website, Weibo and the monthly magazine percentage points. ◆ Bridging the digital communities ● Further enhancing the “Village Connected Project” and divide Communities ★ Communication increasing the coverage of communication networks in rural ◆ Ensuring emergency with the media areas External Communication and Cooperation ★ Social welfare communications ● Ensuring smooth communications in natural disasters and ◆ Boosting the activity major events development in In order to lead the Company’s CSR work into a new stage, China Unicom has introduced experts from outside and invited the ● Actively making contributions to the philanthropy and public backward areas Research Center for Corporate Social Responsibility of CASS to help making CSR policies and provide expertise and instructions in welfare the area of CSR planning and system construction. 20 21 Corporate Social Responsibility Report China Unicom 2013 Social Responsibility Practice 22 23 Corporate Social Responsibility Report China Unicom 2013 Social Responsibility Practice Computation basis of broadband subscribers was adjusted as follows: including Internet leased line users and not applying LAN user account conversion. Accordingly, service revenue from broadband business included service revenue from the Internet leased line users. The Company’s revenue has nearly doubled in the recent five years while the profit has increased by 3 times. As the comprehensive strength keeps improving, the Company has become one of the fastest growing telecom operators in the world and continued to steadily perform its economic responsibilities. Operation Results of China's Major Telecom Operators Social Responsibility Practice 3UHORKY[HYIXOHKXY 9KX\OIKXK\KT[KLXUS SGOTZKRKIUSH[YOTKYY Total profit Operators As of the end -XU]ZNIUSVGXKJ ,XUSHKMOTTOTMUL As of the end of Growth compared of the month ZURGYZ_KGXKTJ ZNK_KGXZUZNKSUTZN the month to last year end (10,000)  _[GTOTSORROUTY (10,000) (10,000) China Telecom 16693.4 1858.7 2990.9 11.2 210.1 22.7 China Mobile 78119.7 5670.0 6242.5 5.7 1441.6 -6.1 China Unicom 28098.3 4167.1 2455.8 13.7 117.9 54.9 Note: Statistics are from the monthly report for the period ended December 2013 which is published by the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology 1. Conducting in-depth enterprise-wide risk management to ensure steady development of the Company ■ Strengthening enterprise-wide risk management China Unicom has continuously improved its internal control and risk management system, cultivated the risk management culture and promoted the effective integration of risk management and routine operation management. In 2013, China Unicom won the award for DIB•Top 100 Chinese Listed Companies in Internal Control, and Chairman Chang Xiaobing was granted the title of DIB •Internal Control Leader of Chinese Listed Companies. Measures taken are as follows: Strengthening Compliance Management to Achieve Firstly, to update and optimize the internal control standards by taking into consideration of the management requirements and updates and the risk assessment results. Sustainable Development of the Company Secondly, to conduct enterprise-wide risk management by applying the “multi-level description and stratified control” model that is based on risk catalogue and key risk index (KRI). Thirdly, to identify enterprise-wide risks and conduct internal control assessment. In particular, to conduct special risk assessment in key service areas. In 2013, the Company focused on the implementation of “3G-led Integrated Innovation Strategies” and strived to improve its capabilities in sales, network, service and management. As a result, the Company achieved rapid growth in core service customer base and revenue. ■ Effectively controlling marketing and operation risks Meanwhile, the Company spared no effort in expanding the economies of scale. The aggregate profit of the Company increased by 54.9% compared to the same period of last year, effectively improving the growth rate of the industry’s additional profit and making great In 2013, the Company further improved the operation monitoring system by focusing on two key services, mobile service and broadband contributions to boosting consumption of the information industry, stimulating domestic demands and GDP growth, accelerating the service, for the purpose of ensuring dynamic operation monitoring and risk prevention. national economy development and structural adjustment and advancing the in-depth integration of industrialization and informatization. Measures taken are as follows: The Company’s capital expenditure for the year totaled 72.26 billion yuan. This achievement contributed to growth of the whole industry Firstly, to set up an operation monitoring system in which the monitoring staffs are listed specifically, issues are resolved with a chain, where the enterprises and companies could all share the development results. corresponding work order, monitoring and analysis are conducted in a certain pattern, and early warning is implemented by a tool. Secondly, to specify 298 operation monitoring indexes, and to indicate the probe points on the monitoring platform so as to enable dynamic monitoring. Thirdly, to set up an assessment model to conduct benchmarking assessment and issue report on local network operation status. As of the end of October, 2013, irregular voice traffic detected totaled 1.96 million minutes, and the related expenses involved were 9.72 million 2013 Operating Results of China Unicom yuan. Besides, 3 system flaws were corrected. Indexes 2011 2012 2013 2. Following through the principle of administering an enterprise in accordance with law so as to ensure law-abiding operation Revenue from 3G business( yuan in 100 millions) 336.8 615.2 927.2 China Unicom has put up efforts in administering the enterprise in accordance with law and persisted in integrating legal system education, practice of ruling by law and legal affair management with operation management, so as to achieve operation with integrity Year-on-year increase of revenue from 3G business (%) 173.8 82.7 50.2 and scientific development. The Company scored A in the assessment conducted by SASAC on first-year progress of enterprises directly under the central government in achieving the third three-year objectives of legal work. 3G subscribers(In 10,000) 4001.9 7645.6 12260.0 Measures taken are as follows: Firstly, to further improve the legal risk prevention system that focuses on the general law consultant mechanism and covers the whole Penetration rate of 3G subscribers (%) 31.4 32.8 29.4 process of prevention in advance, control in process and relief afterwards. Material legal conflicts caused by breaching activities of the Company nearly extinguished, and there was no legal actions involving anti-competitive and anti-monopoly behaviors. Revenue from broadband Internet( yuan in 100 millions) 380.9 430.5 476.0 Secondly, to avoid violation of the other party’s intellectual property rights by beforehand searching, legal examination and tracking & early warning, while to pay attention to the registration and protection of independent intellectual results. Year-on-year increase of revenue from broadband Internet (%) 19.3 13.0 10.7 Thirdly, to appoint general law consultant in 36 key subsidiaries and to conduct training programs for law consultant as well as law consultant qualification evaluation. Broadband subscribers( In 10,000) 5068.5 5854.0 6464.7 Fourthly, to initiate thematic campaigns to disseminate law related information, and conduct related seminars, trainings, contests and Penetration rate of broadband subscribers (%) 35.6 34.5 34.2 other publicity activities. To disseminate and follow through the risk control requirements with a focus on employees at key job posts so as to raise the awareness of fair competition and deepen the thoughts of operation in compliance with laws and regulations. 24 25 Corporate Social Responsibility Report China Unicom 2013 Social Responsibility Practice Compliance Trainings 6. Safeguarding the market competition order to facilitate balanced development of telecom market Indexes 2011 2012 2013 China Unicom has consistently safeguard the competition order of telecom market by carrying out operation activities according to laws and regulations, following high standards of self-discipline, and never engaging in price wars, so as to promote the sustainable Number of compliance training programs! !!!!!!2134! 2548! 2647 development of telecom industry. Number of training participants! !!!!!!!296744! 315161! 333:52 Measures taken are as follows: Firstly, to practically implement the regulatory policies of telecom market and set up a three-level (the headquarters, the provincial 3. Pushing forward the work of combating corruption and upholding integrity so as to ensure compliance operation of the Company branches and the district-level and municipal branches) supervision mechanism to monitor the enforcement of regulatory policies. Secondly, to carry out operation activities in compliance with the laws, regulations and rules formulated by the central and local In 2013, the Company put up efforts in construction of punishment and prevention system, work-style building and discipline development, government and follow high standards of self-discipline. for the purpose of promoting incorruptible employment and work-style transformation, and thus supporting the sound and sustainable development of the Company. Thirdly, to combat unfair competition and proactively prevent and repress irregular competing behaviors so as to safeguard the Company’s benefits and promote the sound and orderly development of telecom market. Measures taken are as follows: Firstly, to enter into the Responsibility Agreement on Party’s Work-style Building and Anti-corruption Construction with the head of each department and affiliate so as to follow through the principle of “one position with two responsibilities”. Secondly, to carry out anti-corruption education campaign with a theme of improving work-style and developing close relationship with the public; in particular, to conduct related training programs for the management and staffs at key posts. Laying a Solid Foundation for Obligation Fulfillment Thirdly, to draw up inspection standards and related administrative measures and conduct inspections on four provincial branches. Fourthly, to improve the decision-making mechanism in relation to decisions on major issues, appointments for key positions, arrangements for key projects and deployment of large-amount capitals, and supervise the performance results of key operations. by Establishing a Green, Secure and HighlyFifthly, to draft the Mechanism for Conversation on Issues Related to Integrity of the China United Network Communications Co., Ltd. so as to strengthen the management of key posts and take special actions to resolve the prominent issues in relation to incorruptible employment. connected Leading Network 4. Intensifying internal audit and supervision to prevent and control operation risk 1. Establishing an advanced, ubiquitous underlying network to improve customer experience In 2013, aiming at supporting development, creating benefits and controlling risks, the Company further implemented audit transformation for the purpose of guaranteeing economies of scale as well as innovation of system structure and mechanisms. China Unicom, with the focus on customer perception, rapidly improve the network capabilities and quality, especially the mobile network Measures taken are as follows: and broadband network, so as to provide rapid, flexible and effective network support for customers. Firstly, to build up a networked audit information system featuring early warning, online supervision model and ERP audit tool to expand Establishing a ubiquitous mobile network with high the coverage of audit and supervision and accelerate the transition from periodic, on-site audit to real-time online early warning & supervision + on-site audit on key processes. perception Secondly, to conduct special audit on internal control considering the potential risks of key services and the prominent issues that hinder In 2013, as the rapid growth of mobile Internet and continuously profit growth, and promote the system and process improvement and standardization of operation and management behaviors. accelerated progress with LTE, China Unicom attached great 3G network coverage rate importance to its 3G network while pushed forward the LTE of villages and towns   5. Providing information-based support for operation and management by pushing forward IT integration network development as appropriate. (%) In the recent years, China Unicom, aiming at upgrading fundamental management and providing effective support for business operation 3G network constructions aimed at improving 3G customer Carrier sectors and focusing on the principle of consistent image for the whole company, has invested an aggregate amount of 18.252 billion yuan to   experience and meeting the rigid demands for capacity. The total (10,000) IT system construction. Geared to the needs of the era of mobile Internet, e-commerce, big data and cloud computing, the IT system is investment amount for the year was 24.4 billion yuan. Emphasis designed to improve customer perception and user experience, support the full-service e-commerce offering in an all-around way, and was laid on the improvement of 3G network coverage in the 3G base stations build up a major channel of Internet sales service, so as to promote the transformation of corporate governance, operation, marketing and urban areas above county level. Meanwhile, efforts were also (10,000)   service model. In 2013, bill payment, expense inquiry, itemized bill inquiry and 3G service activation could be fulfilled in a much shorter made to rapidly expand the coverage in the villages. In 2013, time and time for expenditure presentation was further reduced. the Company’s 3G base stations reached to 407 thousand, Original basis of 2012 Growth of 2013 increased by 76 thousand; and the carrier sectors reached 1480 thousand with an addition of 387 thousand. The Company drew customer-oriented portal employee-oriented partner-oriented portal up overall planning for the development of outdoor and indoor e-sales service system(ECS) electronic channel system(ECS) cloud portal partners’ portal network coverage. The newly added buildings with indoor network 3G network construction coverage exceeded 10,000; over 20,000 buildings in residential communities were provided with in-depth coverage this year. headquarters B/E domain M domain O domain D domain management Coverage rate of villages and towns reached to 96% from 75% at enterprise client resource electronic operation of channel, the year beginning. partners and data application DCTT big ERP management and maintenance other services In accordance with the principle of unified planning, deployment with focuses and rolling development, 4G network was deployed based settlement on the needs of network and service development. In the process of steadily pushing forward the construction of TD-LET network, the č č č č Company made full use of the existing network resources, underlined the joint construction and sharing of resources with other operators uCloud-D uCloud-P and committed to the model of utilizing both self-built and leased resources. Establishing a highly connected broadband network that covers both urban and rural areas provincial branch electronic operation and maintenance The Company carried out the Broadband China Special Campaign 2013 thoroughly and accelerated the construction of fiber optic workflow access network. In northern China, China Unicom sped up the conversion to fiber optic broadband network while expanded coverage of CRM BILLING resource management data analysis system broadband network in major commercial buildings and urban communities in southern China. Compared to 2012, the number of Internet IOM ervice activation collection finance, project and other specialized comprehensive broadband access ports increased by 12610 thousand to 119070 thousand, of which, FTTH/B ports accounted for 71%. The access ports systems at provincial level network management č customer network with the bandwidth higher than 20M took up 63% of all access ports in urban areas; the access ports with the bandwidth higher than 4M district-level and management took up 76 % of all access ports in rural areas. municipal branch billing at district and finance, project and other systems network management data analysis and other systems municipal level at district and municipal level system at district and municipal level Structure of China Unicom’s IT system 26 27 Corporate Social Responsibility Report China Unicom 2013 Social Responsibility Practice The “eHealth – Curing the Complexity” Catalyst project jointly initiated by China Unicom and Orange awarded “Most Significant Contribution to Frameworx” of the TM Forum. urban areas rural areas China Unicom developed the ITU-T Recommendation, “Cloud Computing Framework and High-level Requirements”, which was the first international standard on cloud computing. As an important milestone in standardization on cloud computing, this standard marked a above 20M above 4M breakthrough progress of China in cloud computing standardization. 63% 76% Besides, China Unicom also led and engaged in the development of 225 industry standards. 4 specialists of the Company held the posts of TC Chairman/Vice Chinaman at China Communications Standards Association (CCSA), and 18 assumed the office of group head/ below 20M below 4M deputy group head, making great contributions to the development of communication standards. 37% 24% First-grade  First-grade Total   Access ports installed in the broadband coverage expansion & speed raising project Second-grade  Second-grade  Invention patent   Third-grade  Third-grade  Patent applications Patents granted Establishing an international network with global reach In order to improve the capacity of providing end-to-end international communication services and better satisfy customers’ ever Science and Technology Award Science and Technology Award Patent applications and increasing demands for international communication, China Unicom continuously expanded its international service offering. As a result, of China Institute of Communications of China Communications patent granted in 2013 5 operating subsidiaries were successively set up abroad, to provide a wide range of international services including international fixedStandards Association line voice service, international fixed-line data service and international mobile roaming service. As of the end of the year, China Unicom established direct routes with over 100 operators globally, and was capable of offering international voice services that reached over 240 countries and regions. The Company entered into the international mobile roaming agreements with 574 operators in 250 countries and regions, and supported high-speed data international roaming service with 339 operators in 133 countries and regions. 2. Pushing through independent innovation management to offer sustainable technical support 3. Stepping up construction of emergency communication system to ensure network connection in emergency rescues Aiming at meeting customer demands and focusing on improving independent innovation capabilities, China Unicom has developed and disaster relief innovative systems and mechanisms, integrated its technical resources, intensified scientific and technical management and optimized China Unicom, in accordance with the principle of integration of peacetime and wartime purposes, and centering on the emergency the innovation environment, so as to enable innovation-driven development. response plan, established an emergency communication system with a complementary nature of resources in northern and southern Results of technical innovation China based on its emergency communication teams and facilities, laying a solid foundation for the successful fulfillment of emergency communication tasks. In 213, China Unicom undertook 7 key national programs including the industrialization project of National Development and Reform Commission, the technical support program of the Ministry of Science and Technology, and the programs in relation to new-generation mobile wireless broadband communication network and Internet of Things of the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology. The Emergency communication in 2013 service data platform and analysis & monitoring system of mobile Internet independently developed by the Company was granted the second-grade award of National Prize for Progress in Science and Technology, and China Unicom was the only telecom operator that was awarded the prize. Total number of emergency 374 Emergency communication 11.2 communication offering equipments put into use (10,000 sets) Progress in research of next-generation communication technology Emergency communication vehicles Personnel mobilized The Company conducted studies on market strategies, network, supporting system, and terminals and SIM card of LTE, and coordinated 10.4 31.8 dispatched (10,000 vehicle trips) (10,000 person time) the inner field and outfield testing as well as related enterprise standard development for the purpose of technology reserve. During the implementation of the project of upgrade of next-generation Internet operators’ public network to IPv6 and large-scale commercialization, China Unicom launched IPv6 commercialization pilot program in 10 cities (Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou, Shenzhen, Shenyang, Dalian, Jinan, Qingdao, Zhengzhou and Wuhan) in 7 provinces. Besides, the Company also carried out research programs on development strategies in relation to smart pipe of mobile network and cloud computing and on related technologies. Engaging in development of international industry standards China Unicom led the development of 9 international standards which were published by the international organizations, of which, 3 standards were published by the International Telecommunication Union (ITU). Moreover, 601 contributions on international standards were submitted. More than 10 specialists working at the Company held the posts of editor and working group chairman/vice chairman/ group head/deputy group head in international organizations, leaving impact on the international standard development organizations to some extent. 28 29 Corporate Social Responsibility Report China Unicom 2013 Social Responsibility Practice Communication support for the launch of Shenzhou-10 Communication support for the control center of Chang’e-3 The Shenzhou-10 manned spaceflight was successfully satellite launched on June 13, 2013. In order to provide communication support for the launch, China Unicom offered patrolling On December 2, 2013, lunar probe Chang’e -3 was launched services along the cables which totaled 1.577 million into space, worrying the on-duty personnel at the Long-distance kilometers, and dispatched maintenance personnel (69,300 Communication Transmission Bureau of China Unicom’s Hebei Branch, person times) and emergency communication vehicles (19,800 who was responsible for the precision transmission of monitoring data vehicle trips), which guaranteed complete success with no risk of Chang’e-3. All of the employees here have committed themselves at all. The PLA General Armaments Department and China to provide communication support since the first day they took the Aerospace Science and Technology Corporation gave high job. “I felt highly honored to safeguard the communication network for appraisal to the successful practice of China Unicom. the Capital,” they wrote in their diaries, “I shall commit myself to longdistance communication and cherish every inch of trunk cables.” It is the group of lovable and great workers of strong sense of responsibility and commitment who ensured the success of communication support for the launch of Chang’e-3 satellite. Communication support for the Third Plenary Session of the 18th Central Committee of the CPC The Third Plenary Session of the 18th Central Committee of the Communist Party of China was held from November 9 to 12, 2013. Persisting in the spirit of providing comprehensive excellent services in a meticulous way, the Company successfully fulfilled the communication support task for the Third Plenary Session of the 18th Central Committee of CPC. The Company set up 30 fixed-line telephones at the venue and guaranteed communication services of the 395 leased lines (digital circuit, ATM/DDN, fiber optic, DID, etc.) for 12 customers including the First Bureau under the General Office of CPC Central Committee, National Committee of the Chinese People’s Political Consultative Conference and the State Council Information Office. Maintenance personnel and emergency communication vehicles dispatched for the event totaled respectively 6,168 person times and 1,002 vehicle trips. Communication support for flood prevention In 2013, some regions in China were struck by disasters like flash flood, mudslide and landslide, and Typhoon Fitow and Haiyan hit the mainland in succession. 27 provincial branches of China Unicom suffered a direct economic loss of around 800 million yuan due to the disasters. Confronted with the disasters, China Unicom immediately initiated the emergency response plan and sent employees to the scenes of incidents to safeguard the communication systems during flood season. In the flood season of 2013, China Unicom put in an accumulated investment of 252.33 million yuan in disaster relief, and contributed 175,698 persontime disaster relief personnel, 75,169 vehicle-time emergency vehicles, 11,199 set-time emergency equipment and 100,794 set-time emergency diesel generators. Employees of China Unicom’s Shaanxi Branch engaged in urgent repair during the flood disaster Communication support for Ya’an earthquake disaster relief On April 20, 2013, the 7.0-magnitute earthquake struck Lushan county of Ya’an city in Sichuan Province, which disabled China Unicom’s base stations and damaged the fiber optic cables and pole lines in the majority area of Ya’an. Confronted with the disaster, China Unicom overcame a wide range of difficulties and successfully provided communication support for earthquake rescue and disaster relief with a strong sense of social responsibility. In particular, employees of the Sichuan Provincial Branch “sacrificed the little family for the big family”, and strived passionately to guarantee the connected communication services for the government and military agencies, the disaster relief commanding centers and general customers. During the earthquake rescue and disaster relief operations, the Sichuan Provincial Branch dispatch an emergency maintenance crew (totaling over 4,000 person times) with 7 emergency communication vehicles, over 100 emergency recovery vehicles, 204 diesel generators and a large amount of relief materials such as maritime satellite telephones. Upon the earthquake, the 10010 customer service hotline of Sichuan Branch immediately increased its agencies to 210, providing services such as disaster information inquiry, sending message of safety and Employees of China Unicom’s Inner Mongolia Employees of China Unicom’s Guangxi Branch engaged in family search. The disaster information inquiry messages totaled 28,651 pieces, and family search and safety reporting messages Branch made urgent repair on damaged fiber optic urgent repair in a heavy rain were 393 pieces, helping 123 customers get in touch with their families. Meanwhile, in order to provide assistance to the Sichuan cable Branch, Beijing, Hebei, Chongqing and Guizhou Branches called up an emergency assistance team, who endangered their own lives and entered into the earthquake-hit area by overcoming a series of difficulties such as frequent aftershocks, landslide, uneven paths and rainy nights, and jointly offered communication support for the earthquake rescue and disaster relief work. 30 31 Corporate Social Responsibility Report China Unicom 2013 Social Responsibility Practice Bridging Digital Divide to Ensure That 4. Ensuring information network security to provide reliable green services On October 20, 2013, a report titled “Why is it hard to put an end to spam SMS” was broadcast at the Weekly Quality Report of CCTV, pressing the operators to set up a nationwide spam SMS blocking system so as to enhance the capabilities in screening and blocking spam SMS. China Unicom attached great importance to it and immediately instructed the related departments to conduct special examination in the Company. On October 22, China Unicom held a nationwide video conference to make overall arrangements on selfVarious Groups All Benefit from the examination and special rectification. On October 23, China Unicom posted via its official microblog an announcement on implementation of three measures including intensifying management of SMS sent via interfaces, improving the blocking capability and maintaining Convenience of Information Technology effective user report channels to combat the proliferation of spam SMS, rectification of management loopholes, and investigation and punishment of breaching activities. 1. Stepping up communication development in remote areas to provide ubiquitous network coverage China Unicom has consistently attached great importance to combating spam SMS. In the recent years, by continuously improving related China Unicom stepped up efforts in implementation of the Village Access Project, in which the Company invested an amount of 710 technical methods, the Company deployed the spam SMS blocking system at 31 provincial branches, followed up the development million yuan in 2013, of which, 200 million was put in the project of extending telephone service to unincorporated villages, 500 million trend and customer complaint on spam SMS and optimized the blocking strategies. Various report channels including telephone, SMS, yuan was for the extension of broadband service to incorporated villages and 4.25 million yuan was invested in bringing broadband microblog and mobile client were put into place, facilitating the timely, effective and closed-loop processing of spam SMS reported. In access to schools. As of the end of the year, 9 provincial branches of China Unicom including Hebei Branch, Shanxi Branch and Inner 2013, the number of spam SMS reported were reduced to 194 pieces/10 million customers from 600 pieces/10 million customers in Mongolia Branch provided broadband access to 2,551 incorporated villages, telephone service to 400 unincorporated villages and 2011 with a decrease rate of 67.7%. The Company intensified management of the SMS sent via interfaces by removing the illegal SMS broadband access to 770 schools, effectively promoting the economic development of rural areas and improving the local IT development. interfaces, tightening up punishment against breaching activities and thoroughly implementing dial test on SMS interfaces and information monitoring. As of the end of November, 5,300 industrial interfaces in violation of rules and regulations were shut down. Besides, the In 2013, China Unicom provided WCDMA 3G wireless network coverage along the Qinghai-Tibet route, which offered not only strong Company called off the low-tariff service plans to eliminate the profit potential of point-to-point spam SMS at the source, and intensified information support for the economic development of Qinghai and Tibet, but also the most advanced communication network for the management of social channels by sternly disposing of the agent channels in breach. In December, the Company launched the “network maintenance personnel of Qinghai-Tibet railway and Qinghai-Tibet highway, the military depots along the Qinghai-Tibet route and tourists purifying campaign” to combat spam SMS. Measures taken included immediately suspending the SMS sent via interfaces to conduct in these areas. In the project construction process which lasted over two years, China Unicom’s staff, in the spirits of striving arduously centralized rectification, cancelling the low-tariff point-to-point SMS and strengthening real-name registration system, and pursuing and unyieldingly for top-notch deliverables, acquitted themselves splendidly in fulfilling all construction tasks with zero casualties by liabilities against the organizations failing to control spam SMS. overcoming numerous difficulties in construction at plateau areas, and finally delivered full-course coverage of 3G network along the snow-covered route. As the SMS sent via interfaces became more standardized, effective technical measures to completely eliminate the point-to-point spam SMS with the origin mobile phone number yet lacked. At present, the nature of spam SMS could only be determined based on the key words and the number of bulk SMS. However, once applying strict standards, some regular SMS might be blocked as spam while loose standards may prevent some spam SMS from being detected. Moreover, the spam SMS filtering system was obsessed by some loopholes in service and legal aspect, which might incur complaint by SMS customers. Therefore, there’s still a long way to go to thoroughly solve the issue of spam SMS. In the future, China Unicom will unswervingly follow through the related regulatory requirements on combating spam SMS, take into consideration the social benefit and public interest and suppress the dissemination of spam SMS so as to create a civilized, sound, harmonious and orderly consumption environment of information technology. management system of agricultural machinery General positioning system Internet at the headquarters mobile communication network operator of agricultural Bureau of Agricultural Machinery machinery SMS gateway of China Unicom’s Hubei Branch Hubei Province’s remote control system of agricultural machinery 32 33 Corporate Social Responsibility Report China Unicom 2013 Social Responsibility Practice 'MXOI[RZ[XGRXKRGZKJ/):GVVROIGZOUTY JK\KRUVKJH_ZNKVXU\OTIOGRHXGTINKY China Unicom’s Anhui Branch and Chinese Academy of Science jointly introduced an agricultural mobile application, “Wo Agriculture”, which integrated various China Unicom’s Inner Mongolia Brach technical applications on pests prevention and control, The milk source tracing and monitoring project of China cooperated with the UnionPay Merchant soil fertilization, source-tracing of agricultural materials Unicom’s Xinjiang Branch covers the processes of Services Co., Ltd. in establishing a financial and greenhouse monitoring. administrative operation, production, feeding, slaughtering, China Unicom’s Yunnan Honghezhou Branch built up an intelligent payment platform, which enables instant processing, transportation and sales. mobile phone-based agricultural ICT platform for Honghezhou Heyuan payment by integrating the payment Agricultural Development Co., Ltd. to provide services including programs into China Unicom’s mini service information on agricultural production & circulation, scientific planting, outlet terminals in rural areas so as to fill in expert diagnosis, monitoring of agricultural product growth information, the gap of financial services in remote towns and transportation, storage & logistics. and villages. In order to resolve “last mile” problem of information service access in rural areas, China Unicom’s Henan Branch accelerated the expansion of China Unicom’s Hainan Branch cooperated with the network coverage in rural areas, conducted Hainan Provincial Department of Agriculture in affordable terminal research and development, and constructing the quality and safety tracking system of constructed the interaction platform for TV set, agricultural products supplied by Luoniushan Co., Ltd. computer and mobile phone which directly pushed China Unicom’s Liaoning Branch and the local agriculture the farmers’ required information on policies, economic commission jointly developed the agricultural agriculture, market, education and health care to information collection and monitoring platform to enable various terminals such as computer, mobile phone wireless collection of data on agricultural product price as well and TV set. At present, the platform attracted as point-to-point guidance of agricultural specialists to farmers. 188,000 users. “Prime party organizations in rural areas are usually of small size and the members scatter throughout a large area. Therefore it’s rather inconvenient to get together. However, thanks to the 3G remote education service for party members, we could study the papers, emerging technologies and management knowledge at any time anywhere.” China Unicom’s Heilongjiang Branch and the local Zhang, a farmer Party member in Yingtaogou Village, Houzhai Township of Zhengzhou City agriculture economic commission conducted extensive cooperation in construction of the agricultural information network platform for the province. Demonstration base for the application of agriculture Internet of Things developed by China Unicom’s Tianjin Branch 34 35 Corporate Social Responsibility Report China Unicom 2013 Social Responsibility Practice 3. Continuously expanding the range of ethnic application products to benefit the ethnic minority customers For the purpose of lowering access threshold of 3G services for the elders and low-incomes, China Unicom launched a series of preferential services including low-rent Ruyitong service, service plans with no monthly rent but shared allowances, and Wo Family integrated service plans. In the recent years, China Unicom’s Xinjiang Branch made full use of the network advantages and Besides, China Unicom rolled out a wide range of preferential campaigns for the disabled persons, including deduction and exemption of expanded the range of ethnic application products by unveiling the Zhula Cloud Platform. In 2013, one-off charges, free gifts, annual flat-rate broadband plan, and broadband expert services. Xinjiang Branch and China Unicom’s Wo Store jointly launched the campaign of providing technical assistance to the mobile application sector of Xinjiang, and allied with dozens of mobile Internet To deliver convenience and preferences to disabled customers, several provincial branches launched caring charity service plans, to enterprises to introduce hundreds of Uygur applications at the Zhula App Store. By converting the provide favorable voice and SMS services for customers with vision, hearing or speech disabilities. In particular, the physically disabled applications to Uygur version and developing localized products for Uygur customers, the Zhula App customers with inadequate financial capabilities were exempt from upfront fees and provided with door-to-door service processing. Store delivered the mobile Internet application products to 20 million Uygur users who were benefited from the extensive and convenient services in the field of culture, livelihood and entertainment. Moreover, Xinjiang Branch will develop ethnic application platforms in Kazakh and Mongolian to improve its ethnic language-based communication service system and bringing splendid 3G service experiences to ethnic minority customers. 4. Diversifying information service channels in rural areas to deliver convenience With the target of setting up retail store in every village and service outlet in every neighborhood, China Unicom has gradually expanded its network coverage in rural areas and provided high-quality services for the farmers by relying on its independent service outlets while actively expanding the social channels. In 2013, the number of service channels in rural and remote poverty-stricken areas reached nearly 300,000. The Company improved its capabilities in supporting the centralized full-service processing of all service channels and provided great support for the agent services in rural areas. As a result, a majority of farmer customers benefited from the one-stop convenient services of China Unicom. Improving Capabilities to Deliver Diversified, Economical, Reliable and Satisfactory Services China Unicom’s Hubei Ezhou Branch and the local Disabled Person’s Federation jointly launched a caring charity campaign to hand out to disabled persons 8,000 SIM cards with a prepayment of 250,000 yuan. 1. Strengthening tariff management to reassure customers Uniform and transparent tariff Plan tariff optimization China Unicom set up a special tariff column at all 10010 portals China Unicom took the initiative in implementing nationwide uniform marketing policies in the telecom industry. It simplified the tariff to showcase the tariff rate of all services and the billing principles structure by calling off the long-distance and roaming charges of 3G service and imposing one single tariff in the whole domestic market. and applicable time intervals of various tariff structures in a uniform As the simplified tariff structure was easily understood, the initiative was highly recognized by customers. In 2013, the Company further pattern, and facilitated the customers to get a clear understanding of sorted out the low-efficiency 2G and fixed-line service plans. As of the end of September 2013, the tariff structure was significantly the tariff rates conveniently. streamlined, with 136 zero-subscription plans and 35,000 low-efficiency plans were withdrawn. The Company further regulated its full-service SMS alert service, Besides, the Company continued to lower the tariff of data services by introducing the integrated 2G/3G service plan and extra 3G data which was designed to notify the subscribers in real time when service plan and narrowing the price gap for data traffic included in and exceeding the allowances. Various domestic and intra-province 90% of the allowances or a certain allowance limit were reached, or 3G data traffic packages (10 yuan for 10M, 20 yuan for 300M, 30 yuan for 500M) were introduced to subscribers of integrated 2G/3G notify the subscribers of the consumed mobile data traffic included service plan and students. Large-amount data traffic packages (50 yuan for 1GB, 100 yuan for 2.5GB) were unveiled to increase the and exceeding the allowances of the service plan. Meanwhile, the margin of price preference. In July 2013, the Company lowered the tariff rate for international roaming services in 39 countries and Company continued to optimize the itemized bill of mobile data regions, with an average decline of 40%. Meanwhile, considering the demands for overseas data roaming service, economical service traffic, billing standards and SMS alert service, and enabled the plans with more favorable tariff, higher quality and more conveniences were launched. Besides, free SMS alertss were provided to inform subscribers to customize the SMS alert of data traffic. customers of the overseas roaming data traffic. The Company independently developed a mobile Internet history The mobile client software developed by China Unicom’s Introduction of featured products that benefit special groups record inquiry system, which supported information inquiry at the Chongqing Branch (Wo Assistance) and Tianjin Branch (Wo self-help service channels such as online service hall and mobile Service Plan Management) was designed to support bill inquiry, China Unicom took fully into account the economic conditions of the special groups such as farmers, elders, and the disabled and lowservice hall, and enabled the customers to get a clear understanding data traffic alert, service transaction, speed test and broadband income, and introduced featured service plans with favorable tariff, so as to ensure that the special groups could all benefit from the of the detailed data traffic consumption. As of November, customer speed-up, enabling more transparent and reliable information conveniences brought by technology progress. complaint on billing and supporting services of the 31 provincial service consumption. The subscribers could be informed of the branches decreased by 44.4% compared to the same period of last data traffic consumption and itemized bill at anytime. In order to meet the communication demands of migrant works in their workplaces and hometown, China Unicom introduced various year. home-returning service plans and integrated 2G/3G service plan, enabling the consumer groups to benefit from the high-speed 3G Internet services at a relatively low cost. 36 37 Corporate Social Responsibility Report China Unicom 2013 Social Responsibility Practice 2. Diversifying industrial ICT applications to promote the development of smart city In order to enhance the standard of ICT-based education and narrow the Construction of smart city urban-rural gap of education, China Unicom launched an educational application, “Banbantong”, which was composed of terminals at the classroom, cloud computing platform of educational resources and In 2013, China Unicom stepped up efforts in the construction of Smart City Cloud Platform, which was an integrated platform to support, Internet broadband. By applying the application “Banbantong”, primary operate and incubate various industrial application systems and plan out 7 clustering services including city management, sales and middle schools in remote areas may access to the same educational management, local e-government, video monitoring, media release and monitoring of operating vehicles and small-volume data. Due resources with the schools in urban areas. Moreover, students could get a to centralized planning as well as the one-tier architecture, uniform standard and the construction model of unified development by the more visualized understanding of the knowledge thanks to the diversified headquarters and separate access by provincial branches, it effectively prevented redundant system construction, facilitated flexible multimedia educational resources. As of October 2013, China Unicom has deployment of fundamental resources, and cut down the lead time. As of the end of the year, China Unicom entered into strategic entered into partnership agreement with more than 90,000 classes and partnership agreement with 175 cities, and showcased the innovative results of smart city in Shenyang, Harbin, Wuhan, Guangzhou, 35,000 class deployed the education service product. Chengdu and Xining so as to promote the in-depth development of smart city. In the near future, led by the government planning and relying on openness and cooperation, China Unicom will continue to strive for a win-win business model and sustainable operation model “The educational application ‘Banbantong’ helped narrow the urban-rural so as to contribute to the splendid future of smart city which enables intelligent management and benefits the livelihood of the public. gap of education and delivered the same educational resources to the pupils in rural areas who could thus ‘share the same blue sky’. Besides, Uniform system structure of China Unicom’s Smart City Cloud Platform ‘Banbantong’ greatly improved the teaching efficiency and effectiveness, enabled more diversified educational resources and enhanced students’ interest in learning.” application application application application application application application Han Xiaoqin, Chinese teacher of Qinlin Primary School in Longyan City, Fujian Province items of carrier for city carrier for carrier for carrier for sales carrier for carrier for video carrier for smallapplication management management e-government operating vehicles management media release monitoring amount data traffic application management business management incubation environment of applications supporting & operation environment of applications capacity integration China Unicom’s Henan Branch actively engaged in the Special Campaign of Supporting third-party service management Small and Micro Businesses initiated by the Ministry of Industry and Information capacity CT capacity Technology and established an integrated ICT service platform for small and mediumcloud computing service engine application monitoring sized enterprises. This platform took into account the enterprises’ demands and location capacity introduced over 20 applications in management, marketing, service and publicity. Apart from that, Henan Branch launched an initiative, Innovation China – Promotion of SME middleware system terminal capacity internal Informatization, to provide preferences and support for SMEs, such as human resource items of cloud ......capacity capacity development, exemption of platform charges, and free-of-charge offering of mobile office management platform systems. In 2013, Henan Branch assisted in setting up over 40 modeling enterprises and data pool Wo+、 supported the ICT development of 650 enterprises. The registered users of the integrated resource management ayment platform totaled approximately 30,000. platform monitoring management multi-center management computing resource pool storage resource pool network resource pool security resource pool control management hardware: server storage network security Diversified ICT applications China Unicom’s Zhejiang Shaoxing Branch and the local Based on the new generation ICT technologies such as mobile Internet, cloud computing and Internet of Things as well as its strengths Commission for Discipline Inspection jointly developed an in ICT planning, construction, operation and service offering, China Unicom and the industrial chain partners jointly promoted the integrated multimedia information interaction platform, “Mircodevelopment of smart city for the purpose of strengthening governance, rejuvenating industrial development and benefiting the livelihood. group on People’s Status”, which created a microblog and The Company has set up an industrial application system covering three sectors (mobile Internet, Internet of Things, and e-commerce) WeChat-based new service model integrating information and eight industries (government, finance, logistics, aviation, automobile, energy, health care and public utilies), with 9.40 million mobile collection, civil affair transaction and evaluation of public office applications, 1.65 million mobile enforcement applications, 3.10 million automobile ICT applications, 4.80 million monitoring opinion survey, posted online the “diary of people’s status” , and applications and dozens of industrial ICT applications in the field of city management, digital industry & commerce administration, virtual intensified the relationship between government and the public. invoice, custom inspection, mobile exhibition, vehicle survey, environment protection monitoring, remote meter reading and power line inspection. As of the end of the year, industrial customers of China Unicom exceeded 3900. 38 39 Corporate Social Responsibility Report China Unicom 2013 Social Responsibility Practice 3. Pushing forward full-service e-commerce offering to meet customers’ demands China Unicom vigorously pushed forward the full-service e-commerce offering geared to the demands of the Internet era by establishing China Unicom’s Taiyuan Branch introduced an intelligent railway patrol inspection a nationwide e-commerce platform of one-tier architecture. As a preliminary open platform, it could support third-party vendor entry and application, which applied video monitoring, personnel positioning, interphone system and logistics partnering. The comprehensive safeguarding capacity of information security was granted the highest-level security certificate by 3G mobile communication in railway patrol inspection and ensured secure railway travels of China Information Technology Security Evaluation Center. the public. In 2013, China Unicom’s sales volume of e-commerce reached 55.1 billion yuan, increased by 53.8% compared to the same period of last year; and the number of customized service was 87597 thousand, up by 44.5% year-on-year. China Unicom’s Henan Zhengzhou Branch applied cloud platform technology and mobile communication technology in ensuring food safety and set up a communication channel among regulatory authorities, E-commerce applications of China Unicom restaurants and consumers as well as an all-around food safety regulation model by developing the “Transparent Kitchen” system. In 2013, Zhengzhou Branch outfitted 600 sets of enforcement terminals and 3G Internet data card for the local drug administration, and 3G intelligent terminals for 2,000 restaurants. Customers could watch every move in the kitchen via the monitoring camera. Electronic Wo Store: Designed to provide one-to-one sales Architecture of Heibei service for enterprise customers, and covering approximately Branch’s digital environment 200,000 employees of 19 enterprises. protection system China Unicom’s Hebei Branch applied ICT technologies in environment improvement and set up a digital environment protection system, which Alipay public service platform: integrated several applications including dynamic management system Used for marketing message of key pollution sources, 12369 complaint reporting system, online push, marketing & publicity and monitoring system, automatic office system as well as the statistics China Unicom’s Shandong Branch launched a public product sales, and supporting and monitoring system of environment development and database welfare platform, “Safe Campus”, to provide campus of environment-related laws and regulations. By collecting the realservice inquiry. safety and information communication solutions for the time information on pollution sources, environment quality, ecological primary and middle schools. The platform was designed conditions and environmental risks, an all-around ecological environment to send the messages on entry and exit of students to monitoring system with multiple levels and wide-range coverage was the parents’ mobile phones, enabled free-of-charge built up. At present, 1,400 pollution discharge monitoring sites, 26 water Online mobile phone store: The first voice services between family numbers and provided resources monitoring sites and 62 atmospheric monitoring sties were online mobile phone store in the an exchange channel for the teachers and parents on deployed, 80 mobile enforcement terminals were equipped, and over telecom industry, supporting number students’ homework, scores and performance. 10,000 pieces of complaints and service consulting messages were selection & subscription, sale of accepted. contract phones and Internet data card, new product reservation and trial, and customer feedback. Awards granted to the ICT applications developed by China Unicom Free trial of new terminals: The campaign of new B2B supply and service platform: Designed to provide iPhone5s trial which lasted 9 days received services including purchase of terminal, number and SIM Awards Granted by overwhelming response and 310,000 users submitted card, electronic transaction and payment & settlement for online applications. channel partners. Outstanding Internet of Vehicle Solutions in China of 2012-2013 China High-tech Industrialization Association/ Expert Working Committee on Brand Strategy Outstanding Provider for Informatization Promotion of Chinese Public Traffic Informatization to Advance Industrial Alliance China’s Public Transportation Industry of the Year 2013 Outstanding Service Provider of Logistics Informatization in China Federation of Logistics & Purchasing China of the Year 2013 40 41 Corporate Social Responsibility Report China Unicom 2013 Social Responsibility Practice Electronic service hall of China Unicom 4. Enhancing customer service capacities to improve customer perception in an all-around way By making full use of its advantages in mobile Internet public service platform, further improving the microblog-based customer services and launching Wechat-based customer services, China Unicom met the all-around demands of customers for interactive services and delivered more convenient and efficient services. Meanwhile, China Unicom continued to strengthen its service capacities of customer service hotline and service halls so as to improve the customer satisfaction. Enhancing service capabilities of electronic channels Online service hall (www.10010.com): The principal e-commerce portal of China Unicom, designed to provide [Microblog-based customer service] China Unicom further improved the operation mechanism (three-tier operation with specialized support) of its microblog-based customer service and enabled immediate response to Internet customers’ demands. In 2013, the services for PC Internet users. messages monitored by the Company’s microblog customer service center reached over 3 million pieces per month on average and the alert messages posted were 700 pieces per month on average. In addition, the microblog customer service center disposed over 1,000 material complaints with billions of microblog users involved. Meanwhile, the microblog customer service team posted original messages every day to deliver positive guidance on public opinions. In 2013, over 100 original messages were posted online per month on average, with approximately 20,000 re-posts and reviews, and 2 nationwide online campaigns were initiated with 400,000 re-posts and reviews. Praises posted by microbloggers Mobile service hall: A mobile SMS service hall: Based on SMS Wechat service hall: The first nationwide uniform marketing terminal-based integrated sale service platform and providing service service platform in the telecom platform with an average customer through menu operations or code industry with approximately base per month of over 30 million. sending. 400,000 followers. Self-service terminal: Deployed in over 20,000 service halls, enabling self-service of customers. Mini service hall: The flat management & sale supporting platform provided for end agent channels. 42 43 Corporate Social Responsibility Report China Unicom 2013 Social Responsibility Practice The original micro film on China Unicom’s customer service, Sticking to the Post, was granted the third-grade award in the online video Improving service standard of customer service hotline contest with a theme of “New State-owned Enterprise • Chinese Dream” organized by the Online News Publicity Department of State Internet Information Office, and the Publicity Bureau and News Center of the State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration With the target of call answered, well explained and definitely transacted, China Unicom continued to improve the service standard of its Commission. customer service hotline by enhancing its capabilities in self-help service and service transaction, launching intelligent customer service, enabling extended services of terminal applications and delivering broadband services via customer service hotline 10010. In 2013, 7 billion incoming calls were accepted by the customer service hotline, with a resolution rate of 90.9% and a customer satisfaction rate of 96.9%. The customer service center of China Unicom’s Shanghai Branch was granted the certification of Applied Level, Contact Center – Capability Maturity Model (CC-CMM) by CC-CMM Certification Institute, indicating that the operation management and customer service of Shanghai Branch’s customer service center reached excellence, and the center met the standard of international standardized management. [Wechat-based customer service] China Unicom established a Wechat-based service hall with the features of uniform brand and platform, centralized access and two-tier operation (the Company and Provincial Branches). Since the application of the “self-service + intelligent agent + operator” service model in August, the daily increase of followers was more than 10,000 and the monthly growth rate of services accepted reached 85%. As of present, the followers exceeded 100 million and aggregate volume of service accepted was over 10 million. Enhancing service capabilities of service halls China Unicom continued to push forward the development [Online customer service] of independent service halls, the number of which reached 19,500 in 2013, increased by 1,100 compared to last year. China Unicom, in accordance with the principle of serving In the in-depth transformation of service halls towards customers anywhere, launched online customer service to experiential marketing, customers could experience China support online service consultation and complaint report Unicom’s products and network service on the spot while in the model of “intelligent agent + operators”. In 2013, the operators no longer sitting behind service desk provided service volume exceeded 28 million, accounting for 3.6% of convenient, considerate face-to-face services. Moreover, the the volume of manually operated 10010 calls for the same service processes were streamlined, resulting in an average period. waiting period of less than 10 minutes when the customers went through service transactions at service desks. A campaign striving for leaping development was carried out by service halls. As a result, the complaint rate in relation to the service halls accepted by the 31 provincial branches dropped by 29.2% year-on-year as of the end of November. [Mobile service hall] China Unicom took the lead in supporting online customer service (applying the service model of “intelligent agent + operator”), spam SMS report (enabling one-click report and automatically connecting to the Company’s spam SMS report platform In order to encourage the customers to experience new services, download applications and take part in popular game contest, to result in the immediate shutdown of spam SMS interface) and feedback on network glitches (customers may report to the Company China Unicom’s Hunan Branch launched an interaction campaign in which customers participated in service experience were the network glitches at any time) by its mobile service hall. In the period lasting from January to November, 2013, the 3G subscribers of rewarded with presents. As a result, customers could personally experience China Unicom’s services and their strong interest in mobile service hall reached 57.85 million, and the visits to 3G mobile service hall in November was 390 million, up by 280% compared to mobile Internet services was aroused. the beginning of the year. [Open knowledge base] China Unicom and Baidu jointly established a national one-tier platform, Baidu Knows – China Unicom enterprise platform, to integrate the knowledge on China Unicom’s business into Baidu’s platform. As of November, the open business knowledge reached 120,000 pieces, which provided services for 34.91 million users with a customer satisfaction rate of 85%. For the purpose of recruiting users for knowledge sharing, a serial campaign, “3G Talent”, was conducted. As a result, over 1,000 expert users were recruited, of which, over 600 stationed at the platform, and over 30,000 problems were resolved. Thus, a mutual assistance model was preliminarily put in place. 44 45 Corporate Social Responsibility Report China Unicom 2013 Social Responsibility Practice ཨ໕ਉԒ ྲձࢻ‫ۯ‬ In order to cut down the waiting period of customers at the service halls, China Unicom’s Ҿඇ‫ޜ‬ခ ‫ޜ‬ခీ૰ China Unicom’s Beijing Branch set up a new network ഓᄽႚၡ ୴෥ཚ‫ڢ‬ Shanghai Branch promoted service diversion by leading customers to electronic channels, ሺ information protection system capable of removing ྊ which improved both the labor efficiency and customer experience. ၳ ༬ኙ‫ݴ‬ဆ harmful information, scrutinizing product details, ׂ೗Ҿඇ֧୼ ቛ ‫ݞ‬ ҾඇຌႠ Ҿඇׂ೗ ิׂీ૰ ׂ೗Ҿඇेࠦ ీ protecting customer privacy, and enabling security “For the elders who cannot operate a smart phone like me, it’s kind of a waste of time to wait ࢺ ᄆิׂ೗ჺ݀ ૰ mechanism-based channel capacity, feature analysisin a long queue for a simple service transaction. However, the self-service terminals at the based production capacity and interactive interfaceฆᄽ႑တඖ݀ ඖ݀࠶੦ service halls saved us from that dilemma. It’s as easily operated as an ATM.” ർ‫࠽ླྀڢ‬ Ҿඇᆐၨ ർ‫ీڢ‬૰ ํఁ዆त੊ࢃ based service capability. The system guaranteed legitimacy of the marketing and promotion channels of Ms. Dong, Customer China Unicom’s products, and prevented disclosure 障 保员人度制 ᆩࢽᆆຳԍࢺ Ҿඇᆆຳ ԍࢺీ૰ 制度人员保障 ዆‫܈‬ටᇵԍቱ of customer privacies as well as publicity of harmful 障 保术技台平 ঢ়ᆐຕ਍ԍࢺ 平台技术保障 ೝ໼रຍԍቱ information via the Internet. ए ए Ԩ 制机布发 Ҿඇాඹ อֱీ૰ 发布机制 ݀քऐ዆ ‫إ‬ ‫ݞ‬ ׂ೗ాඹҾඇ 制机测拨 拨测机制 ծ֪ऐ዆ ీ ࢺ ૰ Speeding up response to customers’ complaints 台平控监 Ҿඇྪஏ ൣ૙ీ૰ 监控平台 ॔੦ೝ໼ ፆ܏ᆶ࡞႑တ 制机控监 监控机制 ॔੦ऐ዆ ሏᆐҾඇీ૰ ႑တҾඇీ૰ China Unicom’s Fujian Branch made a commitment to deliver limited-time service featuring three 100%, that is, accepting all of the complaints in relation to China Unicom’s network, disposing all of the complaints in relation to China Unicom’s network in a limited time and replying all of the complaints with the disposing results in relation to China Unicom’s network in a limited time. Persisting in the People-oriented “Fujian Branch now made much faster response to complaints than the past, and the technical personnel offering door-to-door Principle to Create the Best Platform for Human Resource Development service was quite skilled and of high service awareness. Fujian Branch did make the service commitments by taking into account the customers’ demands.” —Mr. Zhuo from Fuzhou China Unicom has consistently persisted in the people-oriented principle and deemed its employees as the most valuable treasure of enterprise. The Company conducted continuous restructuring by optimizing the organization structure, standardizing corporate governance, adopting flexible distribution solutions and enhancing the employees’ qualifications, so as to create substantial benefits and values for its employees, enhance the team vitality and ensure employees’ career progress in sync with growth of the Company’s business results. Strengthening bond with customers As of the end of 2013, the total number of China Unicom’s employment was 288963.  China Unicom launched a customer point redemption program and over 40 billion points were redeemed in 2013. Moreover, China Unicom organized a The year 2013 was dubbed the hardest year for job-hunting. Against such backdrop, nationwide table tennis contest with a theme of “Wo – Table Tennis”, in which China Unicom paid great attention to the situation and announced stepped up efforts in  top amateur players across China competed with each other and the world’s campus recruitment. In 2013, 4,901 fresh graduates were recruited, increased by over  top-ranked players and champions visited the venue to cheer the participants 1,000 compared to last year. Moreover, China Unicom contributed to social employment by  on. In addition to the table tennis contest, a photography competition and a launching a series of initiatives including cooperating with several universities and colleges microblog contest was held, enabling a more interesting, entertaining and in cultivation of talents with practical abilities and advance job offering, recruiting college involved contest. The table tennis contest was held at the gymnasium of students who worked as village officials, extending preferences to college graduates Female Ethnic minorities Shenyang Medical College. Not only did the contest deliver China Unicom’s working at the frontline and following up the growth of new employees to help them Male positive image in terms of service awareness and social responsibilities Han Chinese integrate into the Company and develop the competence in fulfilling their obligations. to the young consumers, but also promoted and inherited the table tennis Note: Statistics on employment are from the monthly report of December, 2013. culture, and set a model for the promotion of mass sports development. China Unicom’s Guangdong Branch, and the local Communist Youth League Committee and Students Union jointly launched a thematic campaign of “Realizing Dreams with Wo Service” in 8 universities and colleges in Guangdong, including the 5. Establishing an information protection mechanism to ensure the privacy of customer information Star of Wo Dream Challenge which aimed at providing job opportunities for college students in Guangdong. After intense competition, 8 participants got the offer from China Unicom attached great importance to protection of customer information by continuously improving the reliability of its information China Unicom’s Guangdong Branch and the provincial champion was rewarded with system and cutting down the occurrence rate of information security incidents. a free MBA study program. “I was highly grateful for the opportunity the Star of Wo Dream Challenge provided Firstly, China Unicom further improved the administrative measures on collection and use of customer information in accordance with for us to show our competences and realize our dreams. Not only did it deliver us the job the principle of legitimacy and essentiality, and published the measures at the service halls and on its website. China Unicom’s staff that opportunities in the World’s top 500 enterprises, but also the expectations for the future. ” had access to customer information must enter into a non-disclosure agreement. Secondly, China Unicom strengthened supervision and management of its agents and partnering service outlets by clearly defining the requirements for customer information protection —Chen Zelun, student from Zhuhai College of Jilin University and corresponding responsibilities and strictly prohibiting them from maintaining at discretion customer information or illegally disclosing “I would like to thank China Unicom’s Guangdong Branch for the job offers and for to others. Thirdly, China Unicom enhanced the protection capabilities of its customer information system. Third-party systems without the belief it gave me in my future life.” security assessment shall not access to the system and routine check-ups were conducted to rule out potential vulnerabilities. —Qiao Han, student of Guangzhou University 46 47 Corporate Social Responsibility Report China Unicom 2013 Social Responsibility Practice session), mobile Internet, transformation of operation and maintenance management, leading service, human resources, and promotion China Unicom’s Guangxi Branch has actively expanded of the development of economies of scale. More than 1,700 person-times of managers at different levels have been trained, and 23 the employment channel for junior college students by people have been sent to participate in the cadre education training courses organized by the Organization Department of the Central cooperating with 4 colleges successively since 2010 to Committee of the CPC and the State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission of the State Council (SASAC). directionally train for call center staff. It organized students to visit the company to learn about the job contents and the working environment, with the best trainers teaching theoretical knowledge and the most experienced staff from the frontline mentoring them hand by hand. During the past three years, the company has received 280 junior college students as interns and provided good social practice and employment opportunities for junior college students. 1.Promoting employees’ career development and meeting their core interest demands Protecting employees’ labor rights to create a stable and reassuring working environment The Company has signed labor contracts with all the employees. Social insurances including pensions, health insurance, work-related injury insurance, maternity insurance and unemployment insurance, are all provided and paid for on time and in full. Employees’ occupational health and security are concerned by the Company, and the annual physical examination for all employees has been realized. The paid leave system has been implemented to support employees to make overall arrangements with work and entertainment. Post Skills Training Professional Skills Contest Improving remuneration competitiveness to facilitate the continuous increase of employees’ life quality The Company has established a salary system oriented by the post value and personal contribution, which sticks to the allocation principle of “Specialist Line First, Management Line Last; Frontline Units First, Administrative Authority Last; Lower Ranks First, Higher Ranks The authentication of frontline staff’s job skills and working with certificates have been further normalized. 8 batches of examinations Last,” to build a more harmonious salary distribution system. With the continuous improvement of the long-term incentive mechanism that and assessments on the theoretical knowledge and practical operation of professional job skills which cover customer service, business, meets the employees’ demands with corporate development, the salary level of the frontline staff of the Company has been increased. marketing, lines, communication power machines and others have been organized. Over 33,000 employees took part in the exams, and 25,100 people have obtained the national vocational qualification certificates. Strengthening the dual-channel construction in career development to expand employees’ advancing space Using contests to promote training, the company has held 5 professional skills contests on industry application marketing, application support of the business support system, analysis and monitoring of market management, rush-repair and maintenance of base station Through establishing a unified key duty library covering all the operation management work and an employees’ career development malfunction, and finance during the year. 3 and 9 employees have applied for the national and central enterprises’ technical experts system centered on the post and guided by the value, the Company has further improved the employees’ career development system, so respectively. The contests can not only inspire employees to improve their professional skills and occupational qualities, but also create a as to increase the longitudinal advancement proportion among all the employees from the perspectives of institutional construction and new way of selecting and training high-skilled talents. policy implementation. Innovating the selection mechanism of management talents to enhance the allocation vitality of Human Resources Improving internal training capacity Guided by the principle of “Talented and Virtuous, Morality First, Results-oriented, and Mass Recognition,” the Company, on one hand, comprehensively uses organizational selection, competitive selection, talents introduction and other ways to select talents, and optimizes Centering on completing the development of internal training course system and simplifies the management teams at all levels on the other hand. It has introduced 2 overseas high-level Distinguished Experts via and the construction of the trainer team, the Company aims to realize the the “Thousand Talents Program”. By implementing the “whole-course recording system” in the management selection and appointment, transformation from the employees’ individual knowledge to enterprise wisdom. and innovating the selection and appointment system with “one report, two reviews” along with democratic “reassessment” by the public, In 2013, a leadership model composed of 6 leadership elements was put forward, the overall level of the Company’s management staff at all levels and the public trust for personnel selection and appointment have been and a related leadership course system has been established. A mobile study improved. way of “WO Class” has been released, which can provide 230 micro courses with each lasting 5 to 10 minutes. Attempting to strengthen the construction 2.Training employees’ vocational skills to improving their sustainable development ability of the internal trainer team, the Company has carried out the evaluation and employment work of Group-level lecturers and specially invited lecturers, and Having always regarded the development of its employees’ vocational skills as the most valuable strategic investment, China Unicom produced the first 35 approved action learning facilitators to constantly raise the has established a unique training and vocational skills improvement system for employees, and actively created learning opportunities for value of human resources. them to guarantee each of them can continuously gain the knowledge and skills needed by the work. Carrying out multilevel and multidirectional employee training and skills promotion programs In order to improve the quality and ability of the operation management teams at all levels, the Group headquarters has organized 19 sessions with 25 classes of key leadership training courses, including China Unicom-Telefonica Senior Executives Joint Training (the 4th 48 49 Corporate Social Responsibility Report China Unicom 2013 Social Responsibility Practice Launching Networking Academy upgrading program 5.Conducting humanistic care to constructing harmonious labor relations In order to impel all employees taking online study, the Company continues to perfect the functions of Networking Academy by Advancing the involvement of employees in democratic management developing online courses, organizing online training courses and China Unicom actively advances the involvement of employees in corporate management, sticks to the principle of employee-oriented, setting up a special zone for training. There were 533 newly added and encourages employees to protect their rights initially and scientifically based on the law. The Company has innovatively created online courses in 2013, making the total number reach about 1,900; a three-level system of workers’ congress--“municipal-provincial-Group”, and the “General Manager Online Program” has been fully 2.18 million person-times have studied online; more than 200 online implemented to effectively protect employees’ rights of participating in and monitoring the corporate management. In 2013, the Group training classes have been organized and 280,000 person-times headquarters held 3 workers’ congresses to discuss issues related with employees’ immediate interests and a “General Manager Online” have taken online exams. application was developed on the Company’s intranet, which has two models—holding 500 staffs online simultaneously and being logged into at different time for Q&A. In the same year, 1/3 of the provincial companies and 2/3 of the municipal companies carried out “General Manager Online” activities. A staff who participated in the activity said, “It’s much more convenient for us to effectively express our complaints and appeals to leaders without any barrier via the intranet.” 3.Standardizing labor management to make various employments equal Caring for employees’ mental health Taking the implementation of Labor Contract Law (Amendment) as an opportunity, the Company strengthened the standard management Th e C o m p a n y h a s i m p l e m e n te d th e EAP of non-contractual employment, introducing some new regulations, including Guidance for Employment Optimization and Standard (Employee Assistance Program) program in depth, Management, Non-contractual Workers for Core Posts Recruitment Methods, Notice on Related Questions about Strengthening the customizing and sending mental health information Standard Management of Labor Dispatching Companies, and Opinions on Handling Well the Outsourcing of Operational Business. to employees, including 20 sessions of “Mind It streamlined the non-contractual workers for core posts, and the percentage of dispatched labors among all the employees has met Vision” mobile newspapers, 4 sessions of Mind the requirement of the law. Besides, equal pay for the same post has been generally realized. In 2013, the Company’s annual labor Sunshine E-magazine as well as 4 sessions of productivity reached RMB X0,000 yuan per capita, with an increase of X compared with that of 2012. propaganda videos broadcasted in office buildings and 3 sessions of posters/tips throughout the year. After employees’ voluntary application and special China Unicom’s Inner Mongolia Branch has carried out a system of core dispatched laborers, selecting dispatched laborers who training, a team of 64 “EAP specialists” and 55 are excellent in both capability and work performance into the core dispatched laborer team, and after further recommendation “mental health counselors” has been established, and selection they can be given preference to be recruited as contractual employees. At present, there are 904 workers who have responsible for keeping an eye on employees’ been selected into the core dispatched laborer team, and 645 have been recruited as contractual employees. At the same time, the emotional fluctuation and psychological dispatched laborers have been included in the unified post and salary system, basically having realized equal pay for equal work counseling. The Company also introduced postbetween the dispatched laborers and the contractual employees. earthquake psychological intervention for the employees of Ya’an company, and opened a 24/7 EAP psychological counseling hotline. 4.Completing the safety production management mechanism to safeguard employees’ occupational safety Due to the strengthened safety production management, there was no production accident or major and above criminal cases against public security happening in China Unicom throughout the year, and the safety production situation was stable. Improving employees’ production and living environment The first was establishing a unified safety production working system and an accountability system between responsibility and power, In 2013, RMB 45.87 million yuan was invested to push forward the construction of “Five Small Facilities”, which has been used to build between responsibility and job duty. The second was carrying out the screening and controlling of safety production hidden dangers 4,776 small canteens, 220 small study rooms, 2,921 small shower rooms, 2,224 small restrooms, 3,411 small activity rooms and 1,714 covering the Company’s production and management, and all links in the working life, into which over RMB 60 million yuan was invested. small vegetable gardens. The “Five Small Facilities” have made the frontline employees feel happier about their work and life, and Many hidden dangers and problems were found out and have been corrected. The third was safeguarding employees’ personal safety involved them in the sharing of the Company’s development achievements. In addition, the construction of the “Five Small Facilities” took and health, various labor protection articles having been allocated according to regulations. The fourth was organizing publicity and full consideration of the place’s utilization efficiency. The Employees’ Home is not only a gym and reading room for employees, but also a education activities of “safety production month”, in which a special fund of more than RMB 15 million yuan was invested as well as a psychological decompression chamber, as well as a reception room for the General Manager. Therefore, the employees and the leaders fund of RMB 23 million yuan for facility renewal, repair and maintenance; over 1,800 sessions of warning and educational films have been live harmoniously in a relaxing environment where they can talk freely just like at home. organized, watched by around 120,000 people; 400 sessions of various training classes have been held with over 50,000 participants; and more than 300,000 employees have taken part in the knowledge competition of “fighting against and governing illegal production”. Establishing and perfecting a long-term mechanism to help difficult employees China Unicom’s Guangdong Branch was awarded as an advanced unit in the “national safety production month” activities, which was the only one winning the award in the communications industry. In order to avoid employees getting into poverty due to illness or difficulty, the 31 provincial branch companies of China Unicom have all established employee assistance mechanisms. Of which, Shanghai, Liaoning and Jiangsu companies have purchased Critical Illness and Accidental Injury Group Insurance for their employees, with the payment shared partially by the companies and the individual employees. 2013 Inspection and Supervision Results of Production Environment When a staff suffers serious disease or gets accidental injury, he or she will obtain indemnity. This move is profoundly welcomed by the staff and at the same time increases their satisfaction with and sense of belonging to the Company. Production Environment Quantity Inspected Production Environment Quantity Inspected Communication center buildings 457 Projects under construction 9880 Office buildings 986 Business hall and customer service seats 2345 Important bureaus, 28900 Iron towers 31880 institutions and stations Important line facilities 420,000 sheath km Oil engine rooms and battery rooms 2238 50 51 Corporate Social Responsibility Report China Unicom 2013 Social Responsibility Practice Promoting Partners Management and Assistance and Condolence Investment Index 2011 2012 2013 Investment in assisting difficult employees (Unit: RMB million yuan) 8.1773 11.4201 11.9911 Establishing Responsible Supply Chains for Condolence investment (Unit: RMB million yuan) 23.8844 11.2192 11.7802 Win-Win Cooperation Taking advantage of its operation service, China Unicom has joined hands with the core enterprises in the upstream and downstream industry chains to build a strategic sharing mechanism and platform for win-win cooperation as well as the realization of collaborative innovation and development of the whole industry chain. In 2013, China Unicom established strategic cooperation with 19 industry leaders, and signed strategic cooperation agreements with Hebei Provincial Government, Potevio, China Construction Bank, the Ministry of Commerce, China Post Group, Shenyang Military Region, Jilin Provincial Government, Duzhe Publication Media Group, and Jiangxi Provincial Government etc. successively, increasing its national strategic cooperators to 131. China Unicom believes that the relationship between the carrier and OTT companies should not be like water and fire, instead, should be as harmonious as fish and water. Confronting the mobile Internet era, China Unicom accelerates the comprehensive and deep collaboration with high quality Internet enterprises with an innovative and open mind. China Unicom’s Shandong Branch helps to deal with Setting up a “Mutual Assistance Fund”, China Unicom’s its employees’ problems. It tries to help the children of Guangxi Branch designates every Oct. 21st as the every difficult employee family to pay for their school fees, “Love Donation Day” to raise money to help difficult and allocated RMB 24,000 yuan for 8 exceptional poor employees. At present, 15 assistance funds have employee families to realize their children’s university been issued for death and critical illness etc., with the dreams. China Unicom’s Shandong Liaocheng Branch released aid funds accumulating to RMB 136,600 yuan. provided RMB 190,000 yuan of grants for 173 staff children. Organizing colorful recreational and sports activities for employees On July 30th, China Unicom’s Guangdong Branch and Tencent jointly unveiled the “Wechat WO Card”, which is the world’s first OTT cooperative product heavily customized by a carrier, and this was also the first crossover cooperation between a telecom Giving play to the roles of photography association, clubs, hobby groups and other employee cultural groups, the Company has actively carrier and an OTT company. Combining and matching the superior resources of China Unicom and Tencent in a deeper way, such organized various colorful recreational and sports activities taking the forms of industry contest, mass competition and association activity cooperation like “Wechat WO Card”, being user-value oriented, will create an open and win-win prospect for OTT companies and etc., which greatly energized the employees. Throughout the year, the Company held 48 sports activities with the employee participation the carrier, and will bring benefits to all users. rate of 86%, including the Staff Balloon Volleyball Game, forming a team to participate in the 4th “Leoch Cup” National Communications Employees’ Bridge Game, Table Tennis Game for Staff in Beijing, Enterprise Culture Photography Competition and so on. With the launch of “WO-iRead” activity, the iRead website has been accumulatively visited for 10.025 million times by the staff in 2013, and the 1.Joining hands with equipment suppliers to create an energy-saving reading amount has been added up to 8.989 million times. and environment-friendly supply chain environment China Unicom persists in promoting centralized procurement which has improved the close collaboration between the Company and the suppliers as well as the upstream supply chains and has saved a large number of transaction costs, and continues to complete its management system and expand the scope of centralized procurement. After years of centralized purchasing, many suppliers with high quality, good services and sound reputation have become China Unicom’s partners. The Company vigorously promotes e-procurement to electronize the purchasing information, bidding and bid opening as well as the order synergy, making procurement faster and easier, the process more transparent, and the involvement of suppliers more equitable. Currently, 100% of the open tendering information can be inquired on the “China Unicom Procurement and Tendering Website”, and 48% of the orders have been electronized by online sending and receiving. Besides, via electronic authentication, online issuing and returning China Unicom Staff Balloon Volleyball Game China Unicom Staff Badminton Game of bidding documents have been realized within the Company. Now, even if the supplier is located far away from China Unicom, it can participate in the Company’s various procurement activities easily. 52 53 Corporate Social Responsibility Report China Unicom 2013 Social Responsibility Practice Developing in a Green and Low-carbon Way to China Unicom implements green purchasing rules deeply. The China Unicom has raised the requirements for partners’ promotion equipment energy efficiency standard and energy-saving function channel responsibility, and established relevant record filing requirements are stated clearly in the Equipment Procurement and punishment mechanism to propel the partners into initially Technical Specifications, which takes the equipment’s energy consumption, energy-saving product certification, and radiation standardizing the operation of their industry chains and taking the responsibility for the healthy and standardization of the provided Make Contribution to Harmonious Co-existing level etc. as important procurement indexes to assess, and takes the energy consumption index as a key component of the general cost assessment. In 2013, by centralized procurement, contents. Ecological Civilization the Company purchased a batch of products, such as the carrier 3.Going side by side with terminal suppliers to create a 1.Strictly enforcing energy conservation and emission reduction management against major energy consuming links frequency and timeslot turn-off energy-saving technology for safe and green supply chain environment China Unicom has carried forward energy conservation and emission reduction in depth, strengthened the management of energy-saving energy-saving products, heat pipe exchanger, integrated heat Adhering to the “Open, Cooperative and Win-win” concepts, China measures, intensified the base management, and fully promoted efficient and mature energy-saving technologies. It arranged an amount pipe air conditioner, and heat reflective and thermal insulation Unicom cooperates with the industry chains to realize the overall of RMB 0.76 billion yuan as a special investment in 2013 which has effectively controlled the energy cost and the increase of total amount coatings, and introduced many excellent energy-saving suppliers, arrangement of mainstream chips, dominant operating systems, of energy consumption. By the end of the year, the total energy consumption amount accumulated to 2.1 million tons of standard coal; effectively promoting the development of energy-saving and main terminal manufacturers and terminal products. In 2013, the comprehensive energy consumption per RMB 10,000 yuan of operating revenue accumulated to 0.0682 tons of standard coal, with environment-friendly supply chains. iPhone5S/5C, Samsung Galaxy Note 3, HTC One, Nokia 1520, a year-onyear reduction of 8.46%; the comprehensive energy consumption per RMB 10,000 yuan of added value accumulated to 0.185 MI 2S and other most influential popular smart terminals were tons of standard coal, reducing 2.58% year on year.All the energy conservation and emission reduction indexes have been improved. The 2013 China Unicom Centralized Procurement and E-procurement Results released in succession. The Company took the lead in launching Company was awarded by the SASAC as an Excellent Enterprise in Energy Conservation and Emission Control in 2013. one-thousand-yuan mobile phones equipped with 5-inch/5.5Centralized procurement percentage (%)Ɨ 93.2% Promoting the wide application of energy-saving technology inch/6-inch screens and 4-core processors. Together with the E-procurement percentage (%)Ƙ 48.0% comprehensive launch of 113 types of 21M customized terminals, The key point lies in popularizing and applying mature efficient energy-saving technologies with good energy conservation result and China Unicom has popularized the terminals at various prices. quick investment return to base stations and machine rooms. All through the year, 202 energy-saving technical renovation projects have been started up, and the energy-saving technology application rate for base stations and communication machine rooms reached 51% With the purpose of forging responsible supply chains, China and 49% respectively. Notes: ① refers to the sum proportion of centralized procurement Unicom has clarified its selection criteria of suppliers: performing of communication projects construction materials implemented at well in abiding by the law and regulations, operating continuously the Group and provincial levels. and stably, and boasting a complete after-sales service system With the vigorously promotion of energy-saving technology, China Unicom’s and good reputation to ensure that customers will get reliable afterJiangsu Branch has saved more than RMB 30 million yuan throughout the year. ② refers to the percentage of orders sent online and received sales service after purchasing the terminals. In order to prevent Its energy-saving reform project for the reflective heat-insulation coating of online by suppliers in the total orders. malicious charge happening that caused by the mobile terminal’s base stations has a power-saving capacity of 1,200 kwh for an individual station applications, the Company will sign Customization Commitment in average, and the energy-saving reform project for the machine rooms’ air with all the customized-terminal manufacturers and conduct conditioner energy efficiency control has a power-saving rate of 35%. By the end network-accessing tests for all of the customized terminals, and of the year, the energy-saving technology coverage rate for base stations and 2.Cooperating with content providers to create a healthy 100% tests of its own services and the third party applications communication machine rooms reached 85% and 70% in respective. and honest supply chain environment before they go-live. At the same time, the terminals should reach higher security and environmental protection standard, with low In 2013, China Unicom cooperated more with content providers energy consumption and radiation of the products’ software and with good resource integration capability and credit. The hardware configuration. relevance between the authorized content and the service applied for, and the authoritativeness of the authorizer or the Reinforcing the management of energy-saving measures professional degree of its technology are evaluated during the 4.Working together with virtual network operators to product review. If the content provider fails in the assessment, it create a law-compliant supply chain environment The Company has deepened the comparison of energy consumption indexes with the benchmarks, regularly recorded and analyzed the will not be considered as a cooperation candidate. The Company energy consumption data, improved the ledger management of network equipment’s electricity consumption, comprehensively carried conducts multi-level examination and verification for the security Taking product and service innovation, resource and capability forward the environmental temperature management in the base stations and communication machine rooms, sped up the retirement of of the content information, and has established an information complementation, long-term win-win cooperation as the principles, the old and high energy consumption equipment that are in use to improve the resource utilization efficiency. security timely processing mechanism. It pays close attention to inspiring the industry’s innovative vitality and promoting the service application and content update, and tries to guarantee the industry’s overall value as the goals, the Company actively conducts mobile resale business. It cooperated with 14 virtual Traditionally, the application model of servers is one application for one server. However, by the server virtualization technology, authority, legality and security of the content resources. network operators covering various industries and fields in 2013. China Unicom’s Heilongjiang Branch is able to run several applications in one server, improving the average utilization rate of servers The first is establishing a cooperation model of “business from 15-20% to 80-90%, and can use fewer facilities to finish more jobs. The replaced high energy consumption servers are used as The Company has increased the standard requirements for wholesaling + the self-built system based on China Unicom’s basic standby that to be started up when necessary. China Unicom’s Heilongjiang Branch has replaced 40 high consumption facilities in value added services. For the non-standard customization IT competence” to not only provide basic services for the virtual total, saving 2.1 million kwh and 0.84 million tons of standard coal as well as reducing the emission of 0.59 million tons of CO2. problems highlighted in the user complaints and appeals, punishment is implemented based on the degree of complaint network operators but also various extended services to guarantee and appeal. From November, 2012 till now, 1,760 merchantthey can create more individual and differentiated services for customers through their flexibility, innovation and stable operation. Carrying out energy conservation propaganda times of punishment have been carried out. Meanwhile, China Unicom has strengthened the dial testing of value added services The second is choosing resale partners through strict and fair The Company held Energy Conservation Week and National Low-carbon Day, and sent short messages about energy conservation to that were complained heavily, covering all its cooperators and evaluation mechanism based on the principle of impartial and advocate energy-saving and low-carbon life; organized energy-deficient experiencing activities to initiate low-carbon transportation; and their services. 781 abnormal services were found, and over 30 transparent. In the meantime, the Company has strengthened the spread energy-saving knowledge to raise the staff’s energy-saving awareness. providers and 200 services have been required to be rectified. assessment of the virtual network operators’ performance in after16 providers, 38 services and the SMS and MMS of 9 providers sales service, user information security, service legality and so Paying attention to ecological environmental protection have been removed and canceled. on. If the virtual network operators fail the assessment, they will lose the cooperation opportunity so as to lead them to take social In respect of network construction, the Company takes the harmonious co-existence between the humans and the nature into account. responsibility. It tries to avoid mineral reserves, forests, grasslands, wildlife, natural and cultural relics, natural reserves and scenic spots when doing field communication route surveys; in order not to change the surrounding environment, when laying optical cables, it uses advanced technology to lay the cables directly under the obstacles. 54 55 Corporate Social Responsibility Report China Unicom 2013 Social Responsibility Practice Devoting to Philanthropy to Co-build a Pushing ahead with the co-construction and sharing of telecommunications infrastructure Profoundly pushing forward with the co-construction and sharing of telecommunications infrastructure, China Unicom takes full advantage of the whole industry’s resources to expand its network coverage, and has saved a large number of resources and investment costs. Beautiful Homeland China Unicom Infrastructure Co-construction and Sharing Following the donation principles of acting according to one’s capability, clear distinction between powers and responsibilities, and honest and faithful, China Unicom continues paying back to society. The Company donated RMB 22079 thousand yuan outward throughout the 指 标 Index 2011年 2011 2012年 2012 2013年 2013 year, of which RMB 10983 thousand yuan was for public welfare, and RMB 11096 thousand yuan for non-public welfare relief. 铁塔（%） Co-construction rate 73.76 70.10 77.87 Iron tower (%) 2013 China Unicom Outward Donation Statistics Sharing rate 85.68 88.57 91.55 基站（%） Co-construction rate 60.92 64.53 68.74 Donation Program 捐赠项目 Amount (Unit: RMB 10 thousand yuan) 金额（万元） Base station (%) Sharing rate 86.03 88.30 89.93 向受灾地区捐赠 Disaster areas 812.7 室内分布系统（%） Co-construction rate 43.16 53.81 58.60 向定点扶贫地区捐赠 Designated areas for poverty alleviation 801.5 Indoor distribution system (%) Sharing rate 90.79 95.76 96.99 援助西藏地区 Tibet 318.9 杆路（%） Co-construction rate 50.51 50.55 60.62 向残疾人事业捐赠 Other designated areas for assistance 20.6 Pole line (%) Sharing rate 90.55 95.50 88.50 The disabled cause 0.1 传输线路（%） Co-construction rate 49.38 57.95 54.60 向教育事业捐赠 Education 50.0 Transmission line (%) Sharing rate 90.42 94.64 98.35 向医疗卫生事业捐赠 Medical and health services 0.9 管道（%） Co-construction rate 75.12 82.63 89.08 文化体育事业捐赠 Culture and sports cause 10.5 Channel (%) Sharing rate 88.94 84.34 83.09 向社会公共设施建设捐赠 Social public facility construction 25.3 Current investment saved for the enterprise through co-construction and 通过共建共享为企业节省当期投资（亿元） 其他公益救济和公共福利事业捐赠 Other public relief and public welfare services 94.4 sharing (Unit: RMB 100 million yuan) 41 36 26.5 向企业慈善基金会捐赠 Enterprise philanthropic foundation 0.3 2.Deepening the recycling use of materials to build a resource-saving enterprise 其他捐赠 Other donations 93.3 On one hand, China Unicom strengthens the recycling of idle goods and materials to deeply explore the resource potential, clears the space occupied by materials to improve their utilization efficiency, and reduces the procurement investment to lower the enterprise cost. 1.Paying attention to people’s livelihood in poor areas and assisting in the economic development of less-developed regions On the other hand, it protects the environment and reduces pollution with the aim of building a resource-saving enterprise. In 2013, the materials’ scrapping and recycling process has been further regulated by collector management and informatization of the disposition Aiding Tibet of scrapped materials. The in-stock waste and old materials are checked and evaluated regularly. The scrapped materials that can be reused will be recorded in a memorandum account, and the ones that cannot be reused will be recycled at the current price. All the waste On the principle of “Orienting to the grassroots and giving prominence to people’s livelihood”, China Unicom prepared 8 aid-Tibet projects and old materials are disposed by recycling companies that have relevant qualifications so as to reduce the pollution generated during the and planned to invest RMB 23500 thousand yuan in 2011. By June, 2013, all of the 8 projects had been finished with an actual investment recycling process of scrapped materials. of RMB 24250 thousand yuan. The Company continued its assistance to Gegyai County of Ngari Prefecture, Tibet, investing RMB 3190 thousand yuan to help the county implement programs like safe drinking water, construction of tourism development facilities and efficient China Unicom Recycling Use of Materials greenhouse to improve people’s livelihood and assist its economic development. Moreover, RMB 2080 thousand yuan was donated to the designated areas for poverty alleviation in Tibet, such as Shigatse, Qamdo, Shannan, and Nyingchi, for projects of strengthening the Index 2011 2012 2013 bases and benefiting the people there. Recovery amount (Unit: RMB 100 million yuan) 5.3 6.5 3.56 Reuse amount (Unit: RMB 100 million yuan) 0.9 1.0 0.74 One-to-one poverty alleviation Scrap recovery amount (Unit: RMB 100 million yuan) 3.4 3.8 1.90 2013 China Unicom One-to-one Poverty Alleviation Projects Assisted County Project Name Battery is an important power support for communication equipment while it is also a key source of environmental pollution. Sticking Kangbao County Agricultural science and technology remote video training system construction project to the green concept, China Unicom’s Tianjin Branch persists in purchasing low consumption and environmental batteries, and strictly controls the recycling of batteries to realize green production. It replaces the lead-acid batteries in the base stations and machine Guyuan County Intelligent nursery greenhouse construction project rooms with lithium-iron ones to save energy, land and materials. During the battery recycling process, the collectors’ qualifications are reviewed in a strict way. In order to avoid polluting the environment, only companies having professional operation capabilities and Guyuan County Practical technology training project for poor villages recycling qualifications are entrusted to disassembly and recycle the lead-acid batteries. Raohe County Xiao Jia He Primary School plastic runway construction project Raohe County Xifeng School plastic runway construction project 56 57 Corporate Social Responsibility Report China Unicom 2013 Social Responsibility Practice Assisting people in poor areas China Unicom’s Tianjin Branch held a theme donation activity—“Light the Hope with Love, Rebuild the Home with Heart”---and raised a total amount of RMB 14,912.5 yuan. All of the money was remitted to Tianjin Youth Development Foundation in the name of “special League membership dues” to send good wishes to the Ya’an people. 3.Enthusiastic in volunteer activities for public welfare to contribute to the construction of beautiful and harmonious China Unicom’s Jiangxi Branch invested communities RMB 2.3 million yuan to Erdu Village of Yihuang County for countryside reform, China Unicom’s Nanjing Branch China Unicom’s Anhui Branch started a Supporting the young to start a business new rural construction, environmental launched a clothes donation activity “Warm 2013--winter clothes donation” reform and village road construction. of “Donating clothes with WO” to help activity which donated 172 pieces of China Unicom together with CCTV Finance and Economics Channel started a public service activity “China Business-starting Models”, In addition, the company organized building a stage for young people to light their dreams and make them come true. The General Manager of the Company Mr. Lu the poor people living in Butuo County cotton coats for Hefei Relief Station. “one-to-one” service between young of Liangshan in Sichuan Province. Yimin said, “Paying attention to employment, supporting entrepreneurship, and helping young people to realize their life value so as to volunteers and the poor students of Erdu promote the development of economy and society, is the obligatory social responsibility of China Unicom.” During the activity, playing its Village, helping 28 poor families. During advantages in network technology, information service, business starting platform and industry chains, China Unicom provides a good the Spring Festival, the company visited entrepreneuring environment and platform for the young people who are determined to start a business. 28 poor families and released RMB China Unicom’s Xinjiang 14,000 yuan poverty alleviation and China Business-starting Models Turpan Branch has established condolence money. a “Dream-building love team”, which has funded a 10-year-old little girl named Yang Yingting, who lost her parents and lives In August, 2013, influenced by the on the money earned by her typhoon “Ute”, the Luoxiang township grandma through collecting of Guangxi was hit by heavy rain and recycled materials, for 7 years. flood, and suffered serious losses. China Unicom’s Guangxi Branch instantly organized its cadres and employees to raise money for Luoxiang, and all the donation of RMB 24,430 yuan was used “Thank you for letting us still feel love and hope.” for the disaster-hit poor villagers’ lives, living subsidies and house repair. --Grandma of Yang Tingting 2.Caring for the safety of people in the disaster areas and strongly supporting the post-disaster reconstruction Cooperating with the provincial Communist Youth League Committee and Education Department, China Unicom’s Hebei Branch launched a poor student assistance activity—“WO On April 20th, 2013, a 7.0-magnitude earthquake hit Lushan county of Ya’an city in Sichuan province. After the earthquake, China Poor Student Assistance” program, establishing a social practice base for the university, Unicom announced that the telecommunication services such as voice communication, SMS, roaming were free of charge in the disaster college and secondary technical school students in Hebei province. Through the program, area. It also opened a service hotline for tracing relatives, provided disaster situation information inquiry for the public, reported safeness China Unicom’s Hebei Branch has provided over 50,000 work-study posts in total, invited on behalf of the customers, collected rescue information, and provided relatives-tracing service. Relatives-tracing hotline spots were famous scholars and experts to give lectures on employment and business starting for 32 set up in Lushan, Baoxing and other places. Meanwhile, China Unicom donated RMB 8 million yuan to Sichuan Charity Federation to times, and organized more than 700 training, internships and visiting activities, with 21,000 support the earthquake relief work and post-disaster reconstruction in Ya’an. student participants. On July 9, Jintang county of Chengdu suffered the worst flood in 20 years and many houses in the old county were flooded. Carrying kayaks, life jackets and sandbags, 8 maintainers of China Unicom’s Chengdu Branch rushed to Jintang to repair the machine room. In the stormy weather, they found a father and his daughter. Without any hesitance, they rescued them and retrieved to a safe place. “We haven’t seen such heavy flood for years. Thank you, China Unicom…,” the still shocked father thanked again and again, and the little girl shed moved tears. A friend in need is a China Unicom’s Jiangsu Jiangyin Branch started a “WO Business Starting” program with friend indeed. The 8 maintainers spontaneously lent a hand while trying to the municipal Communist Youth League Committee of Jiangyin. The stores under the “WO keep the network working. They showed the big love of the Unicomers. Business Starting” program are run by China Unicom’s Jiangsu Jiangyin Branch and the entrepreneurs, and the former is responsible for a series of support and assistance, including the store site selection, renting, decorating and the day-to-day operations. 58 59 Corporate Social Responsibility Report China Unicom 2013 Social Responsibility Practice Promoting healthy culture and civilized behavior Helping poor students China Unicom’s Jiangsu Suzhou Branch carried out a series of activities named “Live in Suzhou, Unicom You and Me” to fulfill the corporates’’ social responsibilities with Suzhou Industrial Park. Aiming to shape civilized new Suzhou people, some activities like learning from the moral models and listening to lectures on civilized traffic behaviors were conducted within the enterprises. 12 members of the Corporate Social Responsibility Alliance participated in these activities. 13 sessions of activities, and more than 30 training and lectures were organized, and In 2004, 15 Party branches of China Unicom’s Jilin Branch established one-to-one helping relationships with 15 poor students. Every the number of staff attendance on the spot reaching branch persists in accompanying the children through economic aid, passing love, emotion communication, and enlightenment. 5,000 with the coverage of 50,000 person-times. They offer warmth and sunshine to these children who have suffered a lot. In August, 2013, Chi Junpeng, the youngest boy of the 15 children was admitted by a university in Beijing. By then, all the 15 students either have a job or studies in universities, becoming a pride of China Unicom’s Jilin Branch. China Unicom’s Heilongjiang Branch used it information hub to lead the public opinions in a right way and promote advanced cyber culture. It published more than 70 special topics like “Practicing Lei Feng Spirit, Carrying Forward Civilized New Trend”, and posted over 70,000 promotion messages. The website has been visited for 280,000 person-times. Besides, it developed “Internet Parent” and other green web-surfing applications to keep teenagers from bad influences on the Internet. Heilongjiang information hub has been widely recognized by China Unicom’s Ningxia Helan Branch offered help to China Unicom’s Shaanxi Xianyang Branch launched a love the net citizens, and was awarded as a “Civilized students who were poor but excellent in character and donation activity for poor students. All the money raised was Website” by the provincial Internet Information learning of the No. 3 Middle School of Helan county. handed over to the Hope Project and has helped 3 students Office. realize their university dreams. China Unicom’s Xinjiang Branch started a book house public service activity--“Point by point to co-build a WO future”. The China Unicom’s Hebei Xingtai Branch calls on its young staff company established a donation platform and called on its users to assist the traffic police voluntarily by carrying out the “Red to show their love by donating their reward points to build “China Hat” activity on their spare time. From 7:30 to 8:30 am on Unicom Love Book Houses” for schools located in remote areas every Friday morning, the volunteers will persuade people of Sinkiang with worse teaching conditions. In total, there were not to perform uncivilized traffic behaviors. 70,000 clients participating in the activity, donating 47.74 million points, which was equivalent to RMB 460,000 yuan. Adding the donation of RMB 180,000 yuan from China Unicom’s Xinjiang Branch’s staff and the enterprise, the activity raised RMB 640,000 yuan accumulatively. At present, 56 Love Book Houses have been established in Xinjiang, containing 56,246 books in Uyghur, Chinese and Kazakh. 60 61 Corporate Social Responsibility Report China Unicom 2013 Social Responsibility Practice Organizing voluntary blood donation China Unicom’s Hainan Haikou Branch The navigation center of China Unicom’s Hubei Branch started “Books Light From 2009-2013, China Unicom’s Hunan Branch has organized China Unicom’s Inner Mongolia Hohhot Branch organized a book donation activity “WO Love Childhood”--a book donation activity for poor mountainous areas, receiving volunteers to donate blood and contribute their love for 5 consecutive carried out a “Voluntarily Donating Blood for Action”, receiving 3,683 donated books in total. nearly 600 extracurricular reading materials for primary and secondary schools. years, to practice the spirit of Lei Feng and support the public welfare Emergency Support and Repaying Society” service. This action shows the noble characters of Unicomers which are activity. There were more than 160 employees selfless dedication, willing to help others and actively fulfill their social actively participated, of which, 78 donated responsibilities. Just as what a blood-donation volunteer said, “Donating 23,200 ml blood. blood is the citizen’s obligation as well as passing on our love…” Protecting the ecological environment Caring for the growth of children China Unicom’s Anhui Fuyang Branch cares for the growth of the leftover children. It subscribed newspapers and magazines for the rural leftover children, gave them schoolbags, pencil-boxes, dictionaries and other school supplies as gifts, and started a “twinning” program with the rural leftover children of Jieshou No. 2 Primary School, donating 50 “Family Phones” and providing RMB 1,200 yuan telephone charges every year. China Unicom’s Gansu Branch carried out a large public welfare activity of Over 30 young volunteers from China Volunteers from China Unicom’s “Protecting the Mother River, Unicom Unicom’s Jiangsu Branch participated Hunan Branch carried out a large Volunteers in Action”. More than 400 in the “Taking Care of the Mother River” tree planting activity, with more than environmental protection volunteers activity, collecting the rubbish along the 30,000 saplings planted. came to the Waterside Square on the Qinhuai River. Yellow River Scenic Route of Lanzhou to collect the rubbish, advocated environmental protection to the citizens and called on people to take care of the League members “mother river”. from China Unicom’s Inner Mongolia “The Yellow River is the mother river of Wuhai Branch took the Chinese nation. It’s our obligatory part in the “To Coduty to protect her and build a beautiful China Unicom’s Hebei Luancheng Branch held a “For build a Beautiful China Unicom’s Liaoning Branch carried out a volunteer service the Future—Caring for the Minor Children of Prisoners in Gansu! We will continue gathering and Wuhai with Youth” passing on the green positive power activity of sending warmth and love to orphans and disabled Jail Activity”, signing “Hand in Hand” a long-term one-toactivity, planting children. During the Christmas time, the company’s volunteers one assistance agreement with the minor children of 13 to make our mother river glorious and trees to protect the splendid forever. ” brought living goods and festival gifts to the orphans and disabled prisoners in jail. The volunteers from China Unicom’s Hebei mother river. children in the Children Welfare Home. The volunteers also spent a Luancheng Branch bought gifts for the children. They talked – A Young Volunteer from China happy Christmas with these children, playing, singing with them and with them, and encouraged them to establish good outlook Unicom’s Gansu Branch telling stories. They made the children feel the world’s warmth and on life and good values, and to face life with positive gave them confidence and hope about future. attitude, to keep their minds on study and grow happily. 62 63 Corporate Social Responsibility Report China Unicom 2013 Social Responsibility Practice Showing solicitude for the elderly Respect and Promote Local Culture All the overseas companies of China Unicom have elevated China Unicom’s charisma and popularity in the communications sector by endeavoring to blend into the local society and actively engaging in local organizations and activities. In order to strengthen the mutually reciprocal coordination between various units and members of the IT sector, as well as to promote the economic and IT development in Hong Kong, Hong Kong China Enterprise Association IT Industry Committee was established by Hong Kong China Enterprise Association at the joint proposal by China Unicom Hong Kong and relevant units. China Unicom Hong Kong became the first president and secretary-general of the committee. China Unicom Americas is a member of the Chinese General Chamber of Commerce (council member), China Enterprise Council in Los Angeles (council member) and China Enterprise Association in San Francisco (president). China Unicom’s Shandong Branch has organized a voluntary service team to help the empty-nesters. They provide daily care voluntary service for those who are unable to take care of themselves, and have organized charitable donations to improve the living conditions of the empty-nesters. In August, 2013, China Unicom Hong Kong won the title of “Hong Kong Famous Computers and Communications Employees of China Unicom Hong Kong volunteered to participate Feature: Living up to Social Responsibilities Brand 2013” under the communications category (Premier Roaming Pre-paid Card) with the highest vote in public in the largest hiking and fundraising activity “OXFAM Trailwalker” in Hong Kong. Many employees donated and a group of in Both Local Communities and Overseas appraisal, expert panel review and Metro-info reviewing committee evaluation. four employees completed the 100-kilometer walk. They are not professional athletes, nor do they have amazing physical power or Markets explosive power. Yet with faith, persistence and commitment, they accomplished the mission and demonstrated the loving heart and care of China Unicom’s employees to the fullest. All the overseas companies of China Unicom have been strictly following the laws and regulations in the host country and local area. They also provide law and cultural training for employees sent from China, and ensure legal and faithful operation overseas. Responsible Investment Overseas Localization of Resource Purchase In 2013, China Unicom signed a CMI cooperation agreement with Myanmar Post and Telecommunications Company (PTC). The CMI project is an optical cable system that starts from Ruili in China, runs southwards across the Myanmar country including Lashio, China Unicom Americas adopted a priority policy for local purchase, and has purchased local services worth over 10 million dollars, Mandalay, Naypyidaw and Rangoon, and reaches Weishuang by the Indian Ocean, where a new submarine cable landing station is accounting for over 90% of relevant cost. scheduled to be built. The project sprawls nearly 1,500 kilometers, and adopts the advanced 10G DWDM technology which can be Localization of Employment smoothly upgraded to 40G. The project, after completion, will become the biggest information transmission channel between China and Myanmar. It will greatly improve the communications network infrastructure in Myanmar and the quality of communications service All overseas companies of China Unicom have increased the ratio of local employees, and as a result, local employees now account between China and Myanmar, which will be inductive to elevating the level of communications service between China and all the ASEAN for the majority in all these companies. The rights and interests of local employees are protected in accordance with local laws and countries. In the R&D and implementation process of the CMI project, China Unicom has been strictly following local laws and regulations, regulations. The salary system for local employees has also been established in light of payment practice in local market. asking the construction team to maintain a good relationship with local areas, and hiring local residents for the construction. In terms of residents and properties affected by the project construction, China Unicom compensated them in accordance with international and local Local Green Operation norms, and relevant standards set forth in the agreement. In 2013, China Unicom Hong Kong initiated a local IDC Room Project. The Project was aimed to build green data rooms whose PUE should be under 1.8 and adopt international standards for safety and environmental protection in energy efficiency measures including building energy efficiency, water supply and drainage system energy efficiency, electrical energy saving, air-conditioning system energy efficiency and power distribution system energy efficiency. (Note: PUE (Power Usage Effectiveness) is the major indicator for measuring energy consumption of the data room. PUE=energy consumption of all equipment in the data room/energy consumption of IT equipment. The base value is 2. The more it approaches 1, the better energy efficiency the data room has.) 66 67 Corporate Social Responsibility Report China Unicom 2013 2014 Outlook Key Topics Plans for 2014 Key Topics Plans for 2014 Set CSR management measures, carry out CSR training programs, establish CSR indicator releasing Enhance CSR Enhance the competitiveness of payment, improve career development standards, and build innovative mechanism and improve evaluation indicator system, launch CSR case appraisal contest, improve CSR management management talents selection mechanism. report and better CSR-related communication. Improve risk directory and risk assessment model, and integrate risk early warning into the management In order to improve the educational background of employees, the Group will offer 15 to 20 leadership system. training courses and plenty of professional skill training classes. Insist on “People Enhance compliance First” and build management so as Conscientiously establish a corruption punishment and prevention system and a group decision-making Employ dispatched workers in accordance with the law and ensure that the ratio of dispatched workers an ideal platform reaches national standard. Include dispatched workers into a uniform position and salary system, to realize sustainable system for major policy decisions, major personnel decisions, major project arrangements and largefor work, life strengthen the management of labor dispatching companies and standardize business outsourcing. development of the sum capital operations, carry out inspection tours of leading Party members and strengthen efficiency and personal company supervision. development Improve safety management system, adopt quantitative evaluation of management of production safety, Improve audit information system, and carry out audit investigation centered on key business operations. and establish a safety management information platform. Push forward with the “General Manager Online” Program, conscientiously implement the employee Continue to expand 3G network and broadband network construction, increase the coverage of 20M assistance program, establish and improve the long-term mechanism for helping employees in need, and broadband in urban areas and the coverage of 4M broadband in rural areas. actively launch mass-based recreational and sports activities. Include equipment energy consumption, energy efficient product certification into overall procurement cost Step up R&D in LTE, future network, cloud computing, the Internet of Things, new materials, etc. calculation, strengthen cooperation with suppliers of energy efficient and environmental-friendly equipment, Ensure CSR ask suppliers to focus on reducing energy consumption of communication devices in the production fulfillment and build a process, and promote large-scale application of energy efficient products. cutting-edge network Establish an emergency communications support system that can provide both usual services and timely that is green, secure emergency support. Emergency communications support equipment is allocated in accordance with Cooperate more with content providers with better credit status, pursue more standard business operations, and fast different emergency scenarios, and the emergency support needs, environment as well as differences Advance partner help business partners to advance the standardized operation of their industrial chain, and further improve between southern areas and northern areas are taken into consideration in the allocation. management so as service dial testing and complaint handling mechanism. to build a responsible Identify key points in addressing spam SMSs, and strengthen the capability of the system to intercept spam supply chain for winPut more emphasis on sustained operational performance, excellent after-sales service and good market SMSs. win cooperation reputation of mobile terminal suppliers, and encourage terminal suppliers to constantly optimize the hardware and software of their products with lower power dissipation and radiation. Constantly expand the coverage of 3G network in towns and villages, and the broadband coverage in Step up efforts in evaluating virtual network operators’ performance in terms of their after-sales service, Eliminate the digital administrative villages in ten Northern administrative provinces. user information security, business legitimacy, etc. and set the evaluation results as one of the conditions gap to enable for cooperation. various social groups to enjoy the Continue to provide agricultural services including typical ones like “12316” integrated information service Stick to green Reinforce energy-efficient technology reformation, strengthen energy efficiency management, and further convenience brought related to agriculture, farmers and rural areas, and agricultural machinery information service. and low-carbon bring down the energy consumption per unit information flow. by information development path technology and contribute to Intensify efforts in building channels in rural areas and remote poverty-stricken areas. Establish an information system for waste material recycling companies and scrapped material disposing ecological civilization featuring harmonious companies, and step up examination and verification of the qualification of waste material recycling and coexistence disposing companies to control the pollution resulted from waste materials. Come up with various billing methods for disadvantaged groups and 4G service, reduce international calling and roaming rates, and introduce packages with different billing periods. Continue to invest in building the smart city cloud platform, focus on the application of information technology in 10 major aspects in the future. Enhance service capability and provide various Continue to improve the service capability of online stores and physical stores, enhance customer affordable services maintenance and improve customer satisfaction. in a satisfactory manner Focus on strengthening the capability to protect user information, increase information system operational reliability, reduce security incident rate, and try the best to ensure user information security. Constantly externalize brand value. Communicate with consumers and the media so as to achieve publicity and increased brand awareness, reputation and brand value. 68 69 Corporate Social Responsibility Report China Unicom 2013 Appendix Type Indicator Unit 2011 2012 2013 Number of natural villages with fixedline telephones under the “Universal 1 1619 305 400 Communication Coverage in Rural Areas Appendix Elimination of the Project” Number of administrative villages covered by broadband under the digital gap 1 4244 4247 2551 “Universal Communication Coverage in Rural Areas Project” Number of channels in rural areas and 10,000 --30 remote and poverty-ridden areas E-commerce E-commerce turnover 100 million RMB 230.7 358.5 551.4 Key Performance Annualized complaint rate per month Complaint/ 5.76 6.48 5.58 one million users Customer service Waiting time by the counter at the Type Indicator Unit 2011 2012 2013 minutes 28 18 10 business lobby Queuing time at the business lobby minutes 27 20 15 Total assets 100 million RMB 5237.5 5760.7 5745.6 Proportion of male and female Male against. No. of mobile users reached 10,000 households 19966.0 23931.2 28098.3 1.39:1 1.42:1 1.46:1 employees Female No. of 3G users reached 10,000 households 4001.9 7645.6 12260.0 Proportion of minority employees % 6.37 6.49 6.47 Operation and development No. of local telephone users 10,000 households 9285.1 9195.7 8764.3 Proportion of female in senior % 12.9 11.8 11.3 management No. of broadband access users (refer to Note) 10,000 households 5068.5 5854.0 6464.7 Employee training investment 10,000 RMB 23497 26400 28385 10,000RMB/ People-first practice Labor productivity 63.1 72.9 84.98 10,000 personperson · year Online University visitors 67 85 218 time No. of 3G base stations built 10,000 units 23.9 33.1 40.7 Total duration of online study 10,000 credit hours 21 41 107 3G network coverage rate of towns and villages % 33 75 96 Investment to help employees in need 10,000 RMB 817.73 1142.01 1199.11 Fixed line broadband access port 10,000 8592.3 10646 11907 Broadband coverage rate of administrative Consolation fund invested 10,000 RMB 2388.44 1121.92 1178.02 villages in ten Northern provinces mainly % 93 93 93 Special fund for energy conservation 10,000 RMB 5.6 7.8 7.6 managed by China Unicom and emission reduction Network capacity Broadband coverage rate in urban areas Energy consumption per unit information 1 kg standard coal/ % -53 63 65.0 45.4 26.28 with bandwidth over 20M flow TB Broadband coverage rate in rural areas Gasoline consumption 10,000 tons 7.37 7.34 6.71 % -65 76 with bandwidth over 4M Low-carbon WCDMA connection rate % 98.23 98.12 98.15 development Diesel fuel consumption 10,000 tons 2.44 2.38 2.44 10,000 cubic Switched telecom network connection rate % 98.61 98.66 98.70 Natural gas consumption 1031.6 1167.9 1162.2 meters 3G mobile network call drop rate % 0.26 0.17 0.28 Electricity consumption 100 million KWH 107.35 117.2 130.33 Times of emergency communication support times 342 329 374 Water consumption 10,000 tons 2639 2474 2575.5 Number of emergency communication 10,000 vehicleProceeds from material recycling 100 million RMB 5.3 6.5 3.56 9.7 13.5 10.4 vehicles dispatched time Cyclic Priority support Proceeds from material reutilization 100 million RMB 0.9 1.0 0.74 efforts utilization Number of emergency communication 10,000 set10.6 14.8 11.2 Proceeds from scrapped materials 100 million RMB 3.4 3.8 1.90 devices utilized time Times of compliance training times 1023 1437 1536 Number of staff deployed 10,000 persontime 30.2 43.1 31.8 Compliance management Number of compliance training R&D investment 100 million RMB 17.1 28.1 28.3 person 185633 204050 222941 participants No. of R&D staff Person 3169 3224 3366 Credit rating level AAA AAA AAA Indigenous International standard essays Article 495 600 601 Community Total tax payment 100 million RMB 100.9 118.6 158.2 innovation Industrial standards Item 211 208 225 responsibility Patents Number of jobs created person 16637 20780 14445 Item 252 380 409 Authorized patents Item 77 68 110 Total amount of donations 10,000 RMB 2491.3 1977.5 2207.9 Note: Individual line subscribers are included when calculating the number of broadband users, whereas individual LAN subscribers are not. 2013 financial data is Monthly report 70 71 Corporate Social Responsibility Report China Unicom 2013 Appendix Awards Organizations Organization Post in the organization UN Global Compact Full member China Enterprise Confederation i.e. China Entrepreneur Mr. Chang Xiaobing, China Unicom’s Chairman, serves as the Association Vice Chairman. Mr. Chang Xiaobing, China Unicom’s Chairman, serves as the China Enterprise Reform and Development Society Vice President. Mr. Chang Xiaobing, China Unicom’s Chairman, serves as the China Federation of Industrial Economics President of the Presidium. Tong Jilu, China Unicom’s Deputy General Manager, serves as China Institute of Internal Audit the Vice President. China Association of Work Safety Council member China Group Companies Association Executive member of the Council Mr. Chang Xiaobing, Chairman of China Unicom, was awarded the title of “Excellent China Center for International Economic Exchanges Council member Leader” at 2013 DIB China’s Listed Companies Internal Control Data Release Conference & Summit. China Mobile Communications Association Council member Mr. Lu Yimin, General Manager of China Unicom, was elected as China’s Economic China Cloud Computing Technology and Industry Alliance Vice President unit Figure of the Year at the 14th Contest. Internet Society of China Council member China Unicom was selected as one of the Top 100 State-owned Listed Companies with Association of Communications Across the Taiwan Strait Vice President unit Excellent CSR Performance in 2012. China Communications Standards Association Corporate member China Unicom was selected as one of the Top 100 Listed Companies in China with Excellent Internal Control by DIB in 2013. China Institute of Communications Corporate member China Unicom was awarded the honor of Excellent Enterprise for Energy Conservation International Telecommunication Union(ITU) Corporate member and Emission Reduction by SASAC in 2013. Global System for Mobile Communications Alliance(GSMA) Corporate member China Unicom was awarded the honorary title of “First-choice Service Provider” for Open Data Center Alliance(ODCA) Corporate member China SMEs in 2012. The Green Grid Corporate member China Unicom won the first prize in the 2nd Communication Network Security Knowledge and Skills Contest. Tele Management Forum(TMF) Corporate member China Unicom was awarded the title of “Best Exhibitor” at the 15th China High-tech Fair. World Wide Web Consortium(W3C) Corporate member www.10010.com and www.chinaunicom.com have been certified for the highest level of Cloud Security Alliance(CSA) Corporate member information security. ONEM2M Corporate member China Unicom’s enterprise platform on Baidu Knows was awarded the title of “Best Customer Service of the Year” by Baidu Knows. Global Certification Forum(GCF) Corporate member Cooperative Organization for the Banking Industry IT China Unicom’s WO stores were awarded “Most Influential Operator Channel Award” in One of the founders Outsourcing 2012. China Tendering and Bidding Association Council member 29 front-line workers and 6 grass-root teams of China Unicom won the title of “Telecom Service Star with National Customer Satisfaction”. 72 73 Corporate Social Responsibility Report China Unicom 2013 Appendix Indicators Index GRI Index CASS-CSR3.0 Index Included Included Included in the in the in the No Page No Page No Page Report Report or Report or Indicator Page Indicator Page Indicator Page Indicator Page Indicator Page or not not not Preface (P series) G5.2 P19 M3.9 P52 S2.26 P48 E1.11 —— Strategy and analysis 4.11 ● P24 HR7 ● P46 P1.1 P1 G5.3 P19 M3.10 —— S2.27 P49-50 E1.12 —— 1.1 ● P2-3 4.12 ● P3、18 HR8 ○ P1.2 P1 G5.4 P18 M3.11 P52 S2.28 P49-50 E1.13 P53-54 1.2 ● P2-3 4.13 ● P71 HR9 ○ P1.3 P1 G5.5 P18-19 M3.12 P52 S2.29 P50 E2.1 P53-54 Corporate profile 4.14 ● P19 Anti-corruption Social performance 2.1 ● P6 4.15 ● P19 SO1 ● P24 P1.4 P1 G5.6 P18 S2.30 —— E2.2 P53-54 (S series) 2.2 ● P6、8 4.16 ● P19 SO2 ● P24 P1.5 P1 G6.1 P17 S1.1 P23 S2.31 —— E2.3 P53、69 2.3 ● P9 4.17 ● P19 SO3 ● P24 P2.1 P14 G6.2 P17 S1.2 P24 S3.1 P48-49 E2.4 P53、69 2.4 ● P1 Economic benefits SO4 ● P24 P2.2 P14-15 G6.3 P17 S1.3 P24 S3.2 P27 E2.5 P53 2.5 ● P6 EC1 ● P22-23 SO5 ● P24 P2.3 P18-19 G6.4 P18 S1.4 —— S3.3 P48 E2.6 P53 Market performance 2.6 ● P6 EC2 ● P23 SO6 ○ P3.1 P3 S1.5 P69 S3.4 P49 E2.7 P53 (M series) 2.7 ● P6 EC3 ● P46-50 SO7 ● P25 P3.2 P12 M1.1 P7 S1.6 P25-26、31 S3.5 P48-49 E2.8 P53 2.8 ● P6 EC4 ○ SO8 ○ P4.1 P6 M1.2 P7 S1.7 P45-46 S3.6 P48 E2.9 —— 2.9 ● P8、9 EC5 ● P62 Product responsibilities P4.2 P6、8 M1.3 P7 S1.8 P69 S3.7 —— E2.10 —— 2.10 ● P70 EC6 ● P62 PR1 ○ P4.3 P6、9 M1.4 P22-23、68 S2.1 P46 S4.1 P63 E2.11 P53-54 Report Parameters EC7 ● P62 PR2 ○ P4.4 P6 M1.5 P22-23、68 S2.2 P46 S4.2 —— E2.12 P54 P25-26、31、 3.1 ● P1 EC8 ● PR3 ● P8 55-62 P4.5 P45 M1.6 P22-23、68 S2.3 P49 S4.3 P63 E2.13 P54 3.2 ● P1 EC9 ● P22-23、34-45 PR4 ○ P4.6 P6、71 M2.1 P34-45 S2.4 P49 S4.4 P62-63 E2.14 P54 3.3 ● P1 Social benefits PR5 ● P41-45 P4.7 P9 M2.2 P42 S2.5 P49 S4.5 P62 E2.15 —— 3.4 ● P1 LA1 ● P45 PR6 ● P23、25 P5.1 P12-19 M2.3 P44-45 S2.6 —— S4.6 P62 E2.16 P69 3.5 ● P14-16 LA2 ○ PR7 ○ P5.2 P22-23、68-69 M2.4 P44 S2.7 P48 S4.7 P62 E2.17 —— 3.6 ● P1 LA3 ○ PR8 ○ P5.3 P70 M2.5 —— S2.8 P46 S4.8 P62 E2.18 P53 3.7 ● P1 LA4 ● P46 PR9 ○ Governance of CSR M2.6 —— S2.9 P46 S4.9 P55 E2.19 P53 (G series) 3.8 ○ LA5 ○ Environmental protection benefits G1.1 P12-13 M2.7 P26 S2.10 —— S4.10 —— E3.1 —— 3.9 ● P1 LA6 ● P46 EN1 ● P69 G1.2 P3、18 M2.8 P69 S2.11 P46 S4.11 P63 E3.2 P51-52 3.10 ○ LA7 ○ EN2 ● P54 G1.3 P14-16 M2.9 P69 S2.12 P46-50 S4.12 P55 E3.3 —— 3.11 ○ LA8 ● P50 EN3 ● P69 G1.4 P12-13 M2.10 P27 S2.13 P69 S4.13 P57 E3.4 P53-54 3.12 ● P1、P72-74 LA9 ● P48 EN4 ● P69 G2.1 P13-14 M2.11 P31-42 S2.14 P45 S4.14 —— E3.5 P54 3.13 ○ LA10 ● P48 EN5 ● P53-54 Environmental Corporate governance LA11 ● P46-48 EN6 ● P54 G2.2 P13-14 M2.12 P26-27 S2.15 —— E3.6 —— performance (E series) 4.1 ● P7 LA12 ● P46 EN7 ● P53-54 G2.3 P13-14 M2.13 P69 S2.16 —— E1.1 P53 E4.1 P53 4.2 ● P7 LA13 ● P45、69 EN8 ● P69 G2.4 P13-14 M2.14 P44 S2.17 P48 E1.2 P53 E4.2 P53 4.3 ● P7 LA14 ● P46 EN9 ○ G2.5 P14、16-17 M3.1 P51 S2.18 P49 E1.3 P18、71 E4.3 —— 4.4 ● P7、49 Human rights EN10 ○ G3.1 P14、16-17 M3.2 P23-24 S2.19 —— E1.4 P53 E4.4 —— 4.5 ● P46 HR1 ○ EN11 ○ G3.2 P51-52 M3.3 P25 S2.20 P48-49 E1.5 P53 E4.5 P60 4.6 ● P7 HR2 ○ EN12 ○ G4.1 P16 M3.4 —— S2.21 P49 E1.6 P53 Appendix (A series) 4.7 ○ HR3 ○ EN13 ● P53 G4.2 P16 M3.5 P51-52 S2.22 P46 E1.7 —— (A1) P66 P3、22、25、31、34、 G4.3 P17 M3.6 P51-52 S2.23 P48 E1.8 P69 (A2) —— 4.8 ● HR4 ● P48 EN14 ○ 45、51、53、55 G4.4 P30 M3.7 P52 S2.24 P46 E1.9 P53 (A3) P72-74 4.9 ● P7 HR5 ○ EN15 ○ G5.1 P19 M3.8 P51-52 S2.25 P46-48 E1.10 P53 (A4) P75 4.10 ● P7 HR6 ● P45 EN16 ○ 74 75 Corporate Social Responsibility Report China Unicom 2013 Appendix GRI Index Included in Included in Included in Dear reader: No the Report Page No the Report Page No the Report Page Feedback or not or not or not This is China Unicom’s sixth Corporate Social Responsibility Report. We are looking forward to EN17 ○ EN22 ○ EN27 ○ hearing from you in order to improve our Report. Please help us by answering the questions in the feedback form and send back to us at: EN18 ○ EN23 ○ EN28 ○ EN19 ○ EN24 ○ EN29 ○ Email: yangwei3@chinaunicom.cn EN20 ○ EN25 ○ EN30 ● P53 Fax: 86-10-66258674 EN21 ○ EN26 ○ Address: Corporate Development Department, China United Network Communications Co. Ltd. No.21 Financial Street, Xicheng District, Beijing, 100033 Note: “ ● ” means the information is included in this report or fully released; “ ○ ” means there is no detailed explanation due to weak relevance caused by the features of telecom operator, or data unavailability due to statistical reasons, or that data have been released Your information: in the annual report of the listed company. Name: Place of work: Supplemental indicators of telecommunications sector Title: Included in Included in Included in Telephone number: No the Report Page No the Report Page No the Report Page Fax: or not or not or not E-mail: Internal operation Provision of communication channel PA9 ○ IO1 ● P25-26 PA1 ● P31-33 PA10 ● P34、35 IO2 ● P31-35 PA2 ● P34-35 PA11 ● P34-35、52 ※ Please evaluate this Report in terms of the following aspects: IO3 ● P48-49 PA3 ● P27-29 Use of technology Very SoVery Options Good Poor good so poor IO4 ● P52 PA4 ● P6、22 TA1 ● P54 IO5 ● P52 PA5 ● P34-35 TA2 ● P31-33、36-38 1. Does this report reflect China Unicom’s great impact on the economy, society and environment in a comprehensive and accurate manner? IO6 ○ PA6 ● P27-29 TA3 ● P39-42 2. Does this report answer the questions and release the information of IO7 ● P25-26、31、53 PA7 ● P25-26、31-34 TA4 ● P31-33、36-38 great concern to stakeholders? IO8 ● P54 PA8 ● P52 TA5 ● P26-27 3. Are the information, indicators and data released in this report clear, accurate and complete? Note: “ ● ”means the information is included in this report or fully released; “ ○ ” means data unavailability caused by statistical 4. Is this report with high readability in terms of logic line, content design, reasons wording and format design? ※ Please share with us your opinion: 1. What do you think is the most satisfactory part of this report? 2. Is there any information that you want to know but is not included in this report? 3. What is your advice on our future social responsible report?
