Corporate Social Responsibility – COP Page 1/6 Corporate Social Responsibility: Communication on Progress (COP) 2013-2014 Document no.: 074.851.56 Project: LS CSR COP Date published: 4 Sept. 2014 Corporate Social Responsibility – COP Page 2/6 2013 2014 Focus On Transparency As the first year in which Lyngsoe Systems will be participating in the Global Compact initiative, it is important for us to communicate clearly and transparently about our activities in line with corporate social responsibility (CSR). In order to achieve this goal we are currently undertaking a number of initiatives to make our CSR activities more transparent, as well as communicating these activities to a greater number of stakeholders. Today, environmental responsibility is published on Lyngsoe Systems’ website, including our commitment to minimize the environmental impact of our activities and the ways in which ISO 14000 environmental standards are followed. In order to be transparent about all of our activities related to corporate social responsibility, over the next year we will be adding a page to the website containing information about our activities in line with CSR. This communication will be based on the ISO 26000 reporting standard on social responsibility, and will highlight the core subjects and issues defined by this standard. Another initiative that is currently under way at Lyngsoe Systems is to develop a code of conduct, which we call Lyngsoe Systems – Behaving Responsibly. Based on our values of creating long-lasting relationships through commitment, thoroughness, trustworthiness and expert knowledge, this document presents our commitment to responsible behavior among all of our stakeholders. In order not only to report on, but also interact with our stakeholders regarding social responsibility, a CSR training course is being developed. This course will cover the principals of the UN Global Compact in human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. We look forward to working with these issues more closely, and spreading awareness regarding social responsibility. Document no.: 074.851.56 Project: LS CSR COP Date published: 4 Sept. 2014 Corporate Social Responsibility – COP Page 3/6 United Nations Global Compact Commitment Letter Lyngsoe Systems provides logistics solutions designed to significantly improve our customers’ quality of service and competitiveness in the global market. With more than 3,200 installations worldwide in more than 60 countries, we cover solution design, software development, integration, service and maintenance, as well as complete project management and consultancy services in regional and global implementations. Our colleagues, customers and partners trust Lyngsoe based on our reputation for professional competence and integrity. This is a reputation we have built over the last 40 years, and it is reflected in every action that we take. To ensure that all business at Lyngsoe Systems is conducted in a socially responsible manner, we fully support the Ten Principals of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and AntiCorruption. “At Lyngsoe, our approach to behaving Launched in 2000, the Global Compact is the largest corporate social responsibly is responsibility initiative in the world, with over 12,000 corporate participants and underpinned by our other stakeholders from over 145 countries. We have joined this initiative in values of building order to make our activities in line with responsible behavior transparent, lasting relationships describing the way in which the 10 principals are integrated into our business with all of our strategy, culture and daily operations. stakeholders through expert knowledge, At Lyngsoe, our approach to behaving responsibly is underpinned by our commitment, values of building lasting relationships with all of our stakeholders through thoroughness and expert knowledge, commitment, thoroughness and trustworthiness. We are trustworthiness.” continually developing these relationships in line with the Global Compact principals and the core subjects and issues addressed in ISO 26000: Guidance on Social Responsibility, and will distribute this information to our stakeholders annually. Kind Regards, Lyngsoe Systems A/S Finn Mathiassen CEO Document no.: 074.851.56 Project: LS CSR COP Date published: 4 Sept. 2014 Corporate Social Responsibility – COP Page 4/6 Human and Labor rights As a global company with logistics solutions in over 60 countries around the world, Lyngsoe Systems is • Making sure that the physical and committed to supporting and upholding human and labor psychological work environment is as it should be rights as an integrated aspect within all of our business • Registering any employee issues or activities. In order to make this commitment transparent problems to all of our stakeholders, we are developing a code of • Examining next steps for problemconduct, which we call Lyngsoe Systems – Behaving solving Responsibly. Originating from our company values, this • Creating an action plan for problemsolving with the objective of achieving document identifies Lyngsoe’s approach to integrity, and monitoring results professionalism, and developing long-lasting customer • Following through with action plans relationships. In everything that we do respect for ex. through direct interaction people, the environment, and our business, comes first. • Follow-up ex. through an evaluation Principals for responsible decision making are also round included in this communication, which can be consulted In order to raise awareness for Human Rights and all of the if questions arise regarding what the ethical course of Global Compact Principals, Lyngsoe Systems is developing action is in any given situation. a CSR training course that is expected to be complete in At Lyngsoe Systems, we also have a strong commitment 2015. This training course will include best practice and case to the health and safety of our employees. In order to study examples in the areas of human rights, labor, ensure that employee needs are met, we have identified environment and anti-corruption. As a company which employee and management representatives whose task strives to improve quality for all of our stakeholders, we seek it is to safeguard the work environment at Lyngsoe. to set a positive example in the areas of Human and labor Specifically, these representatives have the following rights. tasks set out for them: 2014-2015 Goals & actions Documentation Transparency In Line With CSR In order to communicate clearly and transparently about the way in which Lyngsoe Systems – Behaving Responsibly Lyngsoe Systems conducts business in a socially responsible manner, and in – Planned delivery 2015 full support of the Global Compact principals, we are currently developing our code of conduct. Health and Safety at Work To ensure the health, safety and wellbeing of all Lyngsoe employees, Update of Work Environment Work Environment Organizational Representatives have been identified. Organization Representatives (Employees These representatives ensure that both the physical and psychological can find this information in: LS DK Staff environment is as it should be. Handbook) CSR Training Program A CSR training course is being developed by Lyngsoe Systems, CSR Training Course: Currently being covering the Global Compact principles in areas of Human rights, developed – Planned delivery 2015 Labor, Environment and Anti-corruption. This course will be delivered within the next year, in connection with a current project involving Ghana Post. Document no.: 074.851.56 Project: LS CSR COP Date published: 4 Sept. 2014 Corporate Social Responsibility – COP Page 5/6 Environment Lyngsoe Systems overall aim is to minimize the • Lyngsoe’s buildings are highly insulated and environmental impact of our activities as much as possible. heated by district heating and the heat level is One of Lyngsoe’s main activities is software development lowered during the night. and all employees work on computers on a daily basis. We • Our office/copy paper is 100% recycled paper, and is FSC certified. reduce electric power by using laptops and flat screen • We use environmentally friendly packaging monitors that only consume half the energy of a stationary materials in the form of cardboard and paper computer and CRT monitors. We turn off computers when that can be recycled instead of plastic, and not in use and use automatic power saving mode on all reuse packaging materials as many times as equipment whenever possible. We embraced possible. virtualization of IT equipment at an early stage in order • In terms of recycling, Lyngsoe collects its paper to reduce energy consumption. This has meant that and cardboard materials for recycling. We over a period of five years we reduced our number of return all toner material from printers, copying machines and faxes for disposal. physical servers by 75%, while increasing our data • We follow and support the WEEE and RoHS processing by 30% annually. directives. All electrical waste and electronic Being an innovative software firm, we are continuously equipment is being disposed of by an authorized firm. developing remote maintenance tools to reduce the • Our products do not contain any lead, cadmium, number of on-site visits and thus plane travel. 80% of all mercury, hexavalent chromium, polybrominated service cases are today handled remotely from our service biphenyl (PBB) or polybrominated diphenyl center and local coordinators are appointed to assist with (PBDE). minor check-ups. • Lyngsoe uses very few chemicals. In connection with the cleaning of our office In line with Lyngsoe’s aim to minimize environmental buildings, the cleaning companies we use are impact as much as possible, the following actions are ISO 14001 certified where possible. taken: 2014-2015 2014-2015 Goals & actions Documentation CO2 emissions Continue to buy and neutralize CO2 quotas to cover our IT Purchase and neutralization of CO2 quotas infrastructure including all hosting activities, thereby protecting the environment against excess CO2 emissions. Material utilization efficiency We continuously evaluate the efficiency of our IT equipment and Over the last three years we reduced overall replace it with new generations having a smaller footprint. energy consumption from IT equipment with an additional 20%, and aim to improve even more over the coming year Environmental transparency and reporting In order to highlight our commitment to environmental responsibility Environmental Responsibility included in among a greater number of stakeholders, our actions in line with Lyngsoe Systems – Behaving Responsibly – environmental responsibility will be included in our code of conduct: Planned delivery 2015 Lyngsoe Systems – Behaving Responsibly. Document no.: 074.851.56 Project: LS CSR COP Date published: 4 Sept. 2014 Corporate Social Responsibility – COP Page 6/6 AntiCorruption For Lyngsoe Systems, being transparent, ethical and trustworthy is the only sustainable option. For this reason, trustworthiness is integrated into Lyngsoe systems values, governing the way all of our business is conducted. Not only is this a promise to our “Lyngsoe Systems adds customers and partners, but also to our employees, which we value by helping to believe helps to attract and retain employees that are highly improve trust and motivated and who understand the importance of being honest transparency among its and committed. Lyngsoe Systems adds value by helping to stakeholders, in full improve trust and transparency among its stakeholders, in full respect of the principles respect of the principles of the UN Global Compact. In order to of the UN Global succeed, we must develop and grow, both individually and as a Compact” business. Our values help us to achieve this growth. In line with our commitment to being transparent and trustworthy, we are including our policy on anti-corruption in our code of conduct. Here it is explicitly stated that we do not condone bribery or corruption in any form and support international and local efforts to eliminate them. In addition, we will be including anti-corruption as a theme in the CSR training course which is currently being developed at Lyngsoe. This will cover issues of facilitation payments, complying with local and international laws and regulations regarding bribery, and combating corruption in all its forms. 2014-2015 Goals & actions Documentation Anti-corruption Explicit communication about Lyngsoe Systems’ anti-corruption Lyngsoe Systems – Behaving policy will now be distributed in the form of our code of conduct Responsibly – Planned delivery 2015 Facilitation payments Non-acceptance of facilitation payments is the standing policy of CSR Training Course: Currently being Lyngsoe Systems. Non-acceptance of facilitation payments will also developed – Planned delivery 2015 be a topic in the CSR Training program currently being developed at Lyngsoe Systems Compliance with laws and regulations Compliance with laws and regulations regarding anti-corruption will be CSR Training Course: Currently being a topic of focus in the CSR training program currently being developed developed – Planned delivery 2015 by Lyngsoe Systems Document no.: 074.851.56 Project: LS CSR COP Date published: 4 Sept. 2014
