2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes Contents To Our Stakeholders 3 About This Report 4 Reporting Methodology Profile and Governance 5 Vision, Mission, Values Company Profile Financial Indicators Organization and Governance Our Responsibility 16 Corporate Responsibility Approach Dialogue with Stakeholders Business Ethics and Management of Sensitive Aspects Our Stakeholders 23 Clients Employees Shareholders Suppliers Environment Community Annexes 59 Global Reporting Initiative Indicator Table VUB’s adhesion to the Global Compact Principles Statement of External Verifier 2 Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes To Our Stakeholders Dear stakeholders, As one of the largest banks in Slovakia VUB Bank holds a special position in the society – we are bringing financial solutions to families and also funds for deveted with managing career and family life, representation of women in decision-making, career development and other. The lopment of small and large businesses giving jobs to people. Therefore, we know survey examined also satisfaction with methat our approach to business must be responsible. Our effort in the past year is asures for women, which came out of the mapped in this corporate social responsibility report. We are issuing it jointly with previous survey performed in 2011. We the financial annual report, so that our partners can see not only the results of our will work with the results further also in business activities in figures, but also the manner in which we reached them. this year and we are preparing next steps that will help the women to better find the balance between the working and persoWhat was 2013 like? nal life. The clients use banking services ever-increasingly in digital form. In order to enhance their comfort, last year we brought a brand new Internet Banking including its mobile version. The clients got thus a modern and safe system of service and sale. We Are Active Part of Last year meant for us also a careful preparation for introduction of the unified Communities payment system in euro SEPA, which cancelled the borders between the countries By means of the VUB Foundation, we have been part of the community alreafor execution of non-cash payments. The SEPA Project is a significant step towards dy for 10 years. Throughout this long time, we have been dedicating ourselves a closer European integration and we were preparing for it together with our to supporting projects whether for help to disadvantaged people, development clients, mainly the corporate ones. For them we held a series of educational semiof education or preservation of cultural heritage. On the occasion of our round nars. Together with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, we anniversary, the Foundation donated one of its most generous gifts and rewarsupported development of the energetic efficiency and renewable energy sources ded the work of people who change lives of others and run useful projects. We of the Slovak towns and municipalities. Already for the second consecutive year, celebrated our 10th anniversary by financially supporting ten meaningful projects VUB Bank got the award from the prestigious financial magazine Global Finance, and exceptional organizations. We are proud that several our employees share which ranked it among the safest banks in Central and Eastern Europe. This dethe same values and views as VUB Bank and they themselves engage in helping monstrates that our clients can trust us. Significant for us is the title The Best Bank the community as volunteers. Last year, we honoured them for this for the first in Slovakia from the EMEA Finance magazine. We succeeded in the Golden Coin time with the Secret Hero award. This was a moral recognition for their will to competition by winning as many as eight awards for our products, thereof top selflessly help. At the same time, the laureates got a grant for an organization in three awards were for our payment cards – credit and debit – and consumer loans. which they are engaged as volunteers. The Euromoney Magazine awarded us for the services in private banking. Award in this category has a special meaning to us. Private banking needs massive advertiPlans for 2014 sing, new clients are coming to us based on references from other satisfied clients. Our direction remains the same: we want to be the best bank in Slovakia in the perception of our clients. To this we adjusted also the strategic direction of the Client Satisfaction Comes First Bank built on three pillars. In the first one, we focus on the client and the client Within the continual project Listening 100 %, we verify whether the clients are saservice including the creation of a long-term relation, in the second on efficient tisfied with our banking services. Information obtained in this comparative survey use of capital and sources. The last, third one will be a healthy risk management as is processed under the international European Customer Satisfaction Index. From sources should be bringing us sustainable revenues not only during one year, but the beginnings of the survey, we regularly place in the top ranks in the competition also in the long run. of other banks. The year 2013 brought us the second position. We are also pleased about the falling trend in the number of raised claims from our clients as well Bratislava, April 2, 2014 as about the reduced average resolution time. Satisfaction of our clients is for us simultaneously a commitment to maintain the quality of services and not to ease up on our efforts. Measures for Employees Alexander Resch Our Bank belongs to the companies with a significant representation of women 3 Chairman of Management Board and Chief Executive Officer among the employees – as much as 74%. After a two-year break, we continued Všeobecná úverová banka, a.s. in the special survey aimed only at women and asked them questions connecContents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes About This Report VUB Bank is issuing already its seventh annual corporate responsibility report in a row compiled under the G3 version of the international Gloidentity, governance system, mission, values and the Responsibility chapter is focused on corporate responsibility management and implementation of its principles. bal Reporting Initiative (“GRI”) guidelines. The Report informs on VUB’s performance in the financial, social and environmental areas. The reThe second part of the report consists of chapters dedicated to individual stakeholder port submitted contains qualitative data for the calendar and simultanecategories, i.e. those entities that are significantly impacted by VUB Bank’s activity ously the financial year of 2013. They are comparable with the previous and towards which we feel the greatest responsibility. These are clients, employees, financial periods. Similarly to the last year, the report is distributed to shareholders, suppliers and community. In a separate chapter, we also deal with our VUB’s stakeholders along with the financial annual report. It is published at impact on the environment. When identifying these categories, we took into considew w w. v u b . s k / e n / a b o u t u s / v a l u e s p r i n c i p l e s / s o c i a l r e s p o n s i b i l i t y. ration the corporate responsibility strategy of our parent bank Intesa Sanpaolo, which In the interest of saving the natural resources, we are issuing the report used the methodology under the AA1000 principles (in particular the AA1000 SES in electronic version only. You can send your reactions and questions to standard) issued by the London-based Accountability Institute. The report documents csr@vub.sk. the results which the Bank achieved with respect to the objectives set out within its business plan. All data had been collected and processed by the members of the VUB Overview of Corporate Responsibility Reports Issued corporate responsibility working group and the Corporate Social Responsibility Staff Unit. The report documents exclusively the activities of VUB Bank, whereas the actiIssue Date Level of Reporting Under vities of its subsidiaries are not included. The only partial exception is the area of our GRI Methodology responsibility towards the community, where the information and data related to the 2013 Report 02/04/2014 B+, audited activities of VUB Foundation overlap. This procedure was chosen in case of activities 2012 Report 02/04/2013 B+, audited that VUB Bank and its foundation performed and financed jointly. Annex to the report is an overview processed under the GRI guidelines containing the publishing of 2011 Report 02/04/2012 B+, audited profile, management approach for all indicator categories and the list of performance 2010 Report 31/03/2011 B+, audited indicators. 2009 Report 31/03/2010 B+, audited 2008 Report 31/03/2009 B+, audited Compliance with Global 2007 Report 20/08/2008 B+, audited Reporting Initiative Guidelines The content was compiled under the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of the third edition of the Global Reporting Initiative Edition. Reported is the profile, Reporting Methodology management approach and 48 indicators. The annex contains a transparent table listing the reported indicators and management approach for each indicator caStructure and Content tegory. Compliance with the GRI guidelines was verified by the external verifier The report is divided into several chapters mapping individual areas of our impact on the Pontis Foundation, which is an organizational stakeholder of GRI in the Slovak individual stakeholder categories. The whole content is split into two main parts. The Republic. The verifier’s statement is contained in the annex to this report. The first part contains the Profile and Governance chapter describing VUB Group’s profile, verifier did not deal with verification of quantitative or qualitative data contained in this report. Pursuant to the GRI C C+ B B+ A A+ guidelines Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Mandatory Self Declared Third Party Checked Optional GRI Checked 4 Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes Profile and Governance Vision To be the Best Bank in Slovakia for customer satisfaction, while maintaining excellence in profitability and operating efficiency. Mission Conscious of the value of our activities and services following the needs of the community we are part of and based on trust and respect for all our stakeholders customer, employees and shareholder to create a sense of belonging of our employees and community and compete on the market with a sense of fair play and promote sustainable growth and results. Values We provide our clients with bank and financial services on a high level. At the same time, by means of our services, we create and activate the tools for development of the economic system of Slovakia. Our aim is to build a relation with clients and shareholders based on trust and satisfaction, solidarity of our employees and closeness to the actual needs of the whole society. Therefore, VUB’s corporate culture and Code of Ethics contain the values that help us be successful and accomplish the expected results. Values direct our behaviour in situations when we must choose from among several paths. They form the basis for our success at work as individuals and also as a bank. They are published on page www.vub.sk/en/about-us/values-principles. SEDEM HODNÔT NAŠEJ SPOLOéNOSTI 5 Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes Company Profile VUB Group Provides a Wide Range of Services Key Indicators Financial 2013 2012 2011 Loans to customers in bil. euro 7.2 billion 7.1 billion 6.9 billion Banking Leasing Factoring Customer deposits in bil. euro 7.8 billion 7.8 billion 7.5 billion Share capital in mil. euro 430.82 430.82 430.82 Number of clients 1,245,229 1,252,874 1,255,997 Number of sales points 243 246 249 Percentage of local suppliers 92 92 92 Customer Asset Pension Social Finance Management Saving Number of employees 3,485 3,497 3,520 – thereof women 2,576 2,565 2,606 – thereof with disability 35 36 26 Turnover percentage 13.6 13.7 12.2 Number of injuries 2 7 6 About Intesa Sanpaolo Group Support to non-profit organizations 234 295 274 The Italian banking group Intesa Sanpaolo, based in Turin and Milan, is the majo(in EUR thous.) rity shareholder of VUB Bank with a stake of 96.97 % in the Bank’s share capital. It was established in January 2007 by a merger of two significant Italian banks, Environmental Banca Intesa and Sanpaolo IMI. The Group has a leading position in Italy and it is one of the leading banks providing financial products and services to households Energy consumption per employee 9,126 9,440 9,767 and also companies across Europe. Intesa Sanpaolo has a strategic business re(kWh) presentation in the region of Central and Eastern Europe and in the area of the Paper consumption per employee 136 129 148 Mediterranean Sea. Through its subsidiary banks, it operates in Serbia, where it (kg per year) ranks first, then in Albania, Croatia and Slovakia, where it controls the second larWater consumption per employee 37 37 65 gest banks in the market, in Hungary with the third largest bank, fifth largest bank (litres per day) in Bosnia and Herzegovina and in Egypt and in Slovenia, where it owns the sixth most significant bank. The Group is represented also in Ukraine, in the Russian VUB Bank was established on January 1, 1990 by spinning off commercial actiFederation and in Romania. vities for corporate clients in the territory of the Slovak Republic from the Czechoslovak State Bank. VUB Bank is a public joint-stock company operating in the Slovak and Czech Republics. A break-through for our activities was the year 2001, when a significant Italian banking group IntesaBci (nowadays Intesa Sanpaolo) acquired a majority stake in VUB Bank. VUB Bank is currently the second largest bank in Slovakia. It administers deposits amounting to EUR 7.8 billion and loans worth EUR 7.2 billion. The Bank’s portfolio holds currently more than 1.2 million clients. VUB has been one of the most profitable banks in Slovakia in recent years. The shareholder structure is described in the chapter Shareholders. 6 Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes Presence of Intesa Sanpaolo in the Region 7 Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes Financial Indicators In this external environment, VUB was commercially faring well mainly owing to its subsidiaries Consumer Finance Holding and VÚB Asset Management, which Also in 2013, the Slovak economy recorded a positive increase. Although the GDP operate in a fast-growing market of consumer finance and mutual funds. In 2013, growth was much slighter than in the previous year, less than one percent, comthey kept improving their market shares. VUB Bank as such recorded in the loan pared to the negative values in the Eurozone but also in the neighbouring Czech market somewhat lower shares than in the preceding year due to the defined risk Republic, this was a relatively decent result. Simultaneously, we need to say that appetite as well as revision of business models in some market segments. Prudenthe slight growth of the Slovak economy was again driven only by the demand tial approach to risk and a balanced asset quality was on the contrary positively from abroad. The domestic demand continued in the falling tendency, which mereflected in the profitability indicators, which VUB considerably improved against ant that companies oriented on the local clientele as well as households did not 2012. VUB’s operating efficiency indicators improved as well. prosper from the positive GDP increase. Quite the opposite, the investments and profits of non-financial companies dropped and unemployment kept rising to the Market Shares as at as at as at 31/12/2013 31/12/2012 31/12/2011 Total assets 18.6 % 18.6 % 19.0 % Customer deposits 17.6 % 17.8 % 18.0 % Loans to customers 18.3 % 19.1 % 18.9 % Mortgage loans 44.8 % 46.4 % 46.5 % Branch network 19.4 % 19.9 % 20.6 % Payment cards 27.3 % 28.8 % 24.7 % highest level since 2004. In the labour market, a partial relief came at least towards the end of the year, when unemployment got stabilized and the fears about ATMs 22.1 % 22.6 % 23.3 % job loss among the people subsided. Thus, also the private consumption could be EFT POS terminals 22.2 % 23.1 % 20.2 % stabilized, which was a welcomed turnaround after three years of decline. The complete financial performance is published in VUB’s 2013 Annual Report A positive turn in the consumer confidence was reflected in the market of consu(http://www.vub.sk/en/about-us/banks-profile/annual-reports/). mer loans which recorded a double-digit year-on-year growth to become the most dynamic segment in the loan market by far. Housing loans recorded good results as well also owing to the refinance loans that became more attractive due to a cut in the interest rates to all-time lows. On the contrary, a decrease attributable to VUB Bank’s Headcount (always as at 31/12) a falling volume of new investments was seen in loans to local businesses. Those 2013 3,485 kept their finances rather in the Bank and did not invest them into superfluous 2012 3,497 production capacities, which resulted in an increase of their deposits with the 2011 3,520 banks. On the other hand, last year the households preferred entrusting their new savings to the management companies, which offered a more attractive appreciation in their mutual funds than the term deposits. The volume of household deposits in the banks basically stagnated. Employee Structure as at 31/12/2013 Management Board members 8 Managers 519 Non-managers 2,966 8 Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes Subsidiaries with Majority Stake of VÚB, a.s. holds a 9.3% stake in the company. VÚB Asset Management, správ. spol., a.s. Consumer Finance Holding, a.s. Registered office: Mlynské nivy 1, 820 04 Bratislava Registered Office: Hlavné nám. 12, 060 01 Kežmarok Shareholders: Eurizon Capital SA, VÚB, a.s., Privredna Banka Zagreb Shareholders: VÚB, a.s. Stake: Eurizon Capital SA: 50.1 % Stake of VÚB, a. s., 100 % VÚB, a.s.: 40.6 % Core business: Provision of non-banking loans Privredna Banka Zagreb: 9.3 % Core business: Collective investment, portfolio administration and management VÚB Leasing, a.s. Registered Office: Mlynské nivy 1, 820 04 Bratislava Business Network Shareholders: VÚB, a.s. The VUB business network servicing more than 1.25 mil. clients is the second Stake of VÚB, a. s., 100 % largest in Slovakia. VUB’s management is based in Bratislava. Core business: Financial and operational leasing 2013 2012 2011 VÚB Factoring, a.s. Registered Office: Mlynské nivy 1, 820 04 Bratislava Retail branches 200 203 206 Shareholders: VÚB, a.s. Mortgage centres 11 11 11 Stake of VÚB, a. s., 100 % Corporate branches 32 32 32 Core business: Factoring and forfaiting transactions Number of ATMs 573 566 560 Recovery, a.s. Registered Office: Mlynské nivy 1, 820 04 Bratislava Shareholders: VÚB, a.s. Stake of VÚB, a. s., 100 % Core business: Administration, collection and purchase of receivables During 2013, there was a change in the stakes in VÚB Asset Čadca Námestovo Management, správ. spol., a.s., with registered office Mlynské Turzovka Zákamenné Svidník Trstená Bardejov nivy 1, 820 04 Bratislava, by which VÚB, a.s. lost the majoKysucké Nové Mesto Krásno nad Kysucou Tvrdošín Nižná Medzilaborce 6 x Žilina rity stake in this company. The entry of new shareholders Bytča Dolný Kubín Podolínec Lipany Stropkov Spišská Belá from the Intesa Sanpaolo Group into the company in Považská Bystrica Vrútky 2 x Liptovský Stará Ľubovňa Kežmarok Sabinov Giraltovce Turany Mikuláš 3 x Poprad Hanušovce nad Topľou April 2013 lead to an increase in the compaPúchov Lednické Svit Levoča 3 x Prešov Snina Ilava Rovne 2 x Martin Ružomberok ny’s share capital from the original EUR Nová Dubnica Dubnica Rajec Liptovský Hrádok Spišské Podhradie Krompachy 2 x Humenné Trenčianske Teplice nad Váhom 1,660,000 to EUR 4,093,560, and 3 x Trenčín Nitrianske Pravno Turčianske Teplice Spišská Nová Ves Gelnica Vranov nad Topľou Strážske thus to a change in the equity parSkalica Nové Mesto nad Váhom Bánovce nad 2 x Prievidza Slovenská Ľupča Brezno 12 x Košice 2 x Michalovce Holíč Sobrance ticipations. Eurizon Capital SA, Myjava Stará Turá Bebravou Bojnice Kremnica 3 x Banská Sečovce Senica Leopoldov Dolné Handlová Bystrica Rožňava which is a 100% subsidiary of Vrbové Piešťany Vestenice Žiar nad Revúca Trebišov Nováky Partizánske Hronom Zvolen Hriňová Moldava Veľké Kapušany Intesa Sanpaolo Group, beNitrianska Detva Hnúšťa nad Bodvou Kráľovský Smolenice Blatnica came the majority sharehol2 x Topoľčany Žarnovica Poltár Rimavská Chlmec Banská Štiavnica der of VÚB Asset ManageKúty Malacky 3 x Trnava Hlohovec Nová Baňa Sobota Tornaľa Modra 6 x Nitra Zlaté Moravce Lučenec ment with a 50.1% stake. Šaštín-Stráže Pezinok Krupina Sereď The stake of VUB Bank in Stupava Senec Sládkovičovo Vráble Levice Fiľakovo Ivanka Galanta Dudince Veľký Krtíš the company was reduced 34 x pri Dunaji Šaľa Vinica Bratislava Dunajská Lužná Šurany from the original 100 % to Zlaté Klasy Tvrdošovce Šahy 9 Šamorín Nové Zámky 40.6 % and the Croatian Dunajská Streda Želiezovce Veľký Kolárovo PBZ (Privredna Banka Zagreb) Meder Hurbanovo Gabčíkovo Štúrovo Komárno Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes Membership in Organizations Euromoney Award for the Best Private Banking In 2013, VUB Bank was an active member in several associations and professional We won the award for the best private banking in Slovakia for clients with assets associations. The most important professional association is the Slovak Banking Asworth USD 0.5 – 1 mil.. The prestigious financial magazine Euromoney evaluated sociation, which is a key association in the Slovak financial sector and the only orgathe level of services to the private banking clients around the world already for the nization representing the interests of banks operating in the Slovak Republic. Other tenth time. VUB Private Banking has a several years’ tradition and a very strong posignificant organizations, in which VUB Bank was a member, include the Italian, sition in the market. U.S. and German Chambers of Commerce, the Brokers Association and the Slovak Chamber of Commerce and Industry. We are a member of the Business Leaders FoGolden Coin rum association joining leaders in enforcement of corporate responsibility principles Also in 2013, VUB became the most successful bank in the Golden Coin competiin Slovakia. tion. Within the competition, products of financial institutions are assessed by experts from the circles of financial journalists, representatives of broker companies, universities, research companies, professional associations. Out of eleven banking Awards product categories, it received eight coins. VUB scored in the categories of consuWorld´s Safest Banks in Central and Eastern Europe mer loans (Flexi Loan), credit cards (American Express Blue) and debit cards (Maestro According to the prestigious financial magazine Global Finance, VUB Bank beGood Angel), for which it was awarded golden coins. It won silver in the category longs to the safest banks in the Central and Eastern Europe (World’s Safest Banks of housing loans (Flexi Mortgage) and corporate loans (Profi Loans / Business Credit in Central & Eastern Europe). VUB Bank ranked sixth among the top ten safest Line). The coin collection of VUB is supplemented also by three bronze coins in the banks in Central and Eastern Europe. In its assessment, the magazine derived from categories of bank accounts (Flexi Account), saving accounts (Fleximore Saving for long-term credit ratings (of agencies Moody’s, Standard & Poor’s and Fitch) and 5 years) and corporate accounts (Flexi Business Account). Awarded was also the the total volume of assets. VUB is the only Slovak bank, which placed among the product of the subsidiary VÚB Asset Management, which won a bronze coin in the selected banks in the region. category of mixed funds (VUB AM Dynamic Portfolio). The Best Bank in Slovakia from EMEA Finance European Business Awards VUB Bank gained the award The Best Bank in Slovakia from the EMEA Finance In the European Business Awards 2013, VUB Bank became the laureate of the Natiomagazine. The EMEA Finance magazine annually honours European banks with nal Winner award. We got nominated in the categories of Environment and Social EMEA Finance Europe Banking Awards. The awarded banks managed last year to Responsibility. The award is designated for innovative European companies focused outpace their competitors, ensure return on the investments for their shareholders on successful and ethical business. For each country and each category there is only and help their clients grow. EMEA Finance labelled VUB Bank as the Best Bank in one winner. There was a total of 35 countries, which competed in 11 categories. Slovak Republic for the fifth time in history. NKA NA S BA JLEPŠIA VENSKU NA LO GLOBAL BRANDS MAGAZINE 2013 2013 2013 10 Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes Organization and Governance Supervisory Board Internal Audit Corporate Corpor. & Control & Mark. Management Social Responsibility Communication Board Business Continuity Customer Corpor. Strategy Management Compliance Security Care & Econ. Research CEO General Legal AML Secretariat Services Deputy CEO Operations Financial Planning Risk Corporate Retail Human Resources and IT & Controling Management Banking Banking Architecture Personell Tax Strategy Enterprise Corporate ADC Management and BI Development & Management Risk Management & Compensation Customer Mngt. Small Segment Management Administrative and Corporate and Personnel Relationship IT Operations and Customer Relationship Financial Governance Retail Underwriting Management & Medium Enterprises Management Fin. Reporting Asset Quality Training Financial Product IT Delivery & Account. Governance Mgmt. & Development and Capital Markets Management Balance VÚB CR Retail Banking Operations Recovery Sheet Management Prague Branch Branch Mgmt. Policy Corporate Procurement Payment Cards & Methodology Transactions Banking Project Private Planning & Controlling & Real Estate Legend: Finance Banking Division Cost & Services Staff Unit Recovery, a.s. CFH, a.s. Management Department VÚB Generali DSS, a. s. VÚB Factoring, a.s. Slovak Banking Credit VÚB AM, VÚB Leasing, a.s. 11 Bureau, spol. s r. o. správ. spol., a.s. Support Units Control Units Support Units Business Units Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes Governance Supervisory Board members in 2013: Similarly to its parent company Intesa Sanpaolo, also VUB Bank applies a dual administration and control model, within which the control activities and strategic György Surányi – Chairman of Supervisory Board management are separated from the management of business activities performed by the Bank’s Management Board. Ownership and management are thus • Resident Regional Manager, International Subsidiary Banks Division, clearly defined and the Supervisory Board functions as a filter between the shareIntesa Sanpaolo, Italy holders and the Management Board. The Bank’s management disposes of a full execution power, whereas the Supervisory Board performs the control function. Ignacio Jaquotot – Vice Chairman of Supervisory Board (since November 11, 2013) This model provides for transparency and reduces the risk of conflict of interest. • Head of International Subsidiary Banks Division, Intesa Sanpaolo, Italy Bank’s Bodies Massimo Malagoli – Vice Chairman of Supervisory Board (until November 11, 2013) and Supervisory Board member General Meeting General Meetings are the Bank’s top decision-making body representing all sha• Head of Planning & Control and Corporate Development Department, reholders and their decisions approved pursuant to applicable legal regulations International Subsidiary Banks Division, Intesa Sanpaolo, Italy and Bank’s Articles of Association are binding for all shareholders. The General Meeting consists of all attending shareholders. Members of the Supervisory and Paolo Sarcinelli – Supervisory Board member (since April 9, 2013) Management Boards regularly attend General Meetings facilitating their smooth course and simultaneously answering the questions and inquiries presented by • Head of Loans Department, International Subsidiary Banks Division, Intesa Sanpaolo, Italy shareholders. The Management Board is obliged to convene a regular General Meeting within the period of three months from the compilation of regular finanChristian Schaack – Supervisory Board member (since November 11, 2013) cial statements and its verification by an auditor. Should the interests of VÚB, a.s. require so and in cases stipulated by legal regulations an extraordinary General • Independent member Meeting may be convened. Andrej Straka – Supervisory Board member (since December 9, 2013) Supervisory Board Supervisory Board is the top control body of the Bank. It supervises the Manage• Employee representative ment Board and performance of the Bank’s business activities. Save for members of Supervisory Board elected by the employees of VÚB, a.s., a member of the Adriano Arietti – Supervisory Board member (until April 8, 2013) Supervisory Board may not be an employee of VÚB, a.s. • Independent member The Supervisory Board inspects and submits conclusions and/or recommendations to the General Meeting regarding mainly the following: Antonio Furesi – Supervisory Board member (until November 11, 2013) • fulfilment of tasks assigned to the Management Board by the General Meeting; • compliance of VÚB, a.s.’s activities with the Articles of Association, and with • Head of Coordination of VUB Bank and CIB Bank, legal regulations; and International Subsidiary Banks Division, Intesa Sanpaolo, Italy • business and financial activities of VÚB, a.s., accounting, documentation, accounts, condition of property, payables and receivables of VÚB, a.s. Jana Finková – Supervisory Board member (until November 28, 2013) The Supervisory Board has a minimum of three members, out of whom one is the • Employee representative Chairman and at least one is a Vice Chairman, and a maximum of seven members. Members of the Supervisory Board are elected and removed by a decision of the Ján Gallo – Supervisory Board member (until December 15, 2013) General Meeting. Their term of office is three years. • Employee representative 12 Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes Supervisory Board Committees Management Board Pursuant to the relevant provisions of the Banking Act No. 483/2001 Coll. in Management Board is the statutory body governing the Bank’s executive manageapplicable version and the Accounting Act No. 431/2002 Coll. in applicable ment. It is authorized to act on behalf of the Bank in all matters and to represent version and to the relevant provisions of the VUB Articles of Association, the VÚB, a.s. in relations with third parties, in front of courts or other authorities. Supervisory Board established the Remuneration Committee and Audit Committee. The Management Board manages the activities of VÚB, a.s. and takes decisions over any matters related to VÚB, a.s, which, under the legal regulations or Articles Audit Committee of Association have not been reserved for the authority of other VUB bodies. The The Audit Committee comprised of three members (including the Chairman) as Management Board mainly: of 31 December 2013. Two members were appointed by the General Meeting a) implements decisions taken by the General Meeting and the Supervisory Board; (one was appointed on 3 April 2012 and the second was appointed on 9 April b) ensures the accuracy of mandatory bookkeeping and other records, trading 2013). One member of the Audit Committee (appointed by Supervisory Board books and other documentation of VÚB, a.s.; on 11 November 2013) is a Member of the Supervisory Board. c) manages the issuer’s securities registry; d) after prior approval by and upon a proposal of the Supervisory Board, it submits The issues discussed at its meetings are mainly related to: preparation of the to the General Meeting proposals for approval of: ﬁnancial statements and observation of the special regulations; efﬁciency of • Amendment to the Articles of Association; internal control and risk management system in the Bank; compliance with • proposals for increase and decrease of share capital and bond issues; regulatory requirements; audit of the separate ﬁnancial statements and audit of • ordinary, extraordinary, or consolidated financial statements; the consolidated ﬁnancial statements. Further, the Audit Committee examines • proposals for distribution of current and retained profits and/or proposals and monitors the independency of the auditor, especially services provided by for settlement of outstanding losses from the current and/or previous years; the auditor according to a special regulation, recommends the appointment of • annual report; an auditor for carrying out the audit of the Bank, and sets a date for an auditor e) approves and regularly reviews the Bank’s Compensation Policy. to submit a statutory declaration about its independency. The Audit Committee invited also the Bank’s external auditor to attend its meetings. The Management Board establishes the following specialized committees particularly related to risk management: Corporate Credit Committee, Assets and LiabiIn 2013, the Supervisory Board invited the Chairman of the Audit Committee lities Committee, Corporate Risk Committee, Operational Risk Committee, New to attend its meetings. The Internal Audit and Control Department, the authoProduct Committee, Business, Risk, IT Architecture Committee. rities and duties of which are deﬁned by the Supervisory Board, excluding those deﬁned by law, performs the control function. The Head of the Internal Audit Conditions of performance of function of a Management Board Member are deand Control Department may be appointed to/withdrawn from the position fined by an Agreement on Performance of the Function with Member of Manaupon the recommendation and prior consent issued by the Supervisory Board. gement Board in line with the relevant provisions of the Commercial Code, Act Furthermore, the Supervisory Board also deﬁnes the remuneration and comNo. 483/2001 Coll. on Banks, adopted Remuneration Policies and another relevant pensation scheme for this position. legislation. Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee was founded in VUB in July 2012. It has 3 members at least 2 of whom are members of the Supervisory Board. The committee meets at least once a year. Its main roles are to independently assess the compensation principles of the selected positions (according to the Banking Act) and their impact on the management of risk, own funds and liquidity; be responsible for preparation of decisions concerning the compensation of the selected positions, including decisions affecting the risks and the management of risks in the Bank, which are to be made by the Management Board of VUB; take account of long-term interests of shareholders, investors and other interested parties of the Bank in preparing its decisions. 13 Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes Management Board members in 2013 The curricula vitae published in the 2013 Annual Report and on page in the About Us/Bank’s Profile section contain information on professional qualification of Alexander Resch Chairman of Management Board Supervisory Board members and Management Board members in the area of finance and Chief Executive Officer (since 01/10/2013) and banking, as well as information on their practical experience serving as assurance for an efficient management of the company in line with the Bank’s strategy in finanIgnacio Jaquotot Chairman of Management Board cial, environmental and social spheres. All Management Board members are evaluated and Chief Executive Officer (until 30/09/2013) on the basis of key performance indicators (KPIs), for which they bear responsibility. All managers in the respective positions are evaluated depending on the fulfilment of Elena Kohútiková Management Board Member these KPIs also with respect to financial, social and environmental performance. The and Deputy Chief Executive Officer Bank adopted the Compensation Policy of VÚB, a.s. (Bank’s Compensation Policy), which is compliant with the Compensation Policy of Intesa Sanpaolo, Banking Act Andrea De Michelis Management Board Member and Executive Director No. 483/2001 and other relevant legal regulations. The Compensation Policy determiof Finance, Planning and Controlling Division nes a balanced proportion of individual components of the total compensation with respect to prevention of excessively risk-oriented behaviour with a view of preventing Stanislav Hodek Management Board Member and Executive Director initiatives aimed exclusively at reaching short-term goals and also resolving potential of Operations and IT Division conflict of interests. The evaluation is carried out under the Performance Assessment guidelines and is fully in the competence of the Supervisory Board. Jiří Huml Management Board Member and Executive Director of Retail Banking Division (since 01/06/2013) Management Board Committees In VUB Bank, the Management Board established mainly the following bank-wide top Jozef Kausich Management Board Member and Executive Director committees charged with the task of coordinating, escalating and adopting decisions of Corporate Banking Division in bank-wide procedures and initiatives: • Corporate Credit Committee, Peter Magala Management Board Member and Executive Director • Assets and Liabilities Committee (ALCO), of Risk Management Division • Project Portfolio Committee, • Recovery Committee, Silvia Púchovská Management Board Member and Executive Director • Crisis Committee, of Human Resources Division • IT Architecture Committee (terminated on August 31,2013. Its agenda was included in the Project Portfolio Committee), Adrián Ševčík Management Board Member and Executive Director • Credit Risk Committee, of Retail Banking Division (until 07/04/2013) • Operational Risk Committee, • New Product Committee. Internal Audit and Control The mission of the Internal Audit and Control Department is to provide independent, objective assurance and consulting services designed to add value and improve VUB’s and its affiliates‘ operations. It helps VUB Group accomplish its objectives by bringing a systematic, disciplined approach to evaluation and improvement of the effectiveness of risk management, control, and governance processes. Independence of the Internal Audit and Control Department is expressed in the organizational structure by its direct reporting to the Supervisory Board, which established also an Audit Committee for the needs of a more detailed communication concerning the Bank’s internal control system. 14 Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes Disclosure of Information and Transparency The Bank applies changes arising from Act No. 566/2001 Coll. on Securities at EuroThe Bank applies strict rules in the area of insider dealing, and continually maintains pean level, MiFID (Markets in Financial Instruments Directive), and has proceeded in and updates a list of insiders. Information about corporate governance is published on activities towards investor protection and the strengthening of client trust in the prothe VUB web site www.vub.sk in the section “About us”. Information for shareholvision of investment services. The aim of MiFID comprises the new categorization of ders is available on the VUB web site www.vub.sk in the “For Shareholders” section. clients according to their knowledge and experience with investments, the obligation Members of the Management Board and Supervisory Board do not have any personal to provide clients with best execution of their investments, in higher market transpainterest in the business activities of the Bank. The Bank strictly observes the provisions rency, and organization of the Bank as a securities trader, which shall secure internal of the Banking Act No. 483/2001 Coll. as amended, applicable to the provision of control systems and the prevention of conﬂict of interests. The Bank continuously deals to the Bank’s related parties. Under the Banking Act, the closing of such a deal informs clients on concluded deals related to quoted shares and bonds on its web requires the unanimous consent of all the Management Board members based on page www.vub.sk. a written analysis of the deal concerned; a person with a personal interest in the given deal is expelled from a decision-making role. The Bank does not carry out with its related parties any such deals, which owing to their nature, purpose or risk, would not be performed with other clients. The Bank abides by both the Corporate Governance Code for Slovakia and the rules of the Bratislava Stock Exchange governing disclosure of all substantial information. The fact that the company observes the mentioned regulations ensures that all the shareholders and potential shareholders have access to information on ﬁnancial standing, performance, ownership and management of the company, enabling them to take competent investment decisions. The Corporate Governance Code for Slovakia is available on the Central European Corporate Governance Association – CECGA web site www.cecga.org. The Bratislava Stock Exchange Rules are available on the Bratislava Stock Exchange web site www.bsse.sk in a part “BSSE Regulations”. The Company actively supports constructive dialogue with institutional investors and promptly informs all shareholders of General Meetings and notices via its web page www.vub.sk in Slovak and English languages. In this way it enables both foreign and local investors to actively participate in the meetings. 15 Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes Our Responsibility Corporate Responsibility Approach ted to the Bank’s Management Board on a quarterly basis. Codes and policies concerning corporate responsibility are always approved by the Management Board, which is responsible for performance in the financial, social and enviCorporate Responsibility Governance ronmental areas. Management Corporate Responsibility Strategy board CEO CSR unit Satisﬁed Satisﬁed clients employees All Bank CSR woking divisions group Corporate Responsibility Staff Unit Our aim The unit is included in the Bank’s organizational structure as an independent department reporting directly to the Chief Executive Officer. It is managed by the corporate responsibility manager, who is simultaneously a member of the international coordination group for corporate responsibility of the parent company Intesa Sanpaolo. The department’s task is to provide support, guidance and where necessary also coordinate the corporate responsibility activities through designated representatives from each bank division. Satisﬁed Satisﬁed Corporate Responsibility Group shareholders public A bank-wide corporate responsibility group has been continuously working in the interest of implementing corporate responsibility principles into all aspects of the Bank’s activities. Representatives for each bank division were nominated to this group by the Management Board. The group is responsible for: • implementation of corporate responsibility principles into the division’s activities, • management and monitoring of all corporate responsibility aspects in their divisions, • supply of qualitative and quantitative data for the purposes of compiling the annual corporate responsibility report, • quarterly supply of qualitative and quantitative data for the parent company. 16 Managerial decisions in the area of corporate responsibility are in the competence of the Chief Executive Officer, whereas all activities are regularly reporContents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes Subsidiary banks implement into their activities corporate responsibility values, poDialogue with Stakeholders licies and principles identical with the ones of their parent bank Intesa Sanpaolo. The model that the parent bank applies is based on the premise that equally as VUB Bank runs several programs aimed at dialogue and communication with our the bank itself also all employees are owners of responsibility in their day-to-day stakeholders influenced by our business activity. We focus mainly on dialogue with activities. Important is a complex approach to sustainability and addressing the our key stakeholders in these forms: needs of Bank’s individual stakeholders, whether it is company owners, employees • customer satisfaction surveys, or clients. The result is implementation of unified corporate responsibility policies • solving of client inquiries, and principles. • employee surveys and polls, • discussion between employees and Bank’s management, • communication with the community. Corporate Responsibility Section on Intranet The greatest attention is paid to the category of clients, mainly through several On the Intranet there is a special section for employees dedicated to corporate types of client satisfaction surveys. The survey is built on the basis of a recognized responsibility. It contains all corporate responsibility related documents adopted European indicator ECSI – European Customer Satisfaction Index. Client inquiries (Code of Ethics, Internal Code of Conduct, policies), corporate responsibility reand complaints are examined by the Customer Care Department, which consisports, presentations and information materials. Basic corporate responsibility dotently accepts and analyzes all inquiries, their justification and causes providing cuments of our parent bank are available to employees as well. a feedback to other sub-departments in form of proposals for improvement in processes, products and prevention of similar potential wrongdoings in the future. Corporate Responsibility Education For more details refer to the Clients chapter. In the second half of 2013, VUB Bank organized a corporate responsibility training for selected employees. It was aimed at increasing awareness about corporate resAttentive listening and dialogue are important also in relation to employees. Their ponsibility among managers and CSR delegates for individual divisions. The main satisfaction is periodically examined in form of employee surveys and by promoting objective of the trainings was to familiarize the employees with corporate responBank’s values and principles anchored in the Code of Ethics. In 2013, a regular sursibility as a part of their every-day work, not as a burden beyond the framework vey identifying employee satisfaction was performed in the whole Intesa Sanpaolo of their common work responsibilities. Corporate responsibility is not happening Group. During the whole year, we are carrying out also internal polls on various outside the office, but it is rather an integral part of their working activities. Traitopics. We also ran a survey focused especially on female employees and their sanings should serve as an inspiration and source of new ideas and suggestions that tisfaction with harmonization of their work and private life. The measures that dewould make VUB Bank an even more successful and more responsible company. rived from it will be implemented in 2014. The employees have a chance to pose The seminars were held in cooperation with the Pontis Foundation and VUB Acaquestions directly to the Chief Executive Officer by means of an Intranet form. For demy from June until December of 2013. Their content was tailored to each dimore details refer to the Employees chapter. vision. For example managers from the HR Division concentrated on the topics such as loyalty, motivation, diversity and gender equality. The colleagues from In order to learn about the needs of communities the Corporate Responsibility facility management dedicated themselves to the questions of environmental maStaff Unit organizes meetings with the representatives of communities, the third nagement, climatic change, CO2 emissions and energetic efficiency. The procuresector, education system and other entities. ment employees learned more about the green purchase principles, green IT and a responsible supplier chain. The topics for retail and corporate banking included All forms of dialogue and communication with stakeholders we engage in are the Code of Ethics, transparency, risk management, responsible lending and inspecified in individual chapters of this report. The stakeholder dialogue results in vestment, green loans, responsible funds, client satisfaction and transparent commeasures and commitments that the Bank implements into its business and action munication. The trainings contributed to business sustainability of our Bank and plans. All these measures help us deliver the Bank’s mission, improve our services brought several new ideas. and products, as well as manage our relations with the Bank’s stakeholders in order to achieve an evenly balanced relation satisfying for both parties. 17 Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes Advocating Corporate Responsibility Principles Overview of 2013 Proceedings VUB Bank engages also in advocating corporate responsibility principles and VUB Bank was a party to a proceeding heard by the Antimonopoly Office of raising awareness among entrepreneurs and the wide public alike. Since 2004, the Slovak Republic in the matter of a suspected conclusion of agreement with it has been a member of an informal association called the Business Leaders other two Slovak banks limiting the competition. The administrative proceeding Forum (BLF) joining leaders in enforcement of corporate responsibility principles was lawfully terminated in 2009 and VUB Bank was sanctioned with a penalty in Slovakia.In 2013, BLF concentrated on the topic of responsible supplier chain amounting to EUR 3,810,461. Since, in the opinion of VUB Bank, the adminisand ecological efficiency. trative proceeding was not conducted in compliance with law, in January 2010 the Bank brought a legal action against the Antimonopoly Office of the Slovak Republic to the respective court appealing the decision. In its ruling dated September 28, 2010, the Regional Court in Bratislava cancelled the appealed decision of the Antimonopoly Office of the Slovak Republic and returned the matter to it for further action. The Antimonopoly Office of the Slovak Republic filed an appeal against this ruling with the Supreme Court of the Slovak Republic. Based on the ruling of the Supreme Court of the Slovak Republic the fine was paid on 03/07/2013. VUB Bank subsequently filed an extraordinary claim to the Supreme Court of the Slovak Republic asking to cancel the ruling and postpone the obligation to pay the fine until a legally valid ruling in the matter as well as ZODPOVEDNÉ ODPOVEDNÉ PODNIKANIE PRE MALÉ A A|STREDNÉ STREDNÉ FIRM FIRMY an institutional complaint. In 2013, VUB Bank was a not party to any proceeding at the Advertising Standards Council as an ethical self-regulatory authority. Ethical Codes No lying. We repeatedly state these words, which reflect the essence of all ethiBusiness Ethics and Management of Sensitive cal codes VUB Bank acceded to. The effort to bring clear and true information Aspects is a reflection of one of our basic values in practice, being the transparency. • Consumer Protection Code of Ethics We are a bank that committed itself to corporate responsibility and our clients, • European Agreement on a Voluntary Code of Conduct shareholders, employees and suppliers expect us to be ethical in conducting on Pre-Contractual Information for Home Loans our business. This is the very reason why VUB decided to implement ethics • The European Code of Conduct on Home Loans (ESIS) into its business taking specific steps and within various important measures it • Ethical Code of Advertising Practice introduced also a Code of Ethics. It is a set of principles, which have a strategic meaning for us and regulate the behaviour of our employees. Each employee, Versions of all ethical codes are published on the Internet site without any exception, is required to get familiarized with it, while its obserhttp://www.vub.sk/en/about-us/values-principles/compliance/. vance is continuously monitored and its breach penalized. This Code of Ethics is followed up by a corporate anti-corruption program with specific system and organizational measures, including an internal audit control system. Internal and External Ethical Standards VUB Bank has continued in a targeted building of its Corporate Governance and Considering the great responsibility that we as a bank bear towards our depoin cooperation with its parent company Intesa Sanpaolo has been setting up its sitors, shareholders and naturally towards our clients, we must comply with a own internal corporate responsibility rules significantly beyond the basic scope variety of legal regulations. Their observance is supervised by regulators. But we required by the Slovak legislation. Currently applicable internal and external retake it even further. We follow also such rules that are not imposed on us by gulations: any law or required by any authority, but which we consider commonplace as • VUB Code of Ethics, they give our business an ethical dimension. • Internal Group Code of Conduct, • Environmental Policy, • UN Global Compact, • Equator Principles, 18 Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes • Arms Policy, vity must reflect all values and principles contained in the Code. The parent com• Gift Acceptance Policy, pany and all Group’s companies promote by means of suitable internal control • Query Resolution Policy (so-called Whistle Blower Policy) system and adequate trainings and information systems – respecting of applicable • Policy for Management of Relations with Political Parties and Politically laws and regulations as well as compliance with general principles of conduct speEngaged Parties, Clients Operating in Armament Industry and Risk Industries, cified in the Code on all executive and operational levels and in every geographical Clients from Risk Countries and Transactions with Risk Countries context, where Intesa Sanpaolo performs its activities with the aim of protecting in VUB Group. property, integrity and reputation of each company and the whole group. VUB Code of Ethics Environmental Policy The VUB Code of Ethics adopted in 2012 derives from the Code of Ethics of Environmental Policy represents a written commitment to environmental protection, Intesa Sanpaolo. The Code is one of the pillars of the corporate culture. It reprewhich sets a mission and objectives in the area of environmental management. The sents a framework of ethical and moral values, observance of which is the basic policy defines VUB Group’s approach to prevention, management and where poprerequisite for a successful growth and permanently sustainable development. It ssible also reduction of direct and indirect environmental impacts it generates as a contains principles of conduct in relation to all stakeholders which raise the level result of its business activity. As a responsible company, VUB committed to manage of standards that each individual within the company must adhere to in order to the impacts of its business activity and reduce the impacts of its activities on the have the trust of all parties involved. As a management tool and a part of a wider environment in cooperation with its stakeholders. We do not belong among signivision of the Group’s social and environmental responsibility, the Code of Ethics ficant direct polluters of the environment, but we preferentially strive to minimize attributes the highest importance to all stakeholder relations. Electronic version potential negative impact on the environment to the lowest level possible. of the document is published on http://www.vub.sk/o-banke/hodnoty-principy/. Global Compact (UN Global Treaty) VUB is a signatory of Global Compact, a strategic initiative of the United Nations aimed at corporate responsibility. Worldwide, it was joined by over 5,000 comEtický kódex panies from more than 100 countries. VUB committed to support the ten basic principles concerning human rights, labour conditions, environment and anti-corruption with its activities. These principles fully correspond with VUB’s values. Equator Principles Intesa Sanpaolo committed to observe the so-called Equator Principles. It consists of a set of international rules for project financing designed by a group of international banks based on the policies of the International Finance Corporation. The principles are based on environmental and social standards of the World Bank and applied in project financing worth more than USD 10 million. The principles assist financial institutions in selecting projects with the aim of reducing social and environmental risks in project financing. They oblige the financing applicants to prepare a compulsory report on environmental impacts. These principles are observed also by VUB. In 2013, VUB Bank did not provide financing to any project, which would meet the Equator Principles criteria. In 2013, there were several internal breaches of the Code of Ethics by the employees. They pertained mainly to an unintentional breach of the bank secret and imArms Policy proper conduct with the clients in crisis situations. The employees were imposed In accordance with values and principles of the Code of Ethics, this policy of Intesa sanctions and in more severe cases their employment relation was terminated. Sanpaolo Group defines a ban on and transactions related to import and export of arms and armament systems. The Group members can assist clients in transactions The Group Internal Code of Conduct concerning the existing intergovernmental agreements or other transactions for The Code sets the basic principles of conduct by the company’s representatives, national armies, police or other armed forces of the state, which are considered employees and external agents, who are obliged to execute their functions rescompatible with the spirit of an “unarmed bank – a bank non-supportive of arms“ ponsibly, honestly, fairly and professionally, while promoting the Bank and Group’s based on an authorization by the competent unit of the Intesa Sanpaolo Group. interests as well as taking into consideration the interests of clients and shareholders. Therefore, execution of decision-making authorities and each business actiIn 2013, VUB Bank in cooperation with its parent company assessed under this policy 4 clients applying for a loan and 9 clients for common financial transactions. 19 Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes Gift Acceptance Policy • List of VUB’s mediators in the area of personal data processing and parties This internal policy deriving from the Code of Ethics of VUB Bank governs prinprovided personal data constituting a bank secret, ciples and limitations to behaviour of Bank’s representatives and employees in • List of third parties and recipients provided and made available personal accepting unsolicited gifts. It also sets the limits and rules of behaviour in gift data of clients and data constituting a bank secret. acceptance. Investor Protection (MiFID) Policy for Management of Relations with Political Parties and Politically Engaged VUB keeps providing the highest possible level of protection not only to its Parties, Clients Operating in Armament Industry and Risk Industries retail clients, but also to clients included in the highest category of professional The policy stipulates mainly: clients. VUB adopted and has been constantly enhancing several measures ai• management of relations with political parties and politically engaged med at investor protection and solving of investors’ complaints. This legal reguparties in the interest of preserving impartiality and independence lation is embedded in the directive on financial markets, the so-called “MiFID” Aiming to prevent potential reputation risk related to political parties and politi(Markets in Financial Instruments Directive), implemented in the Securities Act. cally engaged parties, VUB Group is obliged to act impartially and independenOur clients have access to documents that will help them to better understand tly. This means that companies, which are a part of VUB Group will approach the financial instruments and provision of investment services. the starting of business relations with political parties and politically engaged parties with utmost prudence. • management of relations with clients operating in the armament industry Client Protection in Payment Services Provision In connection with preservation of values and principles outlined in the Code VUB Bank continues in application of effective measures aimed at a better awaof Ethics, the main goal of this policy is to prevent that VUB and its subsidiaries reness of clients in provision of payment services in connection with implemenparticipate in the financing of activities and transactions concerning manufactation of the new “PSD“ (Payment Services Directive) directive in Slovakia by meturing of arms equipment as well as trading of this equipment for military purans of the Payment Services Act. Simultaneously, the Bank keeps enhancing the poses. knowledge of its employees through internal training activities as to guarantee • management of relations with clients operating in risky business fields (inthe highest possible comfort in practical use of the payment services by its clients. dustry risk) Within VUB Group, clients and potential clients operating in the below indusClient Protection in Financial Mediation tries / business fields are considered as risky: VUB Bank brought its activity into compliance with the requirements of the Act – exchange offices; No. 186/2009 Coll. on Financial Mediation and Financial Advisory and on the – pawnbroker’s shops; Amendment and Supplementation of Certain Acts as amended, as to provide – bars, night clubs, casinos; clients with the protection required by law. In the interest of securing a higher – gambling rooms with more than 3 gambling machines; protection of client rights, in financial mediation VUB Bank is trying to appro– security agencies; ach each client as a non-professional client. The basic information on financial – sex shops and pornography distributors; mediation, products subject to it and on affiliated and subordinated financial – debt collecting agency; agents, with whom VUB Bank cooperates, is published on our Internet pages. – broker companies; – betting offices. • management of relations with clients and transactions from/to risk counClient Protection in Consumer Lending tries (country risk) VUB Bank provides consumer loans in accordance with the Act No. 129/2010 Coll. Pursuant to the requirements of the binding regulation and Intesa Sanpaolo on Consumer Loans and Other Loans for Consumers and on the Amendment and regulations, clients and potential clients from selected countries are consideSupplementation of Certain Acts as amended. red risky, as well as all types of transactions and payments from and to these countries. Conflict of Interest Policy VUB Bank commits to avoid a conflict between private interests of its employConfidential Data Processing ees and the interests of the Bank. The employees are liable to take all required We respect client privacy and protect it. Pursuant to the law, we handle our measures in order to avoid a conflict of interest. In case a conflict of interest clients’ data with utmost care and principally with their awareness and conoccurs, employees shall solve such a conflict to the benefit of the Bank. The employees may never misuse their connection with the Bank to promote their 20 sent. On page http://www.vub.sk/en/about-us/values-principles/compliance/ confidential-data-processing/ we post and continuously update the list of third personal interests or harm the Bank’s reputation by their actions nor can they parties that were provided data of our clients: misuse their position or confidential information to prefer a job applicant or Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes a person aiming to start a business relation with the Bank. The Bank evaluates the We apply Customer Due Diligence pursuant to the valid legislation and take into measures and procedures implemented to prevent, minimize and solve a potential consideration the risk profile of individual clients. conflict of interest on a regular basis. VUB introduced measures for minimization of occurrence of an external conflict of interests in economic activities of employWithin its organizational structure, the Bank defined a specialized unit charged ees and in transactions between the Bank and an employee or a person related to with implementation, execution and coordination of activities related to protecan employee. The employees should consult their working activities outside their tion of the Bank against its misuse for the purposes of money laundering or terromain employment or involvement in business activities with their superior. The rist financing. The unit reports directly to the Deputy CEO and is responsible also Bank has no objections against employees getting involved in activities outside for detection of unusual business transactions and cooperation with the respective their work as volunteers or otherwise provided that the activity does not obstruct regulatory authorities. It also ensures monitoring of all financial transactions as performance of their regular work for the Bank or is not in conflict with internal required by law and the international legislation. The unit’s activities include also rules of the Bank and the Intesa Sanpaolo Group. evaluation of international payment transactions in real time constituting first-level prevention of connection between the bank sector and a sanctioned or risky VUB also applies and adheres to special measures designed to prevent conflicts of person and/or entity. interests in the area of investment services. Their main aim is to prevent conflicts of interests or cope with inevitable conflicts of interests as to prevent the risk of Awareness harming the clients’ interests. These measures are monitored and their efficiency The Bank created a specialized unit dedicated to disclosure of frauds and coris regularly evaluated. In relation with occurrence of a potential conflict of interest, ruption, which is a part of the Risk Management Division. It closely cooperates VUB Bank declares that it will notify clients of the nature and source of the conflict primarily with the Internal Audit and Control Department and the Compliance Deprior to provision of an investment service or prior to performing an activity and in partment. All bank employees are informed of internal ethical standards and the case of their provision or execution it will always prefer the clients’ interests to its zero tolerance principle while having access to the basic information on the steps own ones. In case of a conflict of interests between the clients themselves it will that are necessary to take in case of any corruption or fraud suspicion. Since the ensure an equal and fair treatment of all clients. Bank has an eminent interest in disclosing corruption and frauds, it implemented the so-called Whistle Blower Policy enabling each bank employee to communicate Anti-money Laundering and Anti-terrorism his/her suspicion preserving his/her anonymity. In the anti-money laundering (AML) and anti-terrorist financing, we are progressing in line with the Slovak and also the European legislation ensuring protection The Bank does not conceal the detected corruption and fraud cases from its emof our clients as well as of the Bank itself. In the banking sector, we are a stakeployees, but on the contrary it decided to inform and educate its managers in holder of the Financial Investigation Unit (FIU), which operatively evaluates the order to constantly improve their work and eliminate shortcomings and errors in clients’ behaviour signals we report and is under a permanent supervision of the this area in the future. Due to this reason, the managers are informed of some regulatory authority of the National Bank of Slovakia. cases that occurred in the past. Our activity in the area of Bank’s protection against money laundering or terrorist Within initial trainings, all new hires in the retail network are given a special prefinancing is intensifying and we dedicate this area greater attention. We do not sentation on fraud and corruption risks including typical signs of a risky behaviour. want to support these negative phenomena not even indirectly by enabling finanThe main objective of this training activity is to increase prevention and/or minimicial flows by means of our products, services or in any connection with the Bank. ze occurrence of these cases. Therefore, we follow strictly set up internal rules to prevent money-laundering and terrorist financing in form of detection of unusual business transactions. For this Discrimination Ban purpose, the Bank developed and implemented its own program of anti-money On all levels and in relation to all its stakeholders, VUB Bank observes the nonlaundering and anti-terrorist financing activities deriving from: -discrimination principles, which are firmly anchored in our Code of Ethics and • Slovak legislation, system of values. One of VUB’s values is that “We do not discriminate We com• European legislation, mit that we shall exclude from our actions any discrimination and shall respect • international FATF recommendations, recommendations of The Basel differences based on sex, age, race, faith, political opinion, participation in unions, Committee on Banking Supervision and Wolfsberg Principles, US Patriot Act, language skills or impairment.“ For more information on its application refer to • group rules of Intesa Sanpaolo in the area of anti-money laundering as well the Employees chapter. as against risky entities and countries. 21 Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes Corruption and Fraudulent Actions Measures for Corruption and Fraud Reduction Clearly Defined Approach and Principles Internal Control System VUB Bank has been fulfilling and committed to fulfil high moral and ethical The Bank incorporated into its processes various control mechanisms in order to standards built on clearly declared principles. All bank employees have been reduce the corruption and fraud risk to the minimum level possible. The Bank informed of these principles by means of various forms (distributed brochures, clearly sets the necessity of a control mechanism for each bank process, wheinternal campaign, posting on Intranet). The principles are as follows: re corruption and fraud risk is imminent (e.g. verification of decisions, 4-eyes control, access rights management etc.). The internal control system consists of • The Bank requires all its employees to act honestly, with integrity three levels: statutory, executive and control. and protect sources and information in their work environment or for which they bear responsibility. • The Bank committed to ensure that fraud and corruption risk would be reduced to the lowest level possible. • These principles relate to all unusual cases involving employees as well as external consultants, suppliers, contractual stakeholders and/or any third party in a business relation with this organization. • All employees must take decisions individually in line with the Bank’s interests. They must not act with the aim of gaining financial or other material advantage for themselves, their family or close ones. Zero Tolerance VUB Bank clearly proclaims its absolute zero tolerance principle regarding corruption and frauds. All bank employees are informed about the following principles: Internal Audit The Bank established an internal audit and control unit, which is an indepen• The Bank shall not accept any form of fraudulent or corrupt acting, dent supervising body (unit directly reporting to the Bank’s Supervisory Botherefore each case will be thoroughly examined and relevant measures ard and not to the Management Board). One of its main roles is to verify the drawn from it. functionality of internal control system, compliance with external and internal • Each participation in a fraud or fraud attempt shall lead to dismissal legislation including the Bank’s Code of Ethics, verification of internal control and potential criminal charges. failures and internal fraud suspicions. • Necessary investigation shall be performed irrespective of the relation of the given person to this organization, his/her work position In 2013, the Internal Audit and Control unit examined the internal control sysor employment duration. tem in all corporate branches, in approximately half of the retail branches and it also carried out several specialized audits related to internal fraud risks. Verified were also all key processes in the Bank selected based on an annually prepared risk map. On the grounds of the risks identified within individual audits, the Bank immediately adopted corrective measures and set up a regular monitoring of such areas and if necessary notified the respective state bodies. 22 Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes Our Stakeholders Clients • Individual clients Our Clients Individual (Private) Clients • Corporate clients The focus of our interest lies in retail banking, where we provide services to more • Public and Non-profit sector than 1.2 million clients: • Financial markets area • citizens – individuals, • small businesses and sole traders, • freelancers, Clients are one of our most important stakeholders and therefore in the centre • non-governmental organizations. of our interest and our priority. We strive to provide them products and services they request in order to achieve their utmost satisfaction. It does not matter if In many banking areas, we hold a significant market position in this segment the client is an individual or a large company; we treat every client equally res(mortgages, credit cards, direct banking), whereas we are often the first ones to ponsibly and professionally. A prerequisite for permanent success is the ability bring new product solutions to the market. to correctly identify clients’ needs. Therefore, also in 2013 we continued in the Listening 100 % project aimed at enhancing the quality of Bank’s services, improCorporate (Business) Clients vement of its processes, innovation of its products and distribution channels. In VUB Bank, corporate clients represent a significant segment. Our unique network of 32 corporate branches around Slovakia ensures our professional and personal approach to clients, whether they are small, medium or large companies, towns and municipalities, farmers or administrators of flats and apartment buildings. We leverage our local expertise connected with an international know-how, which enable us to provide a variety of attractive banking products and services. Moreover, we offer also products aimed at contribution to permanent sustainability of the environment. Municipalities (Self-administrations) VUB Bank has a position of a strong and reliable partner also in the segment of self-administrations. Combining special advisory and tailored products, we assist the self-administrations in executing their projects. To a great extent, we participate in co-financing of projects supported from EU funds aimed at developing the infrastructure of towns, municipalities and regions. Financial and Capital Markets We render services to a wide spectrum of clients, which are financial institutions and the business clientele including legal and natural entities. We support and have a close cooperation with the clients of retail and private banking and communicate with many partners in the global interbank market on a daily basis. At the end of 2013, VUB Bank counted 1,245,229 clients (including the Prague branch), thereof 1,142,866 individuals (citizens) and 102,363 corporate clients Vaše otázky nám (sole traders, large companies, small and medium enterprises). pomáhajú rásť 2013 2012 2011 individual clients 1,142,866 1,151,017 1,153,587 corporate clients 102,363 101,914 102,410 Total 1,245,229 1,252,931 1,255,997 23 Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes Client Segmentation Closer to Clients We continuously monitor and every three months evaluate changes in the As at 31/12/2013 VUB Bank’s clients had at their disposal: structure of our clients. This evaluation allows us to regularly revise and improve • 200 retail branches, the offer of our services for them. • 11 mortgage centres, • 32 corporate branches, Our Individual Clients (without VUB Prague branch) • 1 contact centre, • network of exclusive business partners. Classification by Age age: 0 25: 162,505 age: 0 25: 167,323 age: > 61: 253,398 age: > 61: 244,308 During 2013, we closed 3 retail branches and did not open any new branches. All VUB Bank branches are available to clients 5 days a week. One retail branch operates 6 days a week and 18 retail branches and 1 mortgage centre are ava2013 2012 ilable to clients even 7 days a week. Corporate branches are located in all big towns around Slovakia in order to be as close to the clients as possible. age: 41 60: 390,281 age: 26 40: 336,627 age: 41 60: 393,627 age: 26 40: 345,759 The Kontakt Centre provides services to all clients, whether in Slovakia or abroad, for Slovak Republic citizens and also foreigners. It operates non-stop 24 The average age of a VUB client in 2013 was 45.42 years, so approximately hours a day, 7 days a week. The operators ensure service and consultancy by the same as in the previous period. telephone and also e-mail. They also carry out activities related to safety of clients’ funds, whether it is safe working with Internet Banking or payment Classification by Relationship Duration cards safety. In 2013, the Contact Centre became an important component of 2013 2012 2011 the retail business network because at distance it provided to the clients (by telephone, without the necessity to visit a branch) more than 2,500 flexi loans less than 1 year 38,522 43,307 49,620 in the total volume of EUR 6.6 million. 1 3 years 136,552 143,507 166,000 In 2013, VUB Bank was expanding and improving its network of exclusive bu4 6 years 150,174 168,638 169,808 siness partners, who are available to clients anywhere in Slovakia, .i.e. they will 7 10 years 198,154 198,526 193,588 serve the client where the client wishes it. This network arranges for clients mediation of selected products and services exclusively of VUB Bank and its over 10 years 619,409 597,039 574,571 subsidiaries and it closely cooperates with the retail business network. As at 31/12/2013, the network consisted of 69 financial mediators. The average duration of a client’s relationship with the Bank in 2013 was 11.39 years, which is more than in the previous period. ATM Network and Safety As at 31/12/2013, VUB Bank operated 573 ATMs, thereof 7 ATMs were instalOur Corporate Clients led in new locations. Within improving the availability of services we replaced 11 locations with new ones, in which we want to provide our services to a 10 000 wider spectrum of clients. For the purpose of increasing security of ATMs, they Small and Medium Enterprises (SME) are equipped with an anti-skimming protection. 8 000 Number of ATMs Municipalities 6 000 2013 573 2012 566 4 000 Non-proﬁt organizations 2011 560 2 000 In 2013, VUB Bank brought a new service – through the ATM at the branch Large corporate clients OC Centrál in Bratislava the clients can deposit banknotes to their acco0 unts without having to wait in a queue and the deposited funds are imme24 31. 12. 2012 31. 12. 2013 diately credited to the account and they can dispose of them right away. Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes Availability to Physically Disadvantaged Citizens rating system. The new application offers the clients the most important functions We strive to make our branches easily available to people with physical disabiarranged in a transparent way and adjusted for viewing in a mobile telephone lities. All newly opened sales points dispose of a barrier-free access and when or tablet. It is also secured by a so-called mobile token (security tool for mobile reconstructing older sales points we always make sure they are barrier-free. Fifty devices). percent of ATMs have hardware arrangements for communication with sight-impaired individuals. Number of Barrier-free Branches 2013 181 2012 183 2011 186 Note: the reduced number is a consequence of cancellation of branches. Another novelty in 2013 was the mobile application VIAMO. This revolutionary service enables an easy and fast sending of money from account to account with a mobile (the amounts up to EUR 50). We brought the VIAMO service to clients in Direct Banking Slovakia as the first together with Tatra banka, but also the clients of other banks In 2013, VUB Bank brought its clients a brand new Internet Banking. Simultaneocan receive money through this service. The VIAMO application was activated by usly also its mobile version was available practically for all types of mobile devices. nearly 43 thousand people, of whom more than 10 thousand are the clients of The new Internet Banking provided the clients with a high user comfort, modern VUB. design, new functionalities and interesting novelties. Directly on the main page it offers the clients an overview of all their products with useful information (e.g. the next loan instalment) and abbreviations to the most frequent activities facilitating Security and Personal Data Protection their orientation (intuitive navigation). The client can adjust the design of the page Protection of confidential data and privacy of our clients is commonplace for us. by selecting his/her favourite items in order to make his/her work with Internet All information and documents about our clients, which are not publicly accesBanking as fast and comfortable as possible. It will arrange for example a change sible, mainly the information on clients’ transactions with the Bank and on accoof address or cancelation of a payment card without any delay. Until now these unt balances, are subject to bank secret. changes had to be made at a branch or through the Kontakt Centre. Internet Banking offers also an overview of fees for individual months and fee information Branch Security to individual payments, graphic display of income and expenses on the accounts, All VUB Bank branches are, in compliance with the relevant regulations, equipped a more detailed overview of investments in the mutual funds or structured inforwith a security camera system and other security equipment. The basic security mation on payment cards; entrepreneurs and companies appreciated the possibilirule at branches is that security and protection of our clients’ lives and health ty to enter as many as 200 transactions from various accounts in various currencies come always before the protection of the Bank’s property. and of various priorities in one bulk payment. A significant positive change is also the availability of the service. While until now only clients with a current account could use it, the new Internet Banking is available for all irrespective of the product Payment Card Security type they are using. This increased the comfort of clients for whom we are not Currently, all our payment cards are equipped with a chip. The chip technology the main banking house. Now they do not have to go to a branch or wait for the represents a higher level of security in the use of payment cards. Another form statement to find out the amount of their savings or details on their loan. They of securing payment cards is insurance in the event of misuse, of a lost or stolen can arrange everything with a few clicks from the comfort of their home. The new card. This insurance covers holders of payment cards for legal entities and it is Internet Banking offers not only a simpler control, but also a higher security. New provided automatically and without any fees. The insurance covers unauthorized security elements were added SMS authorization and token (electronic device transactions made during 24 hours prior to reporting the blockage of the lost or generating one-off codes). Clients welcomed also the tips and tricks on how to stolen card. perform payments. In 2013, we continued issuing cards with contactless technology, which increases Along with the new Internet Banking came also its version for mobile devices, so comfort and speed of payments up to EUR 20. Existing clients have the opportuni25 it is available also as a web or mobile application for smartphones or any classical ty to have their existing cards replaced with a contactless card, or the card is issued mobile telephone with an Internet browser regardless of the brand or type of opeto them automatically after the expiry of their original card. Security is ensured in form of insurance against a contactless payment misuse up to EUR 100. Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes Active Listening and Dialogue with Clients The most frequent client queries concerned complaints related to payment card transactions. In view of the great number of card transactions performed on daily basis this fact is expected. The second most frequent group of queries Customer Care and Query Resolution was related to the new nonstop banking. In 2013, VUB Bank was launching Within customer care, we successfully continued developing our activities and a new application of Internet Banking and although it offers a high degree of delivering the Bank’s vision. The Customer Care Department, in the interest of modernization and safety the clients were identifying themselves with it only impartiality and independence, reports directly to the Chief Executive Officer gradually. However, also in this connection the given facts are adequate. Comof the Bank. It is in charge of increasing the client satisfaction and for this it pared to 2012, we managed to minimize complaints related to the changes of directly uses the feedback from clients. Being organized under the Chief Exeinterest rates on mortgage loans. We also succeeded in reducing the average cutive Officer enables a quick execution of changes or implementation of good period of query resolution by 5.6 days. ideas in the Bank, which we get from our clients. They can turn to us by means of all available channels: • in person at any of the Bank’s branches, Clients Day • telephonically to the Kontakt Service (tel. 0850 123 000), In 2013, we continued in successful activities from the past years. Within the • in writing to the Customer Care Department already traditional Clients Day (always on September 20), we were asking our (Mlynské nivy 1, 829 90 Bratislava 25), clients about supplementary services to the Bank’s existing products that they • via the Internet form would welcome or prefer. We found out that our clients would appreciate various possibilities of loyalty programs. The results were forwarded to the comNumber of Queries petent units which are gradually working on product innovation. Within the Clients Day, the branch manager was traditionally welcoming the clients and 2013 13,813 was giving out small presents. 2012 15,013 2011 15,140 Client Satisfaction Feedback from our clients can be positive or negative. Praising comments from We realize that not only figures, charts or volumes, but also the “client satisfacclients always please us. We have therefore developed an initiative in the Bank tion” category is the indicator of and key to our success. It is rooted in quality to gather all praising comments in one place. Such comments are forwarded service and our effort for continuous improvement on the basis of commualso directly to the concerned employee, his/her superiors and we publish them nication and feedback from clients. In 2013, we continued in our successful on our corporate Intranet as positive examples and motivation. “Listening 100 %“ program focused on a better understanding of client needs. For the purpose of improving the quality of our services and a joint building of Not all client queries are positive. We record all complaints, requests and claims a stable relationship based on trust, it is very important to listen to our clients. in the banking system and reply to them according to the valid legislation. BaTherefore, VUB Bank carries out client satisfaction surveys, in which it tries to sed on resolution and analysis of those less pleasing queries, the Bank changed get clients’ opinions on the quality of its services and products. many of its processes and settings. We are therefore very grateful for each feedback we obtain from our clients. Despite the age of modern technologies more than 50% of clients still prefer personal contact in branch. Input Channels for Receipt of Inquiries 2013* % 2012 % 2011 % Branch network (in person) 7,058 57.30 9,285 55.09 8,340 55.09 Kontakt Centre (by telephone) 4,694 38.10 4,729 37.39 5,661 37.39 Bank’s Head Office (in writing) 566 4.60 999 7.52 1,139 7.52 * excluding the requests 26 Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes national survey agency. The Listening 100% program supplements the ZAPNi (SWITCHon) ) employee program aimed at capturing valuable ideas and implemen1. Retail and SME Client Satisfaction Survey ting them into practice as efficiently as possible. Since 2009 when this program We carry out this survey twice a year – each on a sample of approx. 6,000 clients was launched we have received in this manner 930 ideas for improvement of pro(terminated interview) with the aim of obtaining from our clients a feedback on cesses and settings in the Bank. For more details refer to the Employees chapter. the Bank, quality of our sale, our products and services as well as their overall satisfaction. The level of satisfaction of our clients is measured by the internationally Branch Evaluation acclaimed calculation methodology The European Customer Satisfaction Index. Since 2006, we implemented the system of branch evaluation based on strict quWithin this survey we also identify the satisfaction of clients in individual branches alitative parameters. Within these criteria we do not monitor the volume of sold of VUB. If clients are satisfied with some branch, this data is positively reflected products, but the parameters concerning the quality of client service and quality in the specific branch’s evaluation and also in the variable salary component of of sale, consultancy and qualified client assistance. It helps us to identify problem European Customer Satisfaction Index areas of the individual branches. We are very pleased that in 2013 thanks to this 85.00 % 85.00 % system there has been a positive change in case of a non-negligible number of 84.50 % 84.50 % branches. 84.00 % 84.00 % 83.50 % 83.50 % Product Development and Innovation 83.00 % 83.00 % Quality Product Offer 82.50 % 82.50 % VUB Bank dedicates increased attention to an ongoing development of products and services and their improvement. In 2013, we confirmed our achievements from the 82.00 % 82.00 % Q1 2010 Q2 2010 Q3 2010 Q4 2010 Q1 2011 Q2 2011 Q3 2011 Q4 2011 1st HY 2012 2nd HY 2012 1st HY 2013 past years and won the most awards 8 in the financial products competition entitled the Golden Coin. VUB scored in the categories of consumer loans (Flexi Loan), credit employees in the given branch. cards (American Express Blue) and debit cards (Maestro Good Angel), for which it won golden coins. It got silver in the categories of housing loans (Flexi Mortgage) and 2. Interbank satisfaction survey of Retail and SME Clients (Bank benchmarbusiness loans (Profi Loans / Business Credit Line). The coin collection for VUB is supking, retail and SME customers 2013). Within the Listening 100% project, we run plemented by three bronze coins in the categories of bank accounts (Flexi Account), also a comparative survey of the level of satisfaction of clients with the services of saving accounts (Fleximore Saving for 5 years) and business accounts (Flexi Business banking houses in Slovakia. The information obtained in the survey is processed Account). Awarded was also the product of our subsidiary VUB Asset Management, under the international standard The European Customer Satisfaction Index. Ever which won a bronze coin in the category of mixed funds (VUB AM Dynamic Portfolio). since we have been performing the comparative satisfaction survey we regularly VÚB 81.40 % Individual Clients 81.20 % In 2013, in retail banking VUB Bank brought its clients the following innovated 81.80 % and new products: Competitive bank 1 77.70 % Saving and Investments 80.10 % Competitive bank 2 • 2 new issues of Guaranteed Deposit with a fixed period of 4 years and 80.90 % a guarantee of a minimum yield and the possibility of a bonus yield when meeting Competitive bank 3 80.00 % terms and conditions of development of the underlying asset, which was the cur75.80% rency pair euro – Brazilian Real, 79.50 % • kombiprodukt VIII – combined investment into a term deposit with Competitive bank 4 77.60 % a 12-month fixed period and selected mutual funds of VUB AM. 60 65 70 75 80 85 90 95 100 2013 Current Accounts 2012 • new components for Flexi Account in connection with introduction of the place in the forefront ranks. Satisfaction of our clients is at the same time a comnew Nonstop Banking service, 27 mitment for the future, so we would not ease up on our efforts. • cancellation of the fee for cash deposit to an account for individuals, Both surveys are performed in cooperation with an independent external inter• switching – also in 2013 we worked on simplification of the account transfer Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes process including the service of continuous provision of information on the account transfer status to the client, • ATM search application – a new free application for mobiles which will • Flexi Loan for refinancing and consolidation – set up of a fast and simsearch for the closest ATM of the Intesa Sanpaolo Group in Slovakia and also ple process for clients, who want to refinance their debts from other financial abroad according to its GPS position. http://www.vub.sk/atm-locator/. institutions. Lending Small Business Lending • Flexi Mortgage for refinancing – convenient interest rate for clients with • Profi Mortgage and Profi Loans – simplification of the process and docuclean refinancing (down by 1% against the original interest rate), ments to be submitted, • Flexi Mortgage with favourable interest rate – convenient interest rate • Profi Mortgage – extension of purposes – refinancing, financing of mofor clients with a current account in the tier 4 or 5, vable assets, at the same time 20 % of the loan amount granted may be used • Flexi Mortgage support of low LTVs (loan to value) – convenient intewithout documenting the loan purpose, rest rate for financing up to 50% LTV, • Refinance Profi Loan – a new product designed for the refinancing of • Flexi Mortgage – cancellation of the fee for loan account maintenance, loans mainly of other banks (overdraft and instalment loans), the share of refi• Green Flexi Mortgage – it supports low-energy sources, use of renewable nanced loan in another bank should represent 70% of the total loan amount. energy or innovations supporting the green technologies in construction and reconstruction of real estates. As the first bank in Slovakia, VUB Bank provides Payment Cards clients with a direct support in investments into ecological projects in form of • Debit Cards – VUB is constantly striving to make progress and satisfy the up to 100% discount on the upfront fee for loan granting, requirements of its clients. In November 2013, it brought to the market a new • Flexi Loan – comprehensive offer for client and unification of acceptance debit payment card in form of a contactless sticker. VISA Inspire Wave 2 Pay criteria for unsecured loans – when applying for an unsecured loan (Flexi Loan / offers the clients a modern, faster and simpler way of paying for goods and credit card / authorized overdraft), the Bank will offer the client supplementary services. When paying, the client does not let the card out of his/her hand and products as to make available to the client a comprehensive offer of loan prothe client’s name and the card’s whole number are not stated on it, which maducts, kes the payment safer. Last year, VUB continued issuing payment cards with the • convenient Flexi Loan for additional financing of housing – for clients contactless technology and at the end of the year we had issued already more with Flexi Mortgage, who are in need of additional finance, than 400 thousand of them. • Flexi Loan with a convenient interest rate – convenient interest rates for • Credit Cards – Since September 2013, we extended the grace period on clients in case they have a current account and the insurance for loan repayMasterCard credit cards from 40 to 43 days. In practice this means that the ment capacity, cardholders can use the card funds completely without interests for 3 days • Flexi Loan – cancellation of loan account maintenance fee, longer in case of repayment of 100% of the owed amount. In the second half • Online VUB Loan and Flexi Loan via Kontakt Centre – further improveof the year, we got engaged in the MasterCard Elite program, which brings our ment of the sales process for loans via new distribution channels – Internet and holders of MasterCard Gold credit cards other benefits in form of free admistelephone, sions to the airport lounges in Vienna and Prague, concierge services, discounts at selected merchants and many more. Produkty pre podnikateĘov Úvery Flexihypotéka Sporenie Každodenný život s|bežným úêtom a investovanie AKO SI NASTAVIĸ HYPOTÉKU AKO DRŽAĸ BUDÚCNOSĸ AKO FINANCOVAĸ POTREBY|VAŠEJ FIRMY AKO SA ROZHODNÚĸ PRE SPRÁVNY ÚVER PODėA SVOJICH PREDSTÁV VO|VLASTNÝCH RUKÁCH 28 Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes merchants quickly and safely. In 2013, the coverage by contactless terminals represented 26 % of the total portfolio. • POS Terminals – On its POS terminals (devices enabling the payment for goCorporate Clients ods with a payment card), VUB extended the contactless technology allowing We consider it essential that the offer of our products and services correspond the clients – holders of contactless cards to pay for the goods and services at to our clients’ needs. In order to be able to react to these requirements in a timely fashion, we have been continuously conducting market surveys, personally meeting with our clients and based on the facts identified, we have been developing new products or enhancing the existing ones. Our constant interest in bringing new products and services to the market, enhancing them or simplifying the financing processes was visible also in 2013. We introduced these new products and services: • Loans for farmers: in case of “FLEXI Loan for Farmers“ (serving to bridge the period between the need to finance operating costs to cover the increased finance needs) as well as Investment Loan for Purchase of Agricultural Land “FLEXI Land“ we extended the financing possibilities and adjusted them to the market requirements. We keep accelerating and simplifying the processes setting them up as to cover the changes ensuing form adoption of the new Joint Agricultural Policy in 2014. • Loans for Associations of Apartment and Apartment Houses Owners – in the effort of supporting projects aimed at achievement of energetic efficiency, also in 2013 we focused on improving the quality of products for associations of apartment owners and owners of apartment houses. We introduced new processes, which enhanced the clients’ information comfort and brought convenient terms and conditions of the product. We also worked on preparing the product’s update for 2014 – provision of these investment loans with a longer, up to a maximum 25-year maturity as well as other more convenient terms and conditions. • Loan for additional financing of construction of apartments/houses included in the purpose of subsidy from the State Housing Development Fund (ŠFRB) “Procurement of a Rental Apartment by Purchase” – this is a term loan designed for construction firms, which in cooperation with the municipality execute construction of rental apartments/houses with the support from the State Housing Development Fund (ŠFRB). In 2013, we launched new processes bringing a higher information comfort for clients. Simplicity and Transparency in Communication We want our Bank’s cooperation with clients to be always simple, comfortable and beneficial. We are concerned about them being able to exercise their rights and knowing the Bank’s obligations towards them. As a signatory of Consumer Protection Code of Ethics we inform clients on everything in the most open manner possible. We provide them with information on our products and services through: • employees, 29 • sales points, • information flyers, • brochures and user handbooks, Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes • web pages (www.vub.sk, www.flexihypoteka.sk, www.flexiucet.sk; Professional Associations www.flexibiznisucet.sk; www.startkonto.sk). In VUB, we honour our clients and therefore we adjust our range of products In addition to current information about the Bank and its products and services, and services to their needs and specific requirements. We are trying to know our clients and the general public as well are made available also various interacclients and differentiate our product portfolio so it would meet the requirements tive calculators, e.g. for calculating their maximum loan amount. In order to of our client base in the maximum extent possible. One of the forms of coming raise the clients’ financial awareness, on our Internet site, we prepared a section closer to our clients, communicating and cooperating with them is to conclude dedicated to financial education, where clients and non-clients alike can: agreements with professional associations (chambers and associations). It is VUB • get information on the financing options in various life situations, Bank’s interest to foster possibly most intense cooperation with professional as• explore the world of bank products and see that it is not so complex, sociations in terms of mutual communication, promotion of activities, marketing • learn to manage their finances in a more efficient and time-saving fashion. activities and utilization of bank products and services by their members. The cooperation is intended to make the Bank’s products and services as available to the For clarification and facilitation of work with Internet Banking, we prepared members of professional associations as possible. For this reason, our website instructional videos for our clients (one to two-minute video instructions confeatures a special section for professional associations. Continuous progress, trustworthiness, reliability and honesty are the main values we follow in satisfying the needs of professional association members. Our partners include: • Association of Private Physicians, • Chamber of Slovak Republic Veterinaries, • Slovak Dentist Chamber, • Slovak Medical Chamber, taining advice on how to proceed in individual operations). • Slovak Sole Trader Chamber, Client Education • other chambers with special offers. A constant education and informing of our clients on the latest trends in the economy of Slovakia and also of the Eurozone count among our priorities. In 2013, within the VUB BUSINESS CLUB the Corporate Banking Division organized Váš účet a series of regional conferences on these topics: – Taxes, je teraz SEPA – SEPA (Single Euro Payments Area), – Export financing, – Macro economic development in the Eurozone, – Agro business. Partners of our conferences included Deloitte, TREND weekly, the law firm Allen & Overy, Slovak Chamber of Commerce and Industry, National Bank of Slovakia and several quality and expert lecturers whether external or directly form VUB. Plaťte v celej Európe ako doma 52 sepa_dl_II.indd 1 20.12.2013 11 30 Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes Employees Strategy The 2013 strategy of human resources management is based on two core inEmployee Structure tentions of VÚB: Employee Structure by Type of Employment Agreement • Development of management on all levels – continue in the implementation of change of the management culture, set in 2012, 2013 % 2012 % • Stabilization of the key employees of the bank. Indefinite period 2,949 84.62 2,939 84.04 Definite period 536 15.38 558 15.96 • Ensure leadership continuity: in the past year, significant changes in managerial positions occurred. With regard to the ongoing project of change of Employee Structure by Type of Employment the management/leader culture, we put emphasis on the continuation of the set education and development of managers in the given field. Since the new 2013 % 2012 % trend was perceived by the managers-project participants as highly positive, our Full-time 3,473 99.66 3,490 99.80 priority was to inform and engage all the new managers in the development Part-time 12 0.34 7 0.20 activities. Employee Structure by Region • Stabilization of the key employees: we understand the importance of and find it important to concentrate on the group of employees who are 2013 % 2012 % the key employees for the processes of the bank thanks to their experience, Bratislava 1,546 44.36 1,582 45.24 knowledge, know-how or job description and great performance at the same Trnava 235 6.74 226 6.46 time. Motivating those employees therefore concentrated on the following areas: Trenčín 244 7.00 239 6.83 – Financial motivation benefits according to the benefits set on the market, – Personal development via extraordinary training activities, provided Nitra 268 7.69 258 7.38 following a discussion with them, in order to support their personal Žilina 280 8.03 277 7.92 development related motivation, Banská Bystrica 359 10.30 368 10.52 – Individual approach to their career management and discussing their career growth. Prešov 293 8.41 283 8.09 Košice 260 7.46 264 7.55 Apart from the mentioned activities, we concentrated on the creation of a new performance assessment process and related variable benefits providing Employee Structure by Position Type using the GPS (Global Performance System) methodology in the headquarters Number Men Women of VÚB. This assessment tool will apply, from 2014, to all employees of the retail and corporate networks and/or to other business positions, with appropriate Senior management positions 55 36 19 benefit schemes for the relevant performance areas. We continued in signifiOther managerial positions 464 166 298 cant projects of human resources management: Non-managerial positions 2,966 707 2,259 – Development of managerial talents in the retail business network – Decrease of the fluctuation rate of new employees (up to 1 year) in the retail business network – Student development via successful program Stážuj a pracuj (Internship and Work) 31 Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes Employee Structure by Gender Men: 909 Retail Network Total 280 8.03 1,647 47.26 Regional Management Bratislava East 41 1.18 155 4.45 Regional Management Bratislava West 44 1.26 145 4.16 Total: 3,485 Regional Management Banská Bystrica 18 0.52 188 5.39 Regional Management Košice 25 0.72 204 5.85 Women: 2,576 Regional Management Nitra 31 0.89 182 5.22 Employee Structure by Education Regional Management Prešov 32 0.92 195 5.60 Secondary Regional Management Trenčín 24 0.69 192 5.51 Secondary without Regional Management Trnava 32 0.92 181 5.19 with SeconBasic Secondary Bachelor’s University dary School TOTAL Regional Management Žilina 33 0.95 205 5.88 Education School Degree Education Leaving Alternative Distribution Channels 15 0.43 68 1.95 Leaving Examination Examination 2 24 1,545 193 1,721 3,485 Turnover 0.06% 0.69% 44.33% 5.54% 49.38% 100% The turnover on the level of 13.57% in 2013 was comparable with 2012 (13.74%). In total, 473 employees quit, thereof 135 men and 338 women. Besides external factors, Employee Structure by Age we strived to reduce the turnover also by the following procedures: • elaboration of an adaptation plan at joining of each employee, up to 29 years 751 21.55% • continuing in regular meetings with new hires within the trial and adaptation 30 39 years 1,189 34.12% period, 40 49 years 997 28.61% • continuous motivational interviews with the employees following the adaptation period with the aim of obtaining their feedback, (simultaneously 50 59 years 507 14.55% it is a source of findings about potential departures of new hires and solving 60 years and over 41 1.18% of such undesired situations), • improving quality of recruiting tools in key positions (assessment and Average Duration of Employment Relationship development centre), men women TOTAL • in the coaching of managers we lay a bigger emphasis on their work with employees (mainly with the newly hired employees), 2013 8.32 11.09 10.37 • implementation of a new mentoring concept, which lead to improvement 2012 7.93 10.82 10.05 of quality and acceleration of orientation of new hires for their future work, 2011 7.71 10.50 9.77 • the new mentoring also shifted the churn rate of new employees within the period of 3 months after joining, Job Classification by Regions • preventive solving of personnel issues through HR relationship managers woin regions and at the Head Office, women • having interviews at employment termination, finding out the reasons men men men in % for departures and subsequent work with these reasons. in % Head Office Total 561 16.10 771 22.12 Corporate Network Total 53 1.52 90 2.58 Regional Management Bratislava 9 0.26 16 0.46 Regional Management – West 16 0.46 28 0.80 Regional Management – Centre 9 0.26 27 0.77 32 Regional Management – East 19 0.55 19 0.55 Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes Overview of Departures in 2013 suitable they were for the given position. Only the best of the best made it through Gender Departures Average Headcount Turnover in % the standard recruitment process. After six months and subsequently also after the candidate spends a year in the position, the employee is paid out a motivation men 135 914 14.77 reward. women 338 2,568 13.16 Age Category During 2013, about 30,000 people showed interest in employment with the VUB Group, whereby we have been maintaining our position of a strong and desired below 30 170 776 21.91 employer in the Slovak market. In 2013, we hired 460 external candidates. We 30 39 173 1,205 14.36 staffed approximately the same number of vacancies from our internal sources. 40 49 73 978 7.46 Besides common recruitment, we concentrated also on the group of university stu50 59 40 490 8.16 dents. Within the “Internship and Work“ program, we offered them a unique opportunity to get employed in the Bank as interns and so widen their horizons 60 and over 17 33 51.52 and contact with practice. At the turn of 2012/2013, the Bank counted 24 interns, Region of whom 15 remained to work in the Bank with various types of employment reBratislava 217 1,546 14.04 lation. In this year (2013/2014), we have currently 23 new students enrolled in our internship program. Trnava 44 237 18.57 Nitra 32 265 12.08 Trenčín 25 242 10.33 Performance Management and Career Development Žilina 22 279 7.89 In the Bank, we guarantee equal opportunities in professional development and Banská Bystrica 59 361 16.34 growth, access to development tools and work positions. We provide all employees with a possibility of expressing their individuality and creativity at work, while supKošice 41 260 15.77 porting innovations. Professional development and growth of employees is covered Prešov 33 292 11.30 by the Performance and Development Management System aimed at: Total Turnover 473 3,482 13.57% • creating conditions for individual development of employees and enabling so the Bank’s development as a whole, Recruitment • strengthening the employees’ engagement in Bank’s development, In recruiting and hiring new employees, we follow the rules based on assessment • ensure that all employees efficiently contribute to meeting goals, of individual knowledge, skills and personal prerequisites relevant for the vacant • increasing transparency and fairness of the compensation policy. position being staffed. We pay due care to adhering to the principles of impartiality and avoid protectionism, misuse or discrimination. Job applicants interested in worWe enable our employees to develop their careers horizontally and also vertically, king with us can refer to our Internet page in the “Career” section, which provides while growing within the company. The point of this development path is that an overview of the current vacancies. Using an electronic questionnaire, the job everybody gets a targeted support in development of their competencies needed applicants can apply for the vacancies and send their curricula vitae. to succeed at their work. It always starts with an adaptation orientation, which is later on followed by trainings according to the type of position, knowledge and One of the most important sources in staffing vacant positions is the VUB employee skills required to accomplish tasks. base itself through internal recruitment. Open or newly created positions present an opportunity not only for external candidates, whose main contribution is the An important part of the Performance and Development Management System is “fresh wind” they bring, i.e. new experience and practice, but also a chance for the evaluation process. Last year, we continued with the GPS (Global Performance internal employees in their further career growth. An employee who is successful System) evaluation system, which is common for all subsidiaries of the Intesa Sanin the internal recruitment has to go through a standard adaptation period, which paolo Group. Its main task is to evaluate the employee’s targets for the past period will enable him/her to better manage the process of joining and learn the new job and plan key tasks and targets supporting the Bank’s strategy for the upcoming in the position. period. Each year, all employees are evaluated by their direct superiors subject to their work position and classification. Within the whole process, an important role Last year, we continued in the Find Your Colleague activity around Slovakia aiis played by the employee himself/herself, who declares his/her ambitions and ideas 33 med at engaging internal employees in searching for and recommending candiregarding his/her future career. The superior employee, based on employee’s perdates for vacancies. In case of all proposed candidates, we were assessing how formance, motivation and potential coordinates his/her further development and Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes growth. Starting from 2014, this evaluation tool will be applied also for all business terest rates on term accounts, consumer or mortgage loan at favourable interest rates network employees and/or for other business positions with adequate compensation or discount rates on insurance. The benefits include also a commuting allowance. schemes for the given areas of performance. Moreover, each year we focus on supporting the families of our employees, which is for example proven by the allowance at child’s birth, popular gifts at the occasion of Compensation the International Children’s Day or an allowance for a children’s summer camp. Also in The main principles of VUB Compensation Policy are transparency, fairness and 2013, we continued in the strategy of employees’ health care and balance between motivational factor. The system is set up as to enable the Bank to be competitive their work and private life. This is evidenced also by the utilization of benefits such as in the labour market and at the same time attractive for its employees. Our task contribution for preventive screenings, a paid leave day before wedding, for parents of is to monitor and react to the wage and inflation development in Slovakia so that first graders a leave on their child’s first school day, for fresh fathers a day off after the our real wages would correspond to these trends. birth of their child. We inform our employees on the current offer of benefits primarily via Intranet and also many other communications channels. The basic tool for setting up the compensation policy is the Catalogue of Working Positions defining the working positions in the Bank, their job descriptions (brief After previous successful years, we learned that it proved beneficial to engage emcharacteristics), “sizes“ of individual positions across the Bank are measured based on: ployees in activities that are not necessarily directly related to their work duties or • complexity of work, job description. Thanks to the internal program My Company, we have the space to • impact on company’s performance, express our recognition to them and present various activities of our employees such • core-business and support, as blood donation, advisory for secondary grammar school and university students or • work with confidential information, volunteering. • initiative and performance monitoring, • knowledge and experience, • management and independence. Percentage of Funds Spent on Employee Benefits in 2013 Form of Employee Benefit 2013 (%) The Compensation Policy is made up of a fixed and a variable component. The 3rd pillar / supplementary pension insurance 28.90 fixed component reflects the work position, its “size”, complexity and perforFood allowance from Social Fund 23.04 mance from a long-term perspective. The variable component corresponds to the employee’s performance and it is simultaneously a motivation tool designed to Day off with wage compensation beyond Labour Code 19.57 increase the personal involvement of employees in accomplishing the tasks set Commuting allowance 10.03 and to reward their performance and contribution to the Bank. Clothing allowance 8.98 Overall annual as well as individual results are evaluated by the Compensation Working anniversary bonus 6.24 Committee consisting of CEO, Deputy CEO for Support, Executive Director of FiOther benefits 1.42 nance, Planning and Controlling Division, Executive Director of Human Resources Social contributions 0.68 Division. The Committee is also charged with approval of annual evaluation reRecruitment allowance 0.56 sults, variable wage components and base wage adjustments. Care for employees’ children 0.49 Benefits Care for employees’ health 0.08 Irrespective of their job classification, the Bank provides all its employees with a wide range of benefits (i.e. financial and non-financial benefits). Already the third year, the The Bank accommodates its employees by means of several measures supporting Bank has been fully financing the food allowance and it has continued to provide a more efficient harmonization of their work and private life. These measures include financial aid to employees facing complex life situations. The retail network employflexible working hours (beginning optional between 7.00 am and 9.00 am and end ees who are in daily contact with the clients are provided a clothing allowance. The between 4.00 pm and 7.00 pm), four days off per year for intensified healthcare beyond biggest amount of funds spent on employee benefits represent the contributions to the framework of legal title to holiday. Employees who are single parents taking care of supplementary pension saving, while the contribution made by the employer and by a child under 15 years of age (in case of invalid children until 26 years) and pregnant the employee is 1:1. The employees can also use some banking products under more women from the fourth month of pregnancy are allowed to use two additional days off favourable conditions e.g. free-of-charge bank account maintenance, favourable inper year. 34 Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes Training and Development Employee Survey VUB Bank creates preconditions for a continuous and systematic growth of its employIn 2013, we performed a regular employee satisfaction survey coordinated directly ees’ qualification, supporting their training in the areas crucial from the perspective of from the Head Office of our parent bank identifying the climate and satisfaction the Bank’s needs and their personal development. Specific training requirements are among employees across the whole Intesa Sanpaolo Group. For VUB Group, the addressed according to individual needs in collaboration with external training organiparticipation was 2,201 employees, which represents 55% of all employees. In an zations in the Slovak Republic and abroad mainly in form of internships or participation electronic questionnaire, the employees could anonymously express their views on in selected training activities. VUB Bank’s own training centre VUB Academy organifive areas. The survey outcomes showed that the overall satisfaction with work rezes technical courses and also corporate and personal development courses. The Acaached 84%. Within the Intesa Sanpaolo Group, this is a result better than in the demy prepares professional and skilled employees, supports continuous development average countries. We recorded several positive increases in HR management reof employees and their careers, motivates and stabilizes the employees. flecting the development activities carried out in the previous year. The employee survey and subsequent focus groups (group survey) yielded suggestions which reWe continued developing e-learning and e-testing through our proved e-learning sulted in the proposal of four areas of improvement, which were approved by the system AMOS. In the system, the employees can view the catalogue of educational Bank’s management as priorities and incorporated in an action plan. It is first of and training activities and take an initiative approach to their development and career all continued activities aimed at increasing engagement of employees in the decigrowth. The e-courses and e-tests are available at any time and the users can repeat sion-making process by their superiors. We have been addressing this topic in the them several times. The application contains courses on current topics, trainings for long run. The second priority is strengthening of top management’s communication individual working procedures, freely available tests up-to-date for the given position or towards the employees in the area of strategic decisions. The third topic is the area product and many trainings. of compensation, benefits and stabilization of employees and the fourth topic is the working environment. In 2013, the total time of trainings organized by the Bank reached 21,904 days. The average number of training days per employee was 6.28 days (in 2012 the average was Diversity and Equal Opportunities 7 days). E-learning training time reached 16,633 days. VUB committed not to discriminate, respect the principles of equal treatment, exclude from its actions any discrimination and respect differences based on Number of Training Days gender, age, race, faith, political opinion, participation in unions, language ski2013 2012 2011 by Position lls, impairment, marital or family status, political or other opinion, national or Managers 4,818 6,253 4,559 social origin, property or other position. By signing the Collective Agreement, it also undertook to observe the discrimination ban in compliance with the Others 17,086 18,500 22,986 Labour Code. The employees must not be harmed for exercising their rights ensuing from industrial relations. In 2013, no action was filed regarding a case The Bank has been traditionally organizing a so-called Welcome Day for new emof discrimination. The Bank provides everybody with equal opportunities for ployees, which is held each month. Its aim is to give the new employees a basic overpersonal and professional growth giving each employee an equal opportunity view of the Bank, information on the history of the Bank and the Intesa Sanpaolo to assert himself/herself. Differentiation of employees according to their work Group, its market position, portfolio of products and services it provides, company prerequisites and performance is however not considered discrimination. structure but also on employee rights, obligations and benefits. The majority of our employees are women – in 2013, there were 2,576 women Another program, in which we have been trying to form our own professionals, working in the Bank out of a total of 3,485 employees. This disproportion in is the Mentoring Program. within the retail business network. Employees in sefavour of women occurs mainly in the retail business network, where there is nior positions become mentors, who hand over their practical experience to junior a prevalent proportion of women. Two women are represented on the Bank’s colleagues, mostly to the newly hired employees or employees returning to work Management Board and one on the Supervisory Board. Also in 2013, we were after maternity or parental leave. The aim is that with the mentor’s assistance, the employing disabled citizens altogether 35 persons. employee would adapt to the working position more easily. The indicators in regard to protection of rights of aboriginal inhabitants, in Within the ZAPNi (SWITCHon) program, we give our employees space to search regard to child labor or forced labor are not relevant due to the geographic for innovative solutions with the purpose of improving satisfaction of clients or emlocation of our business. ployees themselves. In 2013, our staff submitted altogether 139 suggestions for 35 improvement, thereof 10 ideas are currently being implemented and 4 have been already executed. Since the program’s launch, we have so far implemented 127 proposals in practice. Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes Women Satisfaction Survey in VUB for the same work is lower against men. Only 1/3 of the respondents think To be successful on the job and have also a happy family. This was the motto of that men and women get the same compensation for the same work. already the second survey designed for all women working in the Bank. VUB has Perception of gender inequality is thus the most significant in case of salaries. a considerable representation of women among its employees – as much as 74 • In case of career growth, such experience is less frequent and totally rare %. This disproportion occurs mainly in the branches in regions with mainly woin terms of possibilities to attend the trainings and further education. men working there. The survey was dedicated to the topic of working conditions with a focus on harmonization of VUB women’s work and private life. One of the 4. Harmonization of work and personal life: objectives was also to get suggestions for measures and proposals for improve• The female respondents expressed a relatively low satisfaction with ment. Out of 2,573 addressed female employees 38.4 % colleagues participated. the possibilities of harmonizing their personal and work lives. The questionnaire survey was supplemented with personal meetings within the • It was confirmed that women are able to manage the double load mainly discussion groups in several towns (Trnava, Komárno, Liptovský Mikuláš, Prešov, due to their family’s help and subordination of their privacy to work. Women Bratislava). The survey and discussions involved the female colleagues working in are coping with the situation because they have to and want to. the Head Office and branches, managers and non-managers, with children and • 59% of women claim however that they are able to manager their work also without them, ladies of various age categories, family statuses and working and private lives, yet further responses showed that it is usually to the in different regions. The survey sample thus comprehensively represented the VUB detriment of their private lives. For women outside of Bratislava, women female employees. working in branches and women with children harmonization of work and family is more difficult to achieve. The greatest help for women in managing The anonymous survey was processed by the Public Affairs Institute. The survey their work and personal family life for women with small children would be showed that VUB Bank was a place without any more substantial criticalities in for example flexible working hours, which is however not possible in the gender inequality and thus we can say that in overall the situation is good to betbranch network. ter compared to perception of these matters in Slovakia in general. Also despite • In general women like their work in the Bank and they are happy to be doing this fact, the Bank elaborated a series of measures for a gradual elimination of it. It was clearly shown that they perceived VUB as a good employer. those parts that were identified as problematic. We worked further with the pro5. Specific target groups: cessed outputs in detail and identified several measures which, if implemented in • 50+ practice, could help to improve the life at work and at the same time in privacy. – In overall, there is 15% of employees aged 50+ in the Bank. This group Once approved by the Bank’s management, the measures will be implemented in is made up mainly of women – as much as 83%. the course of 2014. – Caring for children and their families is accompanied by the care for their aging parents and relatives, so they belong to the so-called “sandwich Some findings of the survey: generation“. 1. Representation of women in managerial positions: – Female employees aged 50+ face a harder situation as to maintaining their • There is a sufficient number of female managers in VUB, however not in high working position – 71% of women in this age category agrees with this. positions. The main reasons according to the respondents are family – They yearn for a greater recognition. obligations, men’s world and their effort to keep their positions. • Women with small children 2. Career and women: – One third of employees have children aged 0 – 15 years, thereof approx. • Career growth is not a key factor in selecting employment in VUB, yet it is not 70% are women. insignificant. Wage and job description are more important. – Children and family are the reason for women to give up on their careers. • Two thirds of women have not applied for a managerial position yet. This is the opinion of 75% of women who have children up to 15 years The most frequently stated reasons: family and children, age, qualification of age. and personality handicaps. Career is an individual decision, but it is very much influenced by family / children. Occupational Health Protection • Prejudice of men / partners against women making a career and/or earning The Bank considers its obligation to create a working environment and conditions more than their partners. pursuant to the Slovak technical standards and hygiene regulations. The topics of • For a vast majority of women, career is however a question of personal occupational safety and health protection are contained in internal regulations choice, not of the existing barriers. and Collective Agreement. The rights of all employees in this respect are represen3. Gender equality: ted also by the Trade Union representatives. In accordance with Article 20 of the 36 • VUB does not show any more substantial criticalities in terms of gender Act of the National Council of the Slovak Republic No. 124/2006 Coll. on Occupainequality. tional Safety and Health Protection, the main Occupational Safety Commission • Women have intuitively the impression that their financial compensation is nominated in the Bank. It consists of 7 members: 4 employee representatives Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes (trade union members) and 3 employer representatives. Besides the main comNumber of Occupational Injuries, Days Lost and Out of Work as a Result mission, nominated are also regional occupational safety commissions for each of Work Impact in 2013 region, which carry out regular annual comprehensive inspections of occupaNumber of tional safety and health protection. The regional commission works at least in Number Number Region Business Days a four-member set up: employee representative, two employer representatives of Injuries of Calendar Days Out of Work (regional facility management technician and branch manager), and occupational safety technician. Altogether, there are 260 occupational safety commission Bratislava 1 81 113 members, i.e. a percentage of the total workforce represented in formal joint Trnava 0 0 0 occupational safety and health protection commissions falls in the category of Trenčín 1 71 100 up to 25% of the total employee count. Nitra 0 0 0 Žilina 0 0 0 Types of Trainings, Risk Preventions and Controls Each new employee is obliged to participate in an orientation training pursuant Banská Bystrica 0 0 0 to Act No. 124/2006 Coll. on Occupational Safety and Health Protection and on Prešov 0 0 0 amendment and supplementation of some acts. Periodical trainings on occupaKošice 0 0 0 tional safety and health protection in accordance with the above-stated legislaTotal 2 152 213 tion and the Bank’s internal regulations are taken by all Bank employees every two years in electronic form. The Bank ensures also training for employee safety representatives (trade union members) and a first aid course. Activities in the Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining area of occupational safety and health protection (annual comprehensive inFreedom of association and collective bargaining are regulated by the Labour spections, provision of personal work protective equipment, training, investigaCode, Collective Bargaining Act and the Act on Freedom of Association. Collection of occupational injuries, measures for enhancement of work environment, tive Agreement governs individual and collective relations between the employer updating of internal regulations) are semi-annually submitted at revision of the and employees, which are more convenient than the ones stipulated by the LaCollective Agreement. Training and consultancy concerning the employees is bour Code or any other generally binding legal regulation. The Bank committed ensured by the occupational safety technicians from an external company. to preserve the trade union rights, namely the freedom of association of employees in trade unions and collective bargaining in accordance with the generally Within prevention and risk control, a Work Medical Service performs an incepbinding legal regulations. Collective Agreement is concluded for the period of 3 tion audit at the opening of a new branch. Medical services, first aid trainings, years between VUB and the Council of VUB Trade Union Representatives. It apworkplace supervision and preventive medical examinations according to the plies to all employees in an employment relation with the employer irrespective of type of work performed are ensured by a work medical service from an external their membership in the trade union. The provisions of the Collective Agreement company. The Bank ensures safe working conditions not detrimental to health supersede the Bank’s internal regulations in the scope of commitments concluand provides personal protective equipment in premises where cash is handled ded in the Collective Agreement. and in premises where works of technological nature are performed. In case an employee uses a company car, he/she is obliged to take a driving capacity Notification Duty examination every 2 years. The Labour Code imposes on the employer a notification duty against employee representatives in connection with the economic and financial situation and Due to the nature of our company’s business, there is a possibility that our the projected development of its activities. Notification is to be performed “in employees find themselves in situations endangering their lives, e.g. in case of a comprehensible manner and at a suitable time“. Under the Labour Code, a branch robbery. In these rare cases, they are provided professional psycholothe employer is obliged to negotiate fundamental changes regarding, among gical assistance and are entitled to 5 business days off for recovery. the other, status, structure and projected development of employment with employee representatives in advance. Provision of further information including Despite the above-mentioned measures taken within the trainings on occupaspecific deadlines is agreed, under the wording of the Labour Code, in the tional safety and health protection, prevention and risk control, in 2013 we reCollective Agreement. corded 2 registered occupational injuries and 5 recorded occupational injuries. In relation with the registered occupational injuries there were 152 business 37 days out of work. In the given year, we did not record any material occupational injury or diseases related to the performance of profession. Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes Internal Communication and Dialogue Partizánske. All contributions from the entire international group are published In the Bank, we understand that if we expect our employees to deliver the best at www.weareourstories.com. possible performance, we must regularly inform them of what is happening, why and where the company is heading and what is the place of each of them Active Engagement of Employees into Bank’s Life in this fulfilment. At the same time, we are giving them the space to voice their Also in 2013, we continued preparing internal campaigns as a unique own opinions and ideas engaging them also in the decision-making processes. and original method of communication with the employees in order to motiInternal communication is based on seven values common for the whole Intesa vate them with each topic to active engagement and interactivity. We appreSanpaolo Group and it helps in delivering our vision and mission. In 2013, we ciate pro-activeness of people and at the same time we are trying to present continued improving the quality of cooperation among employees and diffeenvironmental topics. Campaigns aimed at the inside of VUB are introduced rent units. We concentrated on the topics of balance between work and private on a monthly basis each time with a new topic, up to date for the given period. life and also on the change of people management culture. These suggestions The face of the campaign is always an employee involved in the topic. Thus, came out of the results of our employee survey. he/she becomes the carrier of the information, which gets closer to the others. In 2013, within the internal campaigns we communicated the new bank proAlso in 2013, the corporate Intranet was being built as the key and most jects such as SEPA and the new Internet Banking, then the current topics such efficient tool of internal communication, whereas employees themselves were as information safety, know your client or the 10th anniversary of VUB Foundadrawn into creation of its content even to a greater extent. Each piece of tion. In supporting the company’s brand perception, values and naturally also information on Intranet has its sponsor, and so employees know at any mothe business we make use of all internal communication channels including ment, whom they should turn to in case of need. In total there is about 5 % posters, Intranet, magazine or personal e-mails, or for example also computer of all employees of VUB Group from various units taking care of the content. screen savers. In 2013, we brought more than 160 news reports on the happening in the VUB Group or in the international group Intesa Sanpaolo. The periodicity of With the aim of supporting the team spirit and informal relations, a sports and the WORLD internal magazine remained on the bi-monthly basis also in 2013. nomination event named VUB CUP was held. The best employees from the Its design and also content sections observed the uniform concept of Intesa event went on to repreSanpaolo Group, so employees get regular information from the international sent VUB at international level. The magazine kept being distributed in the volume of 4,000 prints to all sports tournaments orgaemployees of VUB Group including the subsidiaries. Information on key events nized by our parent comis regularly brought by the Chief Executive Officer via an electronic bi-monthly pany. At year-end, we had CEO Newsletter and the topics from the human resources management and Srdce vidí the traditional Christmas benefits are covered in the HR Newsletter issued four times a year. Understanmeetings that were orgaa počuje ding the message is the key element in setting up internal communication well. nized in three towns (Koviac If the people are to understand what and how is happening in the company, šice, Banská Bystrica and a dialogue and two-way communication are a must. Employees have therefore Bratislava) so that all emalways the possibility to ask the CEO questions by means of an Intranet form, ployees could attend. comment on topics important for the Bank and the employee as such, e.g. In order to support the on the system of benefits, form and content of Intranet and internal magazine. delivery of business obAll these open forums are on the Intranet under a special section. Evaluation jectives, motivation and Mária Ondová, riaditeľka pobočky, and surveys of internal communication channels is carried out regularly on an Košice, Bukovecká competitiveness in 2013 annual basis. we continued in the employee competition called Every day people around the world open the door of our branches so we VUB Super League. would help them. Some need a new bank account or a loan, others look for financial solution to their life situation. All these are promising beginnings of stories in which our bank employees together with our clients star as the main characters. Each story talks about relationship with clients, because this is the PodPorme ľudí, ktorí si to zaslúžia Teší ma, že som mohla pomôcť košickým hluchoslepým v projekte sense of our work. Therefore, Intesa Sanpaolo announced an employee compeFarebný domov. Získaj grant Nadácie VÚB na svoj projekt teraz aj ty. Zisti viac na intranete a vyjadri svoj názor. 38 tition in form of stories that our employees experience in their everyday work. These stories give a deeper sense to the commitment that actions speak louder than words. The best competition story in VUB Bank was the story from Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes Shareholders VUB Share Capital and Shares The biggest shareholder is the Italian banking group Intesa Sanpaolo, which beInformation on VUB shares traded on public equity market Name Share of Všeobecná úverová banka, a.s. came the owner of VÚB, a. s., in 2001. VÚB, a. s., has also a great number of Form book-entered share* minority shareholders from the first wave of the coupon privatization of 1991. The number of shareholders dropped from the original approximately 80,000 to the Type registered share current more than 34,600 shareholders. Issuer Všeobecná úverová banka, a.s. Country of Issuance Slovak Republic Value of Shares Stake Number of Shares Issued 4,078,108 units By Shareholder Type in thous. €* in % Nominal Value € 33.20 Intesa Sanpaolo Holding International S. A. 417,760 96.97 Placement of Shares Issued Bratislava Stock Exchange – majority shareholder Equity Market Main listed stock market Other legal entities 4,371 1.01 Trading Currency euro (€) Individuals 8,688 2.02 ISIN ISIN SK 111 000 1437 TOTAL (Share capital of VUB) 430,819 100.00 Ticker symbol 1VUB02A Value of Shares Stake Share index SAX By Shareholder’s Citizenship in thous. € * in % Note: Intesa Sanpaolo Holding International S. A. * A book-entered share means an electronic record in the register of the Central Securities Depository 417,760 96.97 of the Slovak Republic – majority shareholder Local shareholders 9,612 2.23 Other foreign shareholders 3,447 0.80 Relations Between the Company and Its Shareholders TOTAL (Share capital of VUB) 430,819 100.00 and the Company’s Approach to Shareholders VUB Bank complies with the provisions of the Commercial Code and other appliThe data is valid as at December 31, 2013. cable legal regulations regarding protection of shareholder rights, as well as the * Value of VUB shares in € means the value of owned shares of VUB expressed in nominal value in provisions on timely provision of all relevant information on the company and proeuro multiplied by the number of shares owned. visions on convening and holding of general meetings. It observes the principles concerning the shareholder rights, principle of equal access to information against As at December 31, 2013, the shares of VUB were held by 34,624 shareholders. all shareholders and other principles in accordance with the Corporate GovernanForeign shareholders come from the following countries: Luxemburg (96.969 %), ce Code in Slovakia. The governance principles ensure, facilitate and protect the Germany (0.533 %), Czech Republic (0.141 %), Switzerland (0.085 %), exercising of shareholder rights. The Bank fulfils all its obligations in a due and Austria (0.03 %), United Kingdom (0.004 %), U.S.A. (0.004 %), Canada, Romania, timely fashion against all shareholders deriving from the relevant legal regulations France, Sweden, Belgium, Andorra and Cyprus. and the Corporate Governance Code in Slovakia. The company enables a due exercising of shareholder rights and it proceeds transparently and exclusively in VUB Share Capital and Shares accordance with the relevant legal regulations. The share capital amounting to € 430,819,063.81 is divided into • 4,078,108 registered and book-entered shares with a nominal value of Dialogue with Shareholders EUR 33.20 per share and The priority of VUB Bank is to strive for efficient communication with all the Bank’s • 89 registered and book-entered shares with a nominal value of EUR 3,319,391.89 shareholders and ensure that they are informed accordingly. The General Secretariat per share. Staff Unit provides for a constant dialogue with the shareholders and the Corporate VUB paid up its whole share capital. VUB shares are traded in a public equity Strategy and Economic Research Department bears responsibility for communication market organized by the Bratislava Stock Exchange, under share numerical code with the rating agencies and analysts. The dialogue with shareholders involves several ISIN – SK 111 000 1437 in the total number of 4,078,108 units. Information on forms, formal and also informal, in the Slovak and also English language, in written 39 these shares is also available at the official web page of the Stock Exchange under form, over the telephone and by means of personal meetings. The main medium is the section Securities/markets, quoted market and issue detail of VUB. VUB the site www.vub.sk with a separate section entitled “Information for Shareholders” Bank issued also 89 registered shares that are, however, not publicly tradable. containing necessary information, instructions and forms. It contains also practical proContents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes cedures for legal acts related to the transactions most frequently required by the VUB Share Development Bank’s shareholders, mainly: Information on the current price of VUB shares in the public equity market is • method and place of dividend payout, regularly published in daily press with national coverage releasing stock ex• change of shareholder’s address or name – whom to notify and how, change news, e.g. Pravda, Hospodárske noviny or on the web site of Bratislava • inheritance of VUB shares – legal steps and title to dividend, Stock Exchange (www.bsse.sk). The VUB share is included in the Slovak Share • donation of VUB shares – legal steps, Index SAX and influences its development to a significant extent. In the last • Power of Attorney for payout of dividend from VUB shares and transfer three years (2011 2013), the share price has been oscillating from the bottom of the right to dividend, threshold of EUR 58 per share up to EUR 95 per share. • Power of Attorney for participation at the General Meeting, • requirements related to documents legally certified abroad, Average Development of VUB Share for 2013 in EUR • participation of shareholders at the General Meeting of Shareholders 120 – rights and requirements 100 • full wording of documents and draft resolutions subject to discussion 80 at the General Meeting, 60 • results of voting at the General Meeting, 40 • information on buy-out of own shares of VÚB, a.s. 20 • possibilities of buying and selling the shares of VÚB, a.s. 0 11 11 11 11 1 1 12 12 12 12 2 2 13 13 13 13 3 3 14 14 Besides the above-mentioned procedures, the Internet site provides shareholders 20 20 20 20 01 01 20 20 20 20 01 01 20 20 20 20 01 01 20 20 y r2 r2 r2 r2 r2 r2 ar ch ay ly be be ar y ch ay ly be be y ar ch ay ly be be ar y ch also with the following useful information: ar M Ju ar M Ju ar M Ju ar nu M em em nu M em em nu M em em nu M Ja pt ov Ja pt ov Ja pt ov Ja • decisions on dividend payout for individual years, Se N Se N Se N Source: Bratislava Stock Exchange • information on their taxation, • development of VUB share price, • information on Bank’s share capital and VUB share distribution, Shareholder Rights and Obligations • information on shareholder structure, The rights and obligations of shareholders are stipulated by relevant legal regula• information on the majority shareholder, tions and the VUB Articles of Association. All shares are attached a shareholder’s • list of Bank’s Management Board and Supervisory Board members, right to take part in the management of VUB and the title to a share in its profit. • press releases and analytical reports, The shareholder’s right to take part in the management of VUB Bank can be exerci• financial statements and important basic information on the Bank’s activities, sed at the General Meeting. Profit distribution to shareholders in form of dividends • information on VUB Bank’s market position and its evaluation, is subject to the General Meeting’s decision. The shares are freely transferable either • market shares, by registering their transfer in the Central Securities Depository of the Slovak Re• rating, public or by registering their transfer with a member of the Central Depository • bank’s vision and mission and its awards, based on a transfer and/or transition registration order. • abstract of VUB Bank’s data from the Commercial Register of the Slovak Republic, • annual reports. The General Meeting is the Bank’s top decision-making body representing all shareholders and its decisions approved pursuant to applicable legal regulations and Overview of Dividend Payout from VUB Share Bank’s Articles of Association are binding for all shareholders. It is competent for Amount of Dividend per the following most important decisions: Dividend Dátum splatnosti dividendy • decision on amendment of the Articles of Association, Share of VÚB, a.s. • decision on increase and decrease of share capital and decision on authorizing 2012 € 4.98 May 20, 2013 the Management Board to increase the share capital, 2011 € 3.65 June 1, 2012 • decision on issuance of preference bonds or convertible bonds, 2010 € 4.60 June 1, 2011 • decision on change of rights connected with any type of VUB shares and on limitation of transferability of VUB shares, 2009 € 4.50 June 4, 2010 • election and dismissal of Supervisory Board members, with the exception 40 Note: of Supervisory Board members elected and dismissed by VUB employees, Dividend maturity date is the date when the dividend payout starts and it was determined by the decision of the General Meeting. Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes • approval of regular and/or extraordinary individual and/or consolidated financial 2013 Shareholder Protection Initiatives statements, decision on profit distribution or settlement of losses and The 262 Project has been running in VUB Bank since 2007. Its aim is to achiedetermination of the amount of profit bonuses, ve compliance with the requirements of the Italian Act No. 262 inspired by the • decision on distribution of retained earnings from previous years and/or American Sarbanes Oxley Act. The Act 262 was issued in order to ensure signisettlement of unsettled losses from previous years, ficant strengthening of investments protection. The measures deriving from the • decision on utilization of reserve fund, Act cover a wide area and are aimed at various activities, such as governance of • decision on amount, method and place of dividend payout and determination joint-stock companies, rules for accounting audit, rules for financial instruments, of the decisive date for designation of persons entitled to exercise their title conflict of interests, transparency and market regulations. This Act is a part of to dividends. a legal scenario aimed at consistent enhancement of governance. The objective of Project 262 in VUB Bank is to review the internal control system, identify its shortcomings and based on the results adjust it in order to eliminate the potential risk and ensure a true and fair representation of the financial situation. The Act No. 262 requires that individual companies identify processes, which influence the financial information, evaluate associated relevant risks and based on this propose adequate design of internal controls with the purpose of eliminating potential risks. The project’s basis lies in identifying and promptly responding to a potentially insufficient functioning of the internal control system. This will assure improvement in the quality of financial reporting also by means of business ethics, efficient internal audits and good corporate governance. The Act No. 262 assigned the responsibility for the contents of financial reports, accounting procedures applied, adequately set up control system and procedures and a true and Prior to the General Meeting, VUB Bank sends all shareholders an invitation with fair view of assets, liabilities, revenues, costs and cash flows to the Chief Execuan agenda of the General Meeting including annexes and basic information that tive Officer. Both the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer sign will be subject to the discussion. Additional information is available to the sharea representation confirming that adequate and efficient procedures of accounting holders for viewing in the Bank’s registered office or they are sent upon request. and financial reporting have been applied. Benefit of the whole project is proviThe invitation and basic documents are also published on the Bank’s Internet site ding shareholders with security concerning a true and regulatory presentation of and in periodical press with national coverage publishing stock exchange news. the capital, economic and financial position of the VUB Group and adequacy and Instructions on shareholder rights under Article 180 Sect. 1 and Article 181 Sect. efficiency of the internal control system and procedures. 1 of Act No. 513/1991 Coll. Commercial Code as amended and documents and data pursuant to Article 184a Sect. 1 and 2 of Commercial Code are published on Internet site of VUB Bank in the “Information for Shareholders” section at least thirty days prior to the General Meeting. Members of the Supervisory and Management Boards regularly attend all General Meetings facilitating their smooth course and simultaneously answering the questions and inquiries presented by shareholders. VUB Bank accepts all its obligations resulting from the legislation with regard to the shareholders. The Bank observes provisions of the Commercial Code applicable to protection of shareholders’ rights, in particular provisions on timely supply of all relevant information about the company and provisions on convening and conducting its annual General Meetings. The Bank adheres to the principle of equal access to information for all shareholders pursuant to the Corporate Governance Code in Slovakia. 41 Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes 42 Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes Suppliers Stakeholders – suppliers of VUB Bank are Procurement in VUB Bank is open to a wide spectrum of suppliers. VUB Bank gives space and business opportunity to all that are not its business partners yet and have an • small and medium enterprises ambition to cooperate with VUB Bank in the future. For the existing partners, it simul• large supplier firms and chains taneously presents a challenge to continuously improve the quality of their products and services in order to be a valuable partner of VUB Bank also for the future period. Strategy Suppliers represent one group of VUB Bank’s stakeholders that are significantly inWhistle-Blowing Policy fluenced by our corporate responsibility and observance of the Code of Ethics enVUB Bank has created an e-mail box to which their business partners can write in case suing therefrom. VUB Bank requires that its suppliers adhere to principles, which a supplier, within a procurement proceeding or during contract fulfilment, comes to form a part of its business and which it perceives as a natural part of the Code of suspect that any bank employee or any other related party of the Bank breached legal Ethics and its daily actions. regulations or Bank’s internal regulations in connection with the contract or otherwise (e.g. misuses of information in business contacts, fraud, extortion, misappropriation, bribery). The supplier has the possibility to turn to VUB via an e-mail to podnety@vub.sk and ask for investigation of the matter. Group Project Procurement Centralization In conclusion of 2012 the parent company Intesa Sanpaolo started a demanding consolidation program aimed at cost optimization. Harmonization of procurement processes at group level is a strategic project of the parent bank. Its main goal is to obtain benefits and optimize costs on the Group level. VUB is a pilot subsidiary bank in this project. Throughout all of 2013, its employees were VUB Bank realizes that the Bank’s good business performance is a benefit for all actively working on the implementation. Another project goal is a structural reduction of stakeholder groups and suppliers have an indispensable position among them. costs in the area of administrative expenses. Furthermore, the project focuses on improVUB is one of the largest Slovak companies and as such it also has a broad network vement of the procurement process by means of unifying the rules, procedures, tools and of business partners its suppliers. By purchasing goods and services, it indirectly monitoring systems. The project’s objective is a better management of the procurement generates benefits for the whole society, namely in form of employment and busiprocess and reduction of operational risks by implementing the set standards. ness financial performance of its suppliers. An indispensable commitment of VUB Bank with respect to suppliers includes responsible practices in the environmental The manner of purchasing goods and services in VUB Bank will change starting from and social areas. 2014. The main changes will include some internal processes and launching of new ISP tool to run the procurement process. For a more efficient cooperation and execution of Transparency, equal opportunities and efficiency – these are the attributes, the procurement processes we will be using the system Supplier Portal Portale Forwhich most adequately characterize VUB Bank’s responsible approach in relation nitori, where the suppliers will register to participate in future tenders. What does VUB to suppliers. These attributes are applied not only in selection of suppliers but also Bank expect of its suppliers? Primarily a flexible, proactive and forthcoming approach, in definition of internal supplier processes or relations. One of the basic prerequiaccompanied with a high efficiency, even after implementation of the new system. VUB sites for success in a competitive market is an efficient manner of spending funds is interested in developing long-term business relations built on open prices with the aim for goods and services that VUB Bank needs for its activities. The total amount of of reaching the possibly most convenient and for both parties acceptable supplier terms such costs directly contributes to the business performance, impacting the Bank’s and conditions. profit. Application of Corporate Social Responsibility Rules with Suppliers In 2012, within the tender process we actively started requiring from our suppliers to Transparent Selection of Suppliers comply with the rules of Corporate Social Responsibility via the document “Declaration Suppliers of VUB Bank are significantly influenced by observance of the Code of Ethics. on Compliance with Corporate Social Responsibility Principles”. This document became In relation to suppliers, the Bank professes values such as fair play and transparency. an integral part of the VUB – supplier relation and also in 2013 it formed and will continue In the interest of creating and building an open partnership across the whole supplier to form one of the obligatory annexes of tenders. With the signature, the tender bidder portfolio of VUB is the Bank’s effort to principally cooperate with those suppliers that – future business partner, confirms to VUB Bank that it conducts its business activities in 43 honour and respect these values. line with the principles of ethics, transparency, good morals, good manners and observes the legal regulations of the Slovak Republic. The bidder further confirms that it refuses and Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes penalizes any forms of corruption including blackmailing or bribery, supporting a fair Environmental Supplier Management competition. It declares that it is not involved in breaching human rights and it observes VUB Bank belongs to the leaders in corporate social responsibility in Slovakia. Althoand respects international human rights in business. The bidder respects the right to ugh it is not a production firm or direct polluter, it committed to reduce its negative freedom of association and collective bargaining and it likewise respects the rights of impact on the environment to the lowest extent possible. In our company, we have employees ensuing from the collective agreement, while simultaneously respecting the been looking for optimum solutions beyond the legislative framework and one of international ban on forced and children labour in any form. the solutions is preference of ecological products. We prefer mainly those suppliers, who adopt measures for minimizing the negative impacts of their activities on the Application of Electronic Auctions System environment. For selecting suppliers VUB Bank has been using, in the maximum possible extent, the electronic auctions called Access Point. This system enables suppliers to Materials submit their price bids in electronic form at the same time and in one virtual place. VUB Bank manages the usage and consumption of office paper, consumption of Electronic auctions are thus available to all companies meeting the conditions set in toners for copying machines and printers, collection and liquidation of used packaadvance and VUB Bank transparently accelerates and makes the procurement proging. In the area of facility management, it cooperates with ISO 14001 certified comcess as well as correct price negotiation more effective. Electronic auction is one of panies (this system helps the companies to successfully participate in domestic and possible “open” forms of negotiation ensuring in procurement of goods and services also international tenders, but it also ensures growth of value, company’s economical equal opportunities and fair play in the process of supplier selection. operation as well as increased trust of customers). Purchase of office paper is limited to chlorine-free (TCF/ECF) and recycled papers. Bulk correspondence to the Bank’s Legislation Governing Procurement Process in the Sloclients is sent exclusively in recycled envelopes. vak Republic and Its Impacts on VUB Bank’s Activities In the area of facility management and maintenance, VUB Bank cooperates with Selection of suppliers in VUB Bank is not subject to the Public Procurement Act companies with a systematic approach to environmental protection through their applicable in the Slovak Republic. In 2013, VUB Bank was not imposed any fines activities in all aspects of their businesses. In the area of redesign, reconstructions or for inobservance of any laws or regulations concerning procurement and purchase other construction works VUB Bank collaborates with construction companies that of products and services. Internally, VUB Bank has a sufficiently strong control meinclude environmental care in its business strategy and also common operations. The chanism, whether the Internal Control System on the Procurement Department or same applies also to the suppliers of lighting and interior, the activities of which are, Internal Audit Department levels. in addition to production and provision of services, oriented on energy saving, waste Pursuant to the Act on Employment Services, each employer in the Slovak Republic minimization and minimization of environmental fees and sanctions for pollution of employing more than 20 employees is obliged to employ disabled citizens. Another the environment. option is using a supplementary solution by submitting orders or purchasing goods and services from a sheltered workshop employing disabled people, from a Since VUB Bank is not a production company and its activity does not result in procitizen with a grave disability or from an employer employing citizens with grave ducts that would require purchase of input materials, the report does not deal with disabilities. In view of the above-stated legal obligations, VUB Bank gives a part of materials used or recycled input materials used in greater detail. For more information its orders to sheltered workshops also despite the fact that prices they offer are refer to the Environment chapter. oftentimes higher and delivery deadlines longer than with common suppliers. For more information refer to the Community chapter. 44 Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes Environment Strategy VUB Bank is not a producing company or a direct polluter of the environment Environmental Policy It forms the basis of our environmental conception. The amended document deand therefore the environmental impacts of our business are not significant. Nefines, specifies and expands the VUB Bank’s commitments and objectives in envertheless, we perceive as an obligation of each of us to preserve the country and vironmental protection and permanently sustainable development. The Environenvironment where we operate also for the future generations. We consider the mental Policy is a written commitment to environmental protection, which sets activities aimed at environmental protection and permanently sustainable growth the Bank’s mission and objectives in the area of environmental management. It a natural part of our operations and therefore we committed to reduce our negaserves as the basis for our management decisions and also business strategy. It tive impact on the environment to the minimum level possible. This is the reason defines the principles and guidelines concerning direct and indirect impact on the we exert activities as a company internally and externally. We are looking for soluenvironment. It allows the Bank to communicate its intentions and objectives to tions beyond the scope of the legislation; we are interested in our environmental employees and other stakeholders. performance in relation to the inputs and outputs, while mapping the relevant environmental indicators and we are constantly in search of new ways in our In line with our Environmental Policy and in the interest of social and environmenenvironmental management approach, in which we manage to reach real results. tal corporate responsibility, in 2013 we followed our internal policies: 1. Organization of Social Events and Internal Training Courses. Measures for reduction of direct (resulting from our activities) and indirect (geneThe policy addresses issues of paper consumption, use of office equipment, rated by clients and suppliers) environmental waste are stipulated in VUB Group’s transport, accommodation and catering. With the aim of reducing paper conEnvironmental Policy. As a member of an international banking group, we adsumption we e.g. stopped using invitations and study materials in printed form here to the Equator Principles and UN Global Compact. We have firmly defined (we send them only electronically) and in case the documents must be printed, we internal regulations and our decisions on investments and lending take into accouse recycled or certified paper and do double-sided printing. We use recycled and unt both social and environmental risks. recyclable materials, the events are exclusively held in low-energy buildings and in places easily reachable by public transport (limiting the car trips reduces CO2 proVUB Bank’s main activities in environmental protection in 2013 ensued from our duction). In case of accommodation and catering we give preference to supplier applicable environmental policy aimed at: companies with an ecological approach. • support of investment projects focused on energy saving and renewable sources, 2. Purchase and Use of Office Paper. • saving measures for reduction of energy and consumer material consumption, The policy sets the principles to be followed in purchase of paper with the aim of • waste separation and measures reducing the consumption of non-certified paper to the lowest level possible and for reduction of its production, prefer purchase of paper from certified producers with a paper origin label FSC, • raising of employees’ environor CSA or PECF. We also deal with the question of bleached paper and therefore mental awareness, it is recommended to purchase and use paper of the ECT type (Elemental Chlorine • global environmental security. Free) or TCF (Totally Chlorine Free). When using paper, we prefer black and white double-sided printing; we rationalized the need and subsequent printing of documents used at the branches and in business contact; at the Bank’s management meetings, we introduced the use of electronic instead of printed version of documents; 90 % of managers stopped getting newspapers in printed form, which they can read online. 3. Integrated Environmental and Energy Management System. It regulates prevention, management and, where possible, also reduction of impacts of our activities, whether direct or indirect. Direct impacts are defined as areas, which may be negatively impacted by our activity or in which, on the contrary, we can directly influence protection of environment through our actions. These include, for example, use of sources, production of emissions, green procurement, mobility, integrated environmental and energy management system, management of hazardous substances and waste handling, waste reduction, energetic efficiency (e.g. electricity saving and use of lighting units, computers and office equipment), attention paid to environmental and social impacts of our decisions. 45 Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes UN Global Compact Clients VUB Bank undertook to act in accordance with the international standard Electronic Account Statements UN Global Compact, to which it acceded in 2009. It includes also environmenSince 2010, we have been successfully replacing paper account statements tal protection principles, which we strive to observe in the maximum extent with electronic ones. Not only because an electronic statement is more modern possible. and easily available in one place and at any time, but it is rather also a demonstration of our responsibility towards the environment. Currently all VUB Bank Equator Principles clients from the residential segment with access to Internet Banking are able to We take a responsible approach to project financing. Managing a great volume view their electronic statements to their current and term accounts, as well as of funds, we significantly impact the flows of capital. Therefore, it is important to loans and mutual funds. These clients are sent a paper statement only once for us that projects we decide to finance do not have a negative impact on the a year in form of a so-called summary annual statement. Other clients are conenvironment we live in. Voluntary compliance with the Equator Principles as stantly being motivated to use the electronic communication and the electronic well as a strict implementation of the principles applied in all levels of our credit account statement. policy including expert trainings of relevant teams confirm our commitment to the society. Education and Awareness Raising VUB Bank is not limited only to minimization of negative impacts of its business on the environment, but it supports also ecological thinking and behaviour of its employees and clients. Employees Papierovanie už patrí Over the year, all employees are encouraged in form of awareness raising actido múzea vities and internal notices to: • save paper and consumer material, Peter Bartek, poradca klienta, Trenčín • turn off their PCs outside working hours and on holidays, • separate waste, • use the energies economically (with a focus on cooling equipment in the summer period). In all interiors of the Head Office building, we posted promotional information stickers which should alert and raise awareness about saving light and energies. Guidelines and internal regulations related to these matters are stored and available on VUB Intranet. Our employees are continuously being informed of them and at the same time they have the possibility to read again about our direction in the area of environmental protection at any time. On the occasion of the World Environment Day on June 5 announced by the UN, we alerted the employees about environmental protection by means of internal Nahraďte aj vy papierové výpisy z účtu elektronickými communication channels (magazine, Intranet, posters, etc.). We also ran the folKedysi som aj ja každý mesiac dostával papierové výpisy z účtu. Keďže som ich častokrát ani neotváral, cez internet banking som ich pohodlne a jednoducho zrušil a nastavil zasielanie ročného sumárneho výpisu. A vyhovuje mi to. Ak si chcem niečo pozrieť, v internet bankingu mám pohromade nielen mesačné detailné výpisy z účtu, ale aj výpisy lowing new projects: z iných produktov. Využívajte elektronický výpis aj vy a poraďte to aj vašim klientom. A tak ako mňa, aj vás určite poteší drobný darček, ktorý získate po nastavení sumárneho ročného výpisu. Kliknite na intranet a zistite viac. • re-usable envelopes made of recycled paper serving for internal mail ON ICKÝVÝ and distribution of internal documents requiring a printed form, ELEKTR PIS EJ ŠÍ E • planting of trees in school yards and gardens of 12 primary grammar J MODERN 46 and nursery schools in the capital city of Bratislava. ElektVypis.indd 1 23.3.2010 15:44:44 Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes Management Approach Suppliers Our management system defines rules and processes related to implementation We strive to modify our impact on the environment also by means of procedures of our Environmental Policy. Since VUB Bank is not a direct polluter of the environused in selection of our suppliers. We prefer mainly those suppliers that respect ment, our impact can be split into: the environment and adopt necessary measures for minimizing the negative impacts of their activities, use recycled materials, save energies and reduce their neindirect: gative impact on the environment. We require that our suppliers give us a declara• we comply with international and national environmental protection protocols, tion about taking preventive measures in relation to the environmental issues and • we support projects with a high environmental value (loans), making effort to reduce their negative impact on the environment when running • our lending system clearly incorporates standards concerning the environment their business. With its signature, the supplier declares to VUB Bank that it will and the Equator Principles. VUB Bank principally does not grant funds for finantake steps towards a higher responsibility for the environment, support developcing of certain activities that could endanger the environment; ment and expansion of technologies saving the environment or look for new ways and efficient solutions for the environment. Also thanks to them, in 2013 there direct: was no contamination of the environment within VUB’s responsibility. • energy saving measures, • introduction and observation of internal regulations and notices, e.g. In the area of Facility Management and Maintenance, VUB Bank cooperates with – economical usage of electricity in the offices, companies, which systematically protect the environment within their activities – air-conditioning (principles of its utilization), in all aspects of their business. In facility management, reconstructions, redesign – cooling and heating (setting of interior temperatures in cold and hot periods), and construction works VUB Bank cooperates with construction firms incorpora– turning off of computers overnight and during the weekends, ting care for environment into their business strategy and common operations. • regular collection and ecological liquidation of non-functional telephones, acThe same applies also to the suppliers of cleaning services, suppliers of services cessories and batteries; collection and liquidation of waste classified as hazardous connected with fire protection, occupational safety and health protection and civil (toners, fluorescent lamps), protection, as well as suppliers of the interior, lighting units or exterior signage • video conferences instead of business trips; bicycles, (light logos on the buildings and ATMs), the activities of which are oriented, besi• obligatory turning off of computers outside working hours, during weekends des production and provision of services, on energy savings, waste minimization and holidays. and minimization of environmental fees and fines for polluting the environment. Our environmental management involves: Materials • Facility Management and Procurement Departments, The aspects influencing the environment include consumption of office paper, • specialists and employees of the Internal Services Department, consumption of toners for copying machines and printers, collection and liquida• external suppliers of products and services, tion of used packaging and also cooperation in the area of facility management • Risk Management Division (ensures control of project financing and lending), with ISO 14001 certified companies. Purchase of office paper is limited to chlorine • regular inspections and controls in branch and also headquarters buildings fofree paper (TCF) and recycled paper. We buy office paper principally from certified cused on reduction of energy consumption and identification of potential savings, producers and with paper origin labelling. • internal regulations and notices, • internal communication employee awareness. In the interest of VUB Bank’s ecological approach, in 2013 we adopted these measures / commitments, which we all managed to deliver: Environmental Management Indicators • reduce consumption of “non-certified paper“, Number of employees appointed to directly implement environmental • use ecological certified paper, 1 policy within their job description • prefer purchasing and consuming paper: Number of internal specialists 0 – from certified producers with origin labelling, – recycled paper – use 100% recycled paper in the greatest extent possible, Number of external specialists 2 – bleached paper – use the ECF – TCF type paper. Percentage of employees regularly informed of environmental policy 100 implementation In all cases when it is impossible to use the classical recycled paper, acceptable is an equivalent in form of FSC (Forest Stewardship Council), or CSA (Canadian 47 Standard Association), PECF (Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification Schemes), SFI (Sustainable Forestry Initiative) or ATFS (American Tree Farm Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes System). By preferring the purchase of FSC raw materials and subsequently For all postal consignments addressed to our clients, we use ecological enveloby production of FSC products, we contribute to improvement of forest mapes from recycled FSC paper. The envelopes carry the logo Green Letters. nagement around the world. We are preventing destruction of forests as well as illegal tree harvesting worldwide. FSC provides us with an efficient tool for Since VUB Bank is not a production company and its activity does not yield monitoring the wood’s origin from its harvesting through its processing up to products, which would require purchase of input materials, the report does not the final product. deal in more detail with materials used or recycled input materials used. We do not even disregard the issue of bleaching the used wood mass, and we therefore purchase and use, as much as possible, the ECT paper type (Elemental Chlorine Free – meaning that in its production they used chlorine gas, but no chlorine derivatives such as chlorine dioxide) or TCF (Totally Chlorine Free). With regard to economic efficiency (cost reduction) and our aim to reduce our environmental footprint, we do the planning of paper discarding, purchase and control of these processes in the Cicero system. Management Board members and top managers do not get materials for the Energies meetings in printed form but in the electronic form, which lead to the saving of approx. 1,000 packages of paper, i.e. 4 tons of paper. Direct Energy Consumption The several year’s trend of reduction of office paper consumption stopped in VUB Bank is constantly striving to reduce the consumption of energies and this 2013. We have to observe that in 2013 consumption of paper increased agatrend could be kept also in 2013. Similarly to last year, also in 2013 we were inst 2012 by 20,358 kg, which is up by 4.49%. This growth was caused by seputting emphasis on purchasing highly efficient cooling and heating equipment veral activities / projects, which the Bank had running based on new legislation for an efficient and economical heating and cooling of our premises and on and these lead to an increase of paper documentation. selection of possibly the most economical lighting units for our premises. In the premises of the VUB Head Office building we replaced all refrigerators for new efficient and energetically more saving models. Total Paper Consumption (kg) For its operation, VUB Bank needs two primary sources of energy – electricity 2013 473,264 and gas. In 2013, electricity consumption dropped again and this drop is the 2012 452,906 result of an ongoing effort to lead employees towards an efficient utilization of 2011 521,097 sources, purchases of highly efficient equipment and last but not least continuous supervision of used technology and its regulation. The data do not consider Paper Consumption by Type (kg) the impact of the weather. Year 2013 2012 Direct Energy Consumption Certified paper 100 % recycled 2,876 819 Electricity Gas total FSC 59,903 69,198 kWh m 3 kWh kWh ECF / TCF 239,557 338,768 2013 15,757,832 1,096,513 10,307,222 26,065,054 FSC and ECF / TCF 168,499 39,710 2012 16,099,182 1,099,915 10,339,203 26,438,385 Non-certified paper 2,430 4,411 2011 16,786,396 1,138,475 10,701,670 27,488,066 TOTAL 473,264 452,906 Notes: 1) 1 m3 = 9.4 kWh 2) the data were obtained from counter statuses of our contractual supplier 48 Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes Electricity is supplied by the largest local suppliers (ZSE, VSE and SSE). These com– thermal insulation and heat loss prevention reconstructions of facades, roofs, panies guarantee that a minimum of 15 % of the energy they supply is produced replacement of windows. from renewable sources. In accordance with the relevant provisions of Act No. 656/2004, electricity suppliers in the Slovak Republic must inform their buyers on Besides the above, we have been permanently supervising the correct set up of meathe share of individual types of primary energy sources in produced and supplied surement and regulation systems, which control cooling and heating. We simultaneously energy, including the supply of electricity produced in other EU member states explain the basic principles of economical operation to the users. and third states. In 2013, the share of primary sources for production of electricity supplied by our suppliers was as follows: Share of Energy Savings Year Energy Savings in kWh Energy Savings in % Renewable (water, air, solar) 15.47 % 2013 1,675,800 5.22 Gas 13.23 % 2012 1,645,000 4.98 Coal 20.06 % 2011 2,071,000 6.02 Nuclear 51.24 % Environmental Management and Waste Liquidation Costs Gas is purchased from a local supplier, which is Slovenský plynárenský priemysel. Year in EUR 2013 17,213 Indirect Energy Consumption 2012 17,038 In 2013, we again managed to reduce our heat consumption. Heat is procured from various bigger and smaller heat energy producers; therefore it is not possible 2011 14,046 to state the primary energy source. Water Secondary Energy Purchased (heat energy in the form of heat) in kWh All VUB Bank’s branches in the whole territory of the Slovak Republic are supplied 2013 6,014,616 water by local water companies. In 2013, our water consumption showed a slight 2012 6,574,929 increase. 2011 6,893,703 Total Water Consumption (in m3) 2013 48,021 Total Energy Consumption 2012 47,469 Owing to saving measures, our energy consumption shows a falling tendency. 2011 84,220 Total Energy Consumption (heat + electricity + gas) in kWh In 2013, our average daily water consumption was 131.56 m3, which is on avera2013 32,079,670 ge 37.42 litres a day per employee. 2012 33,013,314 2011 34,381,774 Average Daily Water Consumption (in litres) Year Bankwide (in m3) Per 1 Employee (in litres) 2013 131.56 37.42 Saving Measures 2012 130.05 36.95 Saving measures are actually VUB Bank’s investments into environmental protection and 2011 230.70 65.50 modernization of its operations. In 2013, we took various measures with impact on energies in the area of: VUB Bank is not a production company, so our water consumption is not signifi– heating (reconstruction of networks, hydraulic regulation and other related cant. We use water mostly for personal hygiene, watering and minimally for the optimization processes), operation of facilities (heating, cooling circuits, etc.). At present, we do not initiate 49 – cooling (modernization of equipment with higher operating efficiency), any measures aimed at reducing water consumption, since we are convinced that – reconstruction of lighting networks – replacement of current light sources with LED we use water efficiently and our consumption falls below the Slovak average. Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes We do not take water directly from a water source, but from water companies It is impossible to state the volume of emissions produced by company cars (comor small local suppliers. We do not request our suppliers to provide us with the bustion engines, diesel aggregates), since this information was not monitored even data about water sources and use of recycled water. Our activity does not signiin 2013. Due to the same reason, we are not stating NOx, SOx and other significant ficantly influence local water sources in any way. emissions into the atmosphere. Biodiversity Wastes None of VUB Bank’s activities affects the biodiversity. We do not perform any acWaste management is aimed at removal or modification of wastes in ways acceptable tivity that would directly disrupt the environment, and therefore indicators related for the environment. Education of employees plays an important role in minimizing to biodiversity are not relevant for us. VUB does not own any facility, neither does wastes. The employees’ actions and approach to this issue become then a part of the it dispose of any leased premises that would interfere with or be directly located in every-day awareness and gradually an inevitable tool giving the company a possibility a protected territory. to fulfil its environmental obligations. Simultaneously, the company can compete in the market by means of its good environmental performance. The key to the solutions lies For 2013, we do not record any contamination of environment in the surroundings in gathering of correct information on industrial waste and the reasons for its occurof our facilities. Since we are not a production company, we did not cause any rence. considerable water pollution. We do not own facilities, from which sewage would be discarded into the environment and pose a threat to the biodiversity of water Waste separation is the responsibility of all employees. Waste separation is managed reservoirs. Water is drained off in a standard way to the sewerage system and then through the process we have in place, which is binding for all employees. Its wording processed in waste treatment plants. is available on the Intranet page and the employees have been informed of it in form of personal e-mails. In our objects in the whole territory of Slovakia, we separate paper We contribute to protection of the environment also by keeping accounts and prowaste only. In the VUB Bank’s Head Office building in Bratislava we separate waste into: viding loans and borrowings to companies and non-governmental organizations • paper (cardboard), having as their core business ecological activities. • plastic, • metal, Emissions of CO2 and Substances Damaging Ozone Layer • glass, As a financial institution operating only small and medium sources of pollution, we • mixed communal waste, do not produce significant volume of harmful emissions. However, we are aware of • hazardous waste. the least we ourselves can influence (use of passenger cars, business trips, logistics, etc.). So far, we have not been measuring the emissions released by equipments Hazardous Waste – Containing Remnants of Hazardous Substances (in kg) producing electricity (diesel aggregates), nor do we employ any individual specia2013 1,245 lists that would be dedicated to this activity. 2012 600 2011 1,240 Pursuant to Act No. 286/2009 Coll., based on which each operator of cooling equipment is obliged to inform the relevant District Environmental Authority data on fluorinated greenhouse gases, the Bank fulfilled its notification duty and provided Types of Wastes Liquidated (in kg) information on volumes of substances directly influencing the damaging of the 2013 2012 2011 ozone layer. Our supplier submitted to us an overview of all cooling equipment (in Metal packages polluted with harmful substances 30 operation) with more than 3 kg of refrigerant in the circuit containing gases harPlastic cards 340 ming the ozone layer. These are refrigerant mixtures such as R407c, R410a, R22. We have been managing to decrease their consumption. Absorbents, other filtration materials 0 1,240 Packages containing hazardous substances 2,958 690 1,240 Total Volume of R22 Refrigerants Waste toner from printers 140 0 Year in kg Voluminous waste 1,565 5,970 1,170 2013 2,122 Lead batteries 0 170 2012 3,340 Plastic and rubber 0 160 50 2011 2,724 Discarded equipment (fluorescent lamps) 116 0 100 Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes Discarded refrigerators (content of hazardous Green Energy and Energy Efficiency Projects “Twin 3,800 substances) Pillars“ Discarded equipment (other) 1,985 9,905 1,660 VUB Bank supports the “Twin Pillars” projects aimed at energy savings and Polystyrene 90 energy production from alternative energy sources (water power plants, biogas stations, biomass combustion equipments and photovoltaic power plants). We Discarded equipment containing hazardous sub2,047 237 194 have a team of people providing financial and professional assistance to potenstances tial investors in preparing and executing these types of projects, whether in the Discarded transformers in units 0 0 2 industrial, agrarian or communal area. Also in 2013, we executed several “Twin Pillars“ projects. We assisted our clients in searching for the best possible form of Waste – Separated Paper (in kg) financing – either by direct financing or co-financing (EU structural funds, SLOV2013 41,286 SEFF program). 2012 50,852 For several years, we have been cooperating with the European Bank for Recon2011 56,683 struction and Development in projects financed from the SLOVSEFF I and SLOVSEFF II programs. The programs are aimed at the support of energetic efficiency in the industrial sector, in the area of renewable energy sources and in the housing Environment and Lending Policy sector. Since 2013 we have been cooperating with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development also in the MUNSEFF program focused on support Sustainability of the environment is one of the basic pillars of our corporate resof energetic efficiency of the infrastructure and renewable sources of towns and ponsibility strategy. We not only want to cooperate with partners, who deal with municipalities in Slovakia. environmental protection and sustainability, but we ourselves want to participate in sustainable development. In 2013 we executed 15 projects in the field of renewable sources and energetic efficiency in the total amount of € 4,273,000. In these projects, we used the funds Within our lending policy, we finance only companies complying with the legal refrom the European Investment Bank and from the European Bank for Reconstrucgulations concerning the environment. We support companies meeting the reqution and Development. irements for environmental protection stipulated by the legislation of the Czech and Slovak Republics or the European Union. Loans within corporate financing are granted also to clients from sectors, where environmental risks can be expected, Investment Loans from EBRD Sources to Support however we examine them in detail. Energetic Efficiency (SLOVSEFF Program) VUB Bank provides loans to support energetic efficiency from EBRD funds based From the green-energy oriented perspective, we offer product contributing to a on the credit line Slovak Sustainable Energy Financing Facility (SLOVSEFFSlovak permanent sustainability of the environment. We confirmed our effort to bring Sustainable Energy Financing Facility). For more information on the given project to the market new or innovated products and services also in 2013, while paying visit the Internet site www.slovseff.eu. increased attention to the areas of: • agriculture, The SLOVSEFF Program is aimed at supporting development of energetic efficien• self-administrations, cy in the industrial sector, in the area of renewable energy sources and at energetic • renewable sources, efficiency projects in the housing sector. • energy efficiency. Following a successful execution and verification of each project’s completeness, Also the expert awards we gained prove that our strategy is correct. The projects the client will be paid out a stimulation payment calculated as a percentage of the financed contribute to environmental protection – reducing the CO2 production loan volume. The levels of stimulation payments are as follows: and thereby improving the environment, protecting people’s health and also natural resources, contributing to reduction of air pollution and reducing energy EBRD SLOVSEFF I: consumption. • energetic efficiency in industry: 7.5 % of loan volume • renewable energy sources: 15 % of loan volume 51 • energetic efficiency in the housing sector: 20 % of loan volume Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes EBRD SLOVSEFF II: Stimulation payments for clients are paid our directly to the client. If a private • energetic efficiency in industry: 7.5 % of loan volume company executes the project for a municipality, this company transfers the • renewable energy sources: 5-15 % of loan volume obtained grant indirectly in favour of the final beneficiary of the project (town, • energetic efficiency in the housing sector: 10-15 % of loan volume municipality). The project is designed for towns and municipalities, companies with majority ownership of towns and municipalities, private companies supThe stimulation payments are paid out to the clients directly. The project is plying services to the municipalities, companies of the ESCO (Energy Saving designed for the private sector, legal and natural persons in business based on Companies) type executing projects for municipalities and for residential builthe applicable legislation of the Slovak Republic meeting the following criteria: dings via associations of apartment owners or administrators. • the company may not have a majority ownership in the public sector • the company may not be involved in production, marketing, distribution of The loan applicant must meet these conditions: tobacco products, hard alcohol, alcohol (except breweries, wine producers and • Registered office in the Slovak Republic, other firms producing drinks with low/medium alcohol content), firms ope• Must not perform the following activities: hazardous games, real estate busirating hazardous games, production and trading with weapons and projects ness, banking, insurance and financial mediation, gun manufacturing, supplies conflicting the environmental policy of EBRD and trading and other activities excluded by EBRD, • the company may not pollute the environment with its activity. • Not on the list of individuals and legal entities that EBRD excludes from financing, Investment Loans from EBRD Funds for Suppor• Cannot perform activities in conflict with the environmental legislation of the Slovak Republic and acts governing the social, health and safety rules. ting Development of Energetic Efficiency of InfraIn 2013, this type of loan was used by clients in the total investment amount structure and Renewable Sources of Towns and of EUR 0.99 mil.. Municipalities in Slovakia (MUNSEFF Program) Loans for Associations of Apartment Owners and Owners of Residential VUB Bank provides loans from the EBRD funds based on the credit line SupporBuildings ting Development of Energetic Efficiency of Municipalities (MUNSEFF – MuniIn the effort of supporting projects aimed at achieving energetic efficiency also cipal Sustainable Energy Financing Facility). For more information on the given in 2013 we focused on improvement of products for associations of apartment project go to www.munseff.eu. owners and owners of residential buildings. In 2013, this type of loan was used by clients in the total investment amount of EUR 1.9 mil. The MUNSEFF Program is aimed at supporting energetic efficiency of the infrastructure of towns and municipalities in Slovakia, energetic efficiency of builIn 2013, due to many legislative changes there was a significant drop in supdings owned by the municipalities and residential housing, as well as projects port of renewable sources and energetic efficiency projects. This falling trend in the area of renewable energy sources. is Europe-wide and the unstable legislative environment is discouraging the investors. Following a successful execution and verification of each project’s completeness, the client will be paid out a stimulation payment calculated as a percentage of the loan volume granted from the EBRD funds. The levels of stimulation payments are as follows: • Energetic infrastructure projects – up to 20% of loan volume (the condition is reaching a minimum 20% energy saving against the original status), • Renewable energy sources 15% of loan volume, • Energetic efficiency of buildings 10 or 15% of loan volume (the condition is reaching a minimum 30% energy saving against the original status; the amount of the stimulation payment is subject to the number of measures executed by the client within the project). 52 Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes Supported Renewable Sources Projects Initiatives for Reduction of Environmental 2013 2012 2011 Impacts of Our Products and Services Investment Investment Investment Project Type NumVolume in NumVolume in NumVolume in Lending Policy ber ber ber One of VUB Bank’s main activities, the lending, incorporates standards concermil. € mil. € mil. € ning the environment. The Bank does not provide funds for financing of some Photovoltaics 2 2.8 9 39.5 activities from the environmental point of view including: Water energy 0 0 • trading in wildlife and products made of it, Combined • release of genetically modified organisms into the natural environment, production • production, distribution and use of prohibited pesticides, herbicides, chemical 1 12.2 electricity / or agrochemical substances, heating • fishing by means of floating nets, Biogas 1 2.0 8 20.9 4 8.3 • radioactive substances including radioactive waste. If a client consciously engages in areas risky from the environmental point of Supported Energy Efficiency Projects view, the Bank requires a due diligence aimed at client’s environmental risk management. Below, we specify examples of risky activities and business areas from 2013 2012 2011 the perspective of the environment: InIn• storage of hazardous waste, its modification and liquidation, Investment Numvestment Numvestment NumProject Type Volume in • production or trading in freon-containing equipment and appliances, ber Volume in ber Volume in ber mil. € • production or trading in electrical equipment containing polychlorinated mil. € mil. € biphenyls (PCB), Energy savings • production or trading in products containing asbestos, and reduction of 1 23 • foreign trade in waste or waste products. CO2 emissions Replacement of grinding plant 0 technology Thermal insulation for apartment 13 1.9 6 0.9 74 14.1 buildings Thermal insulation for administrative 3 0.8 buildings Reconstruction of 1 0.3 4 2.0 heating boilers VUB Bank is the first bank in Slovakia providing the clients with direct support in Community investments into ecological projects in form of benefit/discount – up to 100 % Through VUB Foundation, we supported also several ecological projects and discount on the upfront fee for granting. events organized by non-governmental organizations. The most significant of them included: Green Flexi Mortgage • Ekotopfilm – international film festival on permanently sustainable developIt is designed for individuals to support low-energy sources, use of renewable ment connected with ecological education of children and youth, which is the energy or technological innovation supporting the green technologies in conoldest and biggest international festival on sustainable development. VUB has structions and reconstructions of real estates. been supporting it already since 2006. • Grants for primary grammar schools within the employee grant program. 53 Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes POMÁHAJTE Community DEŤOM BOJOVAŤ S RAKOVINOU A BUDETE In 2013, VUB Bank continued in helping the community, where our clients, employees and other partners live. VUB Bank supports projects in identical fields, which are targeted also by VUB Foundation in order to achieve a synergic effect. www. .sk These are the areas of education, culture and charity. Already for the seventh year, we have been supporting the Good Angel humanitarian system via charity payment cards. Their number increased to 31,000. In the area of university education support, we continued with the grant scheme bringing foreign guest professors to the Slovak universities. We likewise continued in supporting the development of economic science by means of the Economicus competition. VUB Cooperation with Sheltered Workshops managers hold lectures at economic colleges and universities. We provide knowVUB Bank aimfully supports the functioning of -how to start-up female entrepreneurs within the EMMA Business Academy prosheltered workshops by purchasing their proFinančné trhy ject. The Bank purchases the products and services from sheltered workshops, sú tu celý rok, ducts and services. In 2013, we purchased from ale vianočné which employ disadvantaged people. In the field of philanthropy, via the VUB len 2 dni them goods and services in the total amount Foundation, we continued in our long-term initiatives aimed at preservation of of EUR 65,864. During the year we purchased cultural heritage and support of fine arts. In 2013, we contributed to the renewal from sheltered workshops catering on several ocof several historic monuments and organized two exhibitions of young contempocasions, various gifts, accessories in the form of rary art in the painting and photography media. corporate broaches for our female employees at branches, or medals and sportswear for sports Financial and Non-financial Aid events. In December, the VUB Head Office building hosted already the third Christmas Fair, to Overview of Sponsor Funds Donated which the employees could bring also their chilBUĎME K SEBE BLIŽŠIE A PODPORME DOBRÚ VEC Tento rok sa na vianočné trhy môžeme tešiť 10. a 11. decembra v čase od 12.00 do 17.00 hod. Kongresovú sálu na 2. poschodí opäť premeníme na trhovisko s výrobkami chránených dielní, kde kúpou drobností pre seba či svojich blízkych podporíme prácu ľudí so zdravotným postihnutím. Vianočné trhy privítajú aj deti a partnerov zamestnancov v čase od 15.00 do 17.00 hod. Deti môžu dren. During two days, they could enjoy the holipriniesť vlastnoručne vyrobenú ozdobu na vianočný stromček a za odmenu sú pre ne pripravené tvorivé dielne s maľovankami, 2013 2012 2011 plastelínou, kreslením na tvár a tento rok premiérovo aj s čítaním rozprávok pod rozsvieteným stromčekom. Srdečne vás všetkých pozývame spríjemniť si predvianočný čas! day atmosphere and the products sold there by 8 Total amount of donations 234 thous. 295 thous. 274 thous. sheltered workshops from around Slovakia – Bar07324 Vianočné trhy.indd 1 5.12.2013 13:21 in € lička (Little Crutch) from Prešov, Prvosienka (Primrose) from Banská Bystrica, Majolika from Pezinok, Inklúzia, Krídla (Wings), Andreas, Number of IT Equipment Units Donated Manna Catering and Z dobrých rúk (From Good Hands) from Bratislava. 2013 2012 2011 32 units 76 units 8 units Cooperation with Schools and Support of Education One of VUB Bank’s priorities is education in the main area of our business – economy and finance. Our projects offer talented students a possibility to put forward their origiOther Types of Aid nal ideas and demonstrate their talent. Their goal is to improve the quality of research Cooperation with Non-profit Sector and university education in the field of finance and develop the economic science and At the end of 2013, Slovakia counted over 137,000 “good angels“, thereof nearly research. VUB Bank has had a long-term cooperation with secondary schools and uni31 thousand were VUB clients by means of a unique charity payment card. VUB versities of mainly economic, mathematic and IT specialization. In the interest of making Bank has been issuing the card for the Good Angel. One percent of the payments education in the finance, economy and banking fields more attractive we perform: performed goes to the account of the non-profitable organization helping oncolo• consultation activities in elaboration of a thesis or annual school project, gical patients and families with gravely sick children. This percentage is not donated • possibility of an expert and thesis internship for secondary school by the cardholder, but by VUB Bank on his/her behalf. More than 5,800 families and university students, received donations through this system. • technical topical lectures at secondary schools and universities. 2013 2012 2011 Number of Good Angel cards issued 31,832 27,559 22,724 VUB’s contribution in euro (1% of payments 256,080 205,836 163,165 performed by clients’ cards) 54 Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes Activities for students are proposed as to provide an overview of the functio“Secret Hero” award. The internal voting yielded the winners. They got the grants for ning of individual divisions of the Bank and the students can test their skills charity organizations in which they are engaged as volunteers (DSS Lepší svet (Better and knowledge from their studies in practical tasks. One of such activities is World Social Services Facility), Volunteering Group Vŕba (Willow), Slovak Association also the “Internship and Work” (“Stážuj a pracuj“) program designed for stuof Disabled Children and Youth in Sereď). dents of final years of universities. The program presents to the students the Bank’s functioning and enables them to try to work in the Bank during several Each year, the volunteers from VUB exchange the air-conditioned premises of offices months. The students get precious experience, which they can use in their job for fresh air in the magical environment of the Calvary in Banská Štiavnica. Also in search after terminating their studies. In 3 years, 91 students participated in 2013, the VUB staff helped in its reconstruction within a volunteering event. For one the program, thereof 22 got a job offer in the Bank and 25 remained working day, they tried out manual work in renovation of this precious historical monument under a temporary contract. – they cleansed the banks from wood pulps, made replicas of the staircase, mowed the meadows and removed the fell trees. For the volunteering activities, from 2013 Financial Training the employees can use one of the new benefits – half-day of volunteering with wage In 2013, VUB Bank participated in the financial training project entitled More Than compensation. Money (Viac ako peniaze) organized by the Slovak Banking Association and Junior Achievement Slovakia. The target group were students aged 14 – 19 years. Our The VUB employees annually donate blood free of charge during the mobile collecBank gave lectures (the most from among involved banks) at the high school in Zvotion “VUB Blood Drop“ in cooperation with the National Blood Transfusion Service. len, elementary school in Revúca, Koša, Kalinovo and at the Evangelic Joint School In 2013, 135 donors from VUB participated in three blood collections donating 64 in Martin, twice at high school in Námestovo and in Košice. The most frequent qulitres of the lifesaving liquid. Just like in the past years, we ran an internal campaign estions of students concerned the accounts for the young, payment cards and their for employees on donating 2 % of income tax of individual and individual donations. use abroad. Many plan to study abroad, therefore they were interested also in the Many employees have activated the Good Angel charity payment card. international payment traffic. At the beginning of the project from more than 4,000 tested pupils only 4 % passed the knowledge test successfully. After the training, as Engaging Employees in Community Life many as 64 % pupils succeeded in the test. The project thus significantly contribuIn the effort of engaging VUB employees in the activities beneficial for the commuted to increased financial literacy of pupils. nity and supporting their volunteering, also in 2013 VUB Foundation continued in its existing employee programs. They are very much popular with our employees Education for Start-Up Female Entrepreneurs who can get financial support for preservation of regional monuments within the In 2013, VUB Bank together with the monthly Emma organized already the 5th angrant scheme Treasures of My Heart. Employees submit the projects in coopenual training project Emma Business Academy. The project is dedicated to women ration with the non-profit sector or self-administrations. Last year, our employees who want to start a business and they already know in what area and they only enrolled 95 projects, thereof the 7 best got support of EUR 32,700. need the starting impulse and the initial know-how. Lecturers were external experts, managers from VUB, entrepreneurs and also successful graduates of previous years In the second type of employee program, the employees can submit projects in the of the academy. Three days of lectures helped the participants to uncover their poarea of charity, education and leisure activities for children and youth. The condition tential for business, to realize one’s strengths via personal diagnostics, gain valuable for obtaining the grant is the employee’s active participation in the project’s exeadvice, how to communicate towards the customer. Lecturers revealed tricks how to cution in form of volunteering. Employees submit the projects in cooperation with correctly create a business plan and the marketing experts from the Bank also gave non-governmental organizations, schools or local self-administration. This is a way their advice how to best do the advertising. In the final workshop, the attendees in to support the ideas and projects that employees consider meaningful and useful: the teams created business plans and jointly with the lecturers fine-tuned them to be together they are solving a certain problem in the community, support community viable. The most interesting was the concept of e-shop of gluten free food stuffs and activities or a civic association, in which the employees are engaged. In 2013, our the “Korzo“ project dedicated to seniors. employees submitted altogether 176 projects and received the support of more than EUR 30,000 for 22 organizations. In the evaluation committees, besides the Volunteering experts from the given areas, represented are also the Bank’s employees. The development of economic science in Slovakia is supported also by a competiIn 2013, VUB for the first time awarded selflessness and good heart of their employees, who dedicate themselves to volunteering. The award was connected with a financial prize in form of a grant worth a total of EUR 10,000. The winners could decide 55 about which charity organization would get the grant and/or what public purpose the finance would be provided for. VUB employees, nominated 26 employees for the Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes Supported Employee Projects Preservation of Cultural Heritage 2013 2012 2011 In identifying and selecting the monuments in need for help, we cooperate with local partners and experts. Besides reconstructions, our objective is also to raise awareness Number of projects enrolled 271 344 326 about the treasures of our country and at the same time of our national heritage’s Number of projects supported 29 34 46 vulnerability. In 2013, VUB Foundation contributed to preservation of cultural heritage Grants provided in euro 63,476 115,852 116,011 with the amount of EUR 177 thousand, which was dedicated to reconstruction of objects in different corners of Slovakia. 2013 VUB Foundation Activities VUB Foundation pays attention also to monument objects of regional significance, the VUB Foundation is an independent legal entity, however, it executes some of its preservation of which is equally important as the restoration of national cultural moactivities and projects in close managerial and financial cooperation with VUB Bank numents. Within the already mentioned employee program Treasures of My Heart and therefore we publish them also in this report. All activities of VUB Foundafunds for preservation of cultural, art and natural heritage objects of our country can tion in 2013 are comprehensibly presented in its annual report on the web page be obtained. In 2013, the Foundation helped in renovation of several “treasures“, for www.nadaciavub.sk. example the oldest pre-Roman rotunda in Nitrianska Blatnica, historic garden house in Martine, bell tower in Drienčany or the historic train set Kométa. VUB Foundation has developed its activities in the field of philanthropy since 2003. It is financed by assignment of income tax from VUB Bank (EUR 453,860 in 2013) and by financial donations from the parent company VUB (EUR 200,000 in 2013). In 2013, the Foundation contributed to several community projects with the amount of EUR 633 thous., whereof the majority of funds went to the support of art and POKLADY cultural heritage (41%) and to the area of charity (31%). The area of education received 28% of the funds. MÔJHO Overview of Grants Provided SRDCA 2013 2012 2011 POKLADY MÔJHO SRDCA Support provided in euro 633-thous. 640-thous. 1.1 mil. Number of projects supported 77 100 124 For Education Foundation Program Already the sixth year, the grant program of VUB Foundation International Guest Professor enables universities of economic specialisation to invite guest experts from abroad for a semester. Besides the pedagogical engagement of significant international experts at our universities, the program brings knowledge about the forms of scientific work at foreign universities, motivates students of economy, doctoral graduates and pedagogues to actively engage in the economic science. The students get a chance to get familiar with the procedures used at other universities abroad and learn in a way never experienced until now. In 2013, the grant to host a foreign professor was awarded to the University of Economy. During one entire semester, Professor John Pickles of the University of North Carolina was giving his lectures. VUB Foundation engages in the decision-making on monuments to be supported also the general public. Last year, historical entrance portals in 9 towns in various regions of Slovakia in need of funds for their reconstruction were competing for people’s votes in For Art Foundation Program an Internet voting. Based on the results of voting, which was held during the month of The activities of VUB Foundation focused on cultural heritage and fine arts derive from October, VUB Foundation supported the reconstruction of three portals which were the 56 the tradition of enhancing the country’s artistic and historical heritage, which is chawinners of the voting (in Košice, Levoča and Devín). racteristic also of the Italian owner of VUB Bank, the banking group Intesa Sanpaolo. Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes In 2013, VUB organized already its eighth year of the competition entitled Painting VUB Foundation’s Award to Young Artists for an Artwork, which counted 72 enrolled artists. Artworks by the competition finalists were showcased at an exhibition in Nedbalka Gallery from 14/11 to 18/12/2013. Besides direct financial support of artists, the competition also helps promoting the contemporary fine arts. The talents from the Painting competition are presented in a virtual gallery on page www.malbaroka.sk. VUB Foundation has been supporting the reconstruction of Banská Štiavnica Calvary already for five years. It is one of the most precious monuments we have in Slovakia. This UNESCO protected national monument Calvary in Banská Štiavnica has been in a dilapidated condition for a long period of time and in 2007 it was put on the list of 100 most threatened monuments in the world. Over the period of 10 years Objective of the competition Photo of the Year – VUB Foundation’s Award to Yo(2008 2017), VUB Foundation annually provides the Fund with a contribution of ung Photographers is to support young artists under 35 years of age and promote EUR 66,400. In May 2013, after a several years’ effort, the Lower Church was opeartworks in the category of photography. Last year, we held the sixth year of the ned after reconstruction. Also the viewing tower in the Upper Church and a new competition, which culminated in an open-air exhibition at Hviezdoslavovo Square exhibition mapping 5 years of the monument’s reconstruction works were opened in Bratislava. The exhibition lasted six weeks presenting the competition finalists by for the public. means of their 60 large-sized photographs on the theme “Story in the Picture“. The web page www.fotoroka.sk presents photographs from the finals of previous years Support of Contemporary Fine Arts of the competition in a virtual gallery. Inspired by the example of its parent bank, VUB engages itself also as a supporter of art. In cooperation with the Foundation, each year it organizes two competitions for talents in the painting and photography media. The works enrolled in the competitions are assessed by international expert juries and the winners get prize money. Both competitions are accompanied by exhibitions presenting to the public the best artworks selected by an expert jury. 57 Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes For Hope Foundation Program The program focused on charity helps the disadvantaged groups to equal their chances in life. It supports the development of sheltered workshops, sheltered housing, it finances the therapies for disabled people, it helps the foster families. In the area of healthcare charity, we donated EUR 66 thousand to medical therapies, purchase of devices and equipment of hospital wards. The grantees included the Hospital of Poprad, Oncological-Radiotherapy, n.f. and the rehabilitation centre ADELI in Piešťany. Grant Program “10 x EUR 10,000“ On the occasion of its 10th anniversary, VUB Foundation supported 10 exceptional projects from around Slovakia. Projects from 70 enrolled applications were selected by an expert committee. The amount of the support granted by the Foundation depended on the amount of funds which the individual organizations raised from the public and individual donors. The Foundation multiplied the raised donations in the ratio 1 : 1 up to EUR 10,000 for each project. The organizations were successful in their campaigns: 8 out of 10 raised 100% of the target amount and the remaining 2 organizations reached 92% and/or 28% of the target amount. Altogether, there were 1,102 engaged donors who were inspired by the projects of individual organizations. VUB Foundation added to the raised donations another EUR 92,049. 58 Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes Annexes Global Reporting Initiative Indicator Table Profile Disclosure Description GRI Coverage Page Strategy and analysis Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization. 1.1 X 3 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. 1.2 X 3, 8 Organizational Profile Name of the organization. 2.1 X 67 Primary brands, products, and/or services. 2.2 X 6, 8, 25 29 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, 2.3 X 9, 11 and joint ventures. Location of organization’s headquarters. 2.4 X 67 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major opera2.5 X 6 tions or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. Nature of ownership and legal form. 2.6 X 6, 39 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/beneficiaries). 2.7 X 6, 23 25 Scale of the reporting organization. 2.8 X 6, 8, 9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership. 2.9 X 6, 9 Awards received in the reporting period. 2.10 X 3, 10 Report Parameters Reporting period. 3.1 X 4 Date of most recent previous report. 3.2 X 4 Reporting cycle. 3.3 X 4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. 3.4 4 Process for defining report content, including determining materiality; prioritizing topics within the report; 3.5 X 4 and identifying stakeholders the organization expects to use the report. Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). 3.6 X 4 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report. 3.7 X 4 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other enti3.8 X 4 ties that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations. 3.9 4 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons 3.10 Not relevant for such re-statement. Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods 3.11 Not relevant applied in the report. 59 GRI Content Index. 3.12 X 59 Assurance. 3.13 X 66 Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance body res4.1 X 12 14 ponsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer. 4.2 X 12 Not relevant, VUB For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number of members of the highest Bank does not hava 4.3 X governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. a „unitary board structure“ Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest 4.4 X 12, 17, 35, 37, 39 governance body. Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and executives (including departure arrangements), and the organization’s performance (including social and 4.5. X 14 environmental performance). Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. 4.6. X 12, 15 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest governance body 4.7 Incomplete 14 for guiding the organization’s strategy on economic, environmental, and social topics. Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to eco4.8 X 5, 18, 19, 20 nomic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation. Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s identification and management of economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, 4.9 Incomplete 14 16 and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, particularly with respect to 4.10 X 13 14 economic, environmental, and social performance. Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organiza4.11 X 43 47 tion. Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to 4.12 X 18 which the organization subscribes or endorses. Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy orga4.13 X 10 nizations in which the organization. List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. 4.14 X 16 17 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. 4.15 X 16 17 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakehol12, 16, 17, 35, 37, 4.16 X der group. 39, 44 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organi4.17 X 25, 29 37, 54 zation has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. 60 Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes Disclosure on Management Approach Page Economic Economic performance 8 Market Presence 8 Indirect Economic Impacts 54 58 Environmental Materials 45 47 Energy 48 49 Water 49 50 Biodiversity 50 Emissions, Effluents, and Waste 50 51 Products and Services 51 – 53 Compliance 47 Transport 47 Social Labour Practices and Decent Work Employment 31 38 Labor/Management Relations 31 38 Occupational Health and Safety 36, 37 Training and Education 34, 35 Diversity and Equal opportunities 35, 36 Human Rights Investment and Procurement Practices 43 44 Non-discrimination 22 Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 37 Child Labor Not relevant Forced and Compulsory Labor Not relevant Indigenous Rights Not relevant Product Responsibility Customer Health and Safety 25 Product and Service Labeling 28 30 Marketing Communication 30 Customer Privacy 20, 25 Compliance 26 Society Community 54 58 Corruption 22 Public Policy 18 20 61 Anti-Competitive Behavior 18 20 Compliance 18 20 Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes Performance Indicators Description Aspect Indicator Core Coverage Page Economic EC1. Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, doEconomic Performance X X 6,8 nations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. EC6. Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locallyMarket presence X incomplete 6 -based suppliers at significant locations of operation. EC8. Development and impact of infrastructure investments Indirect Economic Impacts and services provided primarily for public benefit through X X 54 58 commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. Environmental Performance Indicators EN1. Materials used by weight or volume. X X 48 Materials EN2. Percentage of materials used that are recycled input X X 48 materials. EN3. Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. X X 48 EN4. Indirect energy consumption by primary source. X X 49 EN5. Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improEnergy X 49 vements. EN6. Initiatives to provide energy-effcient or renewable energy based products and services, and reductions in energy requireX 49 ments as a result of these initiatives. EN8. Total water withdrawal by source. X X 49, 50 EN9. Water sources signiﬁcantly affected by withdrawal of X Not relevant Water water. EN10. Percentage and total volume of water recycled and X Not relevant reused. EN11. Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity X X 50 value outside protected areas. EN12. Description of significant impacts of activities, products, Biodiversity and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of X X 50 high biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN13. Habitats protected or restored. X 50 EN14. Strategies, current actions, and future plans for manaX 50 ging impacts on biodiversity. 62 Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes EN19. Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. X X 50 EN22. Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. X X 50, 51 EN23. Total number and volume of significant spills. X X 47 EN24. Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the X 50 51 terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. EN25. Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats signiﬁcantly affected by the X Not relevant reporting organization’s discharges of water and runoff. EN26. Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of proProducts and Services X X 53 ducts and services, and extent of impact mitigation. Labor Practices GRI Core Coverage Page and Decent Work LA1. Total workforce by employment type, employment conX X 31 32 tract, and region. LA2. Total number and rate of employee turnover by age X X 32 33 Employment group, gender, and region. LA3. Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by major X 34 35 operations. LA4. Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaiX X 37 ning agreements. Labor/Management relations LA5. Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational chanX X 37 ges, including whether it is specified in collective agreements. 63 Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes LA6. Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management–worker health and safety committees X 36 that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. LA7. Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work related fatalities by X X 37 Occupational health region. and safety LA8. Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce memX X 37 bers, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. LA9. Health and safety topics covered in formal agreX 36 ements with trade unions. LA10. Average hours of training per year per employee X X 35 by employee category. LA11. Programs for skills management and lifelong learTraining and education ning that support the continued employability of employX 34 ees and assist them in managing career endings. LA12. Percentage of employees receiving regular perforX 33 mance and career development reviews. LA13. Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category according to gender, Diversity and equal opportunity X X 35 age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. Human Rights HR4. Total number of incidents of discrimination and Non-discrimination X X 35 actions taken HR6. Operations identiﬁed as having signiﬁcant risk for Child labor incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute X X 35 to the elimination of child labor. HR7. Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures Forced and compulsory labor X X 35 taken to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor. HR9. Total number of incidents of violations involving Indigenous rights X Not relevant rights of indigenous people and actions taken. 64 Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes Product responsibility GRI Core Coverage Page PR5. Practices related to customer satisfaction, including Product and Service Labeling X 26, 27 results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. PR6. Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, X X 18 including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. Marketing Communications PR7. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing X 18 communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. PR9. Monetary value of significant fines for non-comCompliance pliance with laws and regulations concerning the proviX X 44 sion and use of products and services. Society GRI Core Coverage Page SO1. Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and practices that assess and manage the impacts of Community X X 54 58 operations on communities, including entering, operating, and exiting. SO2. Percentage and total number of business units anaX X 22 lyzed for risks related to corruption. Corruption SO3. Percentage of employees trained in organization’s X X 21 22 anti-corruption policies and procedures. SO7. Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive Anti-Competitive Behavior behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their X 18 outcomes. SO8. Monetary value of significant fines and total numCompliance ber of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with X X 18 laws and regulations. 65 Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes VUB’s adhesion to the Global Compact Principles Aspect Global Compact Principles VUB action GRI KPI Code of Ethics Human Rights: 1. Businesses should support and respect Internal and External Ethical Standards HR4, HR6, HR7, HR9 the protection of internationally proclaimed Adherence to international standards in project Labour Practices: Human rights human rights finance (Equator Principles) LA4, LA6-9, LA13-14 Social inclusion of disadvantaged people Code of Ethics 2. Businesses should make sure they are not Human Rights: Internal and External Ethical Standards complicit in human rights abuses HR4, HR6, HR7, HR9 Promote social and environmental sustainability 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom Labour Practices: of association and the effective recognition Labour/management relations LA4-5 of the right to collective bargaining Human Rights: 4. Businesses should uphold the elimination HR7 Code of Ethics of forms of forced and compulsory labour Governance: 4.8., 4.12. Labour standards Human Rights: 5. Businesses should uphold the effective HR6 Code of Ethics abolition of child labour Governance: 4.8., 4.12. Enhancement of human resources Labour Practices: 6. Businesses should uphold the elimination Labour/management relations LA2, LA13 of discrimination in respect of employment Respecting differences Human Rights: and occupation Internal control mechanisms HR4 Environmental Management System and Strategy Governance: Adherence to international standards in project 4.8., 4.12. 7. Businesses should support a precautionary finance (Equator Principles) Environmental approach to environmental challenge Green Energy and Energy Efficiency Projects Performance: Environmentally Responsible Procurement EN26 Strategies for the environment, Environmental Performance: Environment 8. Businesses should undertake initiatives adhesion to international standards EN1-6, EN8, EN12, EN14, to promote greater environmental responsibility Environmental culture EN16, EN 19-20, EN22, EN24, Green initiatives and community projects EN26 9. Businesses should encourage the Green Energy and Energy Efficiency Projects Environmental development and diffusion of environmentally Fostering innovative green technologies Performance: friendly technologies Financing energy savings projects EN2, EN5-6, EN10, EN26 Code of Ethics 10. Businesses should work against corruption Internal and External Ethical Standards Society: Anti-Corruption 66 in all forms Transparency in internal processes SO2, SO3 Internal control mechanisms Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes Statement of External Verifier 67 Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes Issued by: Všeobecná úverová banka, a. s. Mlynské nivy 1 829 90 Bratislava Slovak Republic www.vub.sk csr@vub.sk External Verifier: Pontis Foundation, Bratislava Layout: Istropolitana Ogilvy 68 The 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report has been translated from Slovak into English solely for the convenience of international readers. The original document in Slovak prevails over any translation and will be made available upon request.
