YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2013-2014 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2013-2014 1 D Ü N YA İ Ç İ N Ü R E T İ Y O R U Z 2 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2013-2014 PRODUCING FOR THE WORLD YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2013-2014 3 About the Report Y eşim Textile pledges to conform and to implement Yeşim Textile aims at diffusing sustainability efforts to the principles of the agreement at each and every all work processes and making sure that its suppliers stage of production and governance and to monitor and contract manufacturers also adopt these principles. compliance. The efforts made by the company to this end and the targets for the year 2014 and subsequent years are The report briefly explains previous practices within the communicated in the report together with the relevant organization of the company under the Global Compact data. Agreement and mainly higlights the work carried out in 2013. The information provided in the report is supported by statistical data, model practices and photographs. 4 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2013-2014 Global Compact Principles Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights, Principle 2 Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human right abuses, Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining, Global Labor Standards Principle 4 Businesses should effectively eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labor, Compact Principle 5 Businesses should effectively abolish child labor, Principle 6 Businesses should effectively eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and Agreement occupation, Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges, Yeşim Textile has pledged to conform to the principles of this international agreement on Principle 8 Businesses shall undertake and encourage initiatives to promote grater environmental human rights, labor standards, the environment responsibility, and the struggle against corruption. Yeşim Textile Principle 9 Businesses should encourage the transparently shares the details of its work under development and diffusion of environmentally friendly, the Global Compact Agreement in the global network since 2008. Anti-Corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. Index 6 Message From CEO 34 Information Security Management System 8 Information About Yeşim Textilee 42 Yeşim; The Green Factory 15 Achievements in 2013 52 CSR Activities Report 16 Lean Management System 56 The World of Butterfly 22 Social Compliance 64 Sharing With The Society YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2013-2014 5 We are changing, transforming and developing... Dear stakeholders, Our primary goal is to contribute to our employees, stakeholders and ultimately to the whole society and therefore The world is continuously changing and transforming. The make our activities sustainable. We are a company rerenovation and changes experienced during the industrial specting our employees, our society, the world we live in revolution is happening today with the information age. and know our responsibilities in production. We have great Because of the information age, humanity has a new era pleasure to see that our values in turn makes us more valuahead. This new era at one hand will provide new opportuniable for our customers. ties and at the other hand will pose difficulties for adapting to the transforming social structures. In 2005, our company was awarded SA 8000, the world’s most prestigious social compliance certificate. By obtaining In parallel to all of these changes institutions need to this certificate, we have declared our commitment to satischange their culture, business models, processes, products fy and initiate necessary steps to achieve social compliance and services, and while doing this they need to consider and requirements not only at our facilities, but also at the faciliprotect the benefits of their employees, customers, busities of our contract production and other suppliers. ness partners and other social stakeholders, and make the changes in a coherently and according to the new conditions. Our signature of the Global Compact in 2006, issue of a The transformation in sustainability is especially important joint declaration with a number of global corporations in both for companies and the future of our world. 2008 under the Financial Times initiative to mark the 60th anniversary of the signature of the Human Rights DeclaraThis is where the importance of companies come forward. tion and signature of the declaration titled “Management It is very important to use the technology at hand in a way is Women’s Right” in Turkey in 2009 are indicators of our that makes life easier for people, while doing this to protect commitment on the matter. All of the efforts we have the environment, rise the quality of life. undertaken for social responsibility have been extremely Yeşim Textile has defined its motto as “People First” from useful for us both inside and outside the company. the day it was founded and we here in Yeşim Textile value Benefits of the efforts can be summarized as follows: our social responsibilities, and strive to create a sustainable world using the power we have. The occupational health and safety implementations we have in place for long Benefits inside the company: years, management systems to protect the rights of the employees, environmental activities and social responsibil• We have started to more clearly highlight the commitity actions which provide value to the public all reflect our ment of our top management to the environment, comefforts towards a better future. munity and governance reaching out to the employees. 6 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2013-2014 “ Yeşim Textile has defined its motto as “People First” from the day it was founded and we here in Yeşim Textile value our social responsibilities, and strive to create a sustainable world using the power we have. ” • We have managed to increase our employees’ corpo• Our cooperation has provided valuable learning opporrate loyalty and motivation through all the applications tunities for all our stakeholders. we have accomplished for them. • By signing the Global Compact, we have undertaken to • The company integrated its corporate citizenship activshare globally all our projects and efforts that have ities with work operations and encouraged the employbeen conducted for years. For us, this is the most cruees towards an increase in the positive social effects of cial point in signing this agreement. Launched years ago the values chain. by Şükrü Şankaya, a founder of Nergis Holding and our company with the “People First” motto, these efforts • We have had an opportunity to demonstrate how we have been internalized and gathered under a corporate have operationally implemented written requirements roof by us during the recent years. on social responsibility and environment incorporated into our company’s mission and values. • It is our purpose to share this approach and applications dating back to our corporate history in a global • In-house applications for progress evaluation we have network by signing this agreement and lead the whole implemented have led to improvement in our perforworld and primarily the textile and garment industry mance in this regard. on these issues. We as Yeşim Textile commit ourselves • These good practices we have implemented in the soto continuing to perform our responsibilities towards cial responsibility framework have brought us into conour employees and the community, as we have so far tact with global brands and brought us new customers, always done. thus leading to higher financial gains for our company. Benefits outside the company: • Making business with world-famous brands has opened us doors towards strategic partnership with them. • The atmosphere of more transparency and trust has Şenol Şankaya increased our company’s reputation. CEO • The sustainability vision, strategy and implementation plan have provided a framework for the development of relations with all our stakeholders. YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2013-2014 7 Yeşim Textile With a total operation area of 325 thousand square meters in Bursa, of which 144 thousand are indoor space, Yeşim Textile, which has knitting, dyeing, and confection departments, is one of the leading integrated facilities in the world. Our Vision Our Values To become the model strategic manufacturing • Achieve mutual & sustainable growth with our partner to the world’s leading brands in both key customers and manufacturing partners. apparel and home textiles. • Set the international benchmark for corporate responsibility in textile manufacturing. Our Mission • Be an industry leader in innovation and implementing new technologies & processes. • To be a pioneer in the textile sector, manufacturing top-quality products and • Evolve our supply chain providing transparency making significant investments both in qualified and trust for our customers. people and the latest technology. • Continue to partner with our customers to • To ensure the highest levels of customer shorten end to end production times. satisfaction. • To protect the environment and foster environmental consciousness among staff, suppliers and the public at large. • To fulfill our obligations to the community and always act in a socially responsible manner. • To set an example for other companies by always putting “People first”. 8 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2013-2014 Manufacturing for the internationally renowned brands, Yeşim Textile is in strategic partnership with companies like Nike, Burberry, Esprit in apparel and Matheis-Schlafgut in home textiles sectors. Yeşim also produces for Zara, Pull&Bear, Massimo Dutti, Bershka, Hugo Boss, Marks and Spencer, Calzedonia, Hurley, Tchibo, Converse and Mexx brands. YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2013-2014 9 2013; Exports 240 Million USD Revenue 275 Million USD 10 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2013-2014 Our Certifications • SA8000 • “Oekotex Standard 100” • GOTS (manufacture from 100% organic cotton) • OE (manufacture from not totally 100% organic cotton) • ISO/IEC 27001:2005 ( Safety ) Capacity of Daily Production knitting dyeing printing 50 tons / day 100 tons / day 100.000 meters / day apperel home textile 150.000 units / day 100.000 units / day YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2013-2014 11 12 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2013-2014 Besides being a pioneer in the Turkish textile sector, Yeşim Textile also guiding the youth, which will become our future. A total of 310 employee’s children in the 0-6 age group are cared for and educated free of charge in the day-care facilities of Yeşim. Yeşim Textile employs 2500 individuals in house and provides employment opportunities to around 10.000 individuals in the aggregate including domestic and international subcontractor. 1304 Number of Female Employees 1135 Number of Male Employees Number of Interns 229 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2013-2014 13 14 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2013-2014 Achievements in 2013 Various institutions and organizations were rewarded in accordance with Yeşim Textile 2012 data and their performances. Yeşim Outlet Stores and Textile Factories Inc. Co ranked been serving to the sector for more than 30 years, by 233rd place in Fortune magazine’s survey on “Turkey’s Turkish Clothing Manufacturers’ Association (TGSD). biggest companies”. In the assessment of the Uludağ Exporter’s Association, With 240 million dollar export, it ranked the 62nd place Yeşim Outlet Stores and Textile Factories Inc. Co. in general classification and the 6th place in its sector at became the export champion as it ranked the first place the list of ‘First 1000 Companies’ of Turkish Exporters in two categories of the Union of Textile Exporters and Assembly (TİM). Moreover Yeşim became the unique the Union of Clothing Apparel Exporters. ready-wear and apparel company that is in the first 5 in terms of the export figures of Bursa. Paying the highest premiums regularly and consistently and having no debt, Yeşim Textile was deemed worthy Yeşim Textile was 419th in “Turkey’s 500 biggest of a plate by the Social Security Institution (SGK) in May. companies” survey of Capital magazine. In the Anatolia’s Top 500 Companies research of the In May, right before the 6th Istanbul Fashion Conference, Ekonomist magazine, based on the 2012 data, Yeşim a plaque was presented to Yeşim Textile, which has Stores became 57th and Yeşim Textile became 102nd. Balkan Association of Industrialists and Businessmen Rumelia deemed Yeşim Textile worthy of a prize due to its achievements in exporting. Within the frame of “Scrub-birds Discovers Bursa” During the “Award Ceremony of Those Adding Value To project that Bursa Scrub-birds Platform carried out Economy” in Bursa Chamber of Commerce and Industry under the scope of 11 October International Day of the (BTSO), Yeşim Textile ranked the 1st place in apparel and Girl Child, Yeşim Textile Women and Children Club was textile sector with its export figures while it entered in deemed worthy of a prize due to their works toward the list from the seventh place in the general exporting women and girl children. classification. Yeşim Textile was awarded a prize by BTSO due to this achievement. YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2013-2014 15 We proceed towards the future with our lean production and management model 16 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2013-2014 Yeşim Textile has launched the Lean Thinking project, which is one of the most effective production and management models today with respect to efficiency, quality, Human Resources, process improvement and profitability, back in 2006, which is currently being implemented at full place in each and every stage of production and management. Lean Thinking aims to generate a production and competitive, work in a world with limited resources, management model which reduces processes that do reduce their environmental footprint, reduce costs and not add value, as well as wastes, by focusing on value meet customer demand. in each process. Kaizen techniques which is continuous improvement with small steps play a very important The road to sustainability goes through being a role and significantly contribute to this process. company, which is lean, green and has an empowered workforce. The extension of management with targets, which is a major lean technique, throughout the workforce In order to create sustainable production and and the continuous monitoring of the performance management models and to pioneer in these indicators of each individual unit are key factors that areas Yeşim Textile has implemented an integrated contribute to Yeşim Textile’s progress towards is “True management model covering Lean, Quality, Human North” business results. Resources and Social Compliance. All our employees have fully adopted the concepts of In Yeşim Textile, sustainable production is achieved with communication, sharing, team work, team spirit and the closely connected Lean, Human Resources, Social creating value as part of lean production, which is a Compliance and Quality departments, which are each a human focused management system. This is the major part of a puzzle working towards a common goal. Their source of Yeşim Textile’s success in Lean Production. work aims to create an empowered workforce culture that is able to produce high quality products with low Sustainability costs and just in time. The term “sustainability” comes forward in today’s business environment, where companies need to be Lean Gains Kaizen works of Yeşim Textile, which is among In the weekly kaizen calendar of 2013, its sine qua non for continuous improvement, the numbers of kaizen were compared also continued in 2013 with the enthusiasm for accumulatively and the pioneers of kaizen were the amelioration of the work of employees and to be determined. By this way, the participation the quality of work environment. The number of to lean production works and the awareness kaizen in various departments such as apparel, for being a part of continuous improvement are knitting, production, etc. reached 2,260 with strived to be increased. 11,739 participants as of 2014. YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2013-2014 17 Lean Achievements 2nd Quality (%) Repair (%) 6 8 57% 85 % improvement improvement 6 4 4 2 2 0 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Stain (%) Efficiency (%) 20 66 % 100 improvement 15 80 10 60 29 % 40 improvement 5 20 0 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Lean dissemination Lean studies in production The simplification works realized in the apparel section awareness was prepared and totally 618 people working of Yeşim under the name of NOS were primarily initiated in the production were trained. The subjects focused under in the production by Lean Office. After the evaluation of the project were process mapping, value stream mapping, the current situation in September, the project that would standard stock leveling, andon and kanban implementations, last for 4 months started. In the first phase of the project PDCA and in station quality trainings, preparation of where the dissemination of lean studies is targeted, an standard works, 5S and review of visual management. educative presentation for the dissemination of the NOS 18 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2013-2014 Apparel job shadowing trainings A new orientation program was launched as of May perspective are targeted. In this direction, basic need for for those starting to work in apparel section. With training for the beginning phase was determined and a this program, the employees are aimed to work in the training program of totally 11 hours that lasts for two days production line after acquiring necessary knowledge and was prepared by Lean, Quality, Apparel, Human Resources, competency. Thus both investing on the employees through Machinery maintenance, Method Engineering and Social the trainings given and obtaining more qualified products Compliance Departments and it was put into practice. that increase the customer satisfaction with the improved Information weeks The series of “information week” that the lean office Information on kaizen, 7S, A3, in station quality and initiated in December 2012 also continued in 2013. lean production were provided so far. Information Information on variable subjects chosen in accordance regarding the new subjects that are to be determined with the survey results located in the portal were by the Lean Office will henceforward continue provided trimester periods. In this context, informative quarterly. emails were sent for five days in the chosen week so as to increase the awareness on the relevant subject. Book of Lean was written Lean is a doctrine and a philosophy as pages. Thanks to this book, it is aimed well as a system that each companies to enable the usage of same lean adapt themselves according to their terminologies within the company and to cultures. Starting out from this create a lean perception aligned for all mentality, Lean Office, on August, employees. It is especially targeted that prepared “Lean Manufacturing the awareness on lean implementations Practices Guidebook” that provides would be increased incorporating with general information on the philosophy intra-company examples and an easily of lean production and administration reachable resource on information about model and various implementation the lean would be generated. techniques, at the same time explains the most basic implementations in Yeşim Textile and is composed of 88 Benchmarking Yeşim Textile Lean Office that receives a great information form and post-benchmarking survey, works number of visitors from many institutions and on development fields are intended while receiving organizations created the “Benchmarking Manual” feedbacks. In this context, it is aimed to undertake in order to take advantage of this situation for a benchmarking work with a different company in each development opportunity and turn it to a platform in month during 2014. where learning is possible while sharing. By means of detailed benchmarking within itself, binding rules, YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2013-2014 19 Senior level lean visit John Shook, Founder and CEO of Lean Institution, and members of executive board of Lean Institute Association his colleagues visited our company on 5th December in were among the visitors. A stroll in the factory of Yeşim order to see the implementations of Yeşim Textile, which Textile was taken for John Shook and his companies. is one of the best examples of lean production, on site Necessary information regarding the lean implementations and evaluate. Together with John Shook, Yalçın İpbüken and Business Unit structures in Yeşim were explained to Founder and Chairman of Executive Board of Lean Institute the group that visited showroom, knitting, dyeing, cutting Turkey, Jose Ferro – President of Lean Institute Brazil and departments and administrative offices. lean management with Oracle Yeşim Textile launched ERP transitional process in 2008 and pioneer, advance production planning put the purchasing management, inventory management, and tabulation implementations, stock barcode implementations, cost and finance modules was integrated with Oracle E-Business of Oracle E-Business systems into use. Updated to R12, systems and synchronized applications of all the latest version of Oracle E-Business systems, in 2012, the production places via this implementation are Yeşim put production management, production barcode targeted. Production of all factories with the lean implementations, production tree and sample management, production principles through the integration of Oracle consignment management, outsource tracking and supplier and Fastreact and supporting pull system are enabled. In portal, quality management and production cost modules accordance with the lean perception, the works for including into use in 2013 in the second phase of the version updating up-to-date technology and implementations in Yeşim works. Again within the second phase of updating the processes within the frame of continuous improvement are version, Fastreact planning application, which is one of the ongoing. 20 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2013-2014 Sustainability and leadership in Lean Sustainability Community Learning Community that is composed of the Energy. Neslin Özkaya, Chief of Yeşim Textile Lean Office, representatives of Lean, Human Resources and Social was chosen to the chairmanship of Learning Community, Compliance departments within the frame of sustainable which is composed of 8 different companies producing Nike. production by Nike, one of our customers, follows the Özkaya will be leading the sustainability group on behalf of works and developments in the factories across Turkey Yeşim Textile for focusing the problems, determining the producing Nike and steers the works regarding the Health objectives and such in 2013 and 2014. and Security at Work, Human Resources, Environment and Lean journey with Burberry Yeşim Textile gave a two-days of training and shared came to Yeşim on 30-31 October 2013. The group that its experiences with to the top managers of the English is composed of top managers in Lean, Procurement, brand of Burberry, which is produced by Yeşim, about Production, Sales, Job Analysis departments, especially the lean management. A group of 8 top managers Lise Edwards-Warrener, Vice-President of Internal coming from Burberry Trench Coat department aiming Production attended to the two-days of training that is to get to lean management and to see and understand specially organized for them. the lean implementations in different sectors on site Local Lean Forum Yeşim Textile hosted an important meeting where production partners of Nike ready-wear met. A number of people from Yeşim, producer companies and Nike took part in the meeting, in which lean strategies that Nike would implement in 2014 were evaluated. Nike’s perception to lean was handled in the meeting on 2nd October and necessary assessments were carried out regarding the works that are to be realized together with the production partners. In the Lean forum, which was organized for the first time, production partners primarily explained their lean journeys while the attempts and revisions of Nike for 2014 were dealt. Local Lean Forum is hereinafter planned to be held biannually. YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2013-2014 21 Social Compliance 22 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2013-2014 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2013-2014 23 “People First” “Never forget that your colleagues and employees are human beings just like yourself, and that it is your duty to treat them well”. This paternal advice rang in the ears of Yeşim Textile’s founder Şükrü Şankaya when he first started the business, and remains at the heart of the company’s “People First” vision, its corporate culture and all its policies. 24 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2013-2014 Social Compliance is an integrated part of our business processes Yeşim Textile has a Social Compliance Department under expectations regarding social compliance. In addition, its Directorship Social Compliance and Human Resources it shows the methods achieving the needs for social which ensures that all expectations regarding social compliance. There are activities to need the demands of compliance are notified and implemented. customers related with social compliance and sustainability. This department conducts audits both at the main plant This department also accompanies the customers and and at the suppliers and reports the improvement areas auditors during social compliance audits carried out by third to the respective departments and companies and supports party organizations and customers. and encourages all suppliers with a view to fulfilling MAIN STRATEGIES / SUB STRATEGIES TRUE NORTH Customer Profitability Speed Yeşim Textile Innovation Competence has allocated BUSINESS RESULTS IN YESIM TRACKED BY TARGETS TRY 887.000 Profitability from its total Revenue Loading Performance Corporate Social Total Lead Time Responsibility Competencey budget of TRY Stock 1.487.000 to MAIN STRATEGIES social compliance, Finance, Quality, Loading Performance, occupational Social Compliance, Employee Satisfaction, Lead Time, Corporate Reputation health and safety in 2013. SUB STRATEGIES YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2013-2014 25 Trainings for health and safety The Social Compliance – Environment – Yeşim Textile delivers training in house, to Occupational Health and Safety Board make sure that all its employees participate which was founded in 1983, comprising In 2013 in occupational health and safety practices 30 members, convenes regularly on a 2671 through a system which gives priority to hours monthly basis and adopts resolutions the health of its employees. and the minutes of these meetings are recorded and communicated to the In 2013 a total of 2199 people received relevant departments. Occupational of training 2671 hours of “Social Compliance; health and safety efforts are based on have given Workplace Health and Safety; Emergency trainings. Situations; and First Aid trainings”. Emergency Situation Evacuation Drills In 2013, Yeşim Textile continued doing Emergency Situation Evacuation Drills, which is given great importance in the company. The company readied its workforce to threats with drills made in June and December 2013. The company has done a Fire Extinguishing Drill in June 2013 and increased awareness. Emergency Situation Drills in the Kindergarten In 2013 various training programmes have started to increases readiness for emergency situations in 2013. In the scope of these training programmes trainings were given to the staff of the Kindergarten and children aged 5-6 in June and November. The emergency situation evacuation drill trainigns were given by Yeşim Textile Social Compliance Manager Aydın Maydaer. 200 Distribution 180 195 of Work 160 176 Accidents by 140 141 Year 120 100 118 80 89 60 65 40 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 26 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2013-2014 Employee rights training Özlem Şenkoyuncu, Human Resources Manager compliance, social compliance standards of the and Ayça Bolten Ülkü, Psychologist of the Company customers and the rights of employees. Violence have given trainings on employee rights and social and mobbing, their impact and measures to prevent compliance to all masters in the company during mobbing in business life were also covered in November. The training topics covered social the training. In 2013 a total of We believe that training 8633 hours makes us better and see of training were given to trainings as a part of our job. employees TECNIQUE Number of People Hour Occupational Health and Security 1326 3456 Quality 101 145 Apparel Job Shadowing Training 10 48 Institutional Development 24 192 Orientation 367 671 Technique 240 384 Lean 106 149 LEADERSHIP Number of People Hour Social Responsibility and Leadership 45 45 HR Summit 1 6 Leadership 34 170 Working with Different Generations 10 50 Customer Finding Techniques in External Market 1 0,75 PERSONAL DEVELOPMENT Number of People Hour Features of Child Development for 4 Years Old 11 11 Features of Child Development for 5 Years Old 26 52 Features of Child Development for 6 Years Old 29 25,25 Information on Candidate Evaluation Analysis 4 6 Adobe CS6 Photoshop 4 20 Sleep Problem in Babies and Children 17 17 Body Language Training 1 1 Marketing with Blog 2 12 Budgeting 1 6 ERP Workflow Control Streams 25 46 Relaxing Techniques 2 2 Entrepreneurship 2 6 HP PROLIANT SERVER-BCS 2 10 English Course 12 122,5 Human Resources Management Speciality 2 90 Work and Time Study 3 22,5 Basic Risk in Companies 12 72 Interview Techniques 2 4 People First Philosophy Trainings 34 51 Positive Thinking and Positive Life 9 9 Project Management 2 14 Healthy living 55 88,5 Preparing Healthy Food 47 47 Social Responsibility and Volunteering 59 88,5 I Manage Stress I Love Life 617 1723 Being a Team 33 66 Basic Excel Trainings 46 80,5 Optimization of Drying Process in Painting Houses Demonstration 3 18 An Obtacle before Productivity 5 37,5 Y Generation and Management 15 105 Lean HR Management 2 12 Management Accounting 21 280,5 Management Summit 3 21 Time Management 22 132 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2013-2014 27 Governance in Yeşim The basis of management implementations in Yeşim that started out with the objectives of perpetual development and enhancement of performance is the mentality of “people first” just like all its processes. Adapting the humanitarian and ethic management perception, Yeşim structured all its processes on these values. 28 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2013-2014 Endeavoring to create a lean, institutional, result-oriented, fertile and sustainable organizational structure, Yeşim revised its organizational schedule in 2013 receiving support from a consultancy company. The sizes of all positions in the work processes were ascertained in this context and the new structuring was done considering the development opportunities. As it is underpinned the lean management philosophy in the new organizational structure, the value stream schema between the process from the order of the customer to the delivery is basis. The basis of the sustainable management is Social Responsibility policy, EnvironmentOccupational Health and Security Policy, Human Resources Management System Policy that is included in the management system of Yeşim. SA8000, the International social convenience certificate, and Global Compact Contract are the most valuable certificates that Yeşim acquired as the outcome of sustainable works included into its work processes. Workplace Psychologist serves the employees of Yeşim In order to enable the employees of Yeşim to manage the Bolten Ülkü. Deep Relaxing Practices conducted by Ayça stress in their professional and private lives; Bolten Ülkü is recorded in the studio. The CD is distributed to Psychologist Ayçe Bolten Ülkü started to serve in Yeşim as the employees after the training. a Workplace Psychologist between 08.30-18.30 in Tuesdays and Thursdays as of February. Having individual interviews, our psychologist facilities the tackling with the stress in the professional and private lives. 1569 hours of “I Manage Stress I Love Life” training to 586 Workplace psychologist have so far done 161 face-to-face people was given by the Workplace Psychologist Ayça interviews. Grievance System revised In order to make the Grievance system more interactive, its records the requests and complaints. Complaint recorded procedure was rewritten. Human Resources Department are reported to the relevant department and to top visits all departments every month and listens to and management and the actions are followed up. YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2013-2014 29 Social Compliance 30 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2013-2014 Social Compliance activities are followed by continuous internal and external audits conducted both at Yeşim Textile and suppliers and improvement is measured. Continous monitoring through audits Scheduled internal audits are conducted at the suppliers questionnaire for suppliers and social compliance manual every year in accordance with the annual main plant and for suppliers upon request by the production department. supplier audit plan. The audit plan is prepared on an annual basis in a way to ensure that the main plant, all contract manufacturers, In case a need arises for new suppliers, substantive printing and embroidery firms are audited once every 6 scheduled or unscheduled audits are conducted at new months. The audits are conducted by the Social Compliance suppliers on sdocial compliance, environment, occupational Team of Yeşim, comprising members who are competent health and safety, in accordance with the social compliance and authorized on this issue. Our Company was subjected to the following social compliance audits in 2013 • Intertek SA8000 (March-July-December 2013) • Hugo Boss SU (December 2013) • Intertek NIKE ESH SMS (October 2013) • Burberry&Esprit SU (September 2013) • Inditex RTM (December 2013) • ÇSGB İSG (May 2013) • Next SU (January 2013) • ÇŞB Environment (May 2013) Social Compliance at Yeşim BSCI (Business Social Compliance Fair Trade Initiative) Yeşim Textile became the member of Fair Trade, which was The main objective of BSCI Procurement Rules is to ensure established in late 1980s in the Netherlands and is a commercial specific social and environmental standards on the basis of partnership based on dialogue, transparency and respect so internationally accepted conventions. By signing the BSCI as to enable more fair international trade. With the certificate Procurement Rules, companies undertake to accept the received within the frame of this formation, it is documented social and environmental standards specified in these rules, that all universal, environmental, ethic and humanitarian to implement these rules and to take measures in their standards were secured in all the processes starting from the corporate policies for compliance with these rules. Yeşim collection of cotton and to the production of yarn, fabric and Textile, signed BSCI Procurement standards in 2011. final material respectively. This formation moreover contributes to the sustainable development providing better commercial conditions for producers and employees and protecting their rights. Yeşim Textile, obtained the Fair Trade Certificate in 2013. YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2013-2014 31 SEDEX 20 selected departments should be controlled once in 4 Yeşim Textile became SEDEX that is a Britain based months. non-profit organization specifically preferred by British customers. SEDEX serves as a sharing site where ethic High success in Inditex TAV audit results of implementation that are carried out in accordance Inditex group has carried out a TAV (Technical Assessment with the labor law and various customer standards are kept Verification) audit in our company. Yeşim Textile, received and shared with the relevant customers and that is used for 98,5 points in the audit. Inditex auditors have indicated web-based international information and data storage. that this was the highest score in Turkey under the same category. 7S audits 7S audits that started in Yeşim in 2012 under the frame Joint environmental audit of sustainable production also continued in 2013. 7S Auditors from Ministry of Environment and Urbanization audits, where 7 phases of all office and production fields have visited Yeşim on May 22nd for a joint environment are inspected and scored by the Simple Office and Social audit. In the scope of the audit subjects such as operation of Convenience Departments and corrective actions are the purification plant, hazardous and non-hazardous waste requested for the inconveniences, contains 5S Simple, management, wastewater discharge criteria, chimney 6S Occupational Health and Security and 7S HR and gasses were examined. Auditors have indicated that all Staff controls. As distinct from previous years’ audits, phases were correctly carried out in Yeşim and that Yeşim is occupational health and security and amelioration of a “good example” for companies. working conditions are also controlled during these audits. 7S audits realized 3 times in a year in 2013, provided that BCI Yeşim Textile continued to undertook the purchasing in accordance with the strategic partnership agreement with KİPAŞ so as to purchase yarns made of cotton within the frame of BCI certificate that are produced in an environmental friendly manner and sustainable conditions. Under the frame of the strategic agreement contracted, Yeşim Textile commits to use more yarns made of cotton that are comforting to Better Cotton (BCI) certificate and to orient its customers in this subject. BCI membership of Yeşim was approved in 1st September 2012 and its name has been started to be published on the website of BCI since then. What is Better Cotton Initiative (BCI)? It is a voluntary program enabling millions of farmers around the world to produce cotton in healthier conditions. In order to guarantee the future of the sector, a Sweden-based non-profit council named “Better Cotton Initiative” (BCI) was established in 2005. Collaborating with cotton supplying chain and relevant stakeholders, the Council serves for securing the sustainability of global cotton production environmentally, socially and economically and as a sharing site where the results of the production quality are kept and shared with relevant customers and that is used for web-based international information and data storage. 32 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2013-2014 The most prestigious social compliance certificate Yeşim Textile is the first company in the ready to wear sector in Turkey to recieve the SA8000 certificate which was renewed for the 3rd time in 2011. There are only a few companies in the world which manage to renew this certificate for the 3rd time. Yeşim has declared at the highest level that the company will comply with the “Social Responsibility Policy” corresponding to the internationally accepted “SA8000 Social Compliance Standards”. SA8000 is an important part of our business processes Yeşim Textile aims at incorporating social responsibility Customers from the U.S.A and EU countries in the ready-to requirements in its corporate culture. Consequently wear and household textiles sector evaluate their suppliers it implements social compliance standards within its with respect to good quality, fair price, on time delivery organization. and compliance with social responsibility standards and place their orders accordingly. Consequently Yeşim Textile is Through the Social Compliance Standards, Yeşim Textile subjected to social compliance audits by its customers and covenants to ensure that its employees recieve all potential customers throughout the year on the principles their rights under the law and the respective standards of the Global Compact and on other issues. while delivering its products or services, to comply with occupational health and safety rules and to act in The SA8000 certificate and the good results achieved from compliance with the prevention of environmental pollution. the audits conducted by the customers assure that Yeşim Yeşim Textile covenants to implement these principles which Textile fulfills all the requirements of the Global Compact are also included in the Global Compact Agreement in good Agreement. faith and to allow 3rd parties to conduct audits. YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2013-2014 33 Liability of Yeşim is registered Yeşim Textile undertook the necessary regulations Management System. Pursued its endeavors so as in order to protect the information to create an effective information security belonging to its customers and business management system for 3.5 months, environment and is entitled to receive Yeşim Textile documented its liability TS ISO IEC 27001 Information Security with ISO 27001 standard after fulfilling Management System. Being granted all the requirements. Inspections this certificate after almost 3.5 will be done at the end of the year months of preparation period, Yeşim in order to prolong the validity of once again registered its liability by the certificate, which is valid for one means of ISO 27001 standard. Yeşim year. If Yeşim would manage to keep Textile, which has so far performed the same standard at the end of the many standards, will ensure the inspections to be performed every year, confidentiality and security of information the validity of the document will continue. through TS ISO IEC 27001 Information Security 34 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2013-2014 Yeşim Textile, which has so far performed many standards, will ensure the confidentiality and security of information through TS ISO IEC 27001 Information Security Management System. What is ISO/IEC 27001:2005? What does it provide? ISO/IEC 27001:2005 document is based on the principle of of companies. Information security management system attainability, integrality and confidentiality of information shows to your commercial partners and customers that and of determination and elimination of relevant risks. The you take the information security serious. ISO 27001 needs of customers, employees, commercial partners and enables you to do business with many organization as it is society as a whole are also included in the relevant parts. a precondition, an expectation and a condition in contract. It Receiving this certificate is perceived as a strong indicator facilitates the exposition of the security of your IT system of the importance that an institution shows to the security to the third parties without demonstrating your security of information. procedures to your customers. Minimizing the effects of a possible security violation, it helps the development of Unprotected systems invites the computer based business continuity of your institution. It decreases the penetration, sabotage and viruses. Insecurity of information system weakness and the risk about the security, enables may cause the leakage, theft and loss of basic information the operation of the relevant control mechanism. YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2013-2014 35 Legal working conditions Our employees work under conditions which comply with national and international standards and recieve wages according to these standards. The wages of all employees who have worked for Yeşim Textile in excess of 3 months are higher than the minimum wage. 36 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2013-2014 Working conditions in compliance with the law The provisions of the “Labor Law” numbered 4857 as ratified by the Council of Ministers and the provisions of the “Collective Bargaining Agreement” which was entered into by and between the employer and TEKSİF (The Union of Textile, Knitting and Garment Industry Workers of Turkey”) are applied by Yeşim Textile. The administrative staff (“white collar”) are subjected to the provisions of the Labor Law and the workers (“blue collar”) are subjected to the provisions of the Collective Bargaining Agreement. When compared to the Labor Code, the Collective Bargaining Agreement always provides more favourable conditions for the workers. Yeşim Textile recruits its employees in accordance with this collective bargaining agreement since 1983, when the cooperation with TEKSİF was started. In the scope of these laws the company does not employ forced workers. All new recruits completing the probation period (1-3) depending on the nature of their position are considered as permanent staff. The wages are determined on the basis of the minimum wages defined by the Ministry of Labor and Social Security. New recruits are paid minimum wage for a period of 3 months following recruitment and then their wages are increased at the rates specified in the Collective Bargaining Agreement. The wages of all employees who have worked for Yeşim Textile in excess of 3 months are higher than the minimum wage. The number of people according to ages 800 724 700 552 544 600 500 400 300 233 186 200 136 100 41 6 0 20-25 26-30 31-35 36-40 41-45 46-50 51-55 56-60 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2013-2014 37 The consideration for labor is valuable Employees of Yeşim Textile receive the consideration for their efforts not only through wages but also through social benefits. Social assistances at Yeşim Textile • Education grant for all schooled children of employees, • Payment of bonuses every month at the amount of 5 days wage, • Marriage grant to employees who get married, • Religious holiday allowance for all employees, • Maternity benefits at childbirth, • Heating allowance for all employees each month, • Funeral grants those who lose their first degree relatives, • Gifts to all employees once a year from the products manufactured by the company, • Military service allowance to those who leave their jobs for military service, • Free shuttle service for all employees, • Reimbursement of meal ticket fees to those employees • Free lunch to all employees every day, who are on fast during Ramadan, • Provision of 40 kg of foodstuff to all employees • Child allowance for parents, separately for each child, quarterly, • Holiday allowance for those who take annual leave, • Free of charge kindergarten service. A collective bargaining Yeşim Textile allows its employees to enroll with a trade agreement was signed union however it is not compulsory. between Turkish Textiles Knitting and Apparel Industry Workers Union (TEKSİF) and Number of employees who Yeşim Textile in November. are enrolled 692 with a trade The agreement came into union force in December. Number of employees who are not enrolled 1747 Yeşim Textile complies with a trade union with the requirement of employing disabled persons at the rate of 3% pursuant ot the Labor Law. %26 It is not required to be %74 citizen of the Republic of Turkey to be to be White Collar Blue Collar employed at Yeşim Textile. 38 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2013-2014 The kindergarten brings color to our factory The kindergarten is staffed by a team of 25 qualified and licensed specialists comprising 1 manager, 2 assistants of manager, 11 teachers, 1 nurse and 10 child minders to ensure the health, education and happiness of the children. Yeşim’s kindergarten is open 6 days a week between 07.00-23.00 hours. Not only mothers but also fathers are allowed to bring age group and English, chess, drama, environment and folk their children pursuant to the kindergarten regulations. A dances courses to the 5 and 6 year old age group. survey was conducted to measure parent satisfaction last three years. The results of the survey were communicated to everyone and action for improvement was taken on the basis of these results. The kindergarten which is provided free of charge to the employee’s children in the 0-6 year old age group is an ultra modern facility with a capacity of 1000 children, meeting all the needs of the children. The kindergarten at Yeşim providees education to some 305 children currently, with a curriculum in line with the curriculum of private nursery schools aiming at supporting personal and social development of the children. Personel development of the children is very important New courses were added to the curriculum of the kindergarten in 2011 with a view to contributing to the personal development of the children with different topics. Peace of mind to employees According to the new educational programme chess, whose children attend the kindergarten drama, environment courses are provided to the 5 year old YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2013-2014 39 Results of satisfaction survey on kindergarten In order to measure the satisfaction of the employees from the kindergarten, a satisfaction survey was conducted in May. You can find the results of the survey that we conducted among our employees whose children go to kindergarten. Parents of children; • 92 % of them are content from the approach of the teacher toward the child. • 86 % of them are content from the approach of the teacher toward him/her. • 85 % of them says that they can easily reach to and get respond from the kindergarten management in case of a problem. • 80 % of them are content from the cleanness of the kindergarten. • 78 % of them are content from the education given in the kindergarten. • 78 % of them are content from the social activities organized for children in the kindergarten. • 77 % of them think that they receive sufficient service health problems. • 77 % of them think that sufficient information is children and explanatory answers to their questions are provided. • 77 % of them think that their children are happy to come to the kindergarten. • 76 % of them are content from the nutrition habits and the food in the kindergarten. • 72 % of them think that necessary precautions are taken in the kindergarten against the contagious diseases, accidents and dangers. 40 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2013-2014 Yeşim Kindergarten celebrated its 25th year Yeşim Kindergarten celebrated its 25th anniversary with various activities in 2013. Kids of Yeşim celebrated the anniversary of the establishment of the kindergarten that has been serving for 25 years while embellishing the ceramic panels, which were prepared by the university students, within the frame of the project carried out in cooperation with Uludağ University. Within the frame of the University Industry Cooperation Development Application and Research Center (ÜSİGEM) protocol that was signed with Uludağ University in 2010, the students and lecturers from the Art Department of Fine Art Faculty prepared ceramic panels with children play and nature themes for the walls of the kindergarten under the frame of the activities. Students installed the colorful panels that were prepared for the entire academic year on the walls of the kindergarten. The inauguration of the ceramic panels were performed with a ceremony held in Yeşim Kindergarten. Prof. Dr. Murat Altun Dean of Faculty of Education of Uludağ University and Assoc. Prof. Gonca Erim Head of Painting Department as well as Şenol Şankaya CEO of Yeşim Textile and the students and lecturers that took part in the project attended to the ceremony. Through these colorful panels that decorate the walls of the kindergarten, the recognition of nature by the children and their process of learning different games from the pictures on the panels are intended. YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2013-2014 41 42 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2013-2014 Green Factory YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2013-2014 43 44 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2013-2014 Yeşim; The Green Factory Yeşim Textile is committed to preserve the environment at each and every stage of production through its environmentally friendly sustainable activities, energy friendly projects and recycling efforts. Yeşim Textile Environmental awareness has allocated in production TRY 600.000 Yeşim Textile has fulfilled its social resonsibilities since the first day from its total of its incorporation, aiming at carrying out its production activities Corporate Social in line with the green factory approach with a view to acting as a Responsibility role model for its customers, contract manufacturersand suppliers budget of TRY and raising public awareness. 1.487.000 to environmental Yeşim has fully integrated the environmental projects which have projects in 2013. been carried out for years in its business processes. These activities which are carried out with a human focus are based on viable and improvable systematics in accordance with international standards and monitored through performance metrics. These activities are guided via the Global Compact Agreement, SA8000, Oekotex Standard 100, GOTS and OE certificates. Activities causing waste water, hazardous waste and solid waste generation and air pollution are monitored through a separate Environmental Management System in accordance with the regulations issued by the Ministry of Forestry and Environment of the Republic of Turkey. The primary environmental objective of Yeşim is to make sure that each and every project adds value to our employes, stakeholders and to the public in general to ensure sustainability. YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2013-2014 45 Our goal; to reduce consumption in production Environmental activities of Yeşim are encouraged and monitored by the CEO Şenol Şankaya and the entire senior management team. 46 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2013-2014 Projects to be carried out in 2013 Projects for reducing water and energy consumption in the dyehouse: • Project for saving time, water and energy in preliminary finishing. This project aims at achieving water savings at the rate of 30-35 % per year and energy savings at the rate of 20-25% per year. • Project for dyeing with low liquor ratio in the dyeing machine. This project aimed at achieving water savings at the rate of 30% and energy savings at the rate of 25% in the dyeing process. • The project for using ozone in the washing process instead of water and chemicals. • Project for water free poliester and cotton dyeing. Energy saving projects that were carried in 2013 and the outcomes of these projects Energy Project Outcome 180.000 kg/year CO2 Electricity Automation implementation in compressors emission reduction. Change of the edge stiffening system in 350.000 kg/year CO2 Electricity compact machinery emission reduction. 14.000.000 kg/year Naturel Heat recovery system CO2 emission Gas reduction. 2.950.000 kg/year Naturel Replacing the hot oil system with direct CO2 emission Gas combustion system in Ram machines reduction. YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2013-2014 47 Water is life, we appreciate its value Yeşim has commisioned its in house treatment plant in 2000, treating and discharging 6.000 tons of water to the nature every day. This plant is one of the first in house examples in the textile sector with its capacity and its construction at international standards. Electricity Consumption (Kw) Naturel Gas Consumption (Kw) Demineralized Water Consumption (m3) Coal Consumption (ton) No major defect was found during the environmental audits that were carried out in 2013 and no environmental accident was experienced. 48 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2013-2014 Environmentally friendly brands Yeşim’s environmentally friendly brands represent the production made in the «green factory» concept and the vision of the company. The brand Yeşim Organic was patented in 2010 and the brand Yeşim Recycle was patented in 2011. Online tracking for Yeşim Yeşim Textile participated in the project that was starreadings to The Proted by Metropolitan Municipality; ‘online monitoring of vincial Department of wastewater’ application. The 9th after the eight moniEnvironment and BUSKI; toring stations that was established in other companies therefore it is prevented was launched at Yeşim Textile by the Bursa Metropolitan for companies to polMunicipality. Mayor Recep Altepe came to the Yeşim Texlute the rivers. Altepe tile regarding the subject to investigate the station with noted, “Parameters for Yeşim Textile CEO Şenol Şankaya in September. Altepe dissolved oxygen in the water, the water conductivity, informed that online monitoring stations are being estabpH value of the water, the water temperature and water lished individually for each factory in Bursa and the 9th flow are instantaneously communicated to the Provincial station in this direction was established in Yeşim Textile. Department of Environment and BUSKI. In this way, the Yeşim Textile online tracking system that is established we manage the remote control of all industry and avoid measures water parameters and instantly transmits the pollution of the environment. Targeted achievements from the projects to be carried out in 2014 Energy Project Outcome Reduction in the CO2 emissions at the rate of • Using varible speed control units in the soft water and 575.800 kg/year hard water pump motors. Electricity • Using varible speed control units in the well pump Reduction in the CO2 emissions at the rate of motor. 265.500 kg/year • Using LED lamps for exterior lightning 130.000 kg/year CO2 emission reduction • Heating the fresh air to be fed into the stenter with hot Reduction in the CO2 emissions at the rate of exhaust gas. 70.000 kg/year Naturel Gas • Steam system for compact and sample plain dying Reduction in the CO2 emissions at the rate of machines (Sundays) 500.000 kg/year Targets for 2015 • Recovering more than 50% of the process water • Increasing the share of organic fabric production in the total production to 25%. • Increasing the share of yarn manufactured from cotton produced to BCI standards in the total fabric production to 20%. • Increasing the share of African cotton in the total production to 4%. • Increasing the share of recycled fabric in the total fabric production to 5%. YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2013-2014 49 Environment is our social responsibility Yeşim Textile carries out numerous initiatives under the scope of its social responsibility in additional to social compliance requirements with respect to the environment. Junior TEMA project Students in the 6 year old age group leave the nursery participate in activities and events. At the end of the school as a voluntary member of TEMA since 2011 academic year the children in the 6 year old age group are under the project carried out jointly by TEMA and Yeşim given badges at the graduation ceremony to symbolise the kindergarten. training they have received and they are enrolled with TEMA The children receive training on preserving the environment as members, and this membership will contunie until they throughout the year in line with the curriculum of the are 18 years old. 60 children who have graduated in 2013 nursery school under the scope of this project and have become «Junior TEMA» members. Projects that were carried out jointly with Tema until now • Twin Village Project (Şükriye village-2000) • Sukru Sankaya Commemoration Forest ( 2006) • Friends of Recycling Schools Project (2007) • Let’s Avert Global Warming (2007) • TEMA advertisement published free of charge in the Önce İnsan magazine(2009-2011) • Junior TEMA Project (2011) «Green IT» initiatives carried out by the Information Technologies Department of Yeşim Textile • BLADE Servers which require lesser space, energy • We have started to dispose of our electronic waste and air conditioning were started to be used in 2008 through certified recycling companies in 2009. to initiate Green IT initiatives within the organization of • In 2014 we plan to rearrange the system room to make Yeşim. it compatible with the standards in an effort to take a • DELL Vostro products with an environmental approach further step under the scope of the Green IT initiative. and LCD monitors were purchased after 2008 to support the Green IT initiative. 50 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2013-2014 Environmentally friendly production Yeşim Textile aims at reducing the adverse impacts of the products it manufactures on the environment, during their life cycle, to the extent possible. To this end Yeşim Textile engages in alternative efforts for environmentally friendly products and endeavours to consume resources to a lesser extent, to recycle and reuse the products. Wastes are collected safely • Used vegetal oils collected at canteen. Used recycled licenced firms and waiting for the vegetal oils given without cost to licensed recycling acceptance. companies. • Used electrical equipments are collected • Oily rags are collected separately from other in labeled containers at waste storage wastes at maintenance departments and are sent area. Applied to a licensed recycling to licenced firms. company and the application has accepted. Waste electrical equipments are collected at • Contaminated barrels, chemical containers, IBC’s the hazardous waste storage area. When the are sent to hazardous waste area (temporarily) waste quota gets full, electrical wastes are sent from chemical and dye preparing areas. to the licensed recycling company. Contaminated barrels, chemical containers, IBC’s are transported to licensed recycling facilities by • Medical wastes are taken by the licensed vehicle of licensed transporting companies. local waste company. • Fluorescent lamps are collected in safe containers and separated from other wastes. Send to Waste papers are collected Waste batteries are collected on a regular basis and and delivered to recycling Waste plastics are collected delivered to licensed companies which destroy the and delivered to licensed recycling companies. batteries safely. recycling companies. YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2013-2014 51 CSR Activities Report 52 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2013-2014 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2013-2014 53 Yeşim is aware of its social responsibilities Yeşim Textile meets social compliance requirements regarding production and also carries out social responsibility projects voluntarily. The social responsibility projects mainly address our employees, the environment, education and sports activities. 54 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2013-2014 The Clubs encourage personal development Yeşim Textile has put various social activity clubs into practice for its staff in order to enliven social life and contribute their social and personal developments. In these clubs, the staff is organizing different activities voluntarily. In this frame, the activities in 2013; Excursion and Entertainment Club Innovation and Technology Club • Botanic Park excursion for Trainees (8 May 2013) • Bulletins of Innovation and Technology Club (Totally • Bowling Tournament (8 November 2013) 4 bulletins were published in February, May, July and September.) Fashion Club • ‘WGSN Trend Presentation’ with Erdinç Karataş (11 July Environment and 2013) Social Responsibility Club • Blood donation to Red Crescent (18 November 2013) Futurists’ Club • “TRY 1 from the Wage” and “Protection of Children with Leukemia Foundation (LÖSEV)” campaigns. (January and • Training by Nergis Akıncı on “Futurism and youth” (24 July July 2013) 2013) • Bulletins of Futurists’ Club (4 bulletins were published in April, June, August and November.) Sport Club • Şükrü Şankaya Football Tournament (October-November 2013) Positive Thinking Club • Panel of Hatice Ünal on “Positive Thinking” (31 July 2013) • Meditation Training for Children in Kindergarten (1 September and 1 November 2013) YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2013-2014 55 Yeşim Textile opened its doors to “The World of Butterfly” Yeşim Textile touches to the lives of its female employees through “The World of Butterfly” project that is carried out with Uludağ Soroptimist Club in its 30th year. “The World of Butterfly” project is carried out considering that woman guides her child, husband and family and is the basis of the society. It is thought that the society would develop and the quality of society would increase if woman is trained, her manners are increased and her grace is deepened. Associated the butterfly concept in “butterfly effect” theory of Edward N. Lorenz to woman, the project is named “The World of Butterfly” highlighting that butterflies may change everything slowly through flapping their delicate and colorful wings slowly. Adopting the contribution to the personal development of Soroptimists, which is a world-wide known voluntary its employees as a principle, Yeşim Textile in its 30th year woman organization, is a non-governmental organization carried out “The World of Butterfly” project that aims to that conducts national and international studies for the increase the awareness on health, law and family issues for protection of women and children on the basis of equality all its female employees. principle of basic rights and the increase of women’s status and aims to create a peaceful and exorable world by means The opening ceremony of the project was held in November of projects targeting economic and social development as in Yeşim Textile with the participation of the female well as health and education. employees, customers and members of Uludağ Soroptimist Club. Within the frame of The World of Butterfly project, awareness raising activities for women are organized under three topics: “Woman and Health”, “Woman and Law” and “Woman and Family / Personel Development”. Trainings on different subjects such as legal rights and correct usage of foods are organized under this project. Trainings are also reinforced through several activities realized in the company and voluntary consultancy of club members to the women of Yeşim. 56 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2013-2014 Trainings given in 2013 under the frame of The World of Butterfly project: Date Subject Speaker 13.June.2013 Features of Child Development for 6 Years Old Workplace Pscyhologist Ayça Bolten Ülkü 25.July.2013 Features of Child Development for 5 Years Old Workplace Pscyhologist Ayça Bolten Ülkü 12.September.2013 Sleep training for 0-4 years of children Child Sleep Consultant Pınar Sibirsky 26.September.2013 Features of Child Development for 4 Years Old Workplace Pscyhologist Ayça Bolten Ülkü 26.October.2013 Be Aware, Prevent Violence! Sociologist Dr. Pelin Feymi 31.October.2013 How is correct nutrition? Dietician Merih Eskicioğlu 01.November.2013 How can we generate motivation for healthy life? Pscyhologist Aslı Çağlar Özkur 28.Novemer.2013 Features of Child Development for 3 Years Old Workplace Pscyhologist Ayça Bolten Ülkü 12.December.2013 Women rights Lawyer Özce Öztürk Boğa 18.December.2013 Preparation of healthy food and hygiene in preparation of healthy food Dietician Merih Eskicioğlu Yeşim Women’s Club and Uludağ Soroptimist Club Cooperation An action done in cooperation between Yeşim Women’s Club income generated with the action was donated to Uludağ and Uludağ Soroptimist Club imported wedding dresses and Soroptimist Club to be used in various organizations to dresses from famous stores was sold for with low prices support the status of women and girls in the society. in the İmece Club Center of Soroptimist Club in Nilüfer. The THE WORLD OF BUTTERFLY IF A WOMAN CHANGES, SOCIETY CHANGES 55% of The action covers 1305 women working in Yeşim Tekstil's Yeşim Textile employees are women A total of Trainings accumulated to A total of 22 hours 26 hours 14 experts of face to face counseling met with female employees of services were until today Yeşim in the scope of the action given by experts from a d Three e-bulletins ived iet ce ici were published re women lost a the serv su lt of ice s 101.7 30 to 3 We continue re an kg. non-stop. f since the start As lo a ta of the action YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2013-2014 57 Yeşim is preparing the youth for the future Yeşim Textile, which values not only the personal development of its employees but also the interns, prepares the youth for the future. Journey to Future goes on for the university students in July-September 2013 period, Yeşim Textile aims to increase the accumulations of Yeşim Textile launched the personal development program the trainees both in terms of professional skills and business as of 2012 toward the high school trainees working in the life through social activity clubs. Yeşim will implement company. Contribution to the professional improvement as «Trainee Development Program» next year to prepare well as personal development of students are intended by youngsters to have a vision and be a qualified graduates means of this program. Seminars that were organized in along with their university training. Organized seminars in this 2013 in this context were; context were; • Positive Thinking with Hatice Ünal (22.January.2013) • Lean Management Model with Neslin Gazioğlu (03. • Methods for Struggling Exam Anxiety with Workplace July.2013) Psychologist Ayça Bolten Ülkü (12.March.2013) • Carrier Opportunities and Preparation for Interviews with • Training on «Be Aware Prevent Violence» with Sociologist Özlem Şenkoyuncu (10.July.2013) Pelin Feymi (09.October.2013) • Communication and Body Language with Dilek Cesur (17. • Social Responsibility and Volunteership with Dilek Cesur July.2013) (06.November.2013) • Futurism and Youth with Nergis Akıncı (21.July.2013) • Being a Team with Cem Çağal (11.December.2013) • Positive Thinking with Hatice Ünal (31.July.2013) • Be Your Carrier Coach with Ayça Bolten Ülkü (15. Trainees of Yeşim became education August.2013) volunteer In order to contribute the occupational improvement as well as the personal development of them, Yeşim Textile Exam stress training to interns organizes a series of development seminars by name of Yeşim Textile supported interns from high schools, who are “Journey to Future”, which is compulsory for the high school stressed with their university entrance examinations. On trainees in monthly periods. 12 and 14 March, Ayça Bolten Ülkü, Company Psychologists have given trainings entitled “Methods to Overcome Exam Within the scope of this seminars, Dilek Cesur Manager of Stress”. Trainings lasted for 2 hours, which covered correct Institutional Communication gave a training for raising the breathing and relaxing exercises. A total of 60 students have awareness of the trainees on 6th November about “Social participated to the trainings. Trainings to reduce exam stress Responsibility and Volunteerism”. Right after this training, a of the interns have received high interest. project was launched in Yeşim Textile so as to improve the conscience of social responsibility and volunteerism of the trainees. Cooperation of industry and university 43 trainees that joined the project presented the notebooks Yeşim Textile signed a protocol with the Textile Design and that were given them in return for 5 TRY and collected 2,600 Production Department of Gazi University Art and Design TRY donation. While the trainees that collected the biggest Faculty for the acceptance of 2 students as trainees every amount at the end of the campaign were awarded, the year. According to this protocol, Yeşim Textile will accept collected sum was donated to Turkish Education Foundation the students of Gazi University for 16 weeks for On-Site Şükrü Şankaya Educational Scholarship for contributing Training and support the students gaining experience before the educational costs of students in insufficient financial they enter in the sector. Feedbacks to be received from the situation. students in Yeşim Textile will be used by Gazi University to increase their educational quality and raise textile designers in line with the needs. Trainee Development Program Organizing several seminars and panels toward the business life within the frame of «Trainee Development Program» that 58 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2013-2014 Yeşimspor introduces basketball to youth Yeşimspor Club was founded in 2003 with a view to providing wider possibilities for sporting activities to the youth of Bursa and training basketball players for the team. Providing hundreds of children with the opportunity to engage in sports activities, the club has enjoyed considerable success both at local and national level. Under the coordination of the head coach, the club trains a total of 240 young people, 100 being from the infrastructure preparation group, 40 being licensed players, and 100 being from the basketball school to become ready for the future. Yeşimspor which celebrated its 10th anniversary in 2013, has signed a series of events during this year. Little Men demo team were selected Development seminar, which was compulsory for the trainers of youth setup and 1st, 2nd and 3rd levels so as to be granted the visas for their cards for 2013-2014 season, was organized for the first time in Turkey by TBF Educational Committee in Kuşadası. Learning and application of basic basketball techniques and using force to young basketballs were handled while Yeşimspor Little Men Team attended the seminar as an implementation group. At the end of the seminar, kids of Yeşim were awarded with a certificate of appreciation by Kamil Uzun President of Şükrü Şankaya Basketball Tournament TBF Education Committee and members of TBF Education Şükrü Şankaya Basketball Tournament was organized in Committee. Cem Çağal – Club Director of Yeşimspor gave 9-10 October 2013 in Bursa in commemoration of Late a lecture about «Teaching and Implementation of Individual Şükrü Şankaya, one of the founders of Nergis Holding. Tofaş, Defense and Shooting Technique» during the seminar. Oyak Renault and Osmangazi Municipality Sport Club as well as Yeşimspor attended to the tournament. Yeşimspor was the winner of the tournament. The tournament, the second Şükrü Şankaya Football School of it was organized, is organized every year traditionally. Şükrü Şankaya Football School, which was formed by the Association of Professional Footballers of Bursaspor in 2009, was financially and morally supported; thus Model workshop from Yeşimspor hundreds of children are provided opportunities to do sport Breaking new group in Turkey, Yeşim Textile organized in professional conditions. In this context, 30 children got “Technique and Mental Ecole Workshop” in 2012. Started benefit from Şükrü Şankaya Football Summer School freeout to raise sportsmen youth setup, Yeşimspor organized of-charge due ot the private contingent allocated to the the 2nd workshop on 25 June 2013. During the full day children of Yeşim in 2013 summer period. workshop in the company, the ways how to improve the standards regarding the technical and behavioral attitudes of the club. YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2013-2014 59 Sharing is beautiful Yeşim Textile sees sharing resources, opportunities and possibilities with the community as a part of its social responsibility. Products and amounts donated: TRY 600,000 of the total TRY 16,264 t-shirts, 250 table clothes, 100 long-sleeves t-shirt 1.487,000 Corporate Social and 70 bed sheet. Responsibility budget of Yeşim Textile was allocated to social responsibility Food supplies for Children with Leukemia activities in 2013. Through the campaign organized in Yeşim Textile in July, volunteer employees donated the food supplies that were provided by company to the Foundation for the Children Blood donation to Red Crescent with Leukemia (LÖSEV). Totally 282.5 kg food supplies Employees in Yeşim donated blood to the Red Crescent were delivered to LÖSEV. Delivered foods were distributed in 2013 as it is done every year. People of Yeşim that are to families of children being treated for leukemia and with willing to donate blood went to the blood donation points, poor financial conditions. which the Red Crescent established in the health unit of the company, in November and donated blood. Support to “TRY 1 from the Wage” campaign On January Olay FM has started “TRY 1 from the Wage” campaign. In the scope of the campaign money was collected in penny banks for a week. TRY 550 was collected and sent through the Governorship of Bursa to the Avşar family from Antalya, who needs treatment for their two children suffering from thalassemia, who need an exchange transfusion every 10 days. Yeşim sponsored an environmentalist movie Institutions and organization being Yeşim Textile which highly values donated in 2013: protection of the environment in • Turkish Foundation of Assistance and Education for the scope of its social responsibility Disabled (TESYEV) understanding has sponsored a long • Association of Journalists film entitled Balık (Fish) produced by • WYBS Basketball Summit Marathon Film. The movie starred by Bülent İnal and Sanem Çelik • En Club and directed by Derviş Zaim gives • Mor Salkım Women’s Solidarity Association environmentalist messages to the • Emine Örnek Schools audience. 60 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2013-2014 We support education in cooperation with the Turkish Education Foundation Yeşim Textile supports the education of successful young individuals in poor financial standing through the “Şükrü Şankaya Education Fund” which is established in the memory of Şükrü Şankaya in cooperation with TEV. TEV Şükrü Şankaya scholarship fund grows every day The cooperation between Yeşim and TEV in the field of social responsibility continues steadily since 2006. In 2013 a total of TRY 38,468 were donated in the scope of TEV Happy Day Flowers campaign and other donation activities. YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2013-2014 61 The name of Şükrü Şankaya lives in education The mission of Şükrü Şankaya, one of the founders of Yeşim Textile who endeavoured his best efforts to support education is pursued by the company. Yeşim Textile considers supporting education as a part of its social responsibility. Şükrü Şankaya Primary School added a computer laboratory to the school. The company contributes to the needs of the school in every academic Şükrü Şankaya Primary School which was commissioned year. Yeşim has supplied the sweat suits of the students and in 1951 as the only school in the region, was renewed, had bought a cleaning robot for the school. A budget at the repaired and modified in 1990 by the late Şükrü Şankaya, amount of TRY 10.000 was allocated for these expenses. the founder of our company upon the suggestion by Bursa Şükrü Şankaya Anatolian High School This school which was Governor’s office. New sections were added to the school in erected and donated to the Ministry of National Education the academic year 2006-2007. All the needs of the school in 1996 by Şükrü Şankaya, is one of the most successful are met by Yeşim Textile since then. About 1500 children high schools in Bursa. Yeşim has later added a computer received education in this school. laboratory to the school. The company contributes to the needs of the school in every academic year. Yeşim has Şükrü Şankaya Anatolian High School supplied the sweat suits of the students and had bought a This school which was erected and donated to the Ministry cleaning robot for the school. A budget at the amount of of National Education in 1996 by Şükrü Şankaya, is one of TRY 10.000 was allocated for these expenses. the most successful high schools in Bursa. Yeşim has later 62 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2013-2014 Önce İnsan (People First) Magazine disseminates the messages of the company The Önce İnsan Magazine which is the corporate publication of Yeşim Textile disseminates the social compliance and social responsibility initiatives to the society. Additionally it publishes information on social responsibility and environment in each issue to raise awareness among its readers on these topics. Dissemination of the Global Compact agreement 2012 2013 The following communication channels were used to disseminate the information contained in the 2011 Global Number Number of Period of news Reach news articles Reach Compact report after it was published. articles • The new report was published on the corporate web January 1 75.000 page of Yeşim (www.yesim.com). February 2 109.000 • An article was featured in Yeşim’s corporate magazine March 1 75.000 6 342.000 Önce İnsan on the publication of the report. The April 2 336.270 magazine was published in digital medium at the May 8 1.546.086 web site www. onceinsan.com, disseminating this June 1 75.000 4 160.648 information also on the internet. July 2 36.000 • It was sent to all customers, subcontractors and suppliers as an e-bulletin. August 1 171.642 • It was shared by the Facebook page of Yeşim, which September has around 9000 members. October 2 112.260 • It was published in the intranet portal to disseminate November 5 221.820 the relevant information. December 3 119.976 • It was featured in our corporate newsletter “Önce Total 2 150.000 36 3.231.102 İnsan” and shared with all employees. In 2012-2013,29 news articles about Yesim Textile, SA 8000, social responsibility, social convenience and Global Principles Agreement were published and reached 3.381.102 people. The Önce İnsan newsletter which is published only for Yeşim employees raises awareness of our employees in each issue on the environment, social compliance, occupational health and safety page and gives information regarding the developments. YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2013-2014 63 Yeşim is sharing its experiences Information is reproduced by sharing Yeşim shares the initiatives it has undertaken under the scope of sustainability for a more beautiful world on national and international platforms. 64 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2013-2014 Yeşim Textile, which stands out with its social responsibility and lean management activities in addition to production, participates in events of various institutions to share its experiences. Yeşim Textile and ÜSİGEM Together company. The research that was conducted by the Textile Engineering Department in the Faculty of Engineering The protocol, signed between Yeşim Textile and University of Uludağ University with the contribution of Yeşim Industry Cooperation Development and Research Center Knitting Department under the title of “Clothes Providing (ÜSİGEM) in 2010, sets an important example in terms of Electromagnetic Protection” were concluded as a doctoral the professionalism of the cooperation between university thesis and published in the university. The project moreover and industry. At the same time a new research is done appeared in Textile Research Journal in last November, within the frame of the protocol that have the characteristic which is one of the most prestigious textile magazines of being the first protocol of ÜSİGEM signed with a private around the world. Sustainability efforts are shared Tunç Aydoğan Lean and Quality Director had a speech on Yeşim Textile’s lean activities were shared during the «Sustainable future in Lean management» during the 6th Industrial Engineering Spring Conference, organized under Simple Conference that was organized on 2-3 December in the “Lean Transformation” theme at MMO Tepekula Congress Hilton Convention Center by the Lean Institute. and Exhibition Center during 4-6 October 2013 by TMMOB Mechanical Engineers Chamber İzmir Branch. Dilek Cesur, Yeşim Textile Corporate Communication Director took part in 1st Aegean Textile Day, which was organized by the Tunç Aydoğan, Lean and Quality Director, participated in the students of Textile Club of Ege University on 27th March and “Uludağ University Information and R&D Days” as one of the shared her knowledge and experiences with the participants speakers. Aydoğan participated as a keynote speaker to the about the preparation of Global Compact Report of Yeşim “Lean Thought and Implementations” panel with a presentation Textile that is published annually by Yeşim Textile. entitled “Owner of the Job” to address the lean management and production implementations at Yeşim. Aydoğan has Dilek Cesur, participated as a keynote speaker in the responded to the questions from the participants after the “Innovations in Cotton for a Sustainable Future” conference presentations. Aydoğan also participated to the LDG (Lean held at Sakıp Sabancı Museum on 21 May 2013. Dilek Cesur Development Group), which was organized for the 16th time was one of the speakers, together with the speakers of Bossa by Nike and held in China, and presented Nike’s lean production and Denim companies, in the “Industry Experience in Moving vision and the lean initiatives in apparel for the 2013-2015 Towards Sustainability” session, and presented the activities of season. Yeşim for a sustainable future. Coordinated Human Resources, Quality, Social Compliance, Yeşim Textile Nike Business Unit Director Mazhar Kazancıoğlu Workplace Health and Security implementations based on lean has participated in “Sustainable Business Summit 2013” on 2 management in Yeşim have been explained in the conference October 2013 in İstanbul and in the session entitled “The Name where Özlem Şenkoyuncu, Yeşim Textile Human Resources of the Game: Cooperation” presented Yeşim Textile’s supply Manager and Neslin Gazioğlu Özkaya, Lean Office Chief chain implementations with a focus of the importance of the participated as keynote speakers. sustainability of the supply chain. CDP, Global Compact Turkey, CSR Europe and UNIDO also participated to the conference held at Four Seasons Bosphorus Hotel. YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2013-2014 65 Yeşim Textile Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş. www.yesim.com Ankara Yolu, Gürsu Kavşağı Kestel/Bursa/TURKEY Tel : +90(224) 280 86 00 66 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2013-2014
