Human Right – Labour Anti-Corruption (Principles 1, 2, 4, 5 and 10) Bouygues Immobilier is present in countries respectful of human rights and where the right to work is regulated, particularly that of children. Those countries are France, Poland, Morocco and Belgium. Bouygues Immobilier also resorts to the local subcontracting. In the event that a subcontractor would use an unknown supplier, Bouygues Immobilier appeals to Ecovadis, a firm specialized in suppliers evaluation and accreditation on criteria related to sustainable development such as social practices. In 2012, Bouygues Immobilier defined a target for 2015 : evaluating 80% of suppliers in residential property activity on their commitment to sustainable development. (64 % rate of achievement in 2013) Furthermore, Bouygues Group has set up a CSR Charter which Bouygues Immobilier refers in contracts signed with suppliers. Bouygues Immobilier also refers to the Group Code of Ethics and its principles in its actions. This value reflects in the company by setting up training for employees called “Respect and Performance”. Thereafter, a Committee on Ethics and Sponsoring was created in 2004, which oversees the actions of Bouygues Immobilier to ensure compliance with the values and rules of the Group. In December 2010, a person in charge of Ethics was also appointed. Labour (Principles 3 and 6) Bouygues Immobilier had 1,588 employees at end-December 2013, 48.5% of whom are women. The average age of the workforce is 39,1. Bouygues Immobilier hired 262 new employees in 2013. Bouygues Immobilier aims to foster diversity in the workforce. This is why Bouygues Immobilier has set up several agreements about senior and junior employees and disabled workers. Inter-generations agreement The inter-generations agreement, signed the September 20th 2013, has two main objectives, each declined into four priorities: To encourage the recruitment of junior employees, under the age of 27 years old (30 years for employees with disabilities) and their successful integration : o Recruitment of “junior” employees in long term contract o Integration process of “junior” employees o Mentorship and integration of employees o Results of integration of “junior” employees To recruit and to retain seniors staff employment. To strengthen the working conditions and to develop the transition between work and retirement o Recruitment of “senior” employees o Development of the last years of work of “senior” employees o Working conditions for “senior” employees o Job retention of “senior” employees Disabled people agreements For several years Bouygues Immobilier has been committed to a ‘disabled people-friendly’ approach. Apart from an agreement on the employment and professional insertion of the disabled people, which was signed in 2010, Bouygues Immobilier has initiated 5 priority courses of action :  Increasing recruitment of people with disabilities by hiring at least 30 disabled employees over 3 years. 13 of them were hired in 2013.  Extending subcontracting into the sheltered employment sector, namely using firms that enable the severely disabled people to exercise an occupation under specially adapted conditions: in 2011, Bouygues Immobilier decided to increase by 5% every year the amount of these purchases for the three following years..  Assisting employees with disabilities in the procedures for recognition of their status as disabled workers.  Keeping disabled workers in employment by, if necessary and wherever possible, redefining job descriptions and covering their complementary health-insurance costs.  Carrying out awareness campaigns and training for the entire workforce to guarantee that everyone is aware of the ‘disabled people-friendly’ approach. Furthermore, always responsive to its people's concerns, Bouygues Immobilier carried out an in-house survey in April 2014. Entitled Well-being and Performance 2014 , the survey was intended to find out how its employees feel within the company. Carried out by Ipsos, an independent organisation, using an anonymous questionnaire, it showed that employees are generally very satisfied with their working conditions. 89 % of respondents said that they were globally satisfied to work for Bouygues Immobilier. Next survey will be carried out during the first quarter of 2017. Another example of Bouygues Immobilier commitment was carried out in April 2011 : Bouygues Immobilier held its first Community Day as part of the Solid'R operation, during which 82% of staff replaced a normal working day with practical voluntary work for charity. Organized with Unis-Cité, it was the biggest corporate community day in France to date. 1,200 employees took part in this Solid'R Day held at Bouygues Immobilier, donating their time and skills to 49 local associations and charities which makes up to 8,400 hours of voluntary work in a single day. Given the success of the event, Bouygues Immobilier will carry out a Solid’R Day in 2015. Environment (Principles 7, 8 and 9) Through its leading position in low-energy and positive-energy buildings, Bouygues Immobilier has developed new skills in building energy management with the aim of helping users to control their energy consumption and reduce their energy bills.  Environment at the heart of Bouygues Immobilier strategy Residential property In April 2013, Bouygues Immobilier delivered the first eco-community in the immediate vicinity of Paris. The 12-hectare neighbourhood includes 1,620 housing units and 1,590 square meters of retails plus offices and public amenities including a 350 fruit trees orchard and 4ha of green spaces. Heating and domestic hot water is produced by a geothermal system. The neighbourhood also has a highly innovative compressed-air waste collection system and a car-fooling scheme with an integrated reservation system. To support development of social mixity in the neighbourhood, the Fort d’Issy includes 164 social housing. All high-energy performance buildings have BBC-Effinergie® low-energy certification and a system that enables occupants to monitor energy consumption in real time and control windows, lighting and heating, room by room. These operations can be performed remotely from a mobile phone, helping occupants to keep complete control over their energy costs. To go further, in April 2013, the Seine-Saint-Denis Nord Agency inaugurated the second positive energy housing building, L’Avance in Montreuil (First one, Vert Eden, was delivered in March 2012 in the south of France.). Based on the use of renewable energies, and low energy consumption process, the building produces more energy than it needs. Bouygues Immobilier also developed a strong expertise in passive energy buildings (consuming less than 15 kWh / m² / year). For instance, the 35 individual timber frame “passiv'hauss” houses of the residential housing program Les Lodges in Chanteloup-en-Brie are eco-friendly designed to minimize energy costs and CO2 emissions. Green Office®: the first large-scale, positive-energy office building Since Green Office Meudon achieved its first year of use as a Positive Energy Building in 2013(producing more energy from renewable sources than its annual consumption), we launched the construction of Green Office® Rueil, with a net floor area of 35 000 square meters including 19,000 square meters for Unilever, delivery is planned at the end of 2014. With an estimated energy consumption of 20,2 kWh/m2/an, Green Office® Rueil will feature 2,100 m2 of rooftop photovoltaic panels which will produce around 320,000 kWh per year, offsetting the annual energy consumption. Bouygues Immobilier has another two Green Offices in Chatenay and Nanterre under way and a fourth Green Office® building of 4000 square meters which will accommodate the new headquarters of Caisse d’Epargne Aquitaine Poitou-Charentes, is scheduled to be delivered for end-2016. For its third Green Office® project in Nanterre, Bouygues Immobilier recently became the first property developer in the world to obtain BREEAM International certification with an Outstanding rating, designed by the architect Di Fiore. With its ability to accommodate 2,150 employees, it will consume 75% less energy than an HQE® RT 2005 building, for a delivery planned at the end of 2015. Green Office® Spring will feature 6,500 m2 of rooftop photovoltaic panels. They will help to produce around 840 000 kWh/year and thereby offset the building energy consumption for heating, air-conditioning, ventilation, lighting, domestic hot water, etc. Bouygues Immobilier targets to reach 20 % of the Office Building production with its Green Office® buildings by 2015. Green value in existing buildings : Rehagreen® The property sector in France (residential and commercial combined) accounts for 46% of energy consumption and 25% of CO2 emissions. Sustainable construction is absolutely essential, of course, but it is not enough because new buildings represent only 1% the building stock in France. Sustainable rehabilitation of existing buildings is a key factor in reducing the property sector environmental footprint. Aware that traditional buildings are obsolescent, users are highly sensitive to the new rules of the environmental game. Investors are also increasingly attentive to green value, since under the Grenelle environmental plan they have eight years from January 1st, 2008, to cut the consumption of post-1948 office buildings by 40%. Spotting an opportunity, Bouygues Immobilier has developed a service package called Rehagreen® to enhance the value of existing property assets. After conducting a thermal diagnosis, Rehagreen® takes a comprehensive approach to the asset in order to determine all the potential areas of value enhancement, based on multicriteria analysis that combines technical, regulatory, functional and planning aspects. Rehagreen® produces a range of value enhancement scenarios and includes a decision support feature to help owners in their choice according to their strategy. Bouygues Immobilier launched in 2014 the rehabilitation of a 42 000 square meters building in Issy-les-moulineaux (Lemnys Peri XV): thanks to the comparative Carbon Footprint analysis (construction and operation over 30 years) of 4 different renovation scenarios, Bouygues Immobilier was able to highlight the best solution allowing 22 million euros energy savings accumulated over an operating period of 30 years.  In addition to energy and carbon emissions savings, the renovation of the site will greatly improve the quality of use of the building for its occupants. With Lemnys Peri XV, Bouygues Immobilier is realizing a virtuous property development, at the forefront of sustainable development. Bouygues Immobilier targets to reach 30 % of the Office Building production with its Rehagreen® buildings by 2015. Neighbourhoods : UrbanEra® UrbanEra® approach reflects Bouygues Immobilier commitment to imagining the city of the future. A pioneer in smart building design with Green Office ®, Bouygues Immobilier is now teaming up with new industrial partners to develop the essential technologies and, thus, reduce energy consumption at neighbourhood level. Launched in September 2011, it marked the start of a new phase in Bouygues Immobilier development. With Green Office®, Bouygues Immobilier built France's first positive energy offices buildings. With Ginko, the first UrbanEra® project built in Bordeaux, (South-West of France), Bouygues Immobilier realizes an Ecodistrict including 2,200 housings, 21,350 m² of public facilities, 30,000 m² of retail development, two schools, one college and 25,180 m² of offices in an area of 32 ha. Ginko, the Bordeaux Ecodistrict, and Cap Azur, the second Ecodistrict project (in Roquebrune-Cap-Martin), both produced by Bouygues Immobilier, were recently awarded with the Ecoquartier distinction from French “Minister of The equity of territories, and accommodations”. This stage of the labelling process distinguishes projects underway for their environmental and social performance and the feasibility of the project. Bouygues Immobilier is the only private property development company being awarded for two projects. With Ginko, Cap Azur and several more new projects concluded this year, Bouygues Immobilier has gone further, scaling its energy expertise up to neighborhood level, as well as addressing the new needs of local authorities, and meeting residents expectations for a more sustainable and more desirable urban environment. With UrbanEra®, Bouygues Immobilier has come up with the first 360° approach to the urban eco-system, based on the interdependence of buildings and functions. Energy management and provision of long-term urban services will keep Bouygues Immobilier involved throughout the entire lifecycle of its projects. Bouygues Immobilier is now positioning itself as a full-service urban operator. In that respect, UrbanEra® represents a future source of growth and a platform for our development in the years to come. In addition, IssyGrid® is the first full-scale trial of a smartgrid able to fine-tune energy production and consumption at the level of an entire neighbourhood. Located in the Seine Ouest business district in Issy-les-Moulineaux, near Paris, IssyGrid® will be the first district smartgrid in France, spanning 160,000 m² and meeting the needs of almost 10,000 people. Items currently connected to the grid are: 94 housings of the Seine West district, Bouygues Immobilier and Bouygues Telecom headquarters office buildings (Soon Steria and Microsoft ones), the public lighting in three blocks from the Seine West area. Future connections include: solar panels on the weather station building, Fort d’Issy eco-neighbourhood, with its 1,500 apartments and 4,500 inhabitants, electric vehicles charging, street lighting. On 2013 June 21st , François Bertière, CEO of Bouygues Immobilier, launched the Hikari project – 3 buildings in mixed-used development zone – which is part of the Lyon Confluence urban development project and is remarkable for its progress in energy efficiency. Buildings incorporate three sources of renewable energy production:  photovoltaic panels on the roof and front of the housing blocks which will produce the equivalent of around 160 houses consumption,  a geothermal energy system,  a cogeneration power plant fuelled by locally produced rapeseed oil. It is proposed to pool the energy consumption and production of the three buildings through an energy communication network. Delivery is planned in 2014. Finally, in 2014, Bouygues Immobilier was appointed by the “Établissement public d'aménagement de la Défense Seine Arche” for the realization of a 73,000 m² eco-district near the Paris West University of Nanterre, in the continuity of 147 positive energy houses of the residential program Green Home.  Controlling our greenhouse gas emissions Systematic carbon balances After carrying out a first carbon balance of its direct greenhouse gas emissions in 2008, Bouygues Immobilier decided in 2010 to extend carbon balances to all its programs begun during the year. At the same time, an internal reporting system was introduced that will enable the company to carry out a complete carbon balance for all its activities. Bouygues Immobilier aims to reduce greenhouse gas emissions both from its direct activities (staff travel, energy and paper consumptions, etc.) and from its property development programs. Bouygues Immobilier is committed to reducing its corporate greenhouse gas emissions by 10% before end of 2015. In 2014, Bouygues Immobilier is going step forward by renewing one year ahead its complete carbon footprint analysis and integrating for the first time emissions of operation materialized by the energy consumptions and mobility. The goal is to develop an action plan in order to reduce greenhouse gas emissions related to energy, mobility and building materials. . Energy efficiency and reducing CO2 emissions Bouygues Immobilier commitment to high energy performance in all its property development programs has a direct impact on the greenhouse gas emissions of buildings during their operating phase. For instance, in Bordeaux ecodistrict Ginko, Bouygues Immobilier studied several scenarios aiming to decrease greenhouse gas emissions by optimizing public transportation, leading to the extension of the tramway line until Ginko area. Promoting Green IT and videoconferencing Green IT is one the main strands of Bouygues Immobilier sustainable development policy. It aims to place new technologies at the service of the company in order to encourage new working methods and reduce the carbon footprint and energy consumption. After developing the Green IT Factory® concept in 2009, leading to a cut in its data centers energy consumption by 30%, Bouygues Immobilier reduced its energy consumption by 10% as a result of optimization measures while increasing its data storage capacity by 120%. Bouygues Immobilier is also rolling out a plan to issue invoices and contracts in electronic form and is encouraging mobile working and videoconferencing for inter-site meetings. Thus, the number of videoconference hours rose by 7% between 2012 and 2013 up to 10, 091 hours. Finally, in 2014, Bouygues Immobilier launches ECOPRINT project, which consists of reducing the number of printers and educate employees in order to reduce the printings by 30%.  Promoting biodiversity into our operations In 2014, Bouygues Immobilier studied the use of the Biodiversity Label in several operations. This label, backed by technical specifications, intends to evaluate and promote property operations which develop and maximize biodiversity in built-up areas, for the benefit of city-dwellers. Just like any comparable energy standard, this label measures and publishes the ecological performance of buildings, according to four major axes: 1. The commitment: knowledge and understanding of biodiversity on and around the future construction site. It will help the contracting authority to work methodically and professionally, therefore gathering the appropriate expertise through a biodiversity-oriented management system. 2. The project: the project management will seek an ecological architecture maximizing the biological technology and the living species. The overall site plan will incorporate the local ecological continuity, living façades and roofs, as well as an optimized indoor-to-outdoor ratio. 3. The ecological potential of the land : an ecologist expert will measure the scientific factors adding ecologic value to the project : 4. Added services and amenities: the advantages for the future users and residents of the site, in terms of well-being, beauty and learning about nature.  Corporate social responsibility In 2013, the sustainable development approach was structured according to four priorities, covering all Bouygues Immobilier’s operations: Priority 1: Making sustainable property development a strategic axis for our growth,  Target 2015: Rehagreen® to account for 30% of commercial property business, and Green Office® to account for 20% of commercial property business. Priority 2: Strengthening our presence in territories,  Target 2015: To decrease by 10% the company carbon footprint. Priority 3: Enhancing our people quality of life at work,  Target 2015: To increase the rate of women managers up to 38,5%. Priority 4: Implementing a comprehensive governance policy,  Target 2015: To assess 80 % of suppliers in the residential property business on their sustainable development policy. In addition, Bouygues Immobilier continued its sponsorship commitments in 2013, especially through its corporate foundation created in February 2009. In 2013, the Bouygues Immobilier corporate foundation, which aims to place architecture and urban planning at the service of environment and community, renewed its sponsorship agreement with the Cité de l’Architecture et du Patrimoine, in Paris, for a further three years and is now the Cité biggest sponsor. The foundation also coordinates the Observatoire de la Ville, a urban planning think tank. The chosen theme for 2013-2014, Proximities, major stake for the City of the Future, includes three main axes of work: Trade and services, Distance, time and accessibility, Digital culture. The Bouygues Immobilier corporate foundation also supports the Médiaterre project launched in 2010 by Unis-Cité, an association that has pioneered voluntary community service in France. This initiative intends to raise awareness of green behaviour among families from disadvantaged neighbourhoods in order to reduce their energy bills, that proofed to be a success for both the families and the young volunteers : indeed successful results include an average €12 a month reduction in energy bills, a halving of water consumption, a reduction in waste and a change in eating habits. Bouygues Immobilier staff support the initiative by training and mentoring the young volunteers. In 2013, Lyon was added to the list of cities in which the association operates. Moreover, in April 2013, Bouygues Immobilier was awarded by IMS Enterprise for the City , by the European distinction Mecenova 2013 for its partnership with the association UnisCité.
