made for life report Reporting our sustainability performance for 2013 PROFILE Who are Aperam? CEO’s message CEO’s message 01 Aperam offers the widest stainless steel A message from Philippe Darmayan How we do business 02 product range in the world Public limited company in Luxembourg Making steel means something more than business. Whilst it has great Performance 04 uses for society, it also has an emotional impact. The people in this Our environmental efficiency 06 industry are proud to be part of an important transformation process. Serious progress on safety 10 Our products are resilient, endlessly recycled and ‘made for life’ – People and community –  13 which is how we express the Aperam way of working. 2.5mt the Aperam way Our customers and products 17 1.73mt In 2012, we described our focus on customer service innovation and pricing. We reorganised our business to add value to customers’ business. In 2013, customers told us they are more satisfied About this report 20 2.5mt flat stainless 1.73mt shipped with our commercial terms, an improvement shown in our 2013 customer satisfaction survey. steel capacity in Europe in 2013 ‘Zero fatalities’ is the crucial achievement for 2013, the result of the unstinting diligence of all Assurance statement 20 and South America employees. At all sites, behaviour and management leadership focused on not allowing a repeat GRI Index 20 of the unfortunate events of 2012. Equipment consignment was improved, operating procedures $5.2bn 2013 revenues in were completed and, more importantly, attitudes were changed on risk and safety management. US 40 countries (€3.7bn) We report stable environmental performance. As a heavy industry it can be challenging to manage environmental impacts, go beyond compliance and propagate innovation, such as water Welcome Employees conservation in our charcoal forest business. We are looking to motivate environmental behaviour to our made for life report – change by taking what we learn from the achievements in safety behaviour change. 52% an update on our sustainability performance over the last year. We are delighted to launch the Aperam Way: five commitments defined using employee The report is shorter and simpler engagement at site level. At the heart of the actions is a primary focus on safety and this year but you will find supporting sustainable development principles. detailed information, including our GRI G4 Index on p20-21. of Aperam’s energy This report complies with the GRI G4 reporting framework and the UN Global Compact, which we This summary is part of the complete report which is available on our website. is from biomass 9,533 continue to support. I hope that after reading it you will agree that we are on the right track to a safe and prosperous future. By taking action together we will achieve results. We are on track, business is robust, but to maintain our strength we must act with agililty and creativity. Please spare a few minutes to give us your feedback on what you liked Principal operations Philippe Darmayan, Aperam CEO or improvements you recommend. including significant production plants sustainability@aperam.com Belgium France Stainless Europe our values, Brazil Genk Châtelet Gueugnon France Isbergues our environment See more at South Alloys & aperam.com/sustainability America Specialities Cover employee image: Timóteo Imphy Amilly Rescal Local environmental champions 18 22 Benny Brulmans, Aperam Genk Steel Cover pool image: Service sales At the heart of a village on the Loire river we have shown offices HSB, stainless steel pools Services & Centres our commitment to environmental stewardship, through Worldwide Solutions 9 transformation facilities decades of operation. Vital to this is training our people there in management excellence: “People are the key resource in our structured approach to sustainability. 2013 – US$ million Split by region and segment By talking with local stakeholder groups, our team Global Aperam (1) Stainless & Electrical Steel Services & Solutions Alloys & Specialities understands how to integrate sustainability into our Europe Brazil All regions Europe core ways of working,” says Bruno Boulogne, Head of Revenues 5,190 2,813 1,277 2,208 651 Components Aperam Alloys & Specialties Division, and Operating costs (2) 4,141 2,393 995 2,043 508 Sustainability Steering Committee member. And what Employee wages and benefits 705 318 129 150 76 better way to demonstrate the commitment than by the Payments to providers of capital 87 80 29 5 1 water recirculation investment at Imphy? It has resulted in Payments to government (3) 62 25 12 14 7 Community investments 1 1 80% less water drawn from the Loire and less waste water EBITDA 292 76 136 9 60 discharged into it since 2010. Economic value retained 194 3 111 4 59 Direct economic value generated 5,190 2,813 1,277 2,208 651 Economic value distributed 4,996 2,816 1,166 2,212 592 1) The difference between “Global Aperam” and the sum of the different divisions includes our forest business in Brazil (Aperam Bioenergia) and eliminations between our primary operating segments. 2) Operating costs include R&D costs of US$20m for Aperam Group (US$11m for Stainless & Electrical Steel Europe, US$4m for Stainless & Electrical Steel Brazil, and US$4m for Alloys & Specialities). 3) Aperam is tracking the tax payments to the government following the same split by region and segment Aperam Reporting our sustainability performance for 2013 01 How we do business How we do business Leadership We are on track to be the company that creates change in the stainless, electrical and “Sustainability is in our culture. We are committed to produce sustainably and generate wealth every day. Our Corporate Responsibility Committee evaluates and monitors all actions that have interface with stakeholders, Governance We maintain high standards of integrity and accountability in line with the Luxembourg Stock Exchange’s Ten Corporate Governance Principles. A wide range of policies supports the Management Committee, covering areas such as business conduct, insider dealing, risk management and fraud. environment, community and governance.” Our governance structure comprises the Board of Directors speciality steels sector. At the heart of how we do this is a rigorous focus on product quality (they define business objectives advised by the Management Clênio Guimarães, COO, Aperam and innovation. Core issues of safety, employability, teamwork, eco-efficiency and leadership South America on accepting an Committee), the chairman (not an executive officer), and the CEO who has ultimate accountability for sustainability performance are what we focus on when doing this. Each day we apply our values of leadership, accolade in 2013 as one of the and compliance. most sustainable companies, agility and ingenuity to show how Aperam and our products are ‘made for life’. from the renowned Editora Abril, Our Management Committee is entrusted with the day-to-day publisher of the respected Exame management of the company. Ten per cent of the performance Since 2011 we have been systematically addressing the root causes Positive community impacts result from our local economic, Sustainability Guide. bonus of the CEO and Management Committee members is linked of accidents, completing action plans and engaging with employees vocational training and environmental programmes. Again, steady to safety performance. Our Sustainability, Performance and Strategy and contractors. Our robust approach helped us achieve zero progress is being made, particularly through the Aperam Acesita Committee assists the Board’s decisions on sustainability: it met fatalities in 2013 and we roundly commit to maintain this. Foundation and the Oikós Environmental Center, both in Brazil. four times in 2013, with 100% attendance. A separate Sustainability Steering Committee guides sustainability management, risk, After a year of preparation, we launched the Aperam Way in 2013. With respect to our environmental responsibilities we stakeholder relationships, reporting and assurance. The five commitments, expressed through the programme, are maintaining our robust management approach EEmmpploloyyee are to take action on safety, teamwork, employee development, yielding a strong and stable performance, in ee ss eersrs transparency and leadership. compliance but gradually going beyond it. ininclculu didnin ggBB oaoradrd ooldl d ofofDD Primary interest e ehh ReRgeuglaurlainr tienrter ireircec Suppliers as partners aar r vievwiesw, s, totror How we engaged CoCmommumnuicnaitciaotio memeetientging ss hh (including frequency) n on o nn s s && AnAnnunaul alpapprapra ecoencoonmom roarodsads Dialogue on what matters SS wsws s s shosho dayday EnEvnirvoinromnemnen isaisl aplr pr o o cece ic picepe how rf rf taltaAlcAt ct ss s–sG–EGDED ormoramnan how s s Chains of supply for raw and non-raw materials must be managed dd s s ortosrts appropriately because suppliers are vital stakeholders. The way roaroa tiotnion l rel prep SaSfeatfyetAycAticotio io nio n P P ce ce laur lar RelRaela nanncainacia P laPla n PnlaPnlan n 2n020 intiente & & we buy is guided by our Code for Sustainable Sourcing and other ess u g g r r To define this report’s content we used a structured process to Re Re esteosto andanfid fitintgins gs commumnun 20210414 1414 rviervwiew niittiie PAPSASScSom programmes. Global raw materials suppliers are surveyed every urs i i InvInv nuanlual meme ee IntIenrtnearnl ablubl ul catciaotnion s s l , Brazi identify our most material sustainability issues and where they have un letlientsins bours r r two years; programmes are developed locally with other suppliers. each razil An An gulgaula On-site contr impacts, using Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) principles. An issue is outr ch, B ons mu Re Re If required, they participate in meetings to form action plans. For actor o ion trea ociati EnEvnirvoinromneme ighhb mm On-site material for us to report on if the potential impact on the business ntanta Contractcroenvtiractor bbrriefings dat n ou al ass ciations anacence MoMtiovtaivtiaotnion l rel srpeospnon com example, Kleber Muratori, General manager of Sankyu, a supplier oundatio h loc l asso feorrfmorm dedveeve sibsi ibi neig and sustainability impacts of the business are sufficiently important. all co l l r c piceprferf opompemnenlitylity Contract reviews iefings, asse e EcEoncoonmoim of engineering services summarises, “Sankyu developed a safety ta Foun wit loca ce) ll pll p & ne eraera HeHaeltahlt&h & ormoramncanct t Manager-to-mews , ass ssm esi F gs ith Fran ) Stakeholder engagement takes place regularly and frequently at Ov Ov plan focusing on human behaviour and risk perception; Aperam occa safseatfet e e Ac sita tin s w (e.g. ance yy ess ent site level. We analysed stakeholder engagement in our six main Manag anag & m ce meeting ngs e.g. Fr gs values best practice by suppliers.” Visits teor-Atop-emanageerr meetin me s, LLo y (loc on specifi nts act grit (locati eram A ity ee eti gs ( eetings production plants in 2013 using their local sustainability analyses Occupation Apera imity my meetin ll’ meetin integrityions In 2013 we assessed 137 suppliers for significant negative Visits to Aperam sitemeetings , ac ion al e S Su O ess intemiss ons ance (guided by GRI principles) of key issues and stakeholder concerns Cocncturpaacttioornal H up Ap Proxxim rterlly me n haall’ m pp al tio pl sin ss ir e issi rformance plliie socio-economic impacts and risks. We recorded that 16% of our (see the stakeholder engagement graphic/wheel right). Cross audits ram sit s gs ’s s Health an Busineal air emic perform errss n p an C Coonnttrraaccttuoar’s saaffetythfoandd Safe r e Pro uarte ‘town h European raw material suppliers had potential negative impacts Cross audits s Bu Loccal anomic pe lannin l e Contractua sust ty followSafety Lo Ecoonomse Q a a l o w Annual mee We then consolidated the risks and issues from the sites into on labour practices (specifically health & safety); a watching brief ning l sus aina llow up ty Qu Loccal ‘t Annual meetings ten sustainability ‘aspects’, which we cover in our report. Group tain bili u Ec Noiise and dialogue are in place as a result. We required 5% of our South g specific) level risks were considered in the process, assessed using our risk tings abi ty p No Lo ation c) American suppliers to implement improvement, such as publishing a lity classifications and validated by the group Sustainability Steering formal health & safety policy. No contracts were terminated in 2013 Committee in January 2014. as a result of the findings. We have no reason to believe there is Occupati o nal Regional Local any significant risk of negative impacts on the community. In 2013, Region environme O Encvciuropnatmioenal hheealth a Annualaol environmental age g azil 57% of total procurement for significant sites was from local suppliers L nta al n o eg Br c o E Wnavteirronmmental restph and saf a entt eg Bisrsauzeils l v Annua occccuuppationanltahl agenncy (DR g (i.e. those located in the site’s host country or nearby cities). Wate aannagelmrespoonsidb safeety e m o p n l The materiality elo me enta ssues Trainirnm Annuall m rrn v g suabgemeennt nsibiillity ty nm develop nm ntal i ation eal cy ( EAL e iall deevnvirroonme Annua eeeetting wiathl healtthh & sDaREAL,, FFrance Tr Taaxiantiing subsidy t il ity , Braz c exercise we have itteeee, Brazil Soocia cal envi Taxatioonn sidy Water Rl m “Exchanges with suppliers are continuous. eennt m e ing w loc & fet ran ) tw m m Co itt er S Local Water sources ith lo al cou safe y da ce) t o an sin Commre riv r QuQauliatyli,tlyo, lo done in 2013 helped r Baasin .g. Looiire rivaezil Lo g isg t is tsi,cs, They allow us to establish excellence in Direct iRnesomurces BBooard cCaEl counncil (tFy dayy mewo annnual m i c ive B e L r onosns afeatfyety EcEocnoonmoim ditdi iti h ahnadnsd s c piceprferf resrieliseinlien a R ver gs, .g. rk, B azil Direct inffoorrm ormorm ce ce concon hehaeltalt performance and improvement actions t OO ve v e us to bring clarity and r r rfeorrfmorm anacence of souf su aba Ri eetinngs, enal Paark, Br al c ard RH ci ra m et ua e a lla pl l p s &s & nalnal mamnacnece e al contact CER , Br l (France/B eetings l meeeting ic rm rm tiotio rforrfor anac nc pp pp ac ab m eti tio l P enet nt Te Te cupcaupa ic picepe s msamnaangaegmem ee ly ly Piirracicnuall me e Naationa o H a to benefit both parties. We assess razzil ce/Beellgiumings tingss structure to the many P Annua Doce N Oc Oc noomnom elaetiloantion nt a , B n o Ec Ec ourorur r ct An Rio Doc ) LabLab il giu ) suppliers on safety, quality, cost, technical initiatives we had Rio latliantgintgo to CoCmom memrceiracliaful fu m efficiency and delivery terms in order to inginsgrse re ncnticti on o n already ongoing. This NGGO O memeet et itteitetee ntanttiaotniocnomcommim tteiteteaenadnd RoRaodasdhsohwow s dsadya-tyo-to -da-yday N mmmm r cor co prepsreese ulaula e ReeRe ndnWdoWrkoirnkin g CgoCnodnitdioitniosns SaStiastfiascfac n tio ti n osusrvuerve optimize the supplier management and is a great step forward. regreg plapclac nd nd orkork fetfyety t at a , W, W , Sa, Sa , a, a ReRgeuglaurlavrisvi it y y it ss the long‑term partnership.” en en cilscils altahlth AnAnnunaul asul srvurv eyey ss ioionn qu qu ounoun n HneHe Bernard Hallemans, Site General Manager, FreFre rksrCks C teeteoe o Willem Marneffe, Aperam Head of Purchasing non-raw materials WoWo mmmitmit Stainless Europe, Genk; member of Sustainability Steering Committee Co Co UUnn CCuussttoommee See our Annual Report, materiality and boundary online content pdf at rsrs aperam.com/sustainability Aperam Reporting our sustainability performance for 2013 02 Aperam Reporting our sustainability performance for 2013 03 Performance Performance performance We provide in the dashboard an overview of performance for Aperam globally, as well as a For the divisions Stainless Europe Belgium: Genk, Châtelet; South America Brazil: Timóteo, Bioenergia Services & Solutions Worldwide: Alloys & Specialities France: Imphy, Amilly, snapshot for the four divisions of the company and the main industrial plants. The aspects France: Gueugnon, • 18 Steel Service Centres (SSCs) Rescal, Imhua Isbergues • Nine transformation facilities and indicators shown are derived from a site-level process to identify the potential internal • 22 sales offices risks and external expectations of stakeholders. This was then validated at group level. Employees (FTE*) 3,151 3,233 2,050 1,046 For the group Fatalities Zero Zero Zero Zero Combined Lost Time Aspect Indicator 2013 2012 Injury Frequency 2.6 0.4 1.4 3.2 Rate (LTIFR) up from 2.2 in 2012 No change from 2012 up from 0.9 in 2012 No change from 2012 $5,190m (1) Economic performance Direct economic value generated and distributed US US$5,345m Customer overall satisfaction score 71 % 83% (2012) 71 % 71 % Procurement practices Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations of operation (%) 57% n/a Trend in energy 3.0% 3.3% (Timóteo) 12.0% 7.6% (2) intensity (2012-13) Energy consumption Energy intensity (GJ/t) 13.6* 13.5 Trend in carbon intensity (2012-13) 1.8% 0.9% (Timóteo) 3.1% 6.5% Water consumption Total water withdrawal by source (million m3) 22.5* (93% from 22.7 (95% from local (greenhouse gas emissions) local water courses) water courses) Trend in local air emissions (2012-13) (dust) 14% 34% (Timóteo) n/a 28% Emissions Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity (tCO2e/t) 0.48* 0.51 Trend in water withdrawal (2012-13) 11.8% 1.9% (Timóteo) 12.7% 2.1% Significant air emissions (tonnes of ducted dust) 400* 312 % of manufacturing metal inputs from 77 17 n/a 63 Lost time injury frequency rate (employees and contractors) 1.34 1.29 recycled sources % % % Occupational health and safety • Severity rate 0.08 0.07 • Absenteeism 2.05% 2.4% % of procurement 61 47 56 spend on local n/a • Fatalities 0 3 suppliers % % % Employees receiving regular performance reviews (%) 100% of sites to 100% of sites to 80% of sites to 50% of sites to (by employment category) • ISO 14001 • ISO 14001 • ISO 14001 • ISO 14001 Site management 96% (3) Career development 95% exempts • ISO 18001 • ISO 18001 • ISO 18001 • ISO 18001 • Global exempts (GEDP) system certification • ISO 9001 • ISO 9001 • ISO 9001 • ISO 9001 • Blue Collar and White Collar workers 86% • ISO 51001 Gueugnon (energy) Direct economic Supply chain labour practices Percentage of suppliers having significant actual and potential negative impacts for labour practices (health & safety) for 16% (Europe) value generated US$2,813m US$1,277m US$2,208m US$651m and distributed which improvements were agreed 5% (South America) “The materiality exercise we “In order to be a world class “Aperam’s corporate “Since the creation of Aperam, did in 2013 helped us to company we have to be responsibility allows Services our structured approach to Impacts on local communities Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, 100 % bring clarity and structure to the many initiatives sustainable economically, socially and environmentally. & Solutions sites to create an atmosphere of mutual sustainability has led to stronger relationships with and development programmes we already had ongoing. We believe this is the best respect and long-term our stakeholders.” (4) This is a great step forward.” way to generate wealth for sustainable partnerships Bruno Boulogne, Aperam Alloys and Product stewardship, all stakeholders in the short, with customers.” Specialties Head of Components 7.1 (5) Bernard Hallemans, Aperam Genk Results surveys measuring customer satisfaction (score) 7.1 (2011) General Manager, member of the Global medium and long term.“ and member of the Global Sustainability customer service Bert Mestdagh, Head of Services & Steering Committee Sustainability Steering Committee Solutions Industrial & Technical Ilder Camargo da Silva, Aperam South America Head of HR, Communication & Performance and member of the Global 1) Note: Whilst this is compliant with GRI G4 reporting requirements for indicator EC1, the financial figures stated on p4-5 of this report differ slightly to those in the 2013 Annual Report p28. Sustainability Steering Committee Sustainability, Global Head of H&S and 2) Scope: Significant operating sites in Europe and South America (Genk, Châtelet, Gueugnon, Isbergues, Imphy, Timóteo) excludes Services & Solutions division. Non-raw materials only. member of the Global Sustainability 3) We do not break down this statistic by gender. The GEDP process is the same, regardless of gender. We are reviewing our data collection processes for blue collar and white collar workers Steering Committee according to stakeholder expectation and internal management risk assessment. 4) Scope: Significant operating sites in Europe and South America (Genk, Châtelet, Gueugnon, Isbergues, Imphy, Timóteo), excludes Services & Solutions division * There are 53 FTE in headquaters 5) Scope: European operations only. Collected every two years, the last available data for South America was in 2012 (score 8.05) Aperam Reporting our sustainability performance for 2013 04 Aperam Reporting our sustainability performance for 2013 05 Our environmental efficiency Our environmental efficiency environment Stainless steel is 100% recyclable Clearing the air In 2013, we emitted 400 tonnes* of ducted dust from our operations, 14% less in Europe but 34% more (up 93t) in Brazil from 2012. At the same time we have been taking steps to improve our air quality monitoring. At Timóteo we have moved from a semi-manual system to a real-time automatic monitoring system, which shows Stable energy use, stable emissions We set ourselves a target to reduce our energy intensity by 5% by 2020, compared to a 2012 baseline. In an industry such as ours, improvements do not usually happen suddenly. They must be carefully planned and investigated. In 2013 we have performed relatively consistently in relation to the previous year. Our total energy consumption in 2013 was 19m GJ of direct energy and 7.8m GJ Our environmental efficiency no negative impact on the city’s air quality. At Genk, we have installed continuous dust measurement systems. of indirect energy(1) . We slightly increased our total energy consumption by 2.7% from our 2012 baseline. Nevertheless, per tonne of crude steel, we used 13.6 Gj*, an increase of 0.35% from the previous year. Koen Gielen, our Head of HSSE & Central Lab at Genk, Stainless steel is 100% recyclable. As a result, we know that we have a duty to produce it in describes the benefits: In terms of emissions we emitted 0.95m tonnes of CO2 equivalent (tCO2e); which a responsible way. We are making good progress to improve our performance, but challenges was made up of 0.643m tCO2e direct emissions and 0.307m tCO2e indirect emissions. “The process engineers now use an alarm This is a 2.2% reduction from 2012, and a 43.9% reduction from our 2007 baseline. lie ahead. We are part of a heavy industry, for which solutions will not appear overnight. system when dust concentrations exceed As a relative measure, our emissions per ton of crude steel were 0.48 tCO2e/t* in 2013. And so we are investing to reduce our environmental impacts, not for short-term gains, the internal target limit, after which but for the long‑term sustainability of our company and our communities. preventive maintenance actions are taken.” Energy consumption: And at Imphy, the de-dusting plant is achieving targeting a 5% reduction by 2020 (2012 baseline) We are working hard to understand and meet the expectations of our customers and our other efficiencies of 98%. Such measures have significantly stakeholders. We are taking responsibility for our local impacts, as we know that we cannot improved our understanding of local air quality and Total energy consumption our performance. solve our environmental issues on our own. So we work in partnership. 70.9% Indicator We said We did We will 70.9% Direct energy 98% Indirect energy 29.1% Energy consumption We will drive improvements through monitoring, energy action plans and ✔ On track Review the use of interim targets to monitor our performance improvements 29.1% compliance actions. We will improve our data collection and reporting We will continue to invest in clean CO2 emissions through a sound environmental data ✔ On track technology and performance efficiencies achieved collection system Direct energy breakdown Charcoal 52.4% improvements as required by the de-dusting plant Natural gas 42.6% Fuel, Oil 2.5% 52.4% 42.6% Coke 1.5% our values, LPG 0.8% our environment Coal 0.1% Wood 0.1% We welcome the strong Inherently agile decrease of heavy metal Becoming lower-carbon We are a low waste company – in production, and in terms of our concentrations in the ambient air Carbon dioxide emissions product – because stainless steel can be endlessly recycled. It has of the Genk-Zuid industrial zone. 1.2 superior performance when compared to other materials over its The measures taken by Aperam total = 1.19 direct indirect total lifecycle. In 2013, we used 1.3 million tonnes of scrap material. 1.0 This represents 49% of our total ferro and alloys material input. in recent years have clearly total = 0.97 total = 0.95 contributed to this dramatic 0.8 “At Aperam, we are committed improvement. The wider community m tCO2e to environmental excellence and 0.6 counts on the continuation of the achievement. I think that this comes 0.4 efforts to reduce emissions and as a result of the nature of our product. 0.2 maintain open communication. Since our steel can last forever, we strive 0.0 0.88 0.31 0.67 0.30 0.64 0.31 to live and manufacture with as little Wim Dries, Mayor and Joke Quintens, Genk Environmental Authority 2011 2012 Indirect emissions = emissions from purchased electricity 2013 impact as possible” 1) Direct energy use is the primary energy (wood, LPG, natural gas, fuel, coal, coke, charcoal) consumed Bernard Hebeisen, Aperam CTO by Aperam and our products and services. Indirect energy is used to generate the electricity consumed by Aperam and our products and services. Aperam Reporting our sustainability performance for 2013 06 Aperam Reporting our sustainability performance for 2013 07 Our environmental efficiency Our environmental efficiency Thinking widely Water: on solid waste Our production processes inevitably result Product in some waste. In 2013 we sent 82.2 ktonnes water use 11.5 of waste for disposal; 31.8ktons of which was hazardous. We saw a decrease from the previous year on total waste weight mainly due to improvements in our pickling process in South America and an extended interruption m /t crude steel 3 of one of our lines in Europe. down from Recyco – 11.8m3/t enhanced in 2012 waste management Ferro alloys tapping Compliance testing in action All waste dusts with nickel from our Belgian and French melt shops are now recycled Total water use through Recyco, at Isbergues. Recyco produces ferro-alloys that contain nickel and chromium; from the 42,500t of dust treated in 2013, 40% was recycled. This process Water wise 24 22 reduces waste and raw material use. Recyco also recovers other wastes and by‑product 20 steams: manganese can be recovered from used refractory, electrode waste can be used In 2013, we consumed 22.5* million cubic metres in our manufacturing processes, equating to 11.5 cubic metres per tonne of crude steel. Some 93% of our water is from rivers and canals, 18 by the carbon industry and waste slag in road construction. Zinc is recovered by another specialist company. Recyco the remaining 7% comes from a combination of groundwater (3%), rainwater (3%), and municipal 16 take part in local stakeholder engagement, as Jeanne Saffer, sources (1%). At group level Aperam recycles 95% of water (Stainless and Electrical 14 million m3 Recyco Environmental Responsible, explains: South America (Timóteo) recycles 94%, Europe 98% and Alloys and Specialities 96%). 12 10 We also discharge water: at Imphy, on the Loire river, we monitor discharges carefully and take “Annual meetings allow local environmental issues 8 steps to prevent pollution of the river and its ecosystem. In 2013, we invested in specialist to be discussed between local pressure groups, equipment to remove traces of potential contaminants, such as sand, dust, and oil prior to 6 regulators, communities, unions and other discharge. We are able to treat 1.3m cubic metres a year. Hydrocarbon content in 2013 was 4 companies in Isbergues. Compliance monitoring reduced to less than 5mg per litre. Further to the new water treatment station at Imphy in 2 22.4 22.7 22.5 0 work by the local authorities confirms that the 2011, we have invested further in a closed loop water system there. This reduces water use 2011 2012 2013 and improves discharge quality by reducing pollutant loads by up to 60%. Total water intake at site is secure and responsibly managed.” Scrap material is a crucial raw material for us Imphy has reduced from 3.1 million m3 in 2008 to 0.67 million m3 in 2013. We will use continuous improvement actions and the use of blast furnace gas to help us reach our energy Aperam Bioenergia – intensity reduction target of 5%, by 2020 from strength to strength compared to 2012 levels. But our actions are not only based on new equipment. Last year we reported on Aperam Bioenergia in Brazil, which produces charcoal from cultivated eucalyptus to fuel our blast furnaces at Timóteo. Our charcoal continues to supply our energy We have different working groups, needs, replacing 100% of coke with biomass charcoal. The process from forest to steel is a fully involving site workers and technicians, integrated operation, which gives us far greater control over the sustainability of our product. to help develop ingenious solutions to Using the forests for fuel means that we are using a clean and renewable energy source, reduce energy consumption. in what would otherwise be a carbon-intensive operation. We pay close attention to our impacts – such as in terms of water conservation. We reuse water from our seedling nursery, Alain Menec, having installed a recirculation system to help reduce our water use. Aperam Technical and Finally, our R&D team works with organic methods to cultivate Environmental Expert saplings and develops alternative biological pest control against Good neighbour in Brazil natural predators in the eucalyptus forests. At Timóteo we recognised that noise levels Noise levels “Sustainability is an intrinsic, inseparable part of at night were too high, thereby disturbing reduced by the business. We strive to improve our operating local residents. We looked at ways to reduce noise at source but it wasn’t enough, so we constructed a 3.5m high stainless steel 7– 10dB on average performance, monitor our biodiversity, minimise adverse impacts of our activities and promote economic acoustic barrier along our site boundary. development in the regions where we operate.” Our monitoring shows that night time noise Thiago Augusto Dias Viana, Aperam Bioenergia Environment, levels reduced by 7 – 10dB on average. Preparing seedlings at Bioenergia Quality and Continuous Improvement Supervisor Aperam Reporting our sustainability performance for 2013 08 Aperam Reporting our sustainability performance for 2013 09 Serious progress on safety Serious progress on safety safety Seeing the change We are reinforcing the safety message again and again. We focus on managers and staff working together to do this. It’s a matter of everyone taking ownership of safety, of ‘walking the talk’. Indeed, our CEO understands this at grass-roots level and practices what we preach to help drive safer behaviour. safety risk control measure is in place, how it works and how it can help the operators. Nurturing respect and dialogue – showing an interest in each other’s work – can further improve safety performance. We can then confidently see the right connection between a certified Serious progress on safety But, this ‘visible felt leadership’ is crucial at all levels, not just the senior management. management system and actually behaving safely. Working in a safe environment is a basic right. A strong health We start at the base of the ‘safety pyramid’ to head off accidents or and safety culture improves employee well-being, retention and Our goal is zero accidents and injuries. Employees have worked together to make real progress: incidents that could be serious. At Aperam we communicate why a productivity. Below we outline the four priorities for us in 2013. in 2013 we eliminated fatal accidents after two challenging years. But we do not rest on our laurels. We focus on strengthening our resolve ever further to improve overall performance. Safer contractors In 2013 we sharpened the focus on contractor safety: results show a decline in performance on combined LTIFR (up to How have we achieved this? The tool-box talks, training, Health & Safety Day, continuous 2.3 from 1.6 in 2011). Contractors may often be on-site infrequently, or only briefly. To ensure they follow procedures we are running an important series of actions. Best practice ‘safety shares’ and briefings all count: we have a new working group improvement challenge, news bulletins, and the learning from accidents: they all help. in 2014 to brief maintenance and procurement teams. The aim is Fatality Prevention Standard (FPS) level 3 using improved But personal commitment and shared vigilance do the rest, backed up by the competency maintenance stops and purchasing controls. A ‘toolbox’ will ensure suppliers stick to safe practices; they will be subject to audit on it. The toolbox is a series of risk controls such as safety certification, site gate permits, a safety passport, and rules framework to ensure people have the right skills and equipment to work safely. on using temporary workers. “Improving safety performance of Fabricom is important because safety is the first of Aperam’s values, and good safety results improve economic performance.” Philippe Masereel, Director, Cofely Fabricom Indicator We said We did We will Combined LTIFR (all regions) Fire safety: targeting zero incidents 1.3 1.34 Reduce by 25%, Following a risk audit in 2013, each site completed a fire risk assessment and an action plan. We have consequently Employees and contractors improved fire fighting systems, fire risk management responsibility and our Human Factors Risk Policy. As an example of training for emergency preparedness in 2013, we ran an acid leak simulation at our Isbergues plant with local fire and Employees Improve from 1.0 in 2012 1.0 Maintain at 1.0 rescue services. The exercise involved 80 people and recorded excellent reaction times. In 2013 we restarted production at our Gueugnon site after a serious fire in 2012. Luckily there were no injuries and we saw a true collective effort with our Contractors Improve from 1.9 in 2012 2.3 Achieve 1.9 stakeholders to reconstruct the production line affected. Implement Fair Play Policy, “Industrial security is key: any event leads to a veritable trauma inside the organisation, so Aperam pays attention Fair Play Policy 80% complete 100% completion by 2015 group wide to the safety and security of its industrial assets in a similar way to its approach to the safety of its people.” Christophe Ourliac, Continuous Improvement & Quality, Aperam South America Isolation: safely shutting off power In 2013, we focused on delivering the isolation Fatality Prevention Standard (FPS), backed up with training and good practice sharing in South America and Europe. We conducted a pilot audit at our Amilly site as part of this. In Europe we rolled out the isolation FPS for all sites: we are continuing in 2014 with further audits for the nine largest sites as well as deeper systematic checks of equipment. The updates we are making to maintenance processes are creating major change, for the better. our values, We are updating some equipment to meet the isolation standard and we are training people in good practice on topics such as isolation planning, legal constraints, and hydraulic and electrical fields. our environment “Whilst accidents relating to isolation are rare, they are usually severe, so we are using the ‘one man, one key, one lock’ approach so that the restart of equipment being maintained is under control of the person doing the maintenance.” Agility, literally: The Steel Valley mini eco-marathon Thierry Callis, Heath & Safety Aperam Corporate July 2013 saw runners starting a 20km half-marathon at 08h00 on Avenue Patative, in the Macuro district of Fair play: zero tolerance for silence Timóteo. The race, in aid of environmental education, is sponsored by Oikós and the Aperam Acesita Foundation. We want our workforce to show heightened awareness of risk, and a respect for procedures and rules. The Fair Play Policy The run was first held in 1997 by the community and latterly supported by Aperam. The president of the aims to do this fairly and openly: to recognise the good behaviour, not just punish the bad. In practice it is done using foundation, Venilson Vitorino, said: training, senior managers getting involved, and ways to recognise good behaviour during the analysis of an incident. It is done at site level using a self-assessment process to achieve a level of excellence. So, for example, a site will reach ‘level 3’ “We are in this journey together for health and nature. Such initiatives reflect some of the if it complies with local laws and the Aperam Fair Play Policy by an agreed date. values that guide the business in Aperam South America.” “Fair play is vital to changing our mentality on procedures and rules, since And it is growing, attracting more athletes each year as well as the support of Timóteo City Hall, the Police of most accidents are linked to human factors risk awareness; applying fair play Minas Gerais, and private industry sponsors. is a very powerful tool to make our operations safer for every stakeholder.” Bert Mestdagh, Head of Services & Solutions Industrial & Technical Performance Safe behaviour is praised Aperam Reporting our sustainability performance for 2013 10 Aperam Reporting our sustainability performance for 2013 11 Serious progress on safety People and community – the Aperam Way Proximity Training focus Training in various forms complements the visible leadership, the notion of taking ownership, and the individual’s accountability. Last year we committed to improve the quality of root cause analysis of all accidents. Training briefings provided greater coverage of this. For example, we are intensifying the training and briefings to subcontractors. The briefings will cover special procedures for the annual maintenance period, and exchange of best practices in a ‘subcontractors’ club’, applying the General Health and Safety Fire protection demonstration at Gueugnon, April 2013 People and community – the Aperam Way Instructions on all sites, and limiting the use of temporary workers. Our annual assembly on safety Aperam is its people. The close working relationships of our employees, our customers, our We also brief drivers delivering to our sites. At Imphy, for example, we give them general driving safety instructions for the site relating to “The Aperam Health & Safety (H&S) Day was a good opportunity to products and our community is what makes our culture unique. We want this ‘togetherness’ topics such as the use of mobile phones, minimum PPE required, and meet people and discuss their issues – for me, it was really interesting to help motivate and engage the workforce. This is what we strive for. stowage equipment. And they now have to sign a ‘punctual safety to discover in depth the plant, the process and the operators,” protocol’, which will help them take responsibility for safety too. a contractor tells us at Aperam Alloys, Pont de Roide, in 2013. We have invested much time in 2013 listening to and understanding our people. We wanted In Timóteo, training underpinned the recent successful maintenance His words bring to life our efforts to embed safe ways of working to know what is important to them, and what we can do to maintain dialogue and commitment. shut down with zero incidents. It was the result of working with ever further in what we do at work and at home. subcontractors tenaciously, of careful planning and extensive training. When the market is challenging, we know that there is a risk that labour relations are strained Employees and contractors across our global sites all paused work We find it’s never too much to talk about safety again and again. in April to join events, awards, activities, games, catering and even more easily. But, despite the recent tough economic climate, in 2013, we recorded our lowest massage as part of our H&S Day. rate of absenteeism. See also on p14 A colleague from Aperam Services & Solutions Poland states, “Each H&S Day is more interesting and surprising – I learn a lot each time.” Indicator We said We did We will Lectures covered a range of H&S topics such as risk control, personal fitness, isolation, fire safety, shared vigilance, hazard identification, 100% managers Percentage of employees risk assessment, drugs, driving and first aid. GEDP for 100% of managers, receiving regular Maintain GEDP for 100% of managers, 96% exempts 97% for exempts; improve annual I’m pleased that I had the opportunity to take From Amilly to Timóteo, and from Genk to Imhua in China, staff and performance and career achieve it for 97% of exempts interviews for workers in the main sites development reviews part in a long-term educational training as a safety contractors further embedded safety in their lives. See you next year! 86% of workers counsellor. Not only did it give me the necessary insights into safety, but it has also broadened my Being heard, being represented Succession plans in place Succession plan to fully cover Aperam Succession plan review to fully cover ✔ 100% knowledge on risk assessment, incident analysis, 100% of the Aperam employees are covered by collective for management management Aperam management and defining preventative action. These are tools bargaining agreements. In Europe all employees are represented by local works councils. Employees, temporary workers and I can use day-to-day and which I can pass on to subcontractors are represented by their own trade unions; Absenteeism 2.1% 2.1% and improvement plan in sites ✔ 2.05 my colleagues. formal Health and safety agreements exist between Aperam where the average is lower and local trade unions. Björn Lemmens, Environmental and Safety Counsellor What happened in 2013? How often and how serious were the reported incidents? Our combined lost time incident frequency rate (LTIFR) for employees and our values, our environment contractors was 1.34 injuries that resulted in lost time (per million working hours), slightly up on 2012 (1.29) and still short of our 25% target of 0.75 (the rate for employees was 1.0, and for contractors was 2.3). Our combined severity rate increased slightly from 0.07 in 2012 to 0.08 in 2013. The types of accidents recorded include hand injuries and back strain. See also the overview on p5 and p10. Group 2013 Performance(1) Combined LTIFR, Severity Rate and Fatalities Injury rate(2) Severity rate Absenteeism Finding better ways 90 (lost time accidents)(3) rate(4) 3.0 80 0.8 Our people are finding new and better ways to do things. When producing 2.5 82.8 3.0 steel on coils we use a paper layer to protect the product. So at Gueugnon, 70 0.7 0.80 71.9 3.0% 2.0 Fatalities Fatalities Fatalities 60 0.6 2.5 we started to look at ways to reduce our consumption, such as changing the 1.5 1 3 0 50 58.5 0.5 2.0 type of paper, process efficiency and new paper reuse facilities. As a result, 2.0% 1.0 40 0.4 0.44 1.5 we have reduced our paper use by 60%: the length of rolls saved is equivalent 30 38.4 0.3 0.5 32.2 0.06 0.00 1.0 to 2.6 times around the equator of the globe. 1.1% 11.3 0.7 0.08 1.29 0.07 1.34 0.08 20 0.2 25.7 0.13 0.01 0.9% 25.5 0.03 0.0 23.5 0.13 0.07 0.5 2011 2012 2013 10 3.1 0.1 0.13 60% Combined LTIFR Severity rate Fatalities 0 0.0 0.0 2013 2013 2013 Employees Group Stainless Europe Alloys & Specialties South America Services & Solutions (Other) Group Stainless Europe reduction Contractors Group Stainless Europe Alloys & Specialties South America Services & Solutions (Other) South America Other in paper consumption 1) Excludes Occupational Diseases Rate (ODR): please see our online supplement C p3-4 for our management approach on this. Excludes breakdown by gender: women represent less than 3% of the blue collar population. We review annually the participation Additional GRI reference documents 2.6 of women in our statistics, and if meaningful and significant we will report data by gender. aperam.com/sustainability 2) Total number of injuries / Total hours worked x 1,000,000; injury rate calculation includes fatalities 3) Total number of days lost for accidents / Total hours worked x 1,000,000 times around the globe at the equator 4) See online supplement C p3-4 for Health & Safety disclosures on management approach (DMA) for detail on calculation Aperam Reporting our sustainability performance for 2013 12 Aperam Reporting our sustainability performance for 2013 13 13 People and community – the Aperam Way People and community – the Aperam Way What happened in 2013? The Aperam Way In 2013, we employed a total 9,533 people on a full time equivalent (FTE) basis, of which 99.5% were employed on a permanent contract. Our employees are in Brazil (38.9%), France (27.5%), and Belgium (18.3%). The remaining 15.3% are located at smaller locations worldwide. We also employed 528 supervised workers: 348 in Europe, 160 in South America and 20 in other regions. Over a year ago we launched a survey to understand the issues We established a task force, representing all parts of the company, that really mattered to our employees. We wanted to understand to develop a series of fundamental ‘people commitments’ for Employee Statistics: our strengths and weaknesses in relation to these issues. So we Aperam. The challenge now is to transfer the commitment to our established five working groups to analyse the responses to the sites. Each one has been tasked with developing specific action survey. The Management Committee then used this to develop five plans to outline how the five commitments will be met. We are now Male commitments for Aperam. The outcome of this process is . moving from (we+do) the concept to the reality. Permanent Fixed term The logo is symbolic and ‘we do’ means ‘taking action’: the change our people want will not happen on its own. The ‘+’ symbolises taking action together, and the (parenthesis) symbolises the proximity Full-time 8,251 35 between our people. safety teamwork competencies transparency proximity Part-time 125 0 + + + + + sustainability diversity employability reliable appraisal exemplarity Safety is our way We value We promote We recognise Our managers Total 8,376 35 8,411 of life and comes the contribution employees’ people’s lead by example Female first in everything of every member competencies performances and we do of the team and employability competencies in a Permanent Fixed term transparent way Read more in the Health & Full-time 999 10 Safety section: p10–12 Part-time 113 0 Total 1,112 10 1,122 Team work is vital in a family, as it is in Aperam. Our annual It is vital that performance and competencies are evaluated in Continuous Improvement Challenge, which ran for the ninth year a robust and transparent way. The Global Exempt Development Full-time Part-time Total in 2013, brings teams together to solve problems and to Programme aims at achieving this goal. Assessing performance innovate. This year’s winner was Aperam Bioenergia for a project on tree trimming at our forest sites. The newly on the basis of objective facts, data and competencies, with reference to reliable ‘competency frameworks’, enables a clear 9,294 239 9,533 mechanised process eliminates the hazards of manual branch contribution to sustainable development. Annual interviews We also employ a variety of contractors to help us with maintenance and other specialist operations. This workforce is estimated to represent a further 1,300 FTE employees. removal, improves the quality of our charcoal and saves costs. with workers throughout the organisation by line managers also contributes to the development of our competencies. This ‘proximity’ enriches the relations between people and The winning team at Aperam Bioenergia allows Aperam teams to be even more motivated and engaged. Our Employees – Quick Stats: Of those employees to which GEDP applies, 96% received an Proportion of women: 12% 99.5% 96% annual performance review last year. Nationalities represented: 49 Own employees on permanent of exempts received annual review contracts in 2013 Contractors: 1,300 FTE “This is not just a logo; this is our commitment to our people. Reducing absenteeism Congratulations once again to the team at Aperam Bioenergia, Aperam’s absenteeism rate was 2.1% in 2013, We have started to benchmark performance and we look forward to the tenth anniversary of the competition It is not ‘we can’; down from 2.6% in 2011, reflecting an overall internally and against a peer company within in 2014. it is not ‘we should’; reduction in occupational disease, chronic health the region that shares our approach.” We have issues and work related stress from 2012. supported this further by training managers to it is not ‘we will’ improve the return-to-work procedures. This has In recent years we have been working hard to ...it is ‘we do’.” improve absenteeism at Pont de Roide. As Alain helped to raise awareness of the consequences of absences, and promotes more positive dialogue David Vanhoebroek, Juif, Head of Workshop, explains, “We provided during an employee’s absence. As a result, Head of Leadership Development, our staff with information to explain their absenteeism reduced from 4.9% in 2012 to Compensation and Benefits and rights and duties, and openly communicated 2.8% in 2013. International Mobility our performance on absenteeism rates. Aperam Reporting our sustainability performance for 2013 14 Aperam Reporting our sustainability performance for 2013 15 People and community – the Aperam Way Our customers and products In the community We generated and distributed US$5,190m to the global economy in 2013. In Brazil, the Aperam Acesita Foundation disbursed US$1m in educational, environmental and cultural project funding. The surrounding environment agility is critical to Aperam Bioenergia of course. We depend on Our customers and products the availability of woodland resources to produce a quality Our customers benefited in 2013 as a result of the changes we made in 2012. charcoal. We also depend on the social licence to operate – the Changes such as protection against raw material cost volatility, tailored pricing solutions At work with communities, Bioenergia, Brazil trust of our neighbours here. and technical support. Customers demand quality products backed up by rigorous innovation practices. We continue Contributing to valuable rural enterprise, Brazil Our six main production sites conduct local community engagement activities. The Aperam Acesita Foundation sponsors vocational training Also, in partnership with local beekeeping associations near our to develop solutions as described in this chapter. Our research & development programme is and anti-drugs programmes, as well as thousands of hours of employee volunteering. “The development of pupils is visible: a greater eucalyptus forests, we provide access, facilities and training to shaped by emerging trends in society and the markets we serve, demonstrating how our support this local enterprise. In 2013, over 90 families benefited commitment to education, a higher self-esteem, something really from our forests, producing over 430 tonnes of honey. products are ‘made for life’. productive”, said one of our partners Graziela Gomes Pereira, Director, State School Hilda Osorio de Araújo Zauza, Timóteo. Another forceful example of engagement is through the Oikós Environmental Education Center which in 2013 welcomed 20,000 visitors. Working in partnership Indicator We said We did We will with local communities To improve emissions supporting educational, New customer survey in 2013 Survey completed in Europe Continue with the planned Brazil survey for European and we adjusted how we cultural and environmental as planned in 2014 South American markets operate the meltshop. development as well as Pursuit of customer excellence Real progress has been income generation projects Review how commercial performance Replaced the project with a made and plant managers excellence is measured after the specialist product-related process Review related targets gives us enormous pride reorganisation in 2012 management approach are fully engaged with and satisfaction. community stakeholders. Regisllainy Cobucci Pena, Learning together at Yves Bernis, Environmental Community Relations Analyst, Oikós Environmental Education Center Coordinator, Aperam Châtelet Aperam Bioenergia A biodiversity winner Aperam South America was recognised in 2013 for its biodiversity education at Oikós, the Aperam Acesita Foundation’s Oikós Environmental Education Center in Brazil. This was part of the business sustainability awards of Editora Abril, publisher of the our values, Exame Sustainability Guide. For 20 years Oikós has been promoting environmental education. our environment Supplier commitment In Europe, examples of community engagement include dust in South America emissions analysis with local authorities at Isbergues and collaboration with the local authority and community on environmental permit Quality delivery to customers relies on strong supply chain levels at Genk. Also, open discussion on dust and noise with local stewardship. Most of the suppliers serving Aperam South authorities and the community at Châtelet illustrate how the America have signed up to our Corporate Responsibility management are engaged, as Yves explains above. Commitments. Whilst delivering on it is where the real work In line with our commitments we are progressing our local supply is, the process is underway. They confirmed their intent to chain engagement (p3) and we completed our formal review of fully respect all of its requirements. The signature of the community risks in Brazil. Also, all six main production sites worldwide Commitment Term is a primary requirement implemented community engagement, impact assessments and Fire teams during Integrated Fire Prevention Week development programmes. Examples include local educational to be qualified for the Supplier Qualification projects, works councils (in Europe) and formal grievance processes Program (SQP). The aim is to achieve Community fire prevention such as at Châtelet and Imphy. Finally, there were no disputes on land continuous improvement on ethical conduct With city mayors, council members, the police, public prosecutors, use, local customary rights and indigenous peoples in 2013. environment authorities and community leaders we ran the throughout the entire supply chain including fourth Aperam Bioenergia Integrated Fire Prevention Week in environmental responsibility, safety, labour August 2013. Community members, students and employees rights, compliance, community engagement, from 15 communities got together to understand how to prevent See more on local stakeholder human rights and supplier evaluation. forest fires. engagement online at aperam.com/sustainability Aperam Reporting our sustainability performance for 2013 16 Aperam Reporting our sustainability performance for 2013 17 Our customers and products Our customers and products Market strength Change-making products We have consolidated our market share in Europe despite competition our customers against price volatility for materials like ferrochrome Stainless steel offers durability, resilience, resistance to corrosion from cheaper imported goods. The Outokumpu-Inoxum merger and and nickel. Showing our agility, we have maximized the use of recycled and heat, as well as outstanding mechanical properties at high subsequent re-sale of Acciai Speciali Terni is leading to a significant stainless scrap and improved our purchasing conditions, allowing temperatures. It is perfect where hygiene is mandatory, it is change in competition. In spite of this, Aperam remains focused Aperam products to remain competitive against imported stainless endlessly recyclable and easily recycled, it is safe and it has an to offering its customers a solid service and a diversified product steel. Additionally, tailored pricing, for example daily price quotes for aesthetic attraction to many specifiers. The next 15 years will portfolio. Our dynamic raw materials’ sourcing strategy has protected alloys customers, allows us to adapt to customer requirements. see shifts in global trends relating to scarcity of energy resources, ore, food and water as well as climate change and demographics, and our research teams work on future opportunities for Aperam Working with Metalac constantly. In 2013 we maintained our annual US$20m investment Grupa, Serbia for stainless in innovation. We select some examples below. in Europe Due respect for duplex We have enlarged our duplex stainless product offering and made A close working relationship and production it more cost-effective. Duplex is used extensively for flexible tubes, demonstrations are at the core of our solid vessels, tanks and connections in the petrochemical sector, for partnership with this kitchen equipment example, notably for strength, safety and structural integrity. Brazil manufacturer. They use 500 tonnes of is a leader in deep water petroleum exploration. As Aperam’s Paulo stainless steel each year to make saucepans Bálsamo, Application Engineering and Market Development Manager and other cooking utensils. explains, “To explore the new incredibly deep layers targeted Metalac is contributing to the European means a jump from three to seven thousand metres below the steel industry by launching their own seabed. This requires new materials and duplex stainless steel ‘Made in Europe’ label on their products to tolerates high pressure and acidity.” promote the quality of European products Duplex stainless steel is used in the production of paper and against the pressure from imported goods. cellulose, chemicals and food, with applications also in bridges and viaducts, heat exchangers, oil and gas tubing, transportation Aperam Alloy’s Phytime® – used in CVT technology Shining examples, 2013 Poised and listening storage tank systems, sea water systems and others. Auto innovations We saw notable international examples of Aperam at work in We gauge customer requirements through regular surveys. Aperam Alloys – Auto innovations The challenge for carmakers is fuel efficiency and environmental heavy industries in 2013. Of particular note are the projects with They occur every two years most recent being in 2013, for Aperam impact. Engine technology, light-weighting and electrification 5% 20% CMPC Celulosa, (pulp and paper); Flexibras, (oil and gas services), Stainless Europe (the next Aperam South America survey is technology are the primary opportunities. from whom we won a star supplier award for customer service; due in 2014). A good proportion of customers stated high levels and Sidem/Entropie, the world leader in sea water desalination. of satisfaction and loyalty. They seek a combination of strong We are working with manufacturers on chassis components such as commercial relationships and high quality products. In 2013, car suspension arms. Whilst carbon fibre and aluminium save weight, Aperam Stainless Europe returned an overall satisfaction score it is Aperam’s press-hardened stainless MaX steel that is the preferred of 7.1 (155 respondents). Even though it is similar to the score solution for passenger car chassis. It has double the endurance limit in 2011 we improved on several items. Fuel savings following Weight reduction of high strength carbon steel and it is 20% lighter on average. That’s the shift from hydraulic following the quite a change, and an opportunity to apply elsewhere. to power assisted introduction of new In many ways, alloys offer opportunities to carmakers to meet Uginox’s new steering systems alloy Phytime® their challenges. In seeking cost-effective solutions, Aperam runs surface finish ambitious R&D investments (see box). For example, CVT technology Our key launch in 2013 was allows best-in-class fuel efficiency, and Aperam Alloys Imphy Whirlpool award supplies a key part of each unit. the new Uginox surface finish. The specialist stainless steel We received sustainability awards in 2013 from Whirlpool, finish is for architecture, building the global white goods appliance manufacturer. Whirlpool “Aperam Alloys introduced Phytime® on an Centre de Formation and construction applications. Latin America acknowledges the sustainability achievements industrial scale for this technology. Thanks of its suppliers. Aperam South America was recognised for its des Apprentis hôteliers (CFA) energy efficiency programme; it has saved enough energy to the outstanding properties of this new to supply 8,000 houses for one year! Bioenergia’s inclusion alloy, less material is used for the same in the award was for charcoal quality, community engagement and environmental management. power, giving a 20% weight reduction.” Pierre-Christophe Caille, Chief Marketing Officer of Aperam Alloys Aperam Alloys Imphy also provides alloys with magnetic properties for Reinforcing customer collaboration and rolling stock use in torque sensor technologies in electric power assisted steering Since 2011 we have been working with the Brazilian mining units. They are lighter and more efficient than hydraulic systems, industry to double the working life of iron ore railway wagons to giving a fuel saving of 5%. To provide the most competitive offer with 50 years. Typically, existing wagons are built of thin carbon steel full quality management, Aperam invested US$2m in a brand new sheets. Even thinner steel has been tested to save weight but Recirculating ideas production line at our Amilly site in France. they required too much maintenance. Over the years, the iron ore We are using different types of stainless steel to adapt existing $2m Desalination at Al Zour North mining companies have switched to stainless steel which is stronger diesel engine exhaust gas recirculation (EGR) technology to help Kuwait is building a huge desalination plant, the first phase of weight‑for-weight compared to carbon steel. Out of the 12,000 improve petrol engine fuel efficiency. Ferritic stainless steel invested in a new which began in 2014. We are working with Veolia’s Sidem Group wagons in use in the largest rail system for iron ore, 25% of them tolerates high temperatures and corrosive conditions. It also production line at our to supply Duplex stainless steel for the manufacture of the evaporators in their multiple effect distillation technology. now depend on Aperam’s products. Working with our customers there we are developing new applications. offers cost savings. Our teams at our research centre have been working hand-in-hand with customers on this improvement. US Amilly site, France Aperam Reporting our sustainability performance for 2013 18 Aperam Reporting our sustainability performance for 2013 19 About this report GRI Index About this report GRI Index note To facilitate stakeholders’ understanding of our corporate responsibility performance, our reporting follows the Global Reporting Initiative G4 framework, an internationally recognised set of principles and indicators for economic, environmental and social aspects of business performance. We declare this report as in accordance with GRI G4 core level. Material Subject to the exclusions indicated below, environmental data cover The GRI frameowrk helps companies select material content and key performance indicators. See www.globalreporting.org. We have duly aspects and indicators are shown on p4 and p20 of this report; detailed all main industrial sites, SSCs and corporate offices. Environmental accounted for the GRI mining & metals sector supplement (MMSS) in our report preparation; we refer to it in this Index (p20) as well as in the Disclosures on Management Approach (DMA) are in online supplement ‘C’. information is compiled locally, and then aggregated centrally. In our online supplement B. The scope of the information and data in this report covers operations in greenhouse gas emissions calculation we apply the standards of Europe and South America, from January to December 2013: ISO14404-1 and ISO14404-2, which state that biomass is considered General Standard Disclosure Location: Page reference: made for life Report; Annual Report; online supplements • Aperam’s production capacity is concentrated in six production to be carbon neutral. The CO2 emissions data relate to Scopes 1 and 2. Strategy and Analysis facilities located in Brazil, Belgium and France: Genk, Gueugnon, The following exclusions apply to the environmental data: G4-1 CEO Statement p1 Isbergues, Timóteo, Châtelet, Imphy (1) Raw material data exclude packaging and miscellaneous parts; Organisational Profile • 18 Steel Service Centres (SSC) (2) Scope 3 indirect emissions. G4-3 Name of organisation Back cover • Nine transformation facilities (1) G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services Annual Report p11 and aperam.com CO2 and absenteeism data are restated following improvements in data • 22 sales offices. G4-5 Location of headquarters 12c rue Guillaume Kroll, L-1882 Luxembourg systems, with no material effect on comparability or timeliness. • Registered office: 12C, rue Guillaume Kroll, L-1882 Luxembourg G4-6 Countries of operation Significant sites: Brazil, Belgium, France The report represents our Communication on Progress relating to UNGC G4-7 Ownership and legal form Public limited company in Luxembourg Safety data cover other sites relating to our Services & Solutions and membership (see online supplment ‘A’). The report does not cover any G4-8 Markets served Annual Report p11 Alloys & Specialities, as well as contractors on site. Human resources joint venture operations or activities of partner organisations. G4-9 Scale of organisation Annual Report p3. EBITDA US$292m. 2.5mt flat stainless steel capacity, 9,500 employees. Aperam’s production capacity is data exclude contractors. concentrated in six production facilities located in Brazil, Belgium and France, Steel Service Centres, transformation facilities and sales offices. See inside front cover. 1) Including: Firminy, Pont de Roide, Jequitinhonha G4-10 Employees and workforce p13, Online supplement C p3. Total number of employees by employment contract, including Figures based on average FTE from December 2013, including Aperam Drosbach (53). Female workers: 12% of the Aperam overall; permanent employees and gender, total workforce by employees and 3% of blue collar workers. Aperam is composed of employees from 49 different nationalities. Part of Aperam’s work is done by supervised workers and by gender, total workforce by region and contractors eg, maintenance, site utilities, security; estimated to be 1,300 FTE in 2013. We employed temporary additional Independent assurance statement gender. Self-employed workforce; variations in employment numbers. workforce (Q1-Q3) after the fire at our Gueugnon site. The small workforce at Bioenergia in Brazil is also subject to variations due to seasonal factors (growing cycle of the trees: planting, harvesting etc). The ‘made for life’ report is a component (the “summary”) of our complete adherence of the disclosures in the Report to the GRI “In Accordance Core” Own staff Supervised workers sustainability reporting (the “Report”) for the year ended 31 December 2013. criteria and the appropriateness of the GRI Index on pages 20-21 of the Report Total FTE Worker Gender Total FTE The Report is composed of 5 items: the “made for life report” and four online and; fair presentation in all material aspects in accordance with GRI Guidelines, Female Male Total Total supplements – A,B, C and D. Our 2013 Report can be found on our website on www.aperam.com/sustainability, accompanied by the four online supplements. of selected performance data, marked in the Reportwith a ‘ ’: * Europe South America 643 284 4,557 3,703 5,200 3,987 Europe South America 348 160 • EN5 : Energy intensity (p7) Rest of the World 195 151 346 Rest of the World 20 The summary report provides part of the information required to satisfy GRI G4 Total 1,122 8,411 9,533 Total 528 “In Accordance Core”. Therefore, the summary should be read with its • EN8: Water withdrawal by source (p9) FTE, end of period FTE, average on period accompanying online supplements to constitute the complete Report. • EN18 : CO2 intensity (p7) Employees on Aperam payroll (excluding temporaries, sub-contractors) Including only permanent and classical-fixed-term contracts (excluding for example Deloitte Audit Société à Responsabilité issued an unmodified opinion using • EN21 : NOx, SOx and other air emissions (p7) trainees, internships, apprentices), available personnel (but excluding long-term illness) and people working for external entities. ISAE 3000 limited level assurance with respect to the Report on the following subject matters: adherence to the Global Reporting Initiative G4 guidelines (the “GRI” or “GRI Guidelines”) with respect to the Principles of Materiality, G4-11 Collective bargaining agreements p11. 100% of the Aperam employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. Stakeholder Inclusiveness, Sustainability Context and Completeness; G4-12 Description of supply chain Online supplement C p1 G4-13 Changes to organisational profile No significant changes in 2013. G4-14 Precautionary approach Our risk management process anticipates the impacts on stakeholders and the environment. The Sustainability Steering Committee members feed into such deliberations. Our products provide an opportunity for customers GRI Index Disclosure Title References: this report, Annual Report and online supplements to apply a precautionary approach due to their properties (e.g. corrosion resistance, light-weighting, durability, hygiene, and energy efficiency applications). Economic G4-15 External initiatives Signatory to the UN Global Compact. We operate in partnership with various organisations, principally via the Economic G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Online supplement C p1 Aperam Acesita Foundation in Brazil. performance G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Inside Front cover, Annual Report p28 G4-16 Associations and advocacy organisations The International Stainless Steel Forum (ISSF), World Steel Association., Brazil Steel Institute Procurement G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Online supplement C p1-2 Practices G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations of operation p3-5 Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries Environmental G4-17 Entities included in consolidated financial statements Annual Report_2013.pdf p134 G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Online supplement C p2 G4-18 Process for defining report content p3, Online supplement B p1 Energy G4-EN5 Energy intensity p7 G4-19 List of material aspects p2-3, Online supplement B p2 G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Online supplement C p3 G4-20 Aspect boundaries within the organisation Online supplement B p1-2 Water Consumption G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source p9 G4-21 Aspect boundaries outside the organisation Online supplement B p1-2 G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Online supplement C p2-3 G4-22 Restatements CO2 and absenteeism data are restated following improvements in data systems, with no material effect on G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) p6-7 comparability or timeliness. Emissions G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) p6-7 G4-23 Changes in scope and boundaries No significant changes on scope and boundaries. G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity p6-7 G4-EN21 NOx, SOx and other air emissions p6-7 Stakeholder Engagement Labour G4-24 Stakeholder groups p2, Online supplement B p3 G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Online supplement C p3-4 G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders Online supplement B p3 Occupational Health Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement p2, Online supplement B p3-4 and Safety G4-LA6 p10, p12, p13. Gender reference: online supplement C p3 absenteeism, total number of work­related fatalities, by region and by gender G4-27 Key topics and concerns p2, Online supplement B p3-4 G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Online supplement C p3 Training and Report Profile Education Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career G4-LA11 p4, p13 G4-28 Reporting period Calendar year 2013 development reviews, by gender and by employee category G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Online supplement C p4 G4-29 Previous report Sustainability Report 2013. Calendar year 2012 Supplier Assessment for Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor practices in the G4-30 Reporting cycle Annual Labor Practices G4-LA15 p3 supply chain and actions taken G4-31 Contact point sustainability@aperam.com, raquel.faria@aperam.com Society G4-32 Content Index p20-21; reporting to GRI G4 in accordance at Core level. G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Online supplement C p5 G4-33 External assurance Main report p20; and online supplement bundle. Local Communities p16, GRI Sector Supplement MM6 ‘Number and description of Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, Governance G4-SO1 significant disputes relating to land use, customary rights of local impact assessments, and development programs G4-34 Governance structure p3, Supplement D p1, Annual Report 2013, p39 communities and Indigenous Peoples’: p16 Product and Service Labelling Ethics and Integrity Results of surveys G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Online supplement C p5 G4-56 Values, principles, standards, and norms Codes of conduct – available at aperam.com/sustainability. measuring customer A new development plan is to be deployed in 2014 as approved by the Board. It will involve a policy review, a dedicated compliance satisfaction G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction p18 website and network supported by training programme. Assurance statement and other detail online For other GRI related reference documents, please see 20 21 aperam.com/sustainability the online supplements at aperam.com/sustainability Aperam 12C, rue Guillaume Kroll L-1882 Luxembourg Grand Duchy of Luxembourg Tel: +352 27 36 27 00 Email: contact@aperam.com For all sustainability feedback: sustainability@aperam.com www.facebook.com/aperam @aperam See more at aperam.com/sustainability Copyright 2014 © Aperam Produced by Aperam with the assistance of DNV Two Tomorrows Limited and AB (UK) Disclaimer – Forward Looking Statements In this Sustainability Report, Aperam has made certain forward-looking statements with respect to, among other topics, its financial position, business strategy, projected costs, projected savings, and the plans and objectives of our management. Such statements are identified by the use of forward-looking verbs such as ‘anticipate’, ‘intend’, ‘expect’, ‘plan’, ‘believe’, or ‘estimate’, or words or phrases with similar meanings. Aperam’s actual results may differ materially from those implied by such forward-looking statements due to the known and unknown risks and uncertainties to which it is exposed, including, without limitation, the risks described in the Annual Report. Aperam does not make any representation, warranty or prediction that the results anticipated by such forward-looking statements will be achieved. Please refer to the ‘Summary of risks and uncertainties’ section of the Annual Report page 35 as well as ‘Risks related to the company and the stainless and specialty steel industry’ page 142. Such forward-looking statements represent, in each case, only one of many possible scenarios and should not necessarily be viewed as the most likely to occur or standard scenario. Aperam undertakes no obligation to publicly update its forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Unless indicated otherwise or the context otherwise requires, references in this Sustainability Report to ‘Aperam’, the ‘Group’ and the ‘Company’ or similar terms refer to Aperam, ‘société anonyme’, having its registered office at 12C, Rue Guillaume Kroll, L-1882 Luxembourg, Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, and to its consolidated subsidiaries. ONLINE SUPPLEMENT A made for life report Reporting our sustainability performance for 2013 United Nations Global Compact references To facilitate stakeholders’ understanding and bench-marking our corporate responsibility performance, we show how our operations and strategy align with the UNGC’s ten principles (www.unglobalcompact.org). Our report represents our UNGC Communication on Progress (COP). 1. Our Statement by the Chief Executive is found on p1 of our Report. 2. Our main made for life report of sustainability performance and our Disclosures on Management Approach (DMA) online describe practical actions and policies to implement the Global Compact principles in the four issue areas of human rights, labour, environment, anti-corruption. 3. Our profile table on the inside front cover of the main made for life report and the Dashboard (p4-5) describe key measures of outcomes. These are backed up by detail provided in each performance chapter. Human Rights and Labour Labour Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association of internationally proclaimed human rights; and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Assessment, Policy and Goals Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Aperam Policies and implementation are described in the Made for Life Report as well as in the online supporting Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and documents, specifically: Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect • made for life report p3, p4 and p16 (supply chain labour of employment and occupation Assessment, practices and local community impacts) Policy and Goals • Code of Conduct available on www.aperam.com/sustainability Aperam Policies and implementation are described in the Made for Life Report as well as in the online supporting • Code for Sustainable Sourcing and Purchasing described in our documents, specifically: GRI G4 DMA online supplement • made for life report p3, p4 on supplier labour practices, p11 • Annual Report Corporate Responsibility Statement p26 on supplier safety, p12 on employee representation, p14 the • Governance arrangements: online supplement ‘Governance’, and Aperam Way (on diversity) Annual Report p46 • Human Resources Policy available on www.aperam.com/sustainability • Code of Conduct available on www.aperam.com/sustainability • Code for Sustainable Sourcing and Purchasing described in our GRI G4 DMA online supplement • Annual Report Corporate Responsibility Statement p26 • Governance arrangements: online supplement ‘Governance’, and Annual Report p46 Aperam Reporting our sustainability performance for 2013 Supplement B 01 Environmental Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assessment, Policy and Goals Aperam Policies and implementation are described in the Made for Life Report as well as in the online supporting documents, specifically: • made for life report pp6-9 • EHS Policy available on www.aperam.com/sustainability • Code of Conduct available on www.aperam.com/sustainability • Code for Sustainable Sourcing and Purchasing described in our GRI G4 DMA online supplement • Example of procurement and the environment in Brazil p17 • Customer and product section p17-19 on environmentally friendly properties of stainless and electrical steel. • Annual Report Corporate Responsibility Statement p26 • Governance arrangements: online supplement ‘Governance’, and Annual Report p46 Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Aperam Policies and implementation are described in the Made for Life Report as well as in the online supporting documents, specifically: • made for life report p4 (governance) • Code of Conduct available on www.aperam.com/sustainability • Code for Sustainable Sourcing and Purchasing described in our GRI G4 DMA online supplement • Annual Report Corporate Responsibility Statement p26 • Governance arrangements: online supplement ‘Governance’, and Annual Report p46 Aperam 12C, rue Guillaume Kroll L-1882 Luxembourg Grand Duchy of Luxembourg Tel: +352 27 36 27 00 Email: contact@aperam.com For all sustainability feedback: sustainability@aperam.com www.facebook.com/aperam @aperam Aperam Reporting our sustainability performance for 2013 Supplement B 02 ONLINE SUPPLEMENT B made for life report Reporting our sustainability performance for 2013 The Report Materiality Process at Aperam Determining Report Content The Boundary protocol To define the report content and the aspect boundaries and to Aperam consists of operations in Europe and South America. Specific implement the GRI G4 Reporting Principles for Defining Report elements of Aperam subject to the materiality process are the six Content, we follow a structured process to identify our most production facilities located in Brazil, Belgium and France. material sustainability issues and where they have impacts. Operations within the boundary of the report represent all main To determine if an Aspect is material for us to report on, an entities included in our consolidated financial statements (G4-17a). assessment is carried out based on the potential impact on the The list of entities included in the consolidated financial business and sustainability impacts of the business. The statements is provided in Appendix I below and also shown assessment evaluates potential financial and reputational risks to on p134 of our 2013 Annual Report and summarised here: Aperam, the importance to stakeholders, and the links with our • Six production facilities located in Brazil, Belgium and France mission and goals. From our internal risk perspective, we identify risks using a scale from Minor risk to Critical risk, familiar to many • Forestry operations at Bioenergia corporate risk practitioners. • 18 Steel Service Centers (SSCs) Stakeholder engagement took place at our six main plants in Europe • Nine transformation facilities and Brazil. In 2013 we developed a new approach whereby each site assessed its own local stakeholder inclusiveness and materiality. • 22 sales offices Each of the six main sites then produced what we called a local • Corporate HQ, Luxembourg. materiality dashboard. This process, including topics and concerns raised, is summarized in the table in the subsequent section below. There are entities included in our consolidated financial statements that are not subject to the sustainability reporting processes and We then consolidated the risks and issues from the six main sites coverage (G4-17 b): into ten sustainability Aspects, which we cover in our Report. The sites in the Stainless Europe division – Châtelet, Isbergues, Genk and • Process: as described, the materiality process relates specifically Gueugnon – were consolidated into one dashboard representing to the six significant sites. The resulting list of material Aspects Belgium and France. Group level risks were considered during the derived from the process from those sites is then applied to the materiality workshops at site level, informed by our risk management Group, including the Services & Solutions Division. processes (see below). The group Sustainability Committee then • Materiality Process: In some sites, noise impacts are also taken reviewed the outcomes of this process in January 2014. into account with a specific action plan (ex: Châtelet). One of the outcomes of the materiality process performed this year Additional information identified in the GRI MMSS is mildly relevant is the inclusion of sustainability indicators in our new Global to Aperam’s operations and reporting, for example, ‘Additional Performance System (GPS) at European stainless steel plants. This is disclosure requirements’ for Economic and Environmental the nexus where sustainability meets strategy. A daily tracking of information is not relevant but for local community aspect sustainability indicators is now possible. we have included information as required by this indicator. • Coverage: We report performance data for the Group (G4-17a) including our Services & Solutions Division. Aperam Reporting our sustainability performance for 2013 Supplement B 01 Aspects, their indicators and the materiality boundaries are shown below. Disclosures on Management Approach (DMA) information is shown in the online DMA document. Material within Material outside the organisation the organisation EC Economic performance KPI-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed ✔ EC Procurement practices KPI-EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations of operation ✔ EN Energy consumption KPI-EN5 Energy intensity ✔ EN Water consumption KPI-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source ✔ EN – Emissions KPI-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity ✔ KPI-EN21 Nox, Sox, and other significant air emissions ✔ LA Occupational Health and safety Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism KPI-LA6 ✔ ✔ and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender LA Training and education Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development KPI-LA11 ✔ reviews, by gender and by employee category LA Supplier assessment for labor practices Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor practices in the supply KPI-LA15 ✔ ✔ chain and actions taken SO Impacts on local communities Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact KPI-SO1 ✔ assessments, and development programs PR Product and Service Labeling KPI-PR5 Results surveys measuring customer satisfaction ✔ KPI LA6 on health & safety reports an impact outside the boundary of Managing risk at Aperam Aperam, i.e. it covers subcontractors working on Aperam sites where Risk management processes are embedded in the organisational safety impacts occur. A change in the management approach is taking culture. They support decision-making by the leadership, allow place to improve subcontractor safety as described in the safety opportunity to be spotted and acted upon, and support continuous section ‘made for life’ report on sustainability performance, 2013. improvement. Our Combined Assurance risk management function LA15 covers suppliers subject to significant actual and potential facilitates the risk management process and prepares the Risk negative impacts for labor practices. It is relevant and material to Management reporting documentation for both the Management Aperam specially Health and safety practices: our management Committee and the Audit & Risk Management Committee. Our approach as described in the DMA supplementary document covers our framework for managing risk is based on: engagement and scrutiny of suppliers through surveys and meetings; • COSO Enterprise Risk Management Framework our performance is covered on page 3 of the main Made for life report. • ISO31000 principles and guidelines for risk management Safety data cover other sites relating to our Services & Solutions and Alloys & Specialty operations, as well as contractors on site. • Benchmarking with external companies. People data exclude contractors. Environmental data cover all main Our Audit and Risk Management Committee supports the Board of industrial sites, service centre operations and corporate offices, with Directors in fulfilling their corporate governance duties relating to the following exclusions: defining and reviewing risk, managing risk assessment, and risk audit. • Raw material data exclude packaging and miscellaneous parts; The Sustainability, Performance and Strategy Committee advises the Board on wider, sustainability risks. Page seven of our Risk • We do not currently account for Scope 3 indirect emissions within Management Manual describes risk as a pillar of corporate governance our methodology. and the organisational responsibilities for risk. Our Aperam Anti-Fraud Local Supplier information covers mainly industrial purchasing for Policy and Whistleblower Charter allow employees to raise concerns our most significant operations in Europe and Brazil. It excludes over possible irregularities in financial practices. Bioenergia and our Services and Solutions units, which have different needs in terms of purchasing. Aperam Reporting our sustainability performance for 2013 Supplement B 02 Stakeholder engagement at Aperam Our key stakeholders are those who can influence our ability to How has Aperam responded to the key topics and concerns? deliver on our strategic objectives over the short-, mediumor We assess them in our materiality process. Criteria used in the long-term. assessment are guided by risk management classifications in place at Aperam. Key subject matter experts inside Aperam are informed if Below is a summary of the stakeholders we engaged with during the any new issues arise that require attention such as management report preparation process in 2013. Locally, in our plants, stakeholder commitments. We report on the material issues through the engagement is a continuous activity. The General Manager, or sustainability reporting. See also p2-3 on the main report. equivalent, of each site is responsible for site level stakeholder engagement. Even though our main sites are in different regions of the world, we are consistent in the way we engage with stakeholders. Employe es ers including Boar old d of D Primary interest eh Regular inter irec ar views, m tor How we engaged Communicati e eting s h on on (including frequency) econ s & S sho ws ays Annual appra Environmen isal pr oce omic roadsh tal Act ss – GED orman perf ow s d d s orts r roa lation cial rep Safety Actio io n Pla P & ce la n Plan n 20 in e nan ies gu rR 20 14 tervie Re esto and fi tings PASS comm unicat 14 unit ws urs v In nua mee l l , Brazi Internal bul io letins n each r An gula On-site contr bo outr ociations mm Re igh Environme n actor b nta dat io s riefin ce Motivation l respon al as oun ith loc ) ne man l co Contract revi de s rfor Economic velopm ibility gs, a ta F e ews p perfo w ce esi ll ent s sses era Health & rm safet ance & g Ac eetin gs (e.g. s Fran ca Ov Manager-to-m sme y m m etin ing anage era ity eet nts Lo Ap xim ly me all’ m y (loc r m , ac Occupation grit Visits to Ape eetin inte ions r Pro rte wn h Supplier al ess miss ormance ram si gs tio Contractor Health a sin ir e a o np Qu cal ‘t rf tes Bu cal a ic pe Cross audits ’s saf ety nd S lan s Lo om Lo Contractua n l sus follow afety o Ec ise nin Annual mee specific) tain No g ation tings abi up lity Occupat io n Regional envi Local al azil Environme health a ronmen g eg Br ntal r nd tal ag o ent issues Annual occu v e s Water ma s a en agem ponsib fety p al he cy (DREA e m p elo ental n a tion rnm dev nm Training s ent ilit il y Annual meet alth , Braz ial enviro & sa L, France ub ittee c Taxation sidy ing wi mm er So cal th e Co Quality, lo Water Re lo f e ) sin oire riv Lo s c a t t s Boa l counc y day o annu o w g nt is u ti r Ba .L ons and safety Economic p cs, resili r ce ive s, e.g k, Brazil diti h erfo en con healt all perf rmanc ce of Direct inform rd CE m O i R ver RH l (Fran eet l mee aba eting al Par s & nal formance orma e sup a al co c rm tio r ent nce ply aci me tion Te cupa ic pe s managem raz ce/Bel ings tings Pir nual e Na Oc nom elation nta , B n c o Ec our r ct il ) A Do Lab giu Rio m lating to ings re O meet ittee and G ittee ntation comm N mm e Commercial f r co Repres g Conditions uncti ula e Workin Roadshow ons day-to reg rkplac ety, and nd o f -day t a cils, W alth, Sa Satisfac en qu oun n He s ion tio n survey Regular vi Fre rks C tee o sit s Wo mmit Un Annual surv Co ey Custome rs Aperam Reporting our sustainability performance for 2013 Supplement B 03 To define our stakeholder groups we ran a series of seminar based How did we determine the groups with which to engage and not to training sessions covering GRI G4 standard guidelines, local engage? Local engagement included the priority stakeholders, dashboard studies, Aperam’s overall sustainability process identified using a weighting process informed by who is affected by awareness and data collection. This took place at the six main sites the key issues arising. Customers are subject to engagement on a to identify stakeholders, and then prioritise them using a weighting commercial basis at a group level in the main. Suppliers, of both raw process. Each site then made its own analysis of local stakeholders materials and non-raw materials, are engaged using supplier surveys based on this guidance. The results were then collated centrally to according to the type of purchasing used, on a central and local basis. feed into the materiality process. The engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process. Appendix I – Scope of reporting entity (G4-G17), on 31.12.2013 Company Name Country Consolidation Method SERVICE & SOLUTIONS Aperam Stainless Services & Solutions Argentina Argentina Full Consolidation Aperam Stainless Services & Solutions Austria Austria Full Consolidation Aperam Stainless Services & Solutions Brazil Brazil Full Consolidation Aperam Stainless Services & Solutions Canada Canada Full Consolidation Aperam Stainless Services & Solutions Changzhou China Full Consolidation Aperam Stainless Services & Solutions Czech Republic Czech republic Full Consolidation Aperam Stainless Services & Solutions France France Full Consolidation Aperam Stainless Services & Solutions Germany Germany Full Consolidation Aperam Stainless Services & Solutions Iberica Spain Full Consolidation Aperam Stainless Services & Solutions International France Full Consolidation Aperam Stainless Services & Solutions Italy Italy Full Consolidation Aperam Stainless Services & Solutions Korea South Korea Full Consolidation Aperam Stainless Services & Solutions Luxembourg Luxembourg Full Consolidation Aperam Stainless Services & Solutions Mexico Mexico Full Consolidation Aperam Stainless Services & Solutions Nordic Sweden Full Consolidation Aperam Stainless Services & Solutions Poland Poland Full Consolidation Aperam Stainless Services & Solutions Portugal Portugal Full Consolidation Aperam Stainless Services & Solutions Precision . France Full Consolidation Aperam Stainless Services & Solutions Precision Benelux Netherlands Full Consolidation Aperam Stainless Services & Solutions Russia Russia Full Consolidation Aperam Stainless Services & Solutions Singapore Singapore Full Consolidation Aperam Stainless Services & Solutions Switzerland Switzerland Full Consolidation Aperam Stainless Services & Solutions Tubes Brazil Brazil Full Consolidation Aperam Stainless Services & Solutions Tubes Czech Republic Czech republic Full Consolidation Aperam Stainless Services & Solutions Tubes Europe France Full Consolidation Aperam Stainless Services & Solutions Tubes France France Full Consolidation Aperam Stainless Services & Solutions Tubes UK United Kingdom Full Consolidation Aperam Stainless Services & Solutions Tubes Uruguay Uruguay Full Consolidation Aperam Stainless Services & Solutions UK United Kingdom Full Consolidation Aperam Stainless Services & Solutions USA United States Full Consolidation Aperam Stainless Services & Solutions Vietnam Vietnam Full Consolidation ArcelorMittal Instanbul Paslanmaz Celik Turkey Full Consolidation ArcelorMittal Stainless Service Andino Colombia Full Consolidation Matthey Iberica Spain Full Consolidation Aperam Reporting our sustainability performance for 2013 Supplement B 04 Appendix I – Scope of reporting entity (G4-G17), on 31.12.2013 ALLOYS & SPECIALTIES Aperam Alloys Amilly France Full Consolidation Aperam Alloys Far East China Full Consolidation Aperam Alloys Imphy. France Full Consolidation Aperam Alloys Rescal France Full Consolidation Aperam Alloys Service France Full Consolidation Aperam Alloys Switzerland . Switzerland Full Consolidation Aperam Alloys UK United Kingdom Full Consolidation Aperam Alloys USA United States Full Consolidation ArcelorMittal Stainless and Nickel Alloys China China Full Consolidation Innovative Clad Solutions Private India Full Consolidation STAINLESS & ELECTRICAL Acesita Argentina Argentina Full Consolidation Acesita International Cayman Islands Full Consolidation Aperam South America Brazil Full Consolidation Aperam Stainless Belgium Belgium Full Consolidation Aperam Stainless France France Full Consolidation Aperam Stainless Europe France Full Consolidation Al-Fin Belgium Full Consolidation Aperam Recyco France Full Consolidation Haven Genk Belgium Full Consolidation OTHER AMO Holding Luxembourg Full Consolidation Aperam Bioenergìa Brazil Full Consolidation Aperam Développement France Full Consolidation Aperam HoldCo Luxembourg Full Consolidation Aperam LuxCo Luxembourg Full Consolidation Aperam Luxservices . Luxembourg Full Consolidation Aperam Luxembourg Full Consolidation Aperam Sourcing Luxembourg Full Consolidation Aperam Treasury Luxembourg Full Consolidation Aperam Treasury France Full Consolidation Blue Sky Amercoeur . Belgium Equity Method Corea Luxembourg Full Consolidation Terni Invest Italy Full Consolidation WiCo 1 Luxembourg Full Consolidation WiCo 2 Luxembourg Full Consolidation Aperam 12C, rue Guillaume Kroll L-1882 Luxembourg Grand Duchy of Luxembourg Tel: +352 27 36 27 00 Email: contact@aperam.com For all sustainability feedback: sustainability@aperam.com www.facebook.com/aperam @aperam Aperam Reporting our sustainability performance for 2013 Supplement B 05 ONLINE SUPPLEMENT C made for life report Reporting our sustainability performance for 2013 Aperam GRI Index 2013 – DMA section Disclosures on Management Approach (DMA) Economic Procurement – Supply Chain Economic performance Our Code for Sustainable Sourcing and Purchasing communicates We recognize that the circulation of economic value generated by how we will work with our suppliers, and asks them to meet minimum private industry provides a positive impact on local communities, health and safety, human rights (we continue to support the Universal regional economies and national trading balance sheets. It is the Declaration of Human Rights), ethical and environmental standards. jobs created by our commercial activity that present the primary We encourage our suppliers to work with us to identify and develop economic impact. Also, the taxation returned to state coffers thus is on-going performance improvements to our sustainable procurement. a an acknowledged positive contribution to society and government. In support of our company vision and of the United Nations’ Global Where we operate we understand that our presence has an impact Compact principles, we will work with our suppliers to: on local communities – the programmes we run to improve social • Operate a lean supply chain that supports our corporate policies. conditions are therefore a positive material impact. The returns to • Develop procurement solutions in line with customer, regulatory investors in our business are an important impact in order to retain and wider stakeholder needs and expectations. their financial interest in Aperam. • Create long-term value and reduce risk for our business, our We manage the legal, commercial and financial matters through suppliers and our stakeholders. appropriate governance and executive processes as described in our We will achieve these objectives by setting sustainable procurement Annual Report p39. We do this in accordance with the laws of the standards, by collaborating, innovating and embedding sustainable Duchy of Luxembourg where we are listed. Our human resources sourcing and purchasing into our business processes. teams manage the employment impacts through a wide range of policies and practices using trained experts. At our six main sites, Aperam purchasing department is divided in non-raw materials community impacts are managed primarily through our Acesita purchasing and raw materials purchasing. Raw material procurement Foundation in South America and through local engagement, processes optimize the supply chain process management for raw meetings, needs identification, and managed implementation materials and define best practice for local raw material supply chain with local stakeholders at our European sites. management processes. We assess the quality and effectiveness of our approach through The key objective of non-raw material purchasing is to have an internal audit and external assurance in accordance with our listing optimized and effective purchasing process for Aperam’s industrial requirements. Community impacts management approach is sites with a platform for central buying. Non raw-materials are mostly described in the DMA paragraph relating to SO1. Auditors’ comments composed of operational products such as rolls, electrodes, refractories, are responded to via our Annual Report, see p154. No significant industrial products such as oils, lubricants, logistic services (sea, rail, road, management approach changes are recorded as a result of water, packaging), industrial services such as slag and slab handling, comments on these Aspects in 2013. health and safety equipment, telecom, and IT services. In general, concerning the economic pillar of sustainability we seek Our supply chain(1) comprises companies providing raw materials the ‘business case’ for sustainability actions. We assess sustainability such as recycled stainless steel, and non-raw materials such as risks via our group risk register and management process (Annual goods and services. We use approximately 4000 suppliers. The total Report, p39). Objectives and goals related to sustainability risks and varies from month to month. Suppliers are established companies opportunities are set to be delivered over a one to three year period. distributed around the world, and mostly local to where we operate. Subcontractors also work on our sites. Note [G4-EC1b]: To better assess local economic impacts, we report economic value generated regional levels (S America, Europe) and In South America we are conscious that smaller suppliers will be part divisional levels (alloys, steel etc). This is the level of significance: we of a community where economic development may be subject to do not manage or measure the economic value generated at country limitations or even social deprivation. Our approach to how we level. This is the criterion used for determining significance and manage community impacts is given below. Of course where we can allowing the reader to have a view of our economic value generated influence matters through our presence we do so – for instance, we in the main regions where we operate. require that suppliers respect certain procurement criteria to support our community involvement practices. Indicator: EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 1) GRI reference G4-12 Aperam Reporting our sustainability performance for 2013 Supplement C 01 We maintain a dialogue with them, as described in the made for life Input report 2014 (Sustainability Report). Our General Purchasing Market conditions, Customer needs, Global and yearly demand dertmination, Conditions(2) require our partners to respect quality, environmental, Purchasing strategy, Supply manangement safety and labour practice regulations. Subcontractors that perform services on Aperam premises have to comply with the General Downstream Health and Safety Instructions (GHSI) to ensure they align with our GMO self-imposed high safety standards. Bioenergia vegetal coal In some specific cases Aperam helps suppliers to safeguard their Purchasing business continuity if they face difficult economic conditions. Raw materials: Scrap, FeCr, Nickel, Chromium, among others Indicator: EC9 Policy on spending on locally based suppliers Non-raw materials: logistics; rolls, electrodes, refractories, oils, lubrificants and other industrial products; power, gas; packaging, telecom, indusltrial materials, etc Environmental Energy consumption Steel making is an energy intensive process. As energy costs increased over the years and as environmental regulation progressed, Aperam Production plants we have invested in more efficient equipment. Our Environmental Policy commits us to a long-term approach to resource efficiency and Upstream sustainability and environmental performance. Services and Solutions Direct Clients = Customer satisfaction: Our Energy Policy covers all Aperam sites and operations. It customer relationship management, quality follow up promotes new efficiency programmes, and to work with our suppliers and customers to maximise the inherent energy efficient Final Product properties of our steel products. We identify and implement energy Final clients conservation measures to cut costs and protect both our customers and ourselves from price and supply volatilities. Since production can vary, monitoring our energy intensity (alongside absolute energy use) is an important metric for our performance. We have in place two key targets that address our Lifecycle of stainless steel products energy use and intensity: • A 5% reduction in total energy consumption by 2020 (from a End of life of a product made with stainless steel 2012 baseline). • A 35% reduction in carbon intensity of our current sites by 2020 (from a 2007 baseline). Stainless steel scrap recovering We monitor the effectiveness of our energy management based on data at a site level, and our performance relative to the two Purchasing targets above. (supplier of recycled material) Our new Global Performance System (GPS) allows us to view in a single place all site indicators showing management indicators daily. Aperam’s production facility Whilst its focus is on productivity it also tracks quality, maintenance, HR, safety and energy. RECYCLING Indicators: E  N5 energy intensity, PROCESS Aperam Services and Solutions EN18 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity and distribution: steel cutting, finishing, transformation Emissions We recognise local air quality to be an important issue for our Stainless Steel application operations. Our Environmental Policy commits us to a long-term (household appliances, food and approach to resource efficiency and sustainability and environmental beverage industry, chemical industry, performance. Dust (particulate matter) is our main material issue, but catering, automotive, etc.) we also emit volumes of NOx and SOx. Our emissions are carefully monitored at source, through automated Final product systems where appropriate. We also operate air quality monitoring stations, and work with regulatory authorities to support their air quality monitoring efforts. We operate in jurisdictions where air End of life of a product made with stainless steel quality regulations are strongly monitored and enforced. 2) http://www.aperam.com/about-2/aperam/purchasing Aperam Reporting our sustainability performance for 2013 Supplement C 02 We monitor performance constantly through our automated systems People where appropriate, and are alerted to issues immediately. We monitor The workforce of Aperam is an asset for the company, as well as a our annual performance in terms of dust, NOx and SOx in relation to significant part of the costs. Therefore it is key to the competitiveness our operating limits (as defined in regulatory permits) and our of the company. The FTE of the total workforce is used to calculate performance in past months and years. Since production can vary, several KPIs, including “productivity” (ton/FTE) and “competitiveness” we monitor performance using both absolute and relative metrics. (total cost of employment / ton). Achieving our targets on these KPIs Our Global Performance System (GPS) allows us to view in a single is vital for the sustainability of Aperam. place all site indicators showing management indicators daily. Details such as the employment contract, employment type, gender, At our Isbergues site, we received some complaints from the EQVIR region, also give us a view of the structure of the workforce. We Association (representing the environment and quality of life for have stated in our “Aperam Way” our commitments to promoting Isbergues and its region) in northern France relating to emissions diversity, the development of each employee. and noise. We ensure continuity of on-site measurements regarding HR data are consolidated at Corporate level monthly. The data are environmental emissions and noise. Environmental regulations are reported by dedicated HR Reporting Partners in each entity in a continually tightening controls and we make sure we actively unique HR system. HR concepts are defined in a unique document, respond using our environmental monitoring. Aperam Isbergues has shared with the HR Reporting Partners at each site. Consolidated data a core interest in maintaining contact with local stakeholders and are made available through a database tool. The internal workforce is strives constantly to improve communication. measured by FTE at the end of the period, with little variability. Indicator: EN21 Nox, Sox, and other significant air emissions External workforce (including supervised workers) is usually measured by the average FTE on the period, this workforce can vary a lot Water (seasonal variations, scheduled annual maintenance ...). At Corporate We recognise water as an important resource which is under stress level, the supervised workers are counted as part of sub-groupings in some parts of the world; Aperam significant sites of operation are but not statistically consolidated on an individual basis. We therefore not located in water-stressed regions. Bioenergia’s plantations are do not report their split by gender or employment type. technically within a water-stressed area. However Bioenergia meets its water related permit conditions as defined under local regulations. Occupational Health and safety Our Environmental Policy commits us to a long-term approach to Nobody working for, or with, us should have their health and safety resource efficiency and environmental performance. We operate in compromised in any way. There are three drivers for good management jurisdictions where water quality regulations are strongly enforced. of our health and safety performance: legal, moral and financial. The vast majority of our water (more than 90%) is sourced from surface Our health & safety management and practices are governed by waters – local rivers and canals. The rest is sourced from rainwater our Health & Safety Policy. Vigilance is central to the commitments harvesting, groundwater and municipal supplies. We do not receive in Aperam’s Health & Safety Roadmap. waste water from any other organisation. We monitor water consumption Aperam people are briefed and trained on safety. It is central to the carefully at each site, through automated metering wherever possible. Continuous Improvement Challenge. It is a vital part of customer Through this we are able to accurately measure our consumption (in cubic visits. There is an annual Health & Safety Day which is well attended metres) on a monthly basis at significant sites of operation. and there is a competency framework to make sure people have the Where we are abstracting water, this must be in accordance with right skills and equipment to do their job safely. the conditions of our abstraction license. We are subject to period Heightened vigilance is reinforced: our Management Committee inspections from the relevant authorities to ensure compliance. instigated four key safety priorities: visible leadership, root and We monitor the effectiveness of our water management based on data branch risk evaluation, clear understanding of good practice to recorded at site level, and in terms of our total annual consumption achieve fatality prevention, and safety auditing for managers (in m3) and our relative consumption per tonne of crude steel (in m3). We have monthly, senior level health & safety global conference calls Our new Global Performance System (GPS) allows us to view in a to discuss general performance, management response required and single place all site indicators showing management indicators daily. individual incidents using detailed descriptions, root causes and Whilst its focus is on productivity it also tracks quality, maintenance, photographic evidence. HR, safety and energy. This is a check on how well we are managing safety. Also, we collect Indicator: EN8 total water withdrawal by source comprehensive data to track performance. We use a combined Lost Time Injury (LTI) Frequency Rate which incorporates the impact of lost days as well as restricted work (RW) from occupational ailments such as stress. For this reason we do not collect distinct data to report an Occupational Diseases Rate (ODR). Aperam Reporting our sustainability performance for 2013 Supplement C 03 To comply with the Aperam safety standards, all accidents are only an individual has achieved agreed goals and expectations in their career counted once, and are put in highest category. So, if the incident plan. Career plans are tailored to specific roles, and by measuring an resulted in a fatality is it categorized as such but if not we assess If the individual’s performance annually, the manager and the employee can person was absent from work for at least one day, excepting the day of formally evaluate performance against the plan. the incident. If this is the case then the incident is categorized as a lost We monitor the number of annual appraisals conducted, and in the past time incident (LTI). If not we assess if the person did ‘adapted work’ as two years have exceeded our target of 90% for relevant employees. prescribed by a medical professional. If this is the case then the incident We also monitor Blue Collar and White Collar workers through annual is categorized as an incident requiring medical aid. If not it is counted as interviews, which are organized locally. 86% of workers where assessed an incident requiring first aid. The calculations used for injury and on motivation and engament topics. severity rates are shown on p12 of the ‘made for life’ report. Indicator: L A11 percentage of employees receiving regular The absenteeism rate is monitored only for our employees, excluding performance and career development reviews, supervised workers. The rate is defined as the number of hours of by gender and by employee category absence for illness < 6 months divided by the number of theoretical to-be-worked hours. The computation is based on the time & attendance data reported each month by each entity. Also, small Local Communities entities are not included he workforce of small entities is 3% of the Supplier assessment for labour practices workforce of Aperam. At the Corporate level, the time & attendance The way we do this is guided by our Code for Sustainable Sourcing, data are consolidated only per site. a Supplier Qualification Program, supplier commitment programmes, Currently our data collection does not differentiate between men supply chain risk assessment, supplier awards, on-site contractor rules and women because our operational workforce at the six main sites and our General Terms and Conditions. They govern how we work is predominantly male. If/when the female proportion becomes with suppliers to understand performance and improvements, how significant we will review this. we support them and how we focus on key areas for improvement. Upon detecting a trend that requires our attention we respond Suppliers and subcontractors are subject to pre-qualification reviews thoroughly. For example, as a result of declining contractor safety and on-site induction and training, audit and dialogue, principally on performance we have in 2014 set up a working group, analysis of health and safety labour practices, but nominally on wider human the safety management tools, a shared safety risk toolbox, refresher rights and ethical standards. on our General Health and Safety Instructions (GHSI), practices to Our supplier survey is the means by which we identify suppliers for strengthen relationships such as boss-to-boss meetings, and review assessment of impacts for labor practices, supported by improvement surveys on progress. action plans and boss-to-boss discussions, for example. Safety is a material impact inside Aperam as well outside the The actions taken with subcontractors on site include action plans organisation(3). Subcontractors are entities effectively operating on site safety, briefings on site access, the use of temporary outside of Aperam for whom safety is a material aspect. workers, for example. Our new Global Performance System (GPS) allows us to view in a Expectations are described in such action plans, but also they are single place all site indicators showing management indicators daily. enshrined in the contractual documents which are subject to our Whilst its focus is on productivity it also tracks quality, maintenance, procurement policies described above. HR, safety and energy. No incentive schemes per se exist to encourage going beyond Indicator: L A6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational compliance. We do not have in place any measure to assess the diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number impact of terminating a relationship with a supplier as a result of of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender assessing impacts for labor practices. The Supplier Qualification Program was launched in 2000 for all Training and education suppliers. Our raw materials supplier survey covers health & safety People are at the heart of Aperam and we want to retain talented management, respecting human rights, business ethics, environment employees. It is important that we listen to our employees and that management, reach, conflict materials. Since 2010, in line with our we support them so that they are equipped to develop themselves values and our role in the community, Aperam began to evaluate and deliver innovative and high quality products. It is vital that we suppliers; strategic suppliers in Latin America signed the have a competency framework and management system that works Commitment to Corporate Responsibility Aperam South America. and that is recognised by our people. In 2013 we awarded a Certificate of Quality Assurance to Through our talent development programme – Global Exempt 78 suppliers in South America. Development Programme (GEDP) – we provide our employees – exempts Indicator: L A15 Significant actual and potential negative impacts and managers with annual performance and career development reviews. for labor practices in the supply chain and actions taken Through this, at the annual appraisal, a manager assesses whether or not 3) G4-18 Boundary protocol Aperam Reporting our sustainability performance for 2013 Supplement C 04 Impacts on local communities Products We contribute to the economic livelihoods of those who work for us Product and Service labelling directly and those in the supply chains serving us, we pay company Health and safety impacts of products are assessed at the taxes where we operate, and we operate community involvement metallurgical design stage and certification relating to materials and donations through our Aperam Acesita Foundation in Brazil for safety in the use phase is in place. This applies to all significant example. In Europe, we continue to focus on specific partnerships products. Stainless steel is manufactured and independently and relationships on more of an ad-hoc basis. In order to promote certified according to international standards such as the EN, ASTM sustainability in its host locales, Aperam South America operates and UNS series. We are regularly audited on these certifications. Our the Aperam Acesita Foundation with projects in culture, education, latest material safety data sheets confirm the absence of health or environment and social promotion. The foundation has helped toxicological hazards. We meet European regulations and French integrate us deeply into the history of Timóteo. Since 1994 the ministerial decrees relating to materials intended to come into Foundation has deployed projects with partners such as government contact with food. Finally, Aperam Stainless Steel Europe achieved (federal, state and city), international independent agencies, compliance with EU REACH regulations again as our products do not government and non-governmental organisations, foundations and contain any substance listed on the Candidate List of the European institutes. Our team there runs projects using volunteers as well as Chemical Agency. funded programs to promote development in education, training, Product information of this type is provided to customers. Regular youth services, citizenship, and the environment. product sheets and brochure documentation disclose the raw Community needs assessment in Brazil is done by the Foundation materials – it is the balance of Nickel and Chromium for example that team, using feedback from grass roots stakeholders, employees, generates the properties of the steel desired by the customer. local partners, BioEnergia and our Environmental Education Centre We have no recorded incidents non-compliance relating to product (Oikós). We do not currently monitor the number of discrete information. assessments within the ongoing process. In 2012, Aperam adopted and launched a new commercial and In Europe, we do not run specific community needs assessment: we sourcing function. By joining sourcing, sales and R&D into one single participate in community projects as a result stakeholder feedback organization, we gave ourselves the possibility to improve the use at the six main sites. At a minimum, we have a meeting with and yield of our production capacities, to target higher added value community stakeholder group representatives annually. products, to better serve our existing customer base and to market Our approach to community relations is guided by our values and new products. by frameworks such as the UN Global Compact. Customer satisfaction is of paramount importance to us for business MM supplement: W  e are only working on the impact assessment reasons and as part of our collaborative approach to R&D. We survey while operating in the community thanks to a customer satisfaction regularly, usually every one to two years long standing community engagement process. globally. This enables us to monitor how well we are meeting their Indicator: S O1 Percentage of operations with implemented requirements. Results are discussed by the Management Committee. local community engagement, impact assessments, Indicator: PR5 Results surveys measuring customer satisfaction and development programs Aperam 12C, rue Guillaume Kroll L-1882 Luxembourg Grand Duchy of Luxembourg Tel: +352 27 36 27 00 Email: contact@aperam.com For all sustainability feedback: sustainability@aperam.com www.facebook.com/aperam @aperam Aperam Reporting our sustainability performance for 2013 Supplement C 05 ONLINE SUPPLEMENT D made for life report Reporting our sustainability performance for 2013 Corporate Governance at Aperam Governance Structure Aperam places a strong emphasis on corporate governance. majority of votes cast. Directors are appointed for a maximum term The Board of Directors is in charge of the overall governance of three years and are automatically eligible for reappointment at and direction of the Company. the end of such period. Any director may be removed with or without cause by a simple majority vote at any general meeting This Management Committee is entrusted with the day-to-day of shareholders. Further governance details are published in the management of Aperam, and monitors corporate governance 2013 Annual Report. requirements to ensure best practice is adopted, such as the Ten Principles of Corporate Governance of the Luxembourg The Chairman of the Board of Directors is not an executive officer, Stock Exchange. and none of the members may hold an executive position or executive mandate within the Company or any entity controlled by The Articles of Association provide that directors are elected the Company. Aperam’s Board of Directors for 2013 is summarised and removed by the general meeting of shareholders by a simple below, and in the Annual Report, p16. Name Age Gender Position within Status Sustainability, Audit and Risk Remuneration, Board Performance and Management Nomination and Corporate Strategy Committee Committee Governance Committee Mr Lakshmi N. Mittal 63 M Chairman Non-independent Mr Romain Bausch 60 M Lead Independent Independent Yes Chair Mr Joseph Greenwell 62 M Member Independent Yes Yes Ms Kathryn A. Matthews 54 F Member Independent Yes Yes Mr Aditya Mittal 37 M Member Non-independent Ms Laurence Mulliez 47 F Member Independent Yes Chair Mr Gonzalo Urquijo 52 M Member Non-independent Chair The Board of Directors has 3 committees (Annual Report p44) It is the Chief Executive Officer that has ultimate responsibility and to support its activities: accountability for sustainability performance and compliance in Aperam. • Audit and Risk Management Committee. Shareholders can provide recommendations to the highest governance body via standard routes such as the shareholders’ • Remuneration, Nomination and Corporate Governance Committee. meeting. Employees can engage with the Management Committee • Sustainability, Performance and Strategy Committee. and CEO on a monthly basis on matters relating to sustainability. Further details of the Audit and Risk Management Committee, the The Board of Directors holds physical meetings at least on a Remuneration, Nomination and Corporate Governance Committee quarterly basis as five regular meetings are scheduled per year. are published in the 2013 Annual Report. The Sustainability, The Board of Directors holds additional meetings if and when Performance and Strategy Committee is described below. circumstances require, in person or by teleconference. The Board of Directors held six meetings in 2013. The Board of Directors conducts an annual self-evaluation in order to identify potential areas for improvement of the Board and its During 2013, the Sustainability, Performance and Strategy Committees. Details of this evaluation are provided in the 2013 Committee met five times. The average attendance rate at the Annual Report. Sustainability, Performance and Strategy Committee meetings held in 2013 was 100%. Aperam Reporting our sustainability performance for 2013 Supplement D 01 Sustainability, Performance and Strategy Committee (Annual report p45) The Sustainability, Performance and Strategy Committee is composed of three directors, which are appointed by the Board of Directors each year after the annual general meeting of shareholders. The Committee assists the Aperam Board’s approach to sustainability, and is responsible for reviewing on a regular basis our sustainability, financial and industrial performance and strategy. It takes decisions by a simple majority. During 2013 this committee met five times, with an attendance rate of 100%. The three members of the Sustainability, Performance and Strategy Committee are Mr. Gonzalo Urquijo, Ms. Kathryn Matthews and Ms. Laurence Mulliez. Mr. Gonzalo Urquijo is the Chairman of the Sustainability, Performance and Strategy Committee. Ms. Kathryn Matthews and Ms. Laurence Mulliez are independent directors in accordance with the 10 Principles of Corporate Governance of the Luxembourg Stock Exchange. Health and safety performance, as a key priority to Aperam, is the first agenda item reviewed at each meeting of the Sustainability, Performance and Strategy Committee. The Committee will also review Aperam’s overall sustainability approach, its environmental impacts, and its social performance. Sustainability Steering Committee A separate Sustainability Steering Committee is in place to guide sustainability management, risk, stakeholder relationships, reporting and assurance activities. The Sustainability Steering Committee of nine senior members of staff. At a day-to-day level they are responsible for driving and managing sustainability at Aperam and works on the strategic approach to sustainability and the company’s overall sustainability vision. The Management Committee sets the long term ambition for this committee. Aperam 12C, rue Guillaume Kroll L-1882 Luxembourg Grand Duchy of Luxembourg Tel: +352 27 36 27 00 Email: contact@aperam.com For all sustainability feedback: sustainability@aperam.com www.facebook.com/aperam @aperam Aperam Reporting our sustainability performance for 2013 Supplement D 02
