Communication on Progress Year: 2013 STATEMENT We, PriBalt Capital, being a member of Global compact, truly believe that our business practices have mostly incorporated the ten principles of human rights. In our everyday business activities and process we look strictly at the way it's being handled. We take care of our employees, taking into account their rights, moreover, we try to imply these principles amongst our business partners. Our business culture suggests corresponding to ethical norms and manners. We are absolutely against ignorance towards human rights which may lead to their abuse. 13th May, 2014 Mr. Rihards Svelpe CEO 1. Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights: The working conditions provided to our employees are maximally safe and healthy. We pay a lot of attention to PRO version Are you a developer? Try out the HTML to PDF API pdfcrowd.com organization of a decent working space with comfortable conditions. Discrimination of any kind is prohibited in our company. We carefully watch that this rule is being followed within the walls of our company, as well as it is preferable for us to collaborate with business partners who do the same. 2. and make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses: We are working on identifying those functions within the company that are most at risk of becoming linked to human rights abuses. We teach and train our staff to do the same and thus become sensible to the matters of this question. 3. Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining: We fully respect our employees choices considering their personal career growth, hence we are not restraining them in any way. 4. the elimination of all forms of force and compulsory labour: This immoral type of employment has never been considered as a possibility in our company. We provide transparent contracts to our employees, giving them freedom to leave without any penalties, and clear description of their working terms and conditions. 5. the effective abolition of child labour: We are aware of minimum age provisions of national labour laws and regulations, therefore we do not hire individuals of insufficient age, using age verification procedures. 6. and the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation: We provide equal employment issues and are against any kind of discrimination within and concerning out company and employees. 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental changes: Our company is aware of the climate change issue and we try to implement any possible measures concerning green thinking. These environmentally friendly measures, such as waste sorting and reasonable saving of PRO version Are you a developer? Try out the HTML to PDF API pdfcrowd.com green thinking. These environmentally friendly measures, such as waste sorting and reasonable saving of natural resources, is not only a matter which is considered important within our company, but also in our families and families of our employees. 8. undertake initiative to promote greater environmental responsibility: Our company's vision is such that it includes economic prosperity, environmental quality and social equity. 9. and encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies: In our company it is of high importance that each and every person uses natures and all other available resources in the most sustainable manner that is possible. 10. Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, extortion and bribery: We are working on anti-corruption programs and business operations, introducing policies against bribery, as well as we try to avoid companies which do not share our thoughts on this matter. Contact: Anastasia Svelpe Anastasija.svelpe@gmail.com PRO version Are you a developer? Try out the HTML to PDF API pdfcrowd.com
