Growth Commitment Results Impact Partners 2014 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE REPORT 1 Table of Contents INTRODUCTION................................................................................................................................................................ 3 ECONOMIC SUMMARY .................................................................................................................................................. 21 ENVIRONMENTAL SUMMARY .................................................................................................................................... 28 LABOR AND HUMAN RIGHTS SUMMARY ............................................................................................................... 42 SOCIETAL SUMMARY .................................................................................................................................................... 52 PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP SUMMARY ..................................................................................................................... 57 GRI INDEX......................................................................................................................................................................... 61 2 Introduction We are pleased to support the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) as a comprehensive, internationally-recognized format for reporting data on economic, environmental and social performance. Our GRI report is intended to supplement the 2014 Sustainability Progress Report, which provides an overview of the progress towards achieving our sustainability goals. To develop the GRI report, we utilized the GRI G3 guidelines and data and information up until December 31, 2013. We will be reporting according to the GRI G4 format in 2015. At the end of the report is the GRI Index for a quick reference to a particular section. This report applies a self-declared GRI Application Level A. For reference, the following key documents were used: DuPont 2013 Annual Review DuPont 2013 Form 10-K DuPont 2014 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement DuPont 2013 Data Book DuPont 2014 Sustainability Progress Report DuPont Code of Conduct DuPont Supply Chain Code of Conduct 2014 Annual Philanthropy report Sustainability: An Evolving Process Our mission of sustainable growth can be traced back to decisions and commitments we began making decades ago. In the 1970s and 1980s our focus was on internal safety and meeting environmental regulations. In the late 1980s and 1990s we added voluntary footprint reductions, going beyond regulatory requirements. We looked to increase shareholder value with a goal of zero safety and environmental incidents as we decreased raw material and energy inputs into our products and reduced emissions at our manufacturing sites. Now we see ourselves in a third phase of sustainable growth, characterized by a holistic approach that is fully integrated into our business models. In this phase, sustainability is broadened to include human safety as well as environmental protection, and it becomes our market-driven business priority throughout the value chain. The transition to products that meet the definition of “sustainable” will take place over time. But the pace will quicken as the synergistic effects of market demand, societal expectations and product innovation create collaborations up and down the value chain. To review our 2014 Sustainability Progress Report and learn about our Sustainability Goals and other efforts, please visit us at www.sustainability.dupont.com. 3 1.0 Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization Ellen Kullman Chair of the Board & Chief Executive Officer At DuPont, sustainable growth is integral to everything we do as a company, as we work to enable greater food security and safety, create high performance, cost-effective and energy efficient materials across industries, and deliver renewably sourced bio-based materials and fuels. We define sustainable growth as creating shareholder and societal value through all of this work, while reducing the environmental impact of our value chains. Our quest is to continue to advance the leading edge of innovation — helping customers find solutions to some of the most pressing needs of our age — while applying this model of sustainable growth as our guide. Sustainability is also at the core of the way we operate across 119 DuPont production facilities around the world, where we seek to reduce — and in fact are greatly reducing — our environmental footprint. And in every unit and function across all of DuPont, our sustainability efforts are directly enabled by our Core Values of Safety & Health, Environmental Stewardship, Respect for People, and Highest Ethical Behavior. Consistent with these core values, DuPont is proud to have been one of the first U.S.based signatories to the United Nations Global Compact in 2001, and we continue to recognize the importance of the 10 Principles of the Global Compact today. Since our last report, we have made good progress on a number of sustainability fronts. We are well on track to achieve our energy utilization goal for 2020. In fact, we met our 2015 milestone two years early as a result of reducing our energy usage significantly more than we were aiming for. We also made excellent progress toward meeting our 2020 food security goals, particularly in the area of engaging and educating youth in Africa on optimal food production techniques. This year we unveiled a new Supplier Code of Conduct, which extends the commitments and expectations of our Core Values to the many thousands of people who provide the necessary supplies and materials to our company. And we continued to deepen our sustainability efforts with customers around the world in exciting new ways, as this report highlights. In this regard DuPont is a true trailblazer and leader, demonstrating that sustainability can provide a competitive advantage in the marketplace and drive value for our shareholders while also reaping broader benefits for society at large. DuPont is advancing its next major era of market-driven innovation — executing a strong plan that is delivering key results while positioning the company for future growth. As we advance this plan and complete the separation of our Performance Chemicals business in mid-2015, we will announce a new set of goals, which will be a focus of next year’s report. Through this exciting transition and beyond, sustainability will remain central to our mission and key to our success. Ellen Kullman Chair of the Board & Chief Executive Officer 4 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities DuPont is a science company generating new products every year from our world class market-driven research and development. With each transformation of our company, we have become even more focused on sustainability issues. When environmental and safety laws and regulations were introduced in the 1970s and 1980s, our commitment focused on meeting those new requirements. In the late 1980s and 1990s, we realized that mere compliance was not sufficient, and that our stakeholders expected more from us. So we went beyond regulatory requirements and made voluntary commitments to reduce the environmental footprint of our facilities. Today, we are striving to integrate a holistic approach to sustainability into our business models. We are working to increase shareholder and societal value while striving to minimize our impact on the environment. As a material, technology and knowledge provider, we can have far reaching impact on virtually every major industry in the world – from agriculture to construction, and transportation to communications. Our goal is to put our science to work to help our customers and their customers grow their businesses while contributing to social and environmental progress worldwide. Our 2015 Sustainability goals were focused on increasing R&D investment in programs with direct, quantifiable environmental benefits, introducing new products that help make people safer, increasing revenue from products that help our customers and consumers reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and doubling revenue from products based on non-depletable resources. This approach has helped us reduce the impact of our supply chain in areas like climate change, energy use, water use, generation of pollution and waste, material use, ecosystems, and use of non-depletable resources. By 2013, we had made such substantial progress toward our 2015 commitments we began to look more broadly toward the future. We’re focused now on determining our 2020 sustainability goals – both footprint and market-facing considering how we can apply our science and sustainability to make new leaps and bounds toward our vision of solving some of the world’s greatest challenges. 2020 Energy Goal While we have made tremendous progress since our sustainability journey began in Reduce non-renewable energy use by 1989, we recognize that much more remains to be done. As a company that has been 10 percent per price adjusted dollar operating for over 200 years, we acknowledge our legacy issues and the need for revenue by 2020 compared to a robust product stewardship of existing and new technologies. We have established baseline of 2010. policies and processes around key impact areas such as biotechnology, biodiversity, bio-persistent materials, climate change, and nanotechnology. 2020 Food Security Goal Our strategic corporate sustainability activities are guided by the Environmental Policy Committee of the Board of Directors, chaired by Bertrand Collomb. This Committee is • Innovating to Feed the World: responsible for reviewing the company's environmental policies and practices. Investing $10 billion in research and development and introducing 4,000 To develop and execute sustainable strategies, Annual Sustainability Reviews are new products centered on producing conducted with the leadership of each of DuPont's businesses. These Reviews are more food; enhancing nutrition, food structured to assess environmental performance and compliance, assess the business' and agriculture sustainability and contribution to corporate sustainability goals, and to discuss business risks and safety; boosting food availability and opportunities associated with a broad set of environmental and social sustainability shelf life; and reducing waste. topics.It is our practice to identify risks early and manage them proactively through operational processes and line management. In addition to the efforts described above • Engaging and Educating Youth: that are focused on sustainability, individual functions and businesses within DuPont Facilitating 2 million engagements of engage in processes to identify broader operational risks and opportunities. young people around the world in educational opportunities. Materiality At the company and business level, we have informally applied the principles of • Improving Rural Communities: materiality to our priority-setting for some time to help shape our prioritization of Improving the livelihoods of at least 3 sustainability focus areas. In 2012 we took a more structured approach to materiality, million farmers and their rural by identifying (with input from several external stakeholders) approximately 20 key communities through targeted sustainability topics and then engaging each of our 12 businesses in sustainability collaboration and investments that materiality workshops to discuss and map the sustainability topics on a materiality grid. strengthen agricultural systems and Criteria that were used in our sustainability materiality process to rank and prioritize the make food more available, nutritious sustainability trends in relation to each other included: impact to business success and culturally appropriate. This is in (profitability, product acceptance, market demand, right to operate, ability to implement addition to the work already being done business strategy) and importance to stakeholders (employees, customers, to enhance the lives of hundreds of community, shareholders, NGOs, government). The discussions that we had with each millions of farmers through DuPont’s of the businesses to determine the relative importance of each sustainability trend to normal business practices. both their business and stakeholders was a valuable exercise that prompted interesting discussion and insights about important trends facing each business today as well as anticipated future impacts. In 2013 and 2014, as part of our annual Sustainable Growth Review process we asked each business to review and refresh their business’ sustainability materiality grid, which provided an opportunity for the corporate sustainability team to discuss any shifts or new trends with each of the businesses. 5 This year for the first time we have attempted to apply a corporate lens to the sustainability materiality process, taking each of our individual business sustainability materiality grids and combining them into a single grid to best reflect where we see the trends as it relates to the company overall. Feedback from internal and external stakeholders was important in helping to refine the placement of the trends, and raising additional trends that we might consider in the future. Our engagement with stakeholders around our sustainability materiality grid also raised interesting ideas for how to conduct and present the results of future assessments of sustainability materiality. Below is a snapshot of our DuPont Sustainability Materiality Assessment. We welcome input from stakeholders and will take feedback we receive into account in future iterations of the sustainability materiality assessment process. DuPont aims to meet its responsibilities under our safety, health, and environment (SHE) commitment (The DuPont Commitment), the American Chemistry Council’s Responsible Care® initiative (www.responsiblecare.org) and the International Council of Chemical Association’s (ICCA) voluntary initiative called the Global Product Strategy (GPS) (http://www.icca-chem.org/). DuPont joined the GPS initiative when it was launched in 2006. The goal of the GPS is to ensure that society will continue to enjoy the value and benefits of chemistry, while industry and its partners continuously improve efforts to protect public safety, health, and the environment. As a member of the initiative, DuPont is assessing further the risk of its key chemicals in commerce by 2018. As of 2013, DuPont is reporting Product Safety Summaries to provide a general overview of chemical substances as a part of our commitment to GPS. Please see our Product Stewardship Assessment & Summaries page for more information. To deliver on this initiative, DuPont has performed Product Stewardship Assessments to evaluate further the safety of the current uses of its chemicals. As the first step in the assessment process, DuPont analyzed its chemical inventory against the following prioritization criteria: Business relevance Hazard characteristics Exposure potential Detection in human blood, tissue, or urine Potential impacts on selected populations and/or endpoints Stakeholder feedback 6 DuPont is evaluating the high-priority chemicals using a screening level risk assessment approach. This approach uses readily available hazard, use, and exposure information to determine the safety of these chemicals for current uses throughout the chain of commerce. For more information, please refer to our Product Assessment page. For more than 200 years, DuPont has brought world-class science and engineering to the global marketplace through innovative products, materials and services. Today we are building a higher value, sustainable growth company focused on providing solutions to some of the world’s biggest challenges in food, energy, and protection. We are working to embed sustainability in the company’s strategy and innovation process. Since 2006 we have nearly tripled our annual R&D investment for products with quantifiable environmental benefits, introduced over 1500 new products that help keep people safer, generated more than $2 billion in annual revenue from products that help our customers reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and more than doubled revenue from products based on non-depletable resources. We believe that our efforts to advance sustainability within our company’s operations and products and in the markets that we serve adds value for our customers, their customers, consumers, and the planet. 7 2.0 Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the Organization E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company (DuPont or the company) 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services DuPont is a world leader in science and innovation across a range of disciplines, including agriculture and industrial biotechnology, chemistry, biology, materials science and manufacturing. The company operates globally and offers a wide range of innovative products and services for markets including agriculture and food, building and construction, electronics and communications, transportation and energy. The company’s reportable segments are Agriculture, Electronics & Communications, Industrial Biosciences, Nutrition & Health, Performance Chemicals, Performance Materials, Safety & Protection, and Pharmaceuticals. On February 1, 2013, the company sold its Performance Coatings business (which represented a reporting segment) and in October 2013, we announced our intent to separate the Performance Chemicals segment through a spin-off to shareholders. Notable brands include DuPont™ Kevlar®, Nomex®, Tyvek®, Corian®, Sorona®, and Pioneer® brand seeds. For a comprehensive description of the business segments and a listing of the principal products by business segment, please refer to the DuPont 2013 Form 10-K and 2013 Databook. 2.3 Operational Structure The Board of Directors has an active responsibility for broad corporate policy and overall performance of the Company through oversight of management and stewardship of the Company to enhance the long-term value of the Company for its shareholders and the vitality of the Company for its other stakeholders. In carrying out its responsibility, the Board has specific functions, in addition to the general oversight of management and the Company’s business performance, including providing input and perspective in evaluating alternative strategic initiatives; reviewing and, where appropriate, approving fundamental financial and business strategies and major corporate actions; ensuring processes are in place to maintain the integrity of the Company; evaluating and compensating the CEO; and planning for CEO succession and monitoring succession planning for other key positions. The DuPont Board of Directors Corporate Governance Guidelines, the Charters of Audit, Compensation, and Corporate Governance Committees and other information on corporate governance are available in the 2014 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement. The Office of the Chief Executive has responsibility for overall direction and operations of all the businesses of the Company and broad corporate responsibility in such areas as corporate financial performance, environmental leadership and safety, and development of global talent, research and development and global effectiveness. All seven members are executive officers and employees. For significant subsidiaries of the company, please refer to Exhibit 21 to the DuPont 2013 Form 10-K. Information about the DuPont businesses can be found in 2.2 above. 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters Wilmington, Delaware, United States 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates The company has operations in more than 90 countries worldwide. Information regarding the company’s properties is available in Item 2 in the 2013 DuPont Form 10-K. Geographic Region Major Global Sites 8 United States and Canada 153 sites Asia Pacific 73 sites Europe, Middle East and Africa 96 sites Latin America 30 sites 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form DuPont is a publicly traded company. As of January 31, 2014, 927,717,000 shares of DuPont Common Stock were outstanding. 2.7 Markets Served 2013 Net Sales Geographic Region % of Total (U.S.D. in Millions) United States and Canada $14,800 41 EMEA 8,400 23 Asia Pacific 7,700 21 Latin America 4,800 13 *EMEA represents Europe, Middle East, and Africa **For more information, see the Company’s Investor Center website at http://investors.dupont.com/ Business Segments DuPont Agriculture DuPont Agriculture expects to grow aggressively through innovative products and services that help the world increase the quantity and sustainability of our food supply. We leverage our strengths in agronomy, biology, chemistry and biotechnology along with our knowledge of the food value chain. Our businesses own a broad portfolio of brands, including Pioneer® brand seeds, as well as recognized DuPont brand insecticides, fungicides, and high-value, low-use-rate herbicides. We are improving grower productivity to address the increasing needs of a growing population. DuPont Electronics & Communications Electronics & Communications is a leading supplier of enabling materials and technologies for solar energy (photovoltaics), consumer electronics, flat panel displays, advanced printing and other industrial electronic applications worldwide. As a leading technology supplier to the photovoltaic (PV) industry, DuPont offers the broadest portfolio of materials designed to help increase the power output and reliable lifetime of solar panels and ultimately lower total system costs for PV power. In consumer electronics, DuPont material technologies enable the latest trends in devices, such as high speed data transfer and thinner size. For semiconductor fabrication and printed circuit board manufacture, the segment offers innovative materials for lower total cost of ownership. This segment offers unique organic light emitting diode (OLED) process technology and a growing suite of high-performance, solution-based materials that will enable display manufacturers to deliver superior OLED device performance with lower manufacturing costs for large-format displays. In advanced printing, the segment continues to extend its DuPont™ Cyrel® flexographic printing offering, which enables greater quality, productivity and sustainability for package printing; and, it is expanding its leadership position in pigmented inks for digital printing applications. DuPont Industrial Biosciences DuPont Industrial Biosciences is a leader in creating world-changing solutions for a biobased society. The segment utilizes biotechnology on an industrial scale to deliver market-driven innovations that improve performance, productivity and reduce environmental footprints for our customers and end users. Revenue and earnings growth is driven by bioactive solutions, biobased materials, and biorefining offerings. Our industry-leading enzymes deliver enhanced value in a wide range of industries. They are used in carbohydrate processing and the production of biofuels from corn and biomass to improve yields and process performance. Detergent enzymes permit cold-water washing which saves energy, and baking enzymes improve the texture and extend the freshness of baked goods. DuPont is the leading provider of micro-ingredients for animal feed that improve the sustainability, safety and efficiency of swine and poultry production. Renewably-sourced biomaterials provide enhanced performance and sustainability for carpeting, fabrics, cosmetics and industrial fluids. 9 DuPont Nutrition & Health DuPont Nutrition & Health is a world leader in the food industry. We use renewable raw materials to create a wide range of ingredients that food manufacturers use to provide safer, healthier, affordable and more nutritious food for consumers. Our ingredients include probiotics, soy protein, fibers, cultures, antioxidants, antimicrobials, emulsifiers, texturants, enzymes and sweeteners. Our solutions allow food formulations to be healthier, through the reduction of sugar, fat and salt, or by including products that actively promote digestive or immune system health, such as probiotics or soy protein made with patent-pending technology delivering critical value for beverage applications in sports performance, weight management and clinical nutrition. Coupled with our diagnostic solutions, which help to identify the presence of food-borne pathogens, we also help preserve and protect the integrity of the world’s food supply, and ensure the food we eat is safer. Our solutions provide protection that keeps foods fresher longer, while helping to reduce food waste and carbon emissions. They also allow greater cost efficiency by helping to speed up production processes, reduce waste or optimize outputs. DuPont Performance Materials DuPont Performance Materials expects to deliver strong revenue, earnings and cash through top line growth and cost and working capital productivity while making selective growth investments. The segment provides its customers with innovative polymer science solutions and expert application development assistance to enhance the performance, reduce the total system cost and optimize the sustainability of their products. Key market segments include transportation, packaging for food and beverages, electrical/electronic components, material handling, healthcare, construction, semiconductor and aerospace. DuPont Performance Materials is among the most global of the DuPont businesses, with expansion in developing markets. The segment has established itself as the industry leader in high performance renewably-sourced and sustainable polymers with a broad and expanding portfolio of products. DuPont Safety & Protection DuPont Safety & Protection expects to grow aggressively by being the global innovation leader in engineered products, services and systems that protect people, the environment, and critical processes, as well as providing sustainable building solutions. The segment satisfies the growing needs of governments, businesses, and consumers globally for solutions that make life safer and healthier. By uniting dynamic science with the strength of highly regarded brands such as DuPont™ Kevlar®, Nomex®, Tyvek®, Sontara®, and Corian®, the segment delivers products and services to a large number of markets including construction, industrial, automotive, consumer, military and law enforcement. In addition to serving its existing customer base, DuPont Safety & Protection is investing in the future with growth initiatives such as building innovations, personal protection, government solutions, environmental solutions, and safety and sustainable operations consulting. DuPont Performance Chemicals DuPont Performance Chemicals expects to deliver strong revenue, earnings and cash through sales and volume growth and cost and working capital productivity along with selected investments in higher growth markets, regions, and technologies to achieve top quartile performance among peer global specialty chemical manufacturers. Advanced DuPont products and technologies support improved functionality and lower costs for titanium dioxide; specialty, performance, and industrial chemicals; and superior electrical properties, thermal performance, chemical inertness, and surface characteristics for fluoro-enabled markets. DuPont is the world’s largest manufacturer of titanium dioxide, reliably supplying global coatings, plastics and paper industries while maintaining a position as a low cost producer and a leader in the development of sustainable technologies. The company continues to create targeted product renewal innovations such as next generation refrigerants, while broadening the scope of products and processes. In February, we sold our Performance Coatings business and in October, we announced our intent to separate the Performance Chemicals segment through a spin-off to shareholders. 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization At December 31, 2013, the number of employees was approximately 64,000 for the period then ended, net sales were $35,734 million. For net sales per geographic region, please refer to 2.7 above. Total Capitalization: Total Assets $51,499 million Total Debt $12,462 million Stockholders’ Equity $16,286 million 10 DuPont has created thousands of products over its 212 years of operation. For details on many of those products, please refer to our Products & Services website. Our services include Consulting Services and Process Technologies: • Asset Productivity and Reliability Consulting • Environmental Consulting and Technology Licensing • Workplace Safety and Consulting Security ownership of beneficial owners and management can be found in the DuPont 2013 Form 10-K. 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period Separation of Performance Chemicals – On October 24, 2013, DuPont announced that it intends to separate its Performance Chemicals segment through a U.S. tax-free spin-off to shareholders, subject to customary closing conditions. The company expects to complete the separation about mid-2015. Divestiture of Performance Coatings – In the third quarter of 2012, we entered into a definitive agreement to sell DuPont Performance Coatings to the Carlyle Group. The sale was complete on February 1, 2013. For additional information, please refer to the DuPont 2013 Form 10-K, Part II, Item 7. 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period DuPont is proud to have made the following indices, lists and awards in 2013: • CDP S&P 500 Carbon Performance Leadership Index and Carbon Disclosure Index • CDP Performance Leadership Index • North America Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) • FORTUNE Magazine World’s Most Admired Companies • Corporate Responsibility Magazine’s Top 100 Best Corporate Citizens • The NAFE Top 50 Companies for Executive Women • Human Rights Campaign (HRC) Corporate Equality Index • Thomson Reuters Top 100 Global Innovators • The Scientist Best Place to Work 11 3.0 Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting Period The information provided in this report is based on 2013 corporate financial, health and safety, and environmental data. 3.2 Date of the most recent previous report The last Sustainability Progress Report and GRI Report were issued in 2013. 3.3 Reporting Cycle The reporting cycle is annual. 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its content Camille Aylmer Sustainable Growth and SHE Excellence Center 1007 Market Street, DuPont Building Wilmington, DE 19898 camille.aylmer@dupont.com 3.5 Process for defining report content This report serves as an in depth resource for stakeholders interested in our detailed sustainability data, information and approach. It is designed to accompany our annual Sustainability Progress Report, which is a short brochure that succinctly highlights the material economic, social, and environmental goals. Both reports are located on the Reporting page of our sustainability website. The content of the report was largely guided by the established DuPont Sustainability Goals for footprint reduction, energy usage reduction, market-facing benefits to help our customers and consumers improve their environmental performance, and food security. The development of these goals were guided by the DuPont sustainable growth mission, key interests expressed by stakeholders, relevant regulatory requirements, and concerns expressed by society. DuPont considers as stakeholders our employees, customers and suppliers, shareholders, and society at large. Examples of our many stakeholder engagement activities include: • Global employee surveys • Community Advisory Panels or interaction processes in place for almost every DuPont plant site around the world • Partnerships on global climate change with the World Resources Institute, Environmental Defense, The Pew Center for Global Climate Change and the Keystone Center • Partnership on nanotechnology with the Environmental Defense • Partnerships and collaborations with key science and technology organizations, institutions, and individuals to enhance societal value • Ongoing discussions with the investment community, including the annual Investment Community meeting and DuPont Business Review Teleconference Series • Ongoing interaction with government bodies, news media and non-government organizations at the local, state, national, and international level 12 It is our intent to develop the report that captures the attention and interest of our many regionally and culturally diverse stakeholders and audience. We welcome your feedback on this report and our Sustainability Progress Report 3.6 Boundary of the report The report includes all wholly owned DuPont operations and subsidiaries that are directly controlled by DuPont, unless otherwise stated. Such control exists when DuPont has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of the subsidiary in general either when DuPont directly or indirectly owns more than half of the voting rights of the subsidiary, or when control can be otherwise legally evidenced. 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary Within the context of the boundary of the report as defined in 3.6, there are no specific limitations. 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability The basis for reporting does not significantly affect the comparability from period to period. 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations DuPont collects information through several Information Management Processes and Systems that have been developed to meet specific data collection requirements. Our Corporate Environmental Planning (CEP) process collects data on energy use and emissions from DuPont facilities for use in tracking and reporting our performance. Our Safety, Health and Environmental Injury/Illness and Incident data are collected through our Incident Tracking System (ITS) and the Distribution Incident System (DINS). Internal processes are in place to review and validate the accuracy of the data. The DuPont ISO 14001-based Environmental Management System (EMS), which is in place at the majority of our manufacturing facilities, establishes expectations for calibration and maintenance of measuring equipment and instruments used in the collection of data. Our Manage it Central (MitC) system is used to ensure that corrective and preventive actions are taken to maintain the integrity of the EMS. Each of these examples is global in scope, and defines data collection and the bases of calculations for the respective system. 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports There are no re-statements. 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods In October 2013, DuPont announced its intention to separate its Performance Chemicals segment through a U.S. tax-free spin-off to shareholders, subject to customary closing conditions. The company expects to complete the separation about mid-2015. See Note 2 within the DuPont 2012 Form 10-K for additional information. 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures 13 The GRI index is provided at the end of this report. 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance External assurance was not obtained for the development of this report. However, DuPont has policies and internal practices to enhance and provide assurance about the accuracy of the report. For instance, internal and second-party audits are conducted on most of the DuPont key activities including safety, health, and environmental performance, financial accounting and compliance with the ethics and business conduct guide. DuPont has contracted with a third party verifier to review global greenhouse gas emission and energy use data that is reported externally. Our 2013 data met the requirements for limited assurance consistent with the ISO 14064-3 standard. 14 4.0 Governance, Commitments, and Engagement 4.1 Governance structure of the organization The Board of Directors has an active responsibility for broad corporate policy and overall performance of the company through oversight of management and stewardship of the company to enhance the long-term value of the company for its shareholders and the vitality of the company for its other stakeholders. In carrying out its responsibility, the Board has specific functions, in addition to the general oversight of the management and the company’s business performance, including providing input and perspective in evaluating alternative strategic initiatives; reviewing and, where appropriate, approving fundamental financial and business strategies and major corporate actions; ensuring processes are in place to maintain the integrity of the company; evaluating and compensating the CEO; and planning for CEO succession and monitoring succession planning for other key positions. A substantial majority of the Board are independent directors in accordance with the standards of independence of the New York Stock Exchange and as described in the Guidelines on pages 8 and 9 of the 2014 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement. The Committees of the Board include:  Audit Responsibilities include: o Employs the company’s independent registered public accounting firm, subject to stockholder ratification, to audit the company’s Consolidated Financial Statements. o Pre-approves all services performed by the company’s independent registered public accounting firm. o Provides oversight on the external reporting process and the adequacy of the company’s internal controls. o Reviews the scope of the audit activities of the independent registered public accounting firm and the company’s internal auditors and appraises audit efforts of both. o Reviews services provided by the company’s independent registered public accounting firm and other disclosed relationships as they bear on the independence of the company’s independent registered public accounting firm. o Establishes procedures for the receipt, retention and resolution of complaints regarding accounting, internal controls or auditing matters.  Compensation Responsibilities include: o Establishes executive compensation policy consistent with corporate objectives and stockholder interests. o Oversees process for evaluating performance of the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) against Board-approved goals and objectives and recommends to the Board compensation for the CEO. o Reviews and approves grants under the company’s compensation plans. o Works with management to develop the Compensation Discussion and Analysis (CD&A). o Oversees succession planning process for the CEO and key leadership.  Corporate Governance Responsibilities include: o Recommends to the Board nominees for election to the Board of Directors. o Reviews principles, policies and procedures affecting directors and the Board’s operation and effectiveness. o Oversees evaluation of the Board and its effectiveness.  Environmental Policy Responsibilities include: o Reviews the company’s environmental policies and practices. o Provides support for the Company’s sustainable growth mission.  Science and Technology Responsibilities include: o Monitors state of science and technology capabilities within the company. o Oversees the development of key technologies essential to the long-term success of the company. In addition, Linda J. Fisher, Vice President of DuPont Safety, Health, and Environment and Chief Sustainability Officer, is responsible for advancing the company’s progress in achieving sustainable growth; safety, health and environmental programs; product stewardship programs; and global regulatory affairs. Of the 12 board members, 3 (25%) are women and 1 (8%) is African American. More information about the board members, including their age, can be found starting on page 20 of the 2014 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement. 15 For additional information on our governance structure, please refer to the 2014 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement. 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer Ellen Kullman is the Chair of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer. Alexander Cutler, an independent director, serves as the Presiding Director and is also Chair of the Corporate Governance Committee. 4.3 State the number of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members Of the 12 members of the Board of Directors, 11 are independent. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance body Stockholders and other parties interested in communicating directly with the Board, Chair, Presiding Director or other outside director may do so by writing in care of the Corporate Secretary, DuPont Company, 1007 Market Street, D9058, Wilmington, DE 19898. The Board’s independent directors have approved procedures for handling correspondence received by the Company and addressed to the Board, Chair, Presiding Director or other outside director. Concerns relating to accounting, internal controls, auditing or ethical matters are immediately brought to the attention of the Company’s internal audit function and handled in accordance with procedures established by the Audit Committee with respect to such matters, which include an anonymous toll-free hotline (1-800-476-3016) and a website through which to report issues. For employees, any allegations or breaches of the Code of Conduct are investigated promptly and disciplinary actions around confirmed violations are taken. Compliance Officers, Human Resources, Legal and Finance representatives serve as resources and focal points for employees to answer questions on code of conduct. The company maintains an employee ethics hotline for the reporting of suspected misconduct consistent with applicable laws. Employees can also provide input through periodic employee surveys. 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and executives and the organization’s performance The executive compensation programs at DuPont are designed to attract, motivate, reward and retain the high quality executives necessary for Company leadership and accomplishment of our strategies. The following principles guide the design and administration of those compensation programs: • There should be a strong link between pay and performance. • Executives' interests should be aligned with stockholders' interests. • Programs should reinforce business strategies and drive long-term sustained stockholder value. The Board of Directors Compensation Committee is responsible for establishing executive compensation policies and programs consistent with corporate objectives and shareholder interests. The Committee operates under a written charter adopted by the Board. The charter is reviewed regularly and revised as appropriate. The Committee’s membership is determined by the Corporate Governance Committee of the Board and is composed entirely of independent directors. 16 For additional information, please refer to the 2014 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement. 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interests are avoided The purpose and responsibilities of the Board of Directors Corporate Governance Committee include recommending to the Board nominees for election as directors. The Committee’s members are independent under the Board’s Corporate Governance Guidelines and the New York Stock Exchange standard. The Board’s Corporate Governance Guidelines describe qualifications for directors. Directors are selected for their integrity and character; sound, independent judgment; breadth of experience, insight and knowledge; and business acumen. Leadership skills, scientific or technology expertise, familiarity with issues affecting global businesses in diverse industries, prior government service, and diversity are among the relevant criteria, which will vary over time depending on the needs of the Board. Additionally, directors are expected to be willing and able to devote the necessary time, energy and attention to assure diligent performance of their responsibility. When considering candidates for nomination, the Committee takes into account these factors to assure that new directors have the highest personal and professional integrity, have demonstrated exceptional ability and judgment and will be most effective, in conjunction with other directors, in serving the long-term interest of all stockholders. The Committee will not nominate for election as a director a partner, member, managing director, executive officer or principal of any entity that provides accounting, consulting, legal, investment banking or financial advisory services to the Company. For further information, please refer to the 2014 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement. 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest governance body The Board of Directors Corporate Governance Committee considers potential candidates suggested by Board members, as well as management, stockholders and others. Cultural, racial and gender diversity is taken into consideration. Please also refer to 4.6 above. The Director Nomination Process is available in Appendix A of the 2014 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement. 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation Purpose: DuPont is a science company. We work collaboratively to find sustainable, innovative, market-driven solutions to solve some of the world's biggest challenges, making lives better, safer, and healthier for people everywhere. Core Values: These are the cornerstone of who we are and what we stand for safety and health, environmental stewardship, highest ethical behavior, and respect for people. The DuPont Code of Conduct consolidates all company policies with respect to business ethics and conflict of interest for the company and its subsidiaries, affiliated companies, and joint venture arrangements in which it has a majority interest or for which it has operating responsibility. There is mandatory training for all employees. Please refer to the DuPont Code of Conduct. 17 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s identification and management of economic, environmental, and social performance The Board has an active responsibility for broad corporate policy and overall performance of the company through oversight of management and stewardship of the company to enhance long-term value of the company for its shareholders and the vitality of the company for its other stakeholders. The Environmental Policy Committee focuses specifically on environmental policies and practices and provides support for the company’s sustainable growth mission. Please refer to 4.1 above and the 2014 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement for responsibilities for each Committee of the Board. 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance DuPont is committed to having sound corporate governance principles and practices. The Board and each Committee make an annual self-evaluation of its performance with a particular focus on overall effectiveness. The Corporate Governance Committee is responsible for overseeing the self-evaluation process. 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed DuPont maintains a strong commitment to safety, health and environmental excellence. We affirm to all our stakeholders, including our employees, customers, shareholders and the public, that we will conduct our business with respect and care for the environment. We continuously analyze and improve our practices, processes and products to reduce their risk and impact through the product life cycle. We develop new products and processes that have increasing margins of safety for both human health and the environment. We work with our suppliers, carriers, distributors, and customers to achieve similar product stewardship and we provide information and assistance to support their efforts to do so. Our company’s commitment is also reflected as a leader in the development of Responsible Care® and we were one of the first companies to adopt the American Chemical Council’s Responsible Care® Codes of Management Practices, which were initiated in the late 1980s. DuPont has also led efforts to expand Responsible Care® to encompass advances such as security, public reporting of metrics, and management systems certification. DuPont also performs Product Stewardship Assessments to evaluate further the safety of the current uses of its chemicals. We are a member of the International Council of Chemical Association’s (ICCA) voluntary initiative called the Global Product Strategy (GPS). The goal of the GPS is to ensure that society will continue to enjoy the value and benefits of chemistry, while industry and its partners continuously improve efforts to protect public safety, health, and the environment. The goal of the initiative is to improve product stewardship within the chemical industry and with suppliers and customers throughout the chain of commerce. See section 1.2 for more information on GPS. For detailed information on these commitments, please visit our efforts at Sustainability Performance and Reporting webpage. 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives We believe that working in partnership with others and committing to voluntary initiatives are important in demonstrating leadership. Commitment on UN Global Compact DuPont is committed to aligning our operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. 18 Commitment on Responsible Care Management System DuPont was one of the first chemical companies to adopt the American Chemical Council’s Responsible Care® Codes of Management Practices, which were initiated in the late 1980s. Since then, DuPont has led efforts to expand Responsible Care® to encompass advances such as security, public reporting of metrics, and management systems certification. Commitment on Climate and Energy We believe the global scientific understanding of climate change is sufficient to compel prompt, effective actions to limit emissions of greenhouse gases. To be successful at the necessary global scale these actions will require concerted engagement by the world’s governments, along with technological innovations by businesses, and individual actions by all citizens. We believe any strategy to address climate change must be both environmentally effective and economically sustainable. Policy solutions must be good for the environment, for business, and for people around the world. The magnitude of innovation and action required to effectively address climate change is unparalleled. DuPont is focused both on reducing our own footprint and on delivering solutions that help our customers conserve and use energy efficiently. We are applying our science to develop technologies and materials that will help enable energy generation, improve efficiency, and reduce greenhouse gas emissions across value chains in a wide range of sectors. DuPont continues to participate in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) where we publicly report our corporate greenhouse gas emissions data and associated climate risks and opportunities. To encourage environmentally effective and economically sustainable policy actions, DuPont is actively engaging with policymakers and other business and NGO stakeholders from around the world to develop constructive public policies to address global climate change. DuPont’s belief in the importance of taking prompt, coordinated, and strong action to address climate change is why we were a founding member of the U.S. Climate Action Partnership (USCAP), an alliance of major businesses and leading NGOs that came together to call on the U.S. federal government to enact legislation requiring significant reductions of greenhouse gas emissions. Commitment on Nanotechnology DuPont and Environmental Defense collaborated on a framework for the responsible development, production, use and disposal of nanoscale materials. The intent of this framework is to define a systematic and disciplined process that can be used to identify, manage and reduce potential health, safety and environmental risks of nano-scale materials across all lifecycle stages. These materials hold great promise for new applications in materials, energy, medicine and other fields. Commitment on Biotechnology DuPont is committed to comprehensive stewardship of biotechnology as we leverage it for beneficial use long term. We believe in a prudent approach that includes caution and care that is, we will carefully consider the wishes of society, protection of the environment and need for increased productivity as we develop biotechnology products and/or license our technology. This belief comes from our agricultural and industrial experience over the past 200 years. For detailed information, please refer to our Position Statements (http://www.dupont.com/corporate-functions/news-andevents/insights/articles/position-statements.html). 4.13 Memberships in associations and/or national/international advocacy organizations DuPont participates in many associations at the regional, national, and international level. In addition to 4.12, our other primary memberships in 2013 included: • American Chemistry Council (ACC) • World Economic Forum • European Chemical Industry Council (CEFIC) • World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) • Business Roundtable (BRT) • Field to Market, the Keystone Alliance for Sustainable Agriculture • Global Harvest Initiative • CropLife America and CropLife International • Africa Harvest Biotech Foundation International • World Resources Institute 19 • Center for Climate and Energy Solutions (C2ES) (formerly the Pew Center on Global Climate Change) 4.14 List of stakeholder groups DuPont engages a number of stakeholder groups including the communities in which we operate, customers, suppliers, shareholders and the investment community, employees and retirees, as well as a number of non-profit environmental and advocacy organizations. For example, DuPont establishes Community Advisory Panels at many of our global operating sites to engage our neighbors in discussions about our activities and their concerns and needs. Members of the Panels do not work for the company, but may be regarded as representatives of the neighborhood. 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage Stakeholders are identified based on community engagement activities, key customers and suppliers of specific business units, investor relations’ initiatives, and through specific processes to understand societal concerns. 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement Given the diversity of the company and the global locations in which we operate, approaches to and frequency of stakeholder engagements are determined at the corporate and regional level. Some examples include: • Communities Community Advisory Panels are established for nearly every global DuPont operating site. Each site determines the frequency of the interaction that makes the most sense for the community. • Other Stakeholders – Customers, suppliers, investors and shareholders, community leaders and organizations, key customers and trade associations, and retiree and employee groups are tailored to the needs and interests of each. 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement and how the organization has responded Stakeholder engagement is considered a key strategy of DuPont serving our purpose as a science company. Specific examples are listed below.  Based on the ongoing dialogue with the former Health Advisory Board, the Leadership Principles on Biopersistent Materials were developed.  Based on dialogue with the former Biotechnology Advisory Panel, a set of Bioethics Guiding Principles were developed.  Through our partnership with the Environmental Defense to develop standards of care for nanotechnology.  DuPont publishes corporate, regional and operating site reports.  Stakeholder engagement is conducted by Investor Relations.  DuPont actively engages with multiple stakeholders in keeping with our animal testing policy. For example, DuPont has engaged in an ongoing dialogue since 2006 with the People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA), which involves ongoing discussions about non-animal test methods, animal husbandry approaches, and advocating for appropriate standards and regulations. This interaction has been very useful in helping us continuously evaluate and enhance our practices and to maintain the commitments outlined in our policy. 20 Economic Summary Working in partnership with others, we are building sustainability into our products as well as into the way we make them. Sustainability is central to our total value proposition, impacting not only our business, but every customer and every consumer we touch, everywhere in the world. The Needs of the World Drive Our Science Global population growth and associated growth in the middle class are creating distinct megatrends throughout the world. Global challenges provide DuPont the opportunity to bring our unmatched science to the marketplace, creating game-changing solutions in constant collaboration with customers and key partners. Each megatrend presents opportunities for DuPont collaborative science and solutions. Making a difference: feeding the world Ensuring that enough healthy, nutritious food is available for people everywhere is one of the most critical challenges facing humanity. Our focus on providing for the needs of a growing population will help developing countries prosper, and foster economic growth around the world. Making a difference: building a secure energy future While the demand for energy grows, the supply of fossil fuels will not. With a growing population, we will need to use those existing resources as efficiently and effectively as possible, and find better ways to harness renewable energy sources, as well. These transitions will stimulate new industries and power clean economies. Making a difference: Protecting what matters most A growing population places increased pressure on people and the environment. As the world develops, humanity places greater value on both life and the earth we all share. We believe that our social and environmental ecosystems are precious, and we’re working to protect them. Some of Our Key Actions in 2013 Every hour of every day, in nearly every corner of the world, DuPont products are touching and improving many lives. Our sustainability programs are making a difference as well, in communities and DuPont facilities all across the globe. Here is a selection of company initiatives that are protecting the environment, saving energy and advancing sustainability in countries around the world. • DuPont Canada established a carpool matching service for employees to coordinate ridesharing opportunities. Participating employees earned points for an internal program which encourages peer recognition. • DuPont Vietnam was proud to be named a Green Enterprise in the Green Book 2014 of Binh Duong Province for its second straight year. Companies in the Green Book were recognized for their outstanding efforts in protecting the environment and complying with standards. 21 • DuPont celebrated the completion of its largest solar power installation to date — a 15 acre, 4.5 megawatt solar power plant at its facility in Cernay, France. The project, supported by local municipal authorities, was a showcase of private and public partnership. • On Chile’s Patagonian coast, DuPont is feeding farm-raised Verlasso salmon with an omega-3-producing yeast that dramatically reduced amounts of fish oil needed to raise the salmon. • In São Paolo, Brazil, the DuPont office is now powered by 100% renewable energy through solar panels made with DuPont products. • Just outside of Vanderbijlpark, South Africa, a woman smallholder farmer named Nolundi Msengana Makaula is developing a commercial farm using DuPont Pioneer maize varieties, which produces 1.5 times more yield per acre than the national average. • DuPont was awarded two prestigious awards for improving energy efficiency and reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the manufacture of DuPont™ Nomex® at the company’s Spruance plant in Richmond, Virginia. The team designed and installed equipment to economically recover energy that was previously unused. • Shanghai-based DuPont China was featured in Global Science Magazine for having the most influential R&D center in 2013. The R&D Center was recognized for promoting sustainable development and reducing energy consumption for the agriculture industry. • DuPont established a pallet recycling program five years ago which has resulted in both cost savings and millions of pounds of waste-to-landfill avoided. In Texas, our Sabine site recycled 6,200 pallets in 2009 and is on target to recycle at least 25,000 pallets this year. • In Palo Alto, California, DuPont Industrial Biosciences turned the focus of their annual employee engagement challenge to “Changing the World.” Employees earned points by volunteering with non-profits, educating children in local schools, and sponsoring community events like upcycling demonstrations and “plant-a-seed” donations. • In Wilmington, Delaware, DuPont established the Center for Philanthropy and Education to focus our corporate social responsibility around the global challenges DuPont is addressing as part of its corporate purpose. 22 Economic Performance Indicators EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments 2013 Economic Value Retained (US Dollars in Millions) Revenues 36,144 Operating Costs 25,221 Wages / Benefits 6,9697 [Economic value Payments to Providers of Capital 2,109 generated] Payments to Governments 1,470 Community Investments 24 (Philanthropy) [Economic Economic Value Retained 327 value retained] Taxes Paid (US Dollars in Millions) North America 958 Asia Pacific 181 Latin America 103 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 228 Total 1,470 23 For further information, please refer to the DuPont 2013 Form 10-K and Data Book. EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change DuPont assesses the potential financial implications of climate risks and opportunities to varying degrees of specificity depending on the timeframe and likelihood of impact. In many cases the costs associated with actions taken to reduce and manage these risks and opportunities are part of broader activities related to our efforts to strategically manage climate change, and it is therefore difficult to estimate the specific cost associated with an individual risk or opportunity. As DuPont analyzes factors shaping the markets that we serve in the years ahead we have identified three global challenges: Improving food productivity, reducing dependence on fossil fuels and protecting people and the environment. Each of these global challenges impacts or is impacted by climate change. As we look at our existing product portfolio and consider new product development, we us these global challenges as one tool to help frame our thinking about expectations for growth and future market demand. Of our $2.2 billion R&D investment in 2013, a substantial portion was directed towards developing solutions in those three areas. DuPont is uniquely positioned to help address the rising demand for secure, environmentally sustainable and affordable energy sources. With a growing population, we will need to use our existing resources more responsibly and find new and cleaner energy sources. DuPont is applying deep expertise in microbiology, fermentation, polymer science and electrochemistry to help make cars lighter, fuels cleaner, and sustainable energy sources, such as the sun, easier to harness — all contributing to a lower carbon future. To create more of a business focus on product opportunities related to climate change and environmental markets more broadly, DuPont included market-facing goals in our October 2006 launch of our 2015 Sustainability Goals. The market-facing goals were aimed at capturing value in a carbon-constrained world by tying our business growth more directly to the development of products that have environmental benefits and help our customers increase their energy efficiency and/or reduce their greenhouse gas footprint. Many DuPont products contributed to our success in meeting a goal to increase annual revenue by $2 billion from products that help our customers and end-use-consumers reduce greenhouse gas emissions and improve energy efficiency. In our 2013 Sustainability Progress Report, DuPont announced that we have successfully reached nearly all of the 2015 sustainability goals three years ahead of schedule, so we are now looking toward the future and determining our 2020 sustainability goals. To see our performance toward the 2015 Sustainability Goals, please view our annual progress reports posted on www.sustainability.dupont.com. We anticipate that efforts to limit carbon emissions will drive demand for DuPont products and services that serve a low-carbon economy. Many of DuPont’s existing products provide improved safety, efficiency, and environmental benefit in our homes, offices, and automobiles. Increased climate change mitigation efforts (resulting from voluntary or mandatory greenhouse gas emission reductions) could drive expanded demand in some of DuPont’s major markets, such as automotive materials, building materials, seed products and services, and biofuels. There is also risk associated with uncertainty regarding development and adoption of policies aimed to limit greenhouse gas emissions. As DuPont makes long term capital and R&D investment decisions, future regulatory uncertainty adds complexity to business investment and planning decisions. For instance, DuPont’s global R&D spend $2.2 billion in 2013 is informed by what technologies we believe will be in demand in the future. Future product demand will be driven by customer preference as well as by policies (or lack thereof) that incentivize greater use of alternative fuels and low-carbon technologies. To encourage environmentally effective and economically sustainable policy actions, DuPont is actively engaging with policymakers and other business and NGO stakeholders from around the world to develop constructive public policies to address global climate change. DuPont’s belief in the importance of taking prompt, coordinated, and strong action to address climate change is why we were a founding member of the U.S. Climate Action Partnership (USCAP). Given the diversity of products and services that DuPont produces for sale in a wide range of global markets, financial opportunities as they specifically relate to climate change are not formally assessed for the company overall. Individual businesses whose portfolios include products that could be particularly impacted by climate policies or a transition to a low-carbon economy take into consideration relevant issues (e.g. potential for increased product demand resulting from policies or other incentives; anticipated growth in certain markets such as alternative fuels; etc.). Expectations for new or expanded markets driven by demand for products that enable climate change mitigation or adaptation and the strategic implications for certain DuPont businesses are discussed during some of the Sustainable Growth Reviews. These reviews are led by DuPont’s Chief Sustainability Officer and conducted with individual DuPont business presidents and their teams. For some of the new and emerging markets that DuPont serves (e.g. renewable / alternative energy) there are industry estimates of anticipated growth, but estimates vary widely and actual market growth will depend in large part on the speed of technological innovation as well as the implementation of policies that will accelerate research, development, demonstration, and deployment of key technologies. 24 EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations. The company has various obligations to its employees and retirees. The company maintains retirement-related programs in many countries that have a long-term impact on the company’s earnings and cash flows. Employees are offered 401(K) plans or defined benefit pension plans, as well as medical, dental and life insurance benefits for pensioners and survivors and disability and life insurance protection for employees (other long-term employee benefits). Approximately 76 percent of the company’s worldwide benefit obligation for pensions and essentially all of the company’s worldwide other long-term employee benefit obligations are attributable to the U.S. benefit plans. Pension coverage for employees of the company’s non-U.S. consolidated subsidiaries is provided, to the extent deemed appropriate, through separate plans. The company regularly explores alternative solutions to meet its global pension obligations in the most cost effective manner possible as demographics, life expectancy and country-specific pension funding rules change. Where permitted by applicable law, the company reserves the right to change, modify or discontinue its plans that provide pension, medical, dental, life insurance and disability benefits. (See LA3 for more information.) The fair value of assets in all pension plans was $20.6 billion at December 31, 2013, and the related projected benefit obligations were $25.3 billion. In addition, obligations under the company’s unfunded other long-term employee benefit plans were $2.8 billion at December 31, 2013. For further details, please refer to Item 7 (pages 34 and 35) and F-30 through F-38 in the DuPont 2013 Form 10-K. EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. In the normal course of business, DuPont may seek research and development programs that use government cost share and that are aligned with corporate strategies and polices. EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation. DuPont offers competitive compensation packages that are complemented by a comprehensive benefits program. This is a benchmarked process. As part of our Human Rights policy, we pay wages that meet or exceed the legally required wages or, where no wage law exists, the local industry standard. EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community at significant locations of operation. Procedures for local hiring include the following: • All positions are posted online. • All regions are using Taleo as their applicant tracking system. • Centralized recruiting has been implemented in all regions. Recruiters and hiring managers partner to find a diverse set of candidates. • In some instances, search firms are contracted to place candidates in ‘hard to fill’ positions. EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. DuPont improves the quality of life and enhances the vitality of the communities in which we operate by supporting community sustainability efforts. Sustainable communities recognize the interdependence of social progress, economic success and environmental excellence. Through financial contributions and the active volunteer participation of employees, DuPont provides support to programs and non-profit organizations that address one or more components of community sustainability. Some of examples of those efforts are: United Way Employee Campaign and Days of Caring in the United States, Canada and Latin America This is significant program that engages our employees, retirees, and the Company working together to commit to making our communities better through funding and Days of Caring Volunteer Programs. Through the employee and company contributions we 25 provide over $7million dollars to United Way at the local levels through site and headquarter campaigns in the US, Canada and Latin America. Annually, thousands of DuPonters are given paid time off to perform volunteer services for local non-profit agencies in our communities. Community services included planting vegetables for food banks and painting the offices of the Boys and Girls Club and the homes of low income families. DuPont Community Fund The DuPont Community Fund was established as another way to help create sustainable communities. The DuPont Community Fund in collaboration with our local sites provides support to numerous programs and organizations annually that address one or more of these three key components in community sustainability specific to the needs of the individual community. In 2013 the Fund awarded over $350,000 to 91 projects at 61 different locations in 21 countries. DuPont Volunteer Program DuPont employees have a long history of involvement in the communities in which they live and work. We volunteer in educational activities (as parents and mentors), health and human service agencies, as well as in arts and environmental groups. Our site communities have long recognized the impact that DuPont volunteers make with their service commitment. It is appropriate and timely that such commitment to our communities is recognized as part of DuPont's core values of caring for society in general and for our communities specifically. Through a DuPont Volunteer website, employees can find local volunteer opportunities. Each year DuPont recognizes about 204 volunteers from 5 regions for their efforts and provides a $1000 grant for the organization. Clear into the Future – A Community Based Conservation Program Clear into the Future® is a corporately sponsored program of DuPont whose vision is to enhance awareness, involvement, and understanding of the ecological and commercial value and history of the Delaware Estuary and associated watershed. Maintaining a healthy, diverse, and vibrant planet is a collective responsibility. That’s why the DuPont Clear into the Future® Initiative is working with the community to preserve and enhance the beauty and integrity of the Delaware Estuary for generations to come. Clear into the Future® provides funding for an environmental education center and a nature center in Delaware, grants, development of educational programs for children and volunteers to the achieve its vision. In the past year DuPont employees volunteered over 800 hours to Clear into the Future®. Because of the success of the program, DuPont is beginning to expand this program across the United States in 2014. DuPont ProBono Project – Stepping up to legal needs of our Community Staff members of the Legal Function have been encouraged to offer their time and talents to their communities in the form of pro bono legal activities. Partnering with local Delaware agencies that provide legal services to the poor such as Delaware Volunteer Legal Services and Office of the Child Advocate, DuPont Legal has begun to represent numerous low income clients in areas such as protective orders from domestic abuse and in representing disabled veterans. It is working to identify additional areas where DuPont Legal can be supportive. Almost 2% of their work time or 40 hours per year are suggested as part of this voluntary program. At least 35% of its staff participates in this program. This program has been recognized by the Delaware Bar Association. StreetLaw Program Started in 2006 DuPont Legal’s Diversity Pipeline Project, done in collaboration with Howard High School in downtown Wilmington DE partners with local law firms to send lawyers, paralegals and legal administrative assistants into the classroom to work with students and sponsor a trial advocacy workshop each December. Students learn about the basics of the law and the administrative skills needed to work in a law firm, law department or other legal related organizations. It focuses on real life issues and challenges. We are also using this program to mentor students to prepare for the college selection and application process. In 2008 along with Widener Law School, DuPont started an SAT training class for these students to further assist them as they pursue higher education. EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts. DuPont does not aggregate the indirect economic impact of our collaborations and contributions. We do have specific programs, in addition to our Community Fund (please refer to EC8), that provide support to our communities. Examples of some programs where we do consider impact are: DuPont Food Security: In the first year since establishing goals towards addressing global hunger, DuPont has already seen strong progress to help ensure sustainable food production to ultimately end world hunger and guarantee food safety. Innovating to Feed the World: DuPont invested $1.295 billion of the $10 billion research and development commitment in 2013 and introduced 693 new products of the 4000 products goal centered on producing more food; enhancing nutrition, food and agriculture sustainability and safety; boosting food availability and shelf life; and reducing waste. 26 Engaging and Educating Youth: The company worked with over 774,200 youth globallycontributing to the goal of 2 million youth engagements around the world in education opportunities. Improving Rural Livelihoods: DuPont engaged with more than 205,700 smallholder farmers with the goal of improving the livelihoods of at least 3 million farmers and their rural communities through targeted collaboration and investments that strengthen agricultural systems and make food more available, nutritious and culturally appropriate by 2020. DuPont National AgriScience Teachers Ambassador Academy: This Academy is a professional development institute sponsored by DuPont and is a special project of the National FFA organization and the National Association of Agricultural Educators. The curriculum developed by LAB-AIDS includes sessions on agricultural science, horticulture, veterinary science, natural resources, sustainability, food safety and food security. It includes tours of DuPont facilities and interaction with DuPont scientists and engineers. Over the last decade, DuPont through its Ag Ambassador Academy has trained over 229 Ag Science teachers in inquiry based science. These Ambassadors went on to present workshops and spread their knowledge to over 12,000 teachers across the US impacting tens of thousands of students. Teacher retention rate among Ag Ambassadors is almost double the norm at 96% vs. 50%. 27 Environmental Summary Please refer to the 2013 Sustainability Progress Report located on our website. The Report provides our progress towards achieving our eleven sustainability goals that focus on reducing our footprint and energy needs as well as researching and developing products. Linda J. Fisher Vice President of DuPont Safety, Health & Environment and Chief Sustainability Officer An Interview with our CSO This was another successful year for DuPont as we continued to work toward driving down our environmental footprint — the impact of our company’s operations on the environment — while also increasing the sustainability of our products. Chief Sustainability Officer (CSO) Linda Fisher discusses DuPont’s environmental performance and the role the company is playing in creating a more sustainable future. Q. What are some recent sustainability highlights for the company? A. We have exciting progress to report on several different fronts. Let’s start with some innovative product lines that our customers are using to reduce environmental impacts in the product-use phase. We recently commercialized DuPont™ Tyvek® ThermaWrap™, a new version of our house wrap, which acts as a low emissivity, metallized weather barrier to help improve the energy efficiency of buildings. We also partnered with Procter & Gamble to build a new enzyme technology that delivers the cleaning power of warm-water when washing clothes at energy-saving coldwater temperatures. And our agricultural customers continue to apply crop protection materials in ways that are smarter, safer, and using dramatically less product. On the operational side of the business, our Spruance site in Richmond, Virginia, redesigned their manufacturing processes to improve productivity while reducing energy use and greenhouse gas emissions. We’re proud that this site was recognized by the Governor’s Environmental Excellence Awards Program, just as we’re proud of all the initiatives at our facilities across the world to realize our longstanding commitment to sustainability. Q. How have we broadened the reach of our sustainability engagement? A. DuPont is involved in a number of leading edge technologies, and stakeholder engagement is a priority for us. The question is, how do we tap into these different perspectives? We are finding more opportunities to engage directly with customers, investors, suppliers, employees and other important stakeholders and thought leaders about the progress of our work in sustainability. For example, earlier in the year, DuPont began an Insight Series to engage with key stakeholders on new and emerging technologies. This allowed us to bring together scientists, NGOs, policy-makers, academics, and other interested stakeholders to discuss a wide range of views on the potential benefits and risks of new technologies and their ability to help solve global challenges related to food, energy, and human and environmental health. These are valuable opportunities for DuPont leaders to listen and learn from these diverse perspectives. Inside the company, we increased employee engagement initiatives with monthly webinars covering sustainability issues. In addition, we launched a global campaign about personal environmental responsibility on Earth Day, and continued recognizing achievements in innovation and operations with our annual Sustainable Growth Excellence Awards. Q. DuPont achieved its 2015 market facing and footprint goals two years early. Do you think they were ambitious enough? How are you building on these in the future? A. In 2006 we made two pretty dramatic commitments. First, we set a high bar for our footprint goals and second, we were among a handful of companies to expand our focus of sustainability to include our products in the global marketplace through our market-facing goals. We learned a lot from committing to these goals, and we are proud to have realized the targets well before our 2015 target date. For example, from 1990 to 2004, DuPont reduced global air carcinogen emissions by 92 percent. And since 2004, we have realized an additional 56 percent reduction in air carcinogens. This translates into protecting human lives. On the market-facing side, we have been meeting high targets as well, including boosting revenue from products that reduce greenhouse gas emissions from $100 million in 2007 to $2.5 billion in 2013. Now, we are taking all of the learnings from the footprint and market-facing goals, and embedding them into the corporate strategy and growth plan. We are finalizing new 2020 goals that will be announced in 2015, that will guide the next 28 steps in our sustainability journey. Looking ahead, as Ellen said in her letter in this report, DuPont is becoming a dramatically different company and our sustainability goals will support this critical transformation. Q. Have there been any notable challenges or areas for improvement in the company’s sustainability performance? A. We are pleased with and proud of the strides we have made in embedding sustainability into our business strategy, including reducing our operational footprint. However, we have identified several key areas where we can improve our sustainability platform and results. For example, I think we have done a solid job of understanding our customers — DuPont would not be a successful company otherwise — but there is always room to improve in this area especially as many of our customers continue to deepen their own sustainability commitments and efforts. We also recognize evolving expectations around supply chain sustainability and have begun to take action in this area. For example, we recently published a new Supplier Code of Conduct which clearly communicates our commitment to the DuPont core values as well as our expectation that our suppliers understand these core values as well. We are also reviewing ways to conduct supplier assessments more efficiently to help us make better decisions in sourcing and logistics. Another area where we can do better is water. Over the years, we have focused a great deal on the important global challenge of climate change. We need to apply this same expertise and commitment to our global water use. While we have realized some important water conservation successes, we should expand our understanding of water risks, and put water on a higher priority level for our sustainability efforts going forward. Q. What key messages would you like readers of the report to take away? A. Sustainability is a journey and reflects the dynamic nature of both an enterprise like ours and the larger societal and environmental context in which we operate. We are proud of our longstanding commitment to sustainability and the important achievements we have made in this area, some of which are highlighted in this report. But we know that’s not enough. We hope this report will spark a meaningful dialogue with you and our other stakeholders who share our belief in sustainability as good business as well as good corporate citizenship. So we ask you to challenge us. Where can we contribute more? Who should we be working with? We want our stakeholders to keep engaging with us, keep helping us see what we can do better. We will listen. 29 Environmental Performance Indicators EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source The total amount of non-renewable fuel consumed by DuPont in 2013 was approximately 30.9 million Megawatt hours (MWh) or 111 million gigajoules (GJ). Biogenic (renewable) fuel sources in 2013 totaled almost 0.5 million MWH or 1.7 million GJ. For a breakdown by fuel type: Fuel Type MWh Gigajoules Aviation Gasoline 30,339 109,220 Bituminous Coal 1,949,940 7,019,786 Diesel Fuel 89,958 323,848 Distillate Fuel Oil (#1,#2) 180,043 648,154 Hydrogen 25,163 90,588 Kerosene 380 1,369 Liquefied Petroleum Gas 31,720 114,193 (LPG) Natural Gas 25,401,073 91,443,867 Petrol/Gasoline 278,959 1,004,251 Propane 5,943 21,393 Refinery Fuel Gas (RFG) 89,195 321,101 Residual Fuel (#4,#5,#6) 473,571 1,704,854 Toluene 127,335 458,407 Waste Gas 1,718,219 6,185,590 Waste Liquid 27,134 97,681 Other 346 1,245 Biogenic Sources (renewable) Biodiesel 425 1,530 Bio-Gas 120,267 432,960 LandFill Gas 336,493 1,211,374 Wood 3,024 10,887 Grand Total 30,889,526 111,202,299 30 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source The total amount of indirect energy used by DuPont in 2013 was approximately 10.9 million Megawatt-hours (MWh) or 39.3million Gigajoules. Energy Type MWh Gigajoules Electricity 6,265,095 22,554,342 Chilled Water 1,004 3,615 DP:DPO (Heat Transfer Fluid) 12,825 46,169 Steam 4,629,670 16,666,814 Grand Total 10,908,595 39,270,939 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements Behavioral Change: A number of energy projects achieved savings in 2013 due to changes in the operation of climate control systems for employees. These included a labeling campaign to remind employees to close doors on laboratory fume cabinets; changes in the operating schedule for HVAC systems during unoccupied hours; and changes in building operating temperatures to reduce heating and cooling loads. The investment required was minimal, predominantly encouraging employees to consciously think of ways to reduce waste in their operating environment Process Change/Projects: DuPont's corporate energy efficiency strategy is managed through our Bold Energy Plan. We have an online database that tracks plant performance toward annual energy targets. The database currently tracks over 2,400 completed, in progress, and proposed projects, some of which require capital investment. Since the inception of the Bold Energy Plan in 2008, DuPont has realized year-over-year energy cost savings of $270 million. The company also looks for opportunities to make its overall portfolio less energyand emissionsintensive, and weighs energy use when investments or divestitures are considered. DuPont also conducts annual Sustainable Growth Reviews with each of the businesses, which result in dialogue with the leadership of each business and recommendations on shortand long-term strategy presented to members of the Office of the Chief Executive for consideration. There are a wide range of energy efficiency projects implemented at DuPont facilities (e.g., process optimization, insulation upgrades, waste heat recovery, etc.) to reduce energy use and Scope 1 and 2 emissions. The figures reported represent aggregate 2013 savings for the Company’s voluntary global energy efficiency improvement program, the Bold Energy Plan. The savings were achieved from the implementation of over 250 individual improvement projects, 50 of which required capital investment. The NPV of the portfolio was $23 million for projects completed in 2013 only. The Bold Energy Plan was launched in January 2008 and is expected to continue indefinitely as DuPont’s method of driving continuous improvement in energy efficiency at its global facilities. Some specific examples of improvements in this category include: • Optimizing steam utilization in the stripper column at Asturias, Spain • Using live steam injection to improve operation of the waste water column at Beaumont, TX • Installing a pipeline to enable steam from a waste-to-energy facility to be used at Dordrecht, Netherlands • Installing a heat exchanger to recover waste heat in the Nomex® plant at Richmond, VA • Improving the operation of a large, low-temperature refrigeration system at Parkersburg, WV • Increasing the concentration of a salt solution in summer to reduce evaporation energy load at Parkersburg, WV 31 EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. One of DuPont’s corporate sustainability goals has been to grow our annual revenues by at least $2 billion from products that create energy efficiency and/or significant greenhouse gas emissions reductions for our customers by 2015. In our 2013 Sustainable Progress Report we reported that we had successfully met this goal three years ahead of schedule. These products in the marketplace resulted in cumulative greenhouse gas emissions of over 28 million metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalents. DuPont products and technologies are diverse and enable avoided GHG emissions for our customers in a number of different sectors and applications (e.g. renewable materials, buildings and construction, alternative energy, transportation, and agriculture). An internal team from sustainability and engineering (with expertise in life cycle analysis) is tasked with identifying those products with use-phase (scope 3) GHG benefits for our customers and tracking annual revenue and associate GHG emissions avoided. The specific methodology, assumptions, emission factors, and GWPs vary from product to product, as individual analyses are done for each product by final enduse included in our reporting on this goal. The following are examples of DuPont products that enable reduced or avoided GHG emissions by others in our value chain. Photovoltaics: DuPont Photovoltaic Solutions represents the broadest portfolio in the solar energy industry, with more than 10 products critical to photovoltaic production. DuPont materials and technology solutions are designed to help increase the efficiency and lifetime of crystalline silicon and thin film photovoltaic solar modules, while reducing total systems cost and enabling the photovoltaic industry to reach grid parity faster. We continue to invest in both capacity expansions to support the solar industry growth and the development of new innovative technologies to address different applications within the industry. For more information visit: http://www.dupont.com/industries/energy/photovoltaics.html Biofuels: We are developing a portfolio of biofuels solutions to help meet global transportation energy needs. Biobutanol and cellulosic ethanol are two advanced biofuels technologies that will diversify the transportation energy sector and reduce reliance on petroleum. For more information, visit: http://www.dupont.com/industries/energy/biofuels.html Fuel Cells: Our objective is to be the leading supplier of Proton Exchange Fuel Cell Membranes into fuel cell systems that power automobiles, electronics, and residences. DuPont invented, and continues to advance, Nafion® membranes and dispersions, which provide durability, performance, and lower cost. For more information, visit: http://www2.dupont.com/FuelCells/en_US/science/about_fuel_cells.html Wind Energy: By 2020, experts predict that wind will generate about 12% of world electricity needs, but the reliability of generating equipment is essential to the success of the rapidly growing wind power industry. DuPont protects wind turbines by encapsulating the key components of the generator that protect them from the extreme heat inherent in the generation of electricity. Products range from DuPont™ Kevlar® mechanical paper, which reduces weight and improves the structural rigidity of wind turbines to DuPont Electrical Insulation Systems. For more information, visit: http://www.dupont.com/corporate-functions/our-approach/global-challenges/energy/articles/sustainable-energy.html Vehicle Fuel Efficiency: High performance DuPont engineering resins make possible replacement of metal parts and components, contributing to weight reduction, fuel savings and CO2 emission reductions. In a life cycle analysis of the use of virgin glass reinforced nylon in place of secondary aluminum for an engine component of the Ford F250 truck, it was found that lighter weight in vehicle use far offset energy consumption in manufacturing. During a 10 year lifetime of 100,000 trucks included in the analysis, a 77 billion BTU net energy savings was achieved and 11 million pounds of CO2 emissions were eliminated. DuPont materials help improve automotive efficiency and get more power to the wheel by reducing friction, especially in driveline systems. For more information, visit: http://www.dupont.com/industries/automotive/articles/lightweighting.html Agricultural Decision Support Tools: DuPont Pioneer recently launched Encirca, a new decision support tool for farmers. Encirca provides the farmer with a platform for recording and organizing land and crop observations, delivers personalized information acre by acre that allows the farmer to make more informed decisions about nitrogen management, irrigation management, and other decisions and factors that impact the yield, profit, and sustainability of the farm. For example, Encirca can help farmers manage nitrogen application rate and timing in such a way that may decrease the overall amount of nitrogen needed, an opportunity for farmers to reduce their input cost per bushel of corn produced, while reducing the environmental impact of nitrogen fertilizer production, application and use. For more information, visit: https://encirca.pioneer.com/landing/ 32 EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved. See EN5 for examples of initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption. EN8 Total water withdrawals by source One of our 2015 Footprint Goals (set forth in 2005) was to reduce water consumption by at least 30 percent at global sites that are located where the renewable freshwater supply is either scarce or stressed as determined by the World Resources Institute (WRI) analysis of river basins globally, which was available at the time on the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) website and subsequently included in the Global Water Tool developed by the World Business Council for Sustainability (WBCSD). For all other sites, we committed to hold water consumption flat on an absolute basis through the year 2015, offsetting any increased demand from production volume growth through conservation, reuse and recycle practices. We have reduced our consumption by 19 percent at sites in water scarce or stressed locations and 8.4 percent at all sites. Water Consumption (millions of cubic meters) Baseline 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Total 116.1 114.8 120.2 123.8 126.1 125.4 119.6 108.5 111.8 106.2 106.3 All Sites Ground Water 51.9 51.9 60.3 61.2 62.0 66.3 62.9 45.0 48.0 51.6 50.9 Potable Water 32.3 31.0 30.0 32.1 34.0 31.7 28.7 31.7 31.4 25.9 26.4 Surface Water 31.9 31.9 29.8 30.6 30.2 27.3 28.0 31.8 32.4 28.6 29.1 Sites in Water Total 24.4 23.2 22.9 23.7 24.2 24.8 19.7 19.9 22.2 19.9 19.9 Stressed or Ground Water 6.8 6.8 6.4 6.3 6.1 6.9 3.0 3.0 3.1 2.8 2.7 Scarce Potable Water 8.7 7.4 7.6 8.4 9.1 9.0 7.9 8.5 8.0 7.1 7.4 Locations Surface Water 8.9 8.9 9.0 9.0 9.0 8.9 8.8 8.4 11.1 10.1 9.8 Baseline includes first full year of data for two sites in design or under construction when goal was set. All years adjusted to remove data from all divestitures (e.g., Performance Coatings) and include data from all acquisitions (e.g., Danisco). EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water DuPont has assessed consumption at our global sites using the definitions recognized by the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) and using the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) Global Water Tool (http://www.wbcsd.org/work-program/sector-projects/water/global-water-tool.aspx). DuPont’s withdrawals do not significantly affect any water sources because of the following.  None of the withdrawals account for an average of 5% or more of the annual average volume of a given water body.  None of the water bodies from which DuPont sires withdraw are recognized by professionals to be particularly sensitive due to their relative size, function, or status as a rare, threatened, or endangered system (or to their support of a particular endangered specifies of plant or animal). EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. Although a number of sites reuse and/or recycle water, currently, recycle or reuse water usage data are not collected throughout the company. DuPont has set publicly stated water conservation goals based on reducing water consumption at sites in locations having annual renewable water supply per capita identified as “scarce” by definitions recognized by the UNEP (determined from the WBCSD 33 Water Tool), and holding water consumption flat on an absolute basis in other locations. DuPont does not impose on the sites requirements regarding the method for attaining these goals; rather, businesses and their sites develop their own plans for attainment. Therefore, DuPont does not require sites to report on internal use of water; but must report metrics on water withdrawals (by type) and water consumption (by type). A number of manufacturing sites have accomplished substantial reductions in water consumption and/or withdrawals in recent years. Some examples are:  The Starke, Florida, USA, site has reduced its annual consumption of groundwater from approximately 4.5 million cubic meters to 0.8 million cubic meters by recycling clean effluent water for process use in lieu of fresh water and upgraded its water distribution system to eliminate unintentional losses and improve use efficiency.  The Fayetteville, North Carolina, USA, site completed a project to collect and reuse steam condensate used in its manufacturing operations. The project resulted in annual water savings of 45,400 cubic meters, along with energy savings and concomitant carbon footprint reduction (over 700 metric tons annually) due to natural gas savings.  Sohna, India, Industrial Biosciences site redirected an effluent treatment plant to treat its waste water from production for horticulture irrigation instead of discharging it in the drain. In the first year of effect, 339.2 cubic meters of groundwater were saved. EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. Included in our Position Statement on Biodiversity is a commitment to inform and engage local communities in decisions impacting natural resource biodiversity in those communities. EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas There were no known significant impacts on biodiversity in 2013. Water and runoff discharges from DuPont sites do not significantly affect any habitats because of the following:  None of the discharges account for an average of 5% or more of the annual average volume of a given water body.  None of the discharges are known to have or are highly likely to have significant impacts on the water body and associated habitats. All sites that discharge water do so under permits developed by national or state authorities that specifically consider the potential for water quality impacts including habitat damage. (Note: Some sites discharge their water to public or private multi-client treatment works rather than to water bodies.) DuPont performs environmental assessments (which are generally required by national or state agencies) when operations are sited.  None of the discharges are to water bodies that are recognized by professionals to be particularly sensitive due to their relative size, function, or status as a rare, threatened, or endangered system (or to their support of a particular endangered specifies of plant or animal). EN13 Habitats protected or restored. Teams of employee volunteers at 14 DuPont sites around the globe continue to work diligently to enhance, protect and restore wildlife habitats on their plant properties and in their communities. These sites are certified by the Wildlife Habitat Council (WHC), a Maryland U.S. based non-profit organization dedicated to increasing the quality and amount of wildlife habitat on corporate, private and public lands. Combined, nearly 10,000 acres of land at the 14 DuPont sites are certified as Wildlife Habitats. To earn and maintain certification, the teams of employee volunteers develop and execute various programs to protect the natural resources at their sites and to create partnerships in the community with students and adults to help educate them about environmental preservation. One example is the team at the Fayetteville Works, NC, site which collaborated with a local middle school honors science club to digitally map the site’s existing nature trail and then journal and research highlighted features along the trail. 34 Another is the Wildlife Habitat team at Washington Works, WV, which conducted projects with Eagle Scouts to construct three nature trails, and collaborated with a Cub Scout troop to build new bluebird boxes on the site. These and other habitat enhancement projects helped earn Washington Works WHC Corporate Lands for Learning Certification, which provides third party recognition for conservation educational programs. Washington Works was one of four DuPont certified plant sites that received special recognition at the WHC’s 25th Annual Symposium in November 2013 for their contributions to wildlife habitat conservation. The other sites were Asturias, Spain; DeLisle, Pass Christian, MS; and Spruance, Richmond, VA. In addition to the wildlife habitat preservation work at the plants, for the past seven years, DuPont has conducted a communitybased conservation initiative called Clear into the Future (CITF). CITF has an ongoing commitment to maintain and improve the health and beauty of the Delaware River Estuary watershed in the U.S. The program focuses on using science, volunteerism, education and special projects to help preserve and enhance the natural beauty and integrity of the Estuary for generations to come (www.clearintothefuture.com). Through CITF DuPont employee volunteers and family members have collaborated with many environmental organizations at numerous events across the Estuary – from tree planting, to cleanups to storm water retention projects – to help make a difference. CITF also conducts a program called Clear into the Classroom in which Delaware students can win field trips to the DuPont Environmental Education Center to learn about the Estuary. Since it began, CITF has continued to strive to make a difference through collaboration and partnerships with Universities, local environmental organizations, and educators. As part of that, CITF has provided grants to numerous organizations that work to support the Delaware Estuary, including the National Fish and Wildlife Foundation to sustain and promote fish, wildlife, and plant resources throughout the watershed and the Nature Conservancy to preserve and enhance important habitats in the state of Delaware. EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity. Environmental stewardship is a core value for DuPont. We will continue our efforts to conserve and protect natural resources in our communities in collaboration with partners such as the Wildlife Habitat Council and The Nature Conservancy. We are also working with stakeholders and organizations such as the World Business Council for Sustainable Development and the Business for Social Responsibility to enhance our understanding of ecosystem services. EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight For overall greenhouse gas emissions, from 1990 to 2003, we reduced emissions by 72 percent, which includes our Invista business, and 60 percent excluding Invista. Invista assets were divested in 2004. Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, also known as Scope 1 GHG emissions under the WRI/WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol, are emissions from sources that are owned or controlled by DuPont. In 2013 the gross DuPont Scope 1 GHG emissions were 13,585,000 metric tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalents. This value has been reviewed by a third party, WSP Environment and Energy, which has provided a limited assurance statement verifying these emissions. While we report our gross Scope 1 emissions as required under various reporting schemes, we set our goals based on those emissions over which we truly have control, thereby excluding emissions due to energy generated for third parties, such as non-DuPont tenants of adjacent facilities. On this basis our net Scope 1 GHG emissions were 12,081,000 metric tonnes. Indirect GHG emissions, also known as Scope 2 GHG emissions under the WRI/WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol, are emissions from sources as a consequence of DuPont energy needs but are not owned or controlled by DuPont (e.g., purchased electricity, steam, heat and chilled water). In 2013 the gross DuPont Scope 2 GHG emissions were 4,936,300 metric tonnes CO2e. This value has been reviewed by a third party, WSP Environment and Energy, which has provided a limited assurance statement verifying these emissions. While we report our gross Scope 2 emissions as required under various reporting schemes, we set our goals taking into account GHG offsets due to the purchase of renewable electricity. On this basis our net Scope 2 GHG emissions were 4,459,100 metric tonnes. Including all acquisitions and removing all divestitures from our emissions reporting over the period 2004-2013, our total Scope 1 + Scope 2 emissions have been reduced by 19%. 35 DuPont Scope 1 & 2 Net Greenhouse Gas Emissions by Year, million metric tons 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 20.3 17.4 17.2 18.8 16.0 14.6 16.8 18.3 14.9 16.5 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions (i.e., Scope 3 emissions) for 2013 were calculated to be 2,906,000 metric tons for fuels and energy. Greenhouse gas emissions related to business travel were calculated as 63,700 metric tons. Other relevant indirect GHG emissions not yet calculated included purchased goods and services. As a manufacturing company, purchased goods and services are expected to be a relevant category for our Scope 3 emissions. Preliminary screening confirms this assumption. However, uncertainty is too significant for reporting at this time. Based on the product portfolio for DuPont and review of Scope 3 results from similar companies, the use of sold products is expected to be the most significant Scope 3 category. EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved Market-Facing Sustainability Goals In October 2006, DuPont announced our market-facing goals. These goals address all stages of product development, from R&D efforts through marketing and sales. We created a goal that by 2015, we will grow our annual revenues by at least $2 billion from products that create energy efficiency and/or significantly reduce greenhouse gas emissions. As of 2012, the annual revenue from those products reached $2 billion. We estimate these products have contributed over 28 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent reductions by our customers and consumers. We are in the process of developing new sustainability goals for 2020, to further advance our efforts to improve the sustainability of our products, operations, supply chains, and value chains. Footprint Sustainability Goals Since the early 1990s when DuPont began taking action to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, the company has achieved major global reductions in emissions. In 1994, DuPont established our first greenhouse gas emissions goal and committed to reduce 40% from our 1990 base. After meeting that goal, in 1999 DuPont established a new goal to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions by 65% from a 1990 base. By the end of 2003 we had reduced our greenhouse gas emissions by 72%. We created a goal to reduce Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions by 15% by 2015 from an updated base year of 2004. We surpassed the goal in 2012 and – through 2013 – we achieved a 19 percent reduction since 2004. We are in the process of developing new targets for 2020 to continue to drive down our greenhouse gas emissions. 2020 Energy Goal Our corporate energy efficiency strategy is managed through our Bold Energy Plan. Our new objective is to reduce non-renewable energy use by 10 percent per price adjusted dollar revenue by 2020 compared to a baseline of 2010. We have set a milestone of 3 percent reduction by 2015. As of 2013, we have reduced energy intensity by 4.4 percent. DuPont's corporate energy efficiency strategy is managed through our Bold Energy Plan. We have an online database that tracks plant performance toward annual energy targets. The database currently tracks over 2,300 completed, in progress, and proposed projects, some of which require capital investment. Availability of capital for energy efficiency improvement projects is critical setting public goals alone will not drive improvement unless you have adequate financial and personnel resources available to implement improvements. For example, in 2007 DuPont created an Energy Capital Fund from which we invested $60 million in energy projects that will reduce CO2 emissions and energy use by 6%, and deliver $170 million in projected 10-year net present value at an aggregated 60% IRR. Plant Site Managers have responsibility for all aspects of site operations and set priorities for the workforce. Their performance is judged by annual metrics (e.g. safety, environment, fixed costs, etc.). Energy is a new metric being added to the Site Manager report card, providing additional incentive and individual accountability for our success in meeting annual energy savings targets. With over 100 plants with annual energy targets, Site Energy Champions are an essential part of implementing the Bold Energy Plan. Site Energy Champions have monthly conference calls and bi-annual corporate energy conferences where they can share best practices and identify opportunities to rapidly replicate successful projects. Since the inception of the Bold Energy Plan in 2008, DuPont has realized significant energy savings outcomes, with a year-over-year energy cost savings of $270 million. The company also 36 looks for opportunities to make its overall portfolio less energyand emissions-intensive, and weighs energy use when investments or divestitures are considered. Sustainable Growth Excellence Awards Each year since 1990, DuPont has held an award program to recognize the most significant employee accomplishments. The Sustainable Growth Excellence Awards seek to honor those teams and individuals who have made significant contributions (some related to energy efficiency and/or climate change) toward DuPont implementing our mission and the Sustainability Goals. Climate Change To encourage environmentally effective and economically sustainable policy actions, DuPont is actively engaging with policymakers and other business and NGO stakeholders from around the world to develop constructive public policies to address global climate change. DuPont's belief in the importance of taking prompt, coordinated, and strong action to address climate change is why we actively participate in a number of stakeholder initiatives around the globe and why we were a founding member of the U.S. Climate Action Partnership (USCAP). The business community has a critical role to play in developing and bringing to market the technologies and solutions that will make possible the transition to a low-carbon economy. This transition will provide new markets for innovative companies to prosper. Beyond our commitment to reduce our own environmental footprint we have set goals related to products that help others reduce their greenhouse gas emissions. These include both research and development investment targets and product revenue goals. These goals tie business growth to the development of safer, cleaner, and more efficient products for global markets. DuPont is dedicated to using our science to bring these innovative products and solutions to market. We are applying our science to develop technologies and materials that will help enable energy generation, improve efficiency, and reduce greenhouse gas emissions across value chains in a wide range of sectors. EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight NOx Emissions (metric tons): From 1995 to 2003, DuPont reduced nitrogen oxides (NOx) by approximately 57 percent, which included the Invista business. After divesting Invista, from 2004 to 2008, the NOx emissions were reduced by an additional 19 percent. From 2008 to 2013, the reduction was approximately 12 percent. 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 9,880 9,032 8,799 9,069 8,030 7,208 7,866 7,750 7,341 7,071 SOx Emissions (metric tons): From 1995 to 2003, DuPont reduced sulfur oxides (SOx) by approximately 37 percent, which included the Invista business. After divesting Invista, from 2004 to 2008, the SOx emissions were reduced by an additional 17 percent. From 2008 to 2013, the reduction was approximately 65 percent. 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 31,203 28,818 28,979 28,289 25,810 13,401 10,909 10,330 8,792 9,069 37 VOC Emissions (metric tons): From 2004 to 2008, the volatile organic compound (VOC) emissions were reduced by 11 percent. From 2008 to 2013, the reduction was approximately 13 percent. 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 8,780 7,753 8,041 7,996 7,832 8,320 8,400 7,581 7,560 6,847 Air Carcinogen Emissions (metric tons): From 1990 to 2004, DuPont reduced global air carcinogen emissions by 92 percent. In 2006, the company began a renewed Air Carcinogens goal with 2004 serving as the new baseline, to account for expanded coverage of an increased number of compounds. Since 2004, DuPont has had an additional 66 percent reduction. 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 781 671 666 660 368 325 381 342 269 292 EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination We do not track total water discharge, but the company began tracking Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) as of CY2011. No goal was set for 2013. Note that the COD reported includes both discharges directly to surface water and discharges to off-site treatment systems. The breakdown in 2013 was: COD discharge to surface water: 20,591 metric tonnes COD discharge to off-site treatment: 85,820 metric tonnes EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Hazardous Waste Non-hazardous wastes are not aggregated at a corporate level. Below are the hazardous waste data. These data do not include the water weight. From 1990, DuPont reduced global hazardous waste by approximately 62 percent. Global Hazardous Waste (Thousand Metric Tons) 1990 1995 2000 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Europe 43 11 18 33 24 24 20 18 19 15 16 5 6 7 38 Latin 93 93 93 1 5 3 3 3 3 3 4 0 0 0 America Asia/ 3 0 3 2 1 2 2 3 3 3 3 11 13 19 Pacific U.S. & 875 698 415 436 474 384 450 425 317 351 361 373 329 361 Canada Total, All 1014 803 530 473 504 413 475 449 342 371 383 390 349 388 Regions Note: All years adjusted to reflect Invista divestiture in 2004. 2011 forward reflects Danisco acquisition. 2012 forward reflects DuPont Performance Coatings divestiture. All values exclude the weight of water in the waste. Toxics Release Inventory From 1991 to 2004, DuPont reduced U.S. TRI Total Waste As Generated by 49 percent. From 2004 to 2013, we further reduced by 19 percent. Additionally, from 2004 to 2013, we reduced Deepwell Disposal by 21 percent; Releases to Air, Water, and Land by 23 percent; Off-site Transfers by 13 percent; and Total Releases and Transfers by 17%. U.S. Toxics Release Inventory Waste and Emissions (Millions of Pounds) 1987 1991 2000 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Total Waste as -890 598 452 456 447 579 386 315 341 433 318 Generated Deepwell Disposal of 237 187 37.7 26.4 23.8 23.1 18.6 17.2 20.0 22.8 17.3 18.4 Hazardous Waste Releases to Air, 71 57 38.4 34.2 35.0 33.7 31.4 28.0 26.3 30.5 29.6 21.7 Water and Land Offsite 53.5 60.3 64.5 64.3 60.8 56.7 47.9 53.2 54.5 47.6 Transfers Releases & 91.8 94.5 99.3 98.0 92.2 84.7 74.1 83.7 84.0 69.3 Transfers Note: Data as reported to the U.S. EPA. 286 new chemicals added in 1995. Total waste as generated first reported in 1991. 2004 data and forward reflects Invista separation. 2011 data and forward reflects acquisition of Danisco. 2012 data and forward reflects divestiture of DuPont Performance Coatings. 39 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills The following table provides an overview of significant SHE incidents which are defined as a significant environmental, process, fire or transportation incident. Incidents that meet definitions for more than one type are counted as single Major SHE Incidents. Significant Environmental, Process, and Transportation Incidents 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Environmental 0 0 4 0 0 2 1 0 0 Transportation 0 0 1 0 0 0 3 0 0 Process 2 1 2 0 1 2 3 0 1 Fire 1 1 0 0 0 1 1 0 0 Major SHE Incidents 3 1 6 0 1 3 3 0 1 EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the reporting organization’s discharges of water and runoff. Please refer to EN12 above. EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation. DuPont has programs such as Product Stewardship, Life Cycle Assessments, and our mandatory commitment for the Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH). DuPont has also informed members of the U.S. Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works that the U.S. Congress should modernize the Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA) to strengthen market and public confidence in the U.S. chemical management process. DuPont is working collaboratively with non-government organizations, federal legislators, regulators and trade associations, including the American Chemistry Council, on a modernization plan that assures the safe use of chemicals, provides transparency for the public and fosters ongoing innovation by industry. As part of our comprehensive product stewardship management system, all new and existing products and services are required to have a product stewardship review rescheduled, conducted and documented prior to commercialization and on a periodic frequency (e.g. every 2, 3, or 4 years) commensurate with risk. Please refer to the Product Stewardship section for more details. The DuPont 2015 Sustainability Goals have encouraged a life-cycle-thinking approach across our operations, from research and development to sourcing & logistics to manufacturing to marketing. 40 DuPont practitioners use Life Cycle Assessments (LCAs) to identify areas of concern and improvement opportunities in the early development stages. Applying an LCA approach that is linked to our innovation and product stewardship processes has helped DuPont consider, avoid, and/or mitigate for environmental impacts of our products. This approach encourages a broad view from raw material sourcing to product end-of-life. EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations. For a description of environmental proceedings with potential monetary sanctions greater than $100,000, please see DuPont 2013 Form 10-K and subsequent DuPont Forms 10-Q. EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce. Please refer to EN17 above for information on business travel. In addition, DuPont reports performance against fleet fuel efficiency in the annual Sustainability Progress Report centers around. See page 11 of our latest report on our Sustainability Reports webpage for more information. EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type As a result of its operations, the company incurs costs for pollution abatement activities including waste collection and disposal, installation and maintenance of air pollution controls and wastewater treatment, emissions testing and monitoring, and obtaining permits. The company also incurs costs related to environmental related research and development activities including environmental field and treatment studies as well as toxicity and degradation testing to evaluate the environmental impact of products and raw materials. Related to these activities, the company incurred environmental operating costs of $602, $595 million and $562 million in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. In 2013, DuPont spent approximately $70 million on environmental capital projects either required by law or necessary to meet the company’s internal environmental goals. DuPont accrues for remediation activities when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and a reasonable estimate of the liability can be made. The company has recorded a liability of $458 million on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2013; these accrued liabilities exclude claims against third parties and are not discounted. 41 Labor and Human Rights Recognizing that our people are our greatest resource, DuPont has earned international recognition for the series of race and gender awareness programs, and for our management of an ethnically and geographically diverse workforce. Our Core Values are the underpinnings of our corporate culture and are expected of all of us without exception:  Safety and Health  Environmental Stewardship  Highest Ethical Behavior  Respect for People It is our intention to create an environment where people can use all of their capabilities to support our business. Therefore, we encourage our employees to balance their work and personal responsibilities. We offer programs such as Family Leave, Flexible Work Practices, Adoption Assistance and others. Our Practices Code of Conduct: We have a Code of Conduct which consolidates all Company policies with respect to business ethics and conflicts of interest for DuPont and our subsidiaries, affiliated companies, and joint venture arrangements in which we have a majority interest or operating responsibility. These policies require that each employee conduct the Company’s business with integrity, in compliance with applicable laws, and in a manner that excludes consideration of personal advantage. Any allegations or breaches of the Code of Conduct are investigated promptly and disciplinary actions around confirmed violations are taken. Compliance Officers, HR, Legal and Finance leaders serve as resources and focal points for employees to answer questions on code of conduct. The company maintains an employee ethics hotline for the reporting of suspected misconduct consistent with applicable laws. Breaches to our ethics code are written up and cascaded through the organization globally so that all employees can see the issues, the consequences of not being in compliance with our Business Conduct Policy, and the lessons learned from the breach. We have conducted an annual Business Ethics and Compliance Survey with employees worldwide including employees who are in majority-owned businesses or for which DuPont has operating responsibility. We also have an internal system called LegalEagle which provides valuable training tools for employees. Human Rights: DuPont has a strong commitment to the protection and advancement of human rights wherever we operate. Our Human Rights Policy is based on our core values of Safety and Health, Environmental Stewardship, Ethical Behavior, and Respect for People. We also endorse the 10 Principles in the UN Global Compact. In 2012 DuPont created the Human Rights Leadership Team and Human Rights Corporate Advisory Board to lead our strategy for sustained progress in a purposeful human rights approach. The Council was created to focus human rights efforts along four key risk areas: field labor, contract manufacturing, construction and suppliers. These efforts continued in 2013. Equal Employment: DuPont is an equal opportunity employer. It is our policy not to discriminate against any employee or applicant for employment because of age, race, religion, color, sex, disability, national origin, ancestry, marital status, sexual orientation, or veteran status. Harassment of any type is not tolerated. Respect is the Recognition of Value Respect for People is of one our core values. It means inspiring participation, ensuring fairness and dignity, and creating an atmosphere of openness, engagement, active listening and trust. It is about embracing and appreciating people of their unique 42 background, thinking, experience, knowledge, skills, needs and abilities. In 2010 we launched a systemic process to advance respect for people as a core value, much as we have with other core values such as safety and ethics. We established Respect for People Central,” a global team that converged on a standard definition, vision, and behaviors consistent with a respectful work environment. In 2011 our goals include a global roll-out of training modules to build competency in the organization and visible communications and tools to inspire employees around the work. In 2012 we launched Let’s Solve to build engagement internally for DuPont, the company’s brand, and our core values. In 2013, we continued our commitment to engaging employees by sending a global survey to all employees to understand more about our employees’ perspectives about the company. In 2014, we rolled out action plans on a team and business level to respond to the survey results. Career Training and Development Learning is a continual process in DuPont. A formal process known as Career Development Planning, helps our employees plan their development to meet both business and personal goals. DuPont recognizes the effectiveness of experiential learning and values onthe-job training as a primary means of development. We have collaborations with many leading universities, research institutions, companies, and industry & professional organizations to provide developmental experiences. Formal training is another important avenue for gaining new skills. Each business within the company has ongoing training programs that are designed specifically to maximize the performance of its employees in meeting business objectives. Other development opportunities include training sessions and seminars presented by industry or professional organizations. DuPont also offers a program that provides financial assistance to employees pursuing courses at academic institutions. 43 Labor Performance Indicators LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region, broken down by gender. The total global workforce is approximately 64,000 as of December 31, 2013. The US workforce (excluding Puerto Rico) is 99.5% fulltime and 0.5% part-time. For a detailed breakdown per geographic region: Geographic Number of % % Male Region Employees Female United States 32800 73 27 Latin America 6000 70 30 Canada 1150 66 34 Europe / Middle East 71 29 / Africa 13600 Asia Pacific 10900 71 29 Total 64450 72 28 LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender and region. The US workforce (excluding Puerto Rico) as of January 1, 2013 had a turnover rate of 8.9%. The 2013 Global Turnover was 8.9%. For regions: • North America = 9.1% • EMEA = 8.0% • Asia Pacific = 9.3% • Latin America = 9.5% Regional data are not aggregated by gender or age group. LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by major operations. The benefits offered in each country are dependent on local market practices, which in turn are influenced by elements including state benefit offerings, income and social programs. 44 Even though the offering in each country is different, the benefits package typically includes the following for full-time and part-time employees:  Income protection (disability protection): Contributions to individual income protection insurance, or participation in company insurance plan.  Medical: Contribution to individual medical insurance, or participation in company medical insurance plan.  Accident: Contribution to individual accident insurance, or participation in company insurance plan.  Retirement: Retirement savings plan contributions or participation in a company defined benefit pension plan.  Global worklife and wellness support programs: o Employee Assistance Program – The Company provides up to (6) free counseling sessions per year to all employees. o Emergency Travel Health Care Assistance – The Company provides a free resource to assist employees in finding quality emergency care and emergency medical transportation while traveling on business. For the United States Region: 1) The following benefits are provided to full-time employees and part-time employees scheduled to work at least 20 hours/week: a) Medical Coverage – The Company pays 70% of the total cost for employees. b) Dental Coverage – The Company provides dental coverage free to employees ($0 premium). c) Vision Coverage – The Company offers a vision plan at group rates to employees. d) Flexible Spending accounts e) Employee Life Insurance – The Company provides basic life insurance equal to 1x pay to employees. Supplemental employee life insurance up to 7x pay may be purchased by employees at full cost. f) Dependent Life Insurance – Available for employees to purchase at full cost. g) Accidental Death Insurance – The Company provides employees with accidental death insurance equal to 1x pay. Supplemental accidental death insurance for the employee, spouse, or children may be purchased by employees. h) Vacation Buying – Employees may purchase up to one week of vacation, in addition to their Company-paid time off. 2) The following benefits are provided to both full-time and part-time employees, without regard to the number of hours worked: a) Retirement Savings 401(k) Plan: The Company contributes 3% of pay into the employees’ Retirement Savings Plans. The Company also provides a $1-to-$1 matching contribution of up to 6% of pay, for a total Company contribution of up to 9% of pay. b) Disability (Short-Term and Long-Term) Coverage – The Company provides free disability coverage to all employees. The DuPont short-term disability coverage provides 100% pay continuation for an employee while they are absent from work due to an illness or injury for up to six months. The DuPont long-term disability coverage ensures that an employee who is totally and permanently disabled receives 60% of pay for life, when combined with social security disability benefits, a DuPont pension, and income benefits from other sources. c) Occupational Injury, Illness or Disease Coverage – Termed the “Special Benefits Plan”, DuPont provides benefits which supplement Workers’ Compensation for up to six months, ensuring that the employee continues to receive their normal pay. d) Paid Adoption Leave and Adoption Expense Assistance– DuPont provides employees with four weeks of paid time off following the adoption of a child and reimburses up to $5,000 of the cost of each adoption. e) Dependent Care Expense Coverage when Traveling for Work – DuPont pays child care expenses when the employee is required to travel overnight for work. f) Severance Benefits – The DuPont Career Transition Program provides between two and twelve months’ pay to employees whose DuPont employment is terminated due to lack of work. g) Family Leave – The DuPont Family Leave policy exceeds federal FMLA standards, providing employees the opportunity to tax up to six months off work to meet changing family responsibilities and respond to different life events, including maternity, paternity, adoption, or placement of a foster child, or to deal with the serious illness of a parent, spouse or child. h) Guidance Resources – The Company provides help to manage work/life responsibilities with practical advice, useful materials and local referrals. One can obtain personalized and confidential consultation with experienced counselors on topics such as parenting, education planning, caring for older relatives, and career planning. 3) Employees hired prior to January 1, 2007 also receive the following benefits to full-time employees and part-time employees scheduled to work at least 20 hours/week: a) Pension Plan – A traditional, defined benefit pension is available. b) Retiree Medical and Dental Coverage – All full-time and part-time employees who qualify to receive a pension benefit are covered. The Company contribution towards retiree medical and dental coverage is prorated based on the years of service used in calculating the pension benefit. c) Retiree Life Insurance – All full-time and part-time employees who qualify to receive a pension benefit also receive retiree life insurance from the Company. LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. As of December 2013, for the United States employees only, 22% of nonexempt workforce was covered. Data are not available outside of the United States. 45 LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes, including whether it is specified in collective agreements. Generally, for minimum notice period related to significant operational changes is 60 days, although a few contracts specifically state periods ranging from 20 days’ notice (for work & safety rule changes), 14 days’ notice (for rules & regulation changes), and 12 months/1 year notice (for benefit & retirement plan changes). LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities by region. Occupational Health and Safety Data 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Total Recordable Injuries and Illnesses* DuPont 1.17 0.99 0.78 0.64 0.66 0.70 0.6 0.60 0.60 Chemical 3.2 2.9 3.1 2.7 2.3 NA NA Industry Average Manufacturing 6.3 6 5.6 5 4.3 NA NA Industry Average DuPont 0.9 0.7 0.8 0.7 0.7 0.7 0.6 0.68 0.56 Contractor Lost Workday Cases* DuPont 0.3 0.21 0.15 0.15 0.14 0.15 0.10 0.09 0.11 Chemical 0.8 0.8 0.8 0.8 0.6 NA NA Industry Average Manufacturing 1.5 1.4 1.3 1.2 1 NA NA Industry Average DuPont 0.12 0.09 0.12 0.07 0.06 0.09 0.08 0.10 0.06 Contractor Off-Job Injuries DuPont 294(11) 261(7) 221(9) 177(5) 210(7) 173(9) 185(8) 141(4) 137(7) Fatalities 46 DuPont 3 1 0 1 0 2 1 1 0 DuPont 1 0 2 1 1 2 0 1 Contractor *Recordable Injuries per 200,000 hours worked Numbers in ( ) = fatalities NA = not available The data for absenteeism are not available. LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. The following assistance programs are provided:  Employee Assistance and Worklife Program – Employee Assistance provides support to employees and their family members to address an array of personal life issues. Worklife programs address financial, legal, family, elder care issues work conflict and more.  New employees receive appropriate medical evaluations to assure a good match between job demands and employee capabilities. Following the onset of a health issue, accommodation solutions to support continued presence at work are developed. When employees are absent due to an illness or injury, Company medical professionals counsel the employee, assist them in effectively using medical care, coordinate with community health care providers, and perform return to work examinations to assure a safe and timely reengagement in work.  Company Medical Department intranet sites with links to in-Company medical support available throughout the world.  Opportunities for all employees to understand their own preventable health risks using an online health risk appraisal. Contact information to several on-line resources such as the American Diabetic Association, American Heart Association, WebMD, and Mayo Health Oasis.  Expatriate family support to employees and families preparing for an international assignment, support during their assignment, assistance during repatriation.  Risk Control activities and practices: hazard communication, provide and train in the use of personal protective equipment (PPE), engineering controls, material selection (for the least toxic alternative), and administrative controls. Health examinations are performed to verify the protection afforded by the above practices.  Travel medicine preparation for international business travel including immunizations, preventive medications, counseling on behaviors to remain healthy, indications for when to seek medical care, orientation as to arrangements to provide emergency medical response by in-Company medical departments and external arrangements.  Pandemic preparedness Corporation level and locally applied practices to protect the health of employees and families from emerging infectious threats and to support business continuity.  Present group health education to employees in Core Values Health & Wellness Contacts and health material for use in workgroup Safety Meetings. Health fairs arranged on occasion. Improved health is considered a lever to reduce safety risk both on and off the job, reduce healthcare costs and improve productivity.  Company health professionals educate employees and family members in the recommended use of scientifically-grounded and medically approved clinical preventive services. o Targeted plans such as for Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV). Our company policy, which includes contact information for resources and first aid measures, is:  An individual with HIV/Aids disease shall be treated like an employee with any other illness.  HIV testing shall not be done at pre-placement (pre-employment) unless it is a national legislative requirement to so test  Potential employees who are HIV positive shall not be excluded from employment at preplacement (preemployment) examinations if otherwise fit for the job.  For existing employees if able to work, assignments are provided in accord with normal site procedures and no special precautions are routinely indicated. If unable to work employees should be handled as for any other non-occupational disability.  The site should work towards developing and implementing a workplace HIV/AIDS program aimed at preventing new infections, providing care and support for employees who are infected or affected, and managing the impact of the epidemic in the organization. 47  The nature and extent of a workplace program is guided by the needs and capacity of each individual workplace. The workplace program attempts to address the following in cooperation with the sectoral, local, provincial and national initiatives.  DuPont health promotion initiatives would include: • hold regular HIV/AIDS awareness programs; • encourage voluntary testing; • conduct education, training and prevention on HIV/AIDS including condom use; • encourage health seeking behavior for Sexually Transmitted Diseases; • enforce the use of universal infection control measures; • create an environment that is conducive to openness, disclosure and acceptance amongst all staff; • establish a wellness program for all employees including those affected by HIV/AIDS; • provide access to counseling and other forms of social support for people affected by HIV/AIDS; • maximize the performance of affected employees through reasonable accommodation, such as investigations into alternative sick leave allocation; • develop strategies to address direct and indirect costs associated with HIV/AIDS in the workplace, as outlined under local legislation; • regularly monitor, evaluate and review the program. LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings. Learning is a continual process in DuPont and there are opportunities provided to employees to enhance professional and personal skills. A formal career development process helps employees and their supervisors in planning development to meet both business and personal goals. DuPont recognizes the effectiveness of experiential learning and values on-the-job training as a primary means of development. The company's collaboration with many leading universities, research institutions, companies, and industry & professional organizations also often present unique developmental experiences. Formal training is another important avenue for gaining new skills. Each business within the company has ongoing training programs that are designed specifically to maximize the performance of its employees in meeting business objectives. DuPont taps on the expertise of external training providers and the company's own functional experts to offer a wide range of courses in areas such as Leadership & Management, Sales & Marketing, Finance, Manufacturing, Human Resources, Information Technology, Personal Skills, and Safety & Health. There are many thousands of courses available to employees via the electronic learning management systems available at DuPont. Other development opportunities include training sessions and seminars presented by industry or professional organizations. DuPont also offers a program that provides financial assistance to employees pursuing courses at academic institutions. It is the intent of DuPont to make any separations required by business situations as supportive as possible of both employee and family needs. DuPont provides benefits and assistance to employees who are terminated for lack of work. DuPont offers a career transition program to provide employees with financial assistance as well as support for interview skills, resume preparation, job search strategies, and support with change management. Other benefits include medical and dental coverage, life insurance, tuition assistance and, for eligible employees, pension. LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews. At DuPont, our Performance Partnership is the process for managing, coaching, developing, assessing and rewarding employee performance. It consists of ongoing formal and informal coaching. All exempt employees (100%) and some non-exempt employees globally participate in the Performance Partnership process, and wage roll/hourly employees participation is based upon the decision of the local organization. The Performance Partnership process is designed to:  Ensure clear objectives linked to business results  Build strong alignment between manager and employee  Integrate competencies into objective setting and development  Conduct frequent and meaningful performance and development discussions  Provide support and coaching for business and personal success 48  Link Rewards to Performance  At a minimum, all employees are expected to engage in 1) an annual Individual Performance Plan objective session where employees create and the manager approves objectives, competencies and current year development plan; 2) a mid-year review to verify alignment, provide support or upgrade plan; and 3) a year-end review to confirm progress on overall plan. 49 Human Rights Performance Indicators HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors, and other business partners that have undergone human rights screening, and actions taken. Although percentage of suppliers have not been measured, contract manufacturing conducts audits which include human rights issues. In addition we include questions about human rights when assessing new suppliers. HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. All employees are required to undergo 4 hours for Respect for People Training .This training addresses how DuPont expects employees to treat each other, with respect and dignity. In addition, new hires at DuPont Pioneer have to take online anti-harassment training. HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken. As of December 2013, no incidents of discrimination from Audit work were known to the company. HR5 Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association or collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. As of December 2013, none were known to the company. HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labor DuPont is committed to the protection and advancement of human rights wherever we operate. The DuPont Human Rights Policy is based on our core values of Safety and Health, Environmental Stewardship, Ethical Behavior, and Respect for People. This policy operates in conjunction with and is supportive of our Safety, Health and Environmental Commitment, our product stewardship programs, our regulatory compliance program, and our endorsement of the 10 Principles in the UN Global Compact. DuPont will not tolerate the use of illegal or forced child labor in any of its global operations and facilities. We will not tolerate the exploitation of children, their engagement in unacceptably hazardous work, and the physical punishment, abuse, or involuntary servitude of any worker. We expect our suppliers and contractors with whom we do business to uphold the same standards. For purposes of these Principles, we are using the United Nations definition of a “child” as anyone who is less than 16 years of age. DuPont supports temporary workplace internship and apprenticeship education programs for younger persons as well as customary seasonal employment so long as such persons are closely supervised and their morals, safety, health, and compulsory education are not compromised in any way. Additionally, our Pioneer Hi-Bred business is a member of CropLife International, a global federation representing the plant science industry. Pioneer was involved with the preparation of the CropLife Position on Child Labor in the Seed Supply Chain. Pioneer has 50 implemented a child labor prevention program which includes an audit component for the cotton seed operations in India. One of the components is inclusion of a “No Child Labor” clause in our contracts with growers and other third parties. DuPont is extending the effort in our cotton seed operations in India by establishing a Core Values Standards for Supply Chain Contractors. This standard includes steps to prevent child labor, specific direction on migrant labor, field sanitation and other worker rights. This standard also establishes a management structure that will govern the audits and management review of our operations against the standard. This standard is being applied to all of our Pioneer operations globally. Please refer to the DuPont Statement on California Transparency Supply Chains Act for more information on our commitment. HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, measures taken to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor We have not identified our operations as having significant risks for forced or compulsory labor. DuPont’s position on forced or compulsory labor is reflected in the response for HR6 and can be found in our Human Rights Principles. HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. During 2013, 100% of DuPont security personnel are trained in Human Rights policies as part of obligatory Core Values training. HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken. No incidents involving rights of indigenous people noted during audits. HR10 Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews and/or impact assessments DuPont businesses systematically perform human rights reviews on an on-going basis for Contract Manufacturers and Field Labor. In addition, DuPont has the following policies and processes in place to uphold the protection and advancement of human rights wherever we operate:  Corporate policy on human rights  Human rights governance process (which includes a senior vice president, a steering team, and a leadership team)  Suppliers screenings for human rights  Requirement of adherence to human rights in our contracts  Periodic contract administration on-site assessments  Periodic Safety, Health and Environment audits of contractors the includes a human rights assessment HR11 Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms. DuPont does have a grievance line in place for general Core Value concerns, including respect for people or people treatment. This does not specifically account for human rights incidents. The DuPont human rights council is working on establishing a formal process for tracking human rights incidents to be initiated in 2014. 51 Societal Summary We believe collaborations are needed to address the dynamic needs of the growing world. As the world’s population grows, demand for natural resources is increasing, while availability is decreasing. The world is undergoing transformational change triggered by global population growth and the rising middle class in developing geographies. DuPont is responding to meet the increasing demand for food, decreasing dependence on fossil fuels, protecting lives and the environment and meeting emerging markets’ demand for science-based solutions. Today, thousands of DuPont people are collaborating with stakeholders and partners – including customers, governments and communities – to meet these complex challenges that will define the coming decades. Global Leadership Climate Change DuPont is a leader on climate change. DuPont began taking action to address climate change almost twenty years ago. We have accomplished major global reductions in our own greenhouse gas emissions, and we continue to set ambitious goals for additional emission reductions. We publicly report our corporate emissions data and associated climate risks and opportunities through the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). DuPont is focused both on reducing our own footprint and on delivering solutions that help our customers conserve and use energy efficiently. We are applying our science to develop technologies and materials that will help enable energy generation, improve efficiency, and reduce greenhouse gas emissions across value chains in a wide range of sectors. UN Global Compact DuPont is a member of the UN Global Compact which is a strategic policy initiative for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. Collaborating with our Communities DuPont improves the quality of life and enhances the vitality of the communities in which we operate by supporting community sustainability efforts. Sustainable communities recognize the interdependence of social progress, economic success and environmental excellence. Through financial contributions and the active volunteer participation of employees, DuPont provides support to programs and non-profit organizations that address one or more components of community sustainability. Over the next several years, DuPont will be making a step change in its Corporate Giving and Outreach approach to focus it to advance the impact it has on our communities and on DuPont’s Corporate Purpose to meet the challenges around feeding the world, creating a sustainable energy future, protecting people and the environment, and creating a future STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Math) ready workforce. DuPont has a global presence with each facility leader empowered to work with local community leaders to better understand and support local community sustainability initiatives in accordance with our stated corporate giving philosophy. Through support of funds and volunteers at the local level and through our Community Fund/Volunteer Recognition efforts DuPont can better focus on meeting the needs of the local community with a goal of being a good community partner. In the USA, Canada and Latin America, DuPont works closely with the United Way organization. Activities include corporate and employee giving and paid time off for volunteer activities at United Way agencies. Most of these activities and funds go directly into local community agencies. DuPont strongly supports education as a key component to a sustainable community and to enable youth to be prepared for the future. We have a commitment globally to improve science education at the K-12 level focused on systemic reform such as Common Core Standards and Next Gen Science, increasing teacher proficiency through our relationship with the National Science Teachers Association and FAA, making STEM fun and exciting for students to encourage the pursuit of science at both the National Level through programs such as the DuPont Challenge Essay Contest, Science Olympiad and FIRST® Robotics and at the local level by working with State government and schools through individual volunteer efforts . We also advocate for STEM literacy through strategic 52 partnerships with organizations such as Change the Equation and STEMConnector. Through its 12-year Partnership with the United States Conference of Mayors, DuPont has awarded more than $4 million to cities across the country to assist in making their communities lead-safe. In addition, DuPont has visited 250 cities with its Science in the School Day Program -joining DuPont engineers and scientists with mayors to get students excited about science and engineering. Through hands-on activities, students are encouraged explore engineering concepts and to pursue careers in the sciences. At the University level, grants to universities extend to more than 200 colleges and universities worldwide, expanding DuPont access to leading-edge research and continuing our investment in the development of a highly skilled workforce and a scientifically literate citizenry. Higher Education Partnerships operate at both the undergraduate and the graduate level, with many initiatives focused on increased participation of underrepresented populations. Government Affairs Our government affairs organization works to understand the corporate direction of DuPont and individual business priorities and then engages in federal, state, and international public policy processes ranging from climate change to chemical management. We are focused on the following primary external activities: Advocacy: Identifying, building and maintaining relationships that are critical to success in the public policy process. Public Policy: Proactively engaging in federal, state and international public policy processes, which include legislative, executive branch and regulatory involvement, as appropriate. Business Collaboration: Partnering with DuPont businesses and select functions to identify, pursue and secure opportunities in the government market spaces. 53 Society Performance Indicators SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs. While percentage cannot be calculated at this time, the majority of DuPont sites are involved in many initiatives focused around local community engagement. Through the DuPont Community Fund and individualized initiatives focused on specific community needs, the sites work closely with the community to help enhance and strengthen them. By the end of 2014 all sites in the US and Canada will have a community outreach plan in place for implementation in 2015 based on a corporate framework. By the end of 2015 all plants will have plans in place allowing us to better understand, leverage and implement at the local level. The DuPont Center for Philanthropy and Education (CPE) works with educators, university faculty, the business community and local DuPont sites to prepare today's children for tomorrow's world. Our goal is to ensure that the next generation of citizens has a working knowledge of the unique method of science and a reasoned understanding of science as a domain of human knowledge. To that end, CPE is engaged in a variety of collaborative initiatives to bring inquiry-based science programs to communities where we operate, to nurture young Americans' interest in science and mathematics professions through national and international competitions, to increase the numbers of underrepresented minorities prepared for careers in science and mathematics, and to safeguard the competence of our teachers of science and mathematics. See our Position Statement on local sustainable development at http://www.dupont.com/corporate-functions/news-andevents/insights/articles/position-statements/articles/sustainable-development-local-sustainability.html. SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption. In 2013, 11% of audits incorporated risks related to corruption. SO3 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption. 100% of DuPont employees are trained in the organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures. Every employee is required to complete the DuPont’s Code of Conduct web-based training module on an annual basis, which contains elements of ethics, anticorruption, and related topics. The Code of Conduct provides a framework for employees to interact within and outside the company while adhering to the DuPont’s Highest Ethical Behavior Core Value. The Code of Conduct and related training are available in 24 languages. SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. When a suspected incident indicating corruption, or any other Core Values violations, the Global Ethics Investigations team gathers data required to facilitate a decision whether to pursue the issue. If the issue is pursued, a full investigation is conducted, disciplinary action taken; a root cause analysis conducted, and related control improvements are implemented if necessary. SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying DuPont maintains many policy positions and participates in public policy development ranging from climate change to chemical management. Below are some efforts and for a complete listing, please refer to our position statements (http://www.dupont.com/corporate-functions/news-and-events/insights/articles/position-statements.html). 54 Climate Change DuPont began taking action to address climate change almost 20 years ago. We believe the scientific understanding of climate change is sufficient to compel prompt, effective actions to limit emissions of greenhouse gases. We believe that to be successful these actions will require concerted engagement by the world’s governments, along with technological innovations by businesses, and individual actions by all citizens. We believe any strategy to address climate change must be both environmentally effective and economically sustainable. Policy solutions must be good for the environment, for business, and for people around the world. To encourage environmentally effective and economically sustainable policy actions, DuPont is actively engaging with policymakers and other business and NGO stakeholders from around the world to develop constructive public policies to address global climate change. For example, DuPont is engaged in advocacy work to support a proposed amendment to the Montreal Protocol that would develop a cap and reduction plan for hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs), similar to what was done for CFCs under the Montreal Protocol. Significant progress on climate change could be made by ensuring and accelerating the transition to next generation alternatives with significantly lower global warming potential. Please see our Position Statement on the Montreal Protocol: http://www.dupont.com/corporate-functions/news-and-events/insights/articles/position-statements/articles/montreal-protocol.html and our Position Statement on Climate Change: http://www.dupont.com/corporate-functions/our-company/insights/articles/positionstatements/articles/climate-change.html. Agricultural Biotechnology Biotechnology holds a great deal of promise to enhance our lives and planet. With a world population expected to reach nine billion by 2050, biotechnology offers new potential for sustainable living, healthy eating and battling diseases while reducing our footprint on the planet. We believe the broad field of biotechnology presents important opportunities that should be explored and developed to identify those safe and commercially viable applications that bring significant benefits to society. These opportunities arise in areas including food, materials, energy generation, polymers, sensors and electronics. Benefits may include lower cost, higher quality products and reduced reliance on fossil fuels along with other environmental benefits. Biodiversity Protection of the world’s biodiversity is an important societal need, as well as a critical requirement for developing new products. As part of our corporate commitment to sustainable growth, DuPont seeks to conserve and protect natural resource biodiversity; consider concerns of local communities in the selection, design, production, and introduction of our products; and publicly advocate positions consistent with this commitment. Bioethics We have developed Bioethics Guiding Principles that guide us operationally and are further confirmation of our commitment to stakeholders as we pursue the opportunities and resulting benefits Biotechnology can offer the world. The Principles reflect independent work by the University of Pennsylvania Bioethics Center, along with direct guidance from the DuPont external Biotechnology Advisory Panel and influence from other diverse, international groups with whom we interact. We are committed to continuous learning and improvement, to address emerging issues and to adjust as needed. SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions by country DuPont sponsors a Political Action Committee (PAC) called the DuPont Good Government Fund (DGGF). The DGGF is managed by the DuPont Government Affairs Advisory Council (GAAC) which has the responsibility to review and approve all DGGF political contributions. GAAC members represent a cross-section of business interests and include several members of the DuPont executive management leadership team. The DGGF activities are authorized by federal law in the United States which allows DuPont to solicit funds from eligible employees for the purpose of providing financial support to political candidates. Both corporate and PAC contributions are made to candidates who have demonstrated a positive concern for issues that are important to the businesses and markets in which the Company operates, and are based on the following criteria, among others:  The candidates demonstrated honesty, integrity, effectiveness, and commitment to good governance;  The candidates’ understanding and support for issues important to DuPont and its employees; 55  The location of DuPont employees and/or facilities in the candidates’ state or district;  The candidates’ position in leadership or in key committees, or the candidates’ potential for leadership;  The candidates’ financial need and chance of being elected; and  The alignment of the candidates’ voting record with DuPont’s values and positions. For a detailed listing, please refer to our Corporate Political Contributions which will be posted on our Corporate Governance site. SO7 Total number of legal actions for anticompetitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes. DuPont accrues for liabilities related to litigation when a loss is probable and reasonably estimable. DuPont discusses legal matters in its SEC reports that it believes reasonable investors would consider material to their investment decision-making. See for example, DuPont's discussion of Titanium Dioxide Antitrust Litigation discussed in the 2013 Form 10k. SEC filings website: http://investors.dupont.com/phoenix.zhtml?c=73320&p=irol-irhome SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulations. Please refer to SO7. S09 Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities. Please refer to SO10 SO10 Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities. DuPont has safety, health, and environment (SHE) standards as well as engineering standards to prevent and mitigate negative impact of operations on local communities, along with internal and external experts. 56 Product Stewardship Implementation of the Product Stewardship & Regulatory Management System (PS&R MS) has provided DuPont businesses a standardized framework for planning, implementing and measuring performance of priority work for meeting global regulatory requirements while allowing flexibility to meet the specific needs of individual businesses. The PS&R MS is a proven and valued process and a cornerstone of our commitment to Product Stewardship and Responsible Care®. In 2004, DuPont made a commitment to the American Chemistry Council to adopt a new management system approach for implementing Responsible Care® in the U.S., including mandatory independent third-party certification. At the time there was no standardized approach to planning and executing the product stewardship activities and there was no formal approach to monitoring and evaluating performance. The decision was made to implement the Responsible Care® management system for all DuPont businesses, globally. The PS&R MS has provided an integrated, structured approach to improve planning processes, drive execution, develop transparent business product stewardship metrics and measure performance. A key part of the Responsible Care® commitment is mandatory certification by an independent, accredited auditor. All of the more than 220 companies taking part in the Responsible Care® initiative at the American Chemistry Council undergo headquarters and facility audits to assure that they have a system in place to measure, manage and verify performance. For DuPont, product stewardship certifications occur through business audits. This is a unique element to the DuPont implementation and was first accomplished in 2007. The PS&R MS process begins with a strong commitment from business leadership. Business and Corporate leadership annually review the continuing suitability, adequacy and effectiveness of the PS&R MS and makes any necessary changes to enhance performance. The PS&R MS has delivered significant improvements in closure of action items, on-time completion of product stewardship reviews, worldwide training and assurance of PS assessment of all new products prior to commercialization. The PS&R MS also established business PS metrics with action levels for businesses and the PS Incident Program. Inherent in this framework is a commitment to continual improvement. 57 Product Responsibility Performance Indicators PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and service categories to such procedures Our goal for new product stewardship reviews is 100% and our actual completed reviews in 2013 were 98.4%. As part of our comprehensive Product Stewardship & Regulatory Management system, the goal is to have all new and existing products and services covered by a product stewardship review. Product stewardship reviews for all products and services are scheduled, conducted and documented prior to commercialization and repeated on a periodic frequency (e.g. every 2, 3 or 4 years) commensurate with risk. The product stewardship review process is one means to verify that effective risk assessment and risk management processes are implemented for each product or product line and to identify opportunities for continuous improvement. The process also requires businesses to conduct product stewardship reviews when significant changes to hazard, exposure, product use, regulatory, or other information is obtained. PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes Product Stewardship Reviews completed during the 2013 reporting period revealed compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning known safety or health impacts. All businesses receive an annual internal Product Stewardship & Regulatory Management System audit and an assessment of incidents is included in the performance measurement section of the audit program. External verification that our product stewardship program meets the American Chemistry Council's requirements was achieved in 2007 and was verified again in 2013. PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of significant products and services subject to such information requirements The goal for information requirements covered in the table below is part of our product stewardship review requirement. The product and service categories subject to such requirements is 100%. Actual completed reviews in 2013 were 98.4%. The product and service information contained in the table is accessible for all products through Material Safety Data Sheets and product labels where required by hazard communication laws and requirements. This information is also reviewed as part of our product stewardship review process for all new and existing products and services. The review includes an assessment of the applicability of regulations, legislation and other Responsible Care® related requirements. Additional customer support may be obtained by contacting Customer Service (FIND.INFO@usa.dupont.com) or the Material Safety Data Sheet coordinator at the contact information provided on the data sheet. 58 PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes All businesses receive an annual internal Product Stewardship & Regulatory Management System audit and an assessment of incidents is included in the performance measurement section of the audit program. External verification that our product stewardship program meets the American Chemistry Council's requirements was achieved in 2007 and was verified again in 2010. Three incidents of non-compliance with regulations were identified during the 2013 reporting period. Each of the recorded incidents involved incorrect information on a product label, such as incorrect language. In each case there was no known safety or health impact identified prior to the corrections being made. In each case, improved labeling management practices and stakeholder engagement improvements resulted to prevent reoccurrence. PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction DuPont uses a customer loyalty measurement and improvement system rather than a focus on customer satisfaction, since satisfaction is not a predictor of customer behavior. A metric is in place to track customer loyalty, based on customer ratings of DuPont performance in support of our businesses. Additional customer input provides insights that indicate drivers of loyalty or disloyalty, so that actionable steps can be considered and taken in follow-up. A standardized survey is deployed electronically to customers and is targeted for decision-makers and decision-influencers in top customer companies that represent value chain positions where business and marketing strategy is focused. It is a targeted relationship survey, so it is not sent to all customers. Only a few high-level questions are involved. Businesses provide customer names and related input to the survey process that enables depth of analysis. Businesses then employ processes for listening, acting and tracking improvement opportunities and their impact on both customers and the business. Results are business-specific, though customer responses are not related to individual products or locations of operations. DuPont does not communicate externally about its customer loyalty metric. General results show ongoing improvement in the metric, which has been in place for 6 years as of end-of-year 2013. PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship The product stewardship review process is one means to connect with marketing communication across the organization. The product stewardship review process assesses banned and restricted lists in certain markets, weighs public perception, and is used to engage stakeholders along the product trail for each product, product line or service. The process also requires businesses to conduct product stewardship reviews when significant changes occur in any of these areas. In addition, as part of the product stewardship review process, feedback from all stakeholders is assessed (e.g., customer complaints, technical issues, concerns, etc.) and may result in product changes or other improvements. All new and existing products and services are required to have a product stewardship review scheduled, conducted and documented prior to commercialization and repeated on a periodic frequency (e.g. every 2, 3 or 4 years) commensurate with risk. DuPont developed, and continues to use, an environmental marketing claims online application to evaluate all environmental marketing claims made by the 12 business units in the company (as of end-of-year 2013), thus avoiding exaggerated or false claims. In addition, the DuPont legal team regularly reviews all marketing materials including web content, marketing claims, marketing communications, and trade show materials. 59 PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes Product Stewardship Reviews completed during the 2013 reporting period revealed compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning known safety or health impacts. In addition, all press releases mentioning sustainability are vetted before being published for evidence of greenwashing or inaccuracies. PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data. Where the reporting organization has not identified any substantiated complaints, a brief statement to this fact is sufficient. We are not aware of any complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and loss of customer data in 2013. PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services. Where the reporting organization has not identified any non-compliance with laws or regulations, a brief statement to this fact is sufficient. We are not aware of any fines or penalties for non-compliance with laws and regulations regarding our products and services in 2013. 60 GRI Index GRI Description Page GRI Profile Reporting Disclosure Level Strategy and Analysis Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the 1.1 organization. 4 Full 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. 5 Full Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the Organization. 8 Full 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. 8 Full 2.3 Operational Structure. 8 Full 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters. 8 Full 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates. 8 Full 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. 9 Full 2.7 Markets Served. 9 Full 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. 10 Full 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period. 11 Full 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. 11 Full Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting Period. 12 Full 3.2 Date of the most recent previous report. 12 Full 3.3 Reporting Cycle. 12 Full Contact point for questions regarding the report or its 3.4 content. 12 Full 3.5 Process for defining report content. 12 Full 3.6 Boundary of the report. 13 Full 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary. 13 Full Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that 3.8 can significantly affect comparability. 13 Full 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of 13 Full 61 calculations. Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of 3.10 information provided in earlier reports. 13 Full 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods. 13 Full 3.12 Table identiying the location of the Standard Disclosures. 13 Full Policy and current practice with regard to seeking 3.13 external assurance. 14 Full Governance, Commitments, and Engagement 4.1 Governance structure of the organization. 15 Full Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance 4.2 body is also an executive officer. 16 Full State the number of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive 4.3 members. 16 Full Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance 4.4 body. 16 Full Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and 4.5 executives and the organization’s performance. 16 Full Processes in place for the highest governance body to 4.6 ensure conflicts of interests are avoided. 17 Full Process for determining the qualifications and expertise 4.7 of the members of the highest governance body. 17 Full Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of 4.8 their implementation. 17 Full Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s identification and management of economic, environmental, and social 4.9 performance. 18 Full 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s 18 Full 62 own performance. Explanation of whether and how the precautionary 4.11 approach or principle is addressed. 18 Full Externally developed economic, environmental, and 4.12 social charters, principles, or other initiatives. 18 Full Memberships in associations and/or 4.13 national/international advocacy organizations. 19 Full 4.14 List of stakeholder groups. 20 Full Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders 4.15 with whom to engage. 20 Full 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement. 20 Full Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement and how the organization has 4.17 responded. 20 Full Economic Performance Indicators Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital EC1 providers and governments. 23 Full Financial implications and other risks and opportunities EC2 for the organization’s activities due to climate change. 24 Partial Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan EC3 obligations. 25 Full Significant financial assistance received from EC4 government. 25 Partial Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to EC5 local minimum wage at significant locations of operation. 25 Partial Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community at EC7 significant locations of operation. 25 Partial Development and impact of infrastructure investments EC8 and services provided primarily for public benefit 25 Partial 63 through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. Understanding and describing significant indirect EC9 economic impacts, including the extent of impacts. 26 Partial Environmental Performance Indicators EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. 30 Full EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. 31 Full Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency EN5 improvements. 31 Partial Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, and reductions in EN6 energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. 32 Full Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and EN7 reductions achieved. 33 Partial EN8 Total water withdrawals by source. 33 Full Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of EN9 water. 33 Full Percentage and total volume of water recycled and EN10 reused. 33 Partial Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high EN11 biodiversity value outside protected areas. 34 Partial Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas EN12 of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. 34 Partial EN13 Habitats protected or restored. 34 Full Strategies, current actions, and future plans for EN14 managing impacts on biodiversity. 35 Partial Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by EN16 weight. 35 Full Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by EN17 weight. 36 Full Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and EN18 reductions achieved. 36 Full 64 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type EN20 and weight. 37 Full EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. 38 Partial EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. 38 Partial EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. 4O Partial Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the reporting organization’s discharges of water and EN25 runoff. 40 Full Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products EN26 and services, and extent of impact mitigation. 40 Full Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with EN28 environmental laws and regulations. 41 Partial Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of EN29 the workforce. 41 Partial Total environmental protection expenditures and EN30 investments by type. 41 Partial Labor Performance Indicators Total workforce by employment type, employment LA1 contract, and region, broken down by gender. 44 Partial Total number and rate of employee turnover by age LA2 group, gender and region. 44 Partial Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by major LA3 operations. 44 Full Percentage of employees covered by collective LA4 bargaining agreements. 44 Partial Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes, including whether it is specified in LA5 collective agreements. 46 Full 65 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities LA7 by region. 46 Full Education, training, counseling, prevention, and riskcontrol programs in place to assist workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious LA8 diseases. 47 Partial Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees LA11 and assist them in managing career endings. 48 Partial Percentage of employees receiving regular performance LA12 and career development reviews. 48 Partial Human Rights Performance Indicators Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors, and other business partners that have undergone human HR2 rights screening, and actions taken. 50 Partial Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of HR3 employees trained. 50 Partial Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken. HR4 50 Partial Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association or collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and HR5 actions taken to support these rights. 50 Partial Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to HR6 contribute to the elimination of child labor. 50 Full Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, measures taken HR7 to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory 51 Full 66 labor. Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s policies or procedures concerning aspects HR8 of human rights that are relevant to operations. 51 Full Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of HR9 indigenous people and actions taken. 51 Full Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews and/or impact HR10 assessments. 51 Partial Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance HR11 mechanisms. 51 Partial Society Performance Indicators Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and SO1 development programs. 54 Partial Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption. SO2 54 Full Percentage and total number of business units analyzed SO3 for risks related to corruption. 54 Full Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. SO4 54 Full Public policy positions and participation in public policy SO5 development and lobbying. 54 Full Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions by SO6 country. 55 Partial Total number of legal actions for anticompetitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their SO7 outcomes. 56 Partial Monetary value of significant fines and total number of SO8 non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws 56 Partial 67 and regulations Operations with significant potential or actual negative SO9 impacts on local communities. 56 Partial Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with significant potential or actual negative SO10 impacts on local communities. 56 Full Product Responsibility Performance Indicators Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and service categories PR1 to such procedures. 58 Full Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services during their PR2 life cycle, by type of outcomes. 58 Full Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of significant products and PR3 services subject to such information requirements. 58 Full Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and PR4 service information and labeling, by type of outcomes. 59 Full Practices related to customer satisfaction, including PR5 results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. 59 Partial Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, PR6 including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. 59 Partial Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and PR7 sponsorship by type of outcomes. 60 Full Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and PR9 use of products and services. Where the reporting 60 Full 68 organization has not identified any non-compliance with laws or regulations, a brief statement to this fact is sufficient. 69
