COP 2014 This COP covers the period from 21/10-2013 to 21/10_2014 The company Jyden Work wear A/S is an international trading and production company that has been in existence for 90-years. We design, produce and sell our work wear in Denmark and abroad. Our product range is quite extensive, enabling us to meet the demands within many different work wear areas. Furthermore, we are capable of developing and producing specific solutions for our customers with special needs. Our quality control procedures are applied prior, during and after production to ensure high standards regarding design, comfort and wearability. Statement of continued support by the chief executive officer To our stakeholders I am pleased to confirm that Jyden Work Wear A/S reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and AntiCorruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. The past year has been a satisfying year for Jyden regarding our work with social and environmental responsibility. Our 2014 CSR management work has focussed on assessing risks within the areas of labour, environment, human rights and anti-corruption. The findings have helped us to readjust our strategy and we developed a simple and effective action plan to tackle the identified risks. Periodic evaluations have been planned so that we can instigate preventative measures and thereby try to avoid negative impacts. Due to the nature of our business and the external influences, it can be rather difficult to control and monitor all of the daily operations linked to our value chain. Our procedures are therefore based on due diligence and monitoring through accredited certifications, audits and company initiatives. In the coming year we will continue to work with the Global compact ten principles in our daily operations and an evaluation of our CSR work scheduled at the end of this year will put the final touches regarding the specific initiatives in our 2015 action plan. Sincerely yours Ole Sørensen Adm.Director Assessment The following description covers assessment of Human rights, Anti corruption, Environment and Labour of: Our Business partners A 2014 scheduled risk assessment, showed again that most of the critical impacts associated to human rights, anti-corruption, environment and labour issues are related to our suppliers outside the EU and that information and a more formal approach was needed. We started with a general assessment of our suppliers by using a questionnaire regarding human rights, anti-corruption, labour and environment. The questionnaire as well as our code of conduct, our environmental requirements and our workers rights documents are sent to the suppliers who are asked to read them, answer the questions and sign them. We evaluate the supplier’s situation according to the answers and revert with input in any areas that we deem to be either unacceptable or “grey” areas. We also inform our suppliers of the various tools and resources available that can help them in their sustainability work. A more thorough assessment is made in specific cases involving specific products and or services especially in cases where manufacturing of our products occurs in highrisk countries and industries. In these cases, we ask for third party certifications and or audits to verify compliance to Social and environmental requirements. During 2014, we developed our clean purchasing policy so that it is more specific to the ten principles of Global compact. Jyden undertakes “Due diligence” of all new suppliers before they become a Jyden supplier. It has been decided that our clean purchasing policy will include procedures that follow certain phases. The first phase is that the supplier in question complies with all country regulations regarding labour, environment, human rights and anti-corruption. The second phase involves the suppliers own CSR work and to what degree they go beyond country regulations. The final evaluation phase will involve the existence of third party certifications and audits. Third party accredited compliance systems are a very effective way of assessing a business partners and we are urging all our existing suppliers to start working with such schemes. Our operations locally We perform a risk assessment through a yearly evaluation that covers the global compact ten principles. We use a questionnaire for the management and one for the employees and the results are used to plan and set down the action plan for the following year. Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Jyden’s stand: Respect and support with the internationally recognised human rights such as the universal declaration of human rights throughout all of our operations. Human rights abuses will not be tolerated. We will not trade with suppliers that break the corruption principles and with any suppliers that do not comply with the internationally recognised principles such as the universal declaration of human rights, ILO and children’s rights. Implementation and Measurable results During 2014, Jyden undertook due diligence of several suppliers regarding principles 1 and 2. One new supplier was chosen for further cooperation. We have our own employees in Vietnam that amongst other duties perform regular visits to the production facilities and report back on any human rights abuses. We visit our overseas suppliers at least 2 times a year where we also discuss human rights issues regarding principles 1 and 2. Information about Human Rights. Employees are informed of the importance of Jyden’s stand on human rights. Another initiative for this past year, has been the introduction of an “employees input system” where employees are encouraged to put forward ideas, complaints or any input that they feel is important to them. These inputs are then taken up in our weekly company meetings. Locally, Jyden decided to support the hospital clowns that perform for children. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Our aim: Provide a healthy and pleasant work environment that takes both the physical and psychological considerations regarding employees engaged throughout our operations. Our stand: Jyden respects the right of employees to have workers representation and the right to join associations. We do not tolerate forced, compulsory and child labour. We are committed to providing equal opportunities and avoiding discrimination. We expect that our business partners work with the same views and uphold the laws of the country they operate in as a minimum Implementation and measurable results As stated above, assessment of the labour conditions occurred through our scheduled risk assessment, but also through regular visits to our suppliers. We had a particular focus with a supplier in Bangladesh where building and safety conditions were found to be below standard. As a result, of our cooperation with the Danish embassy that has a program aimed at training the factory personnel and correcting the safety standards, the negative safety findings were corrected. We were able to observe in our last visit that functional fire extinguishers have been placed correctly and railing has been installed along the 4 storey staircase. We have our own employees in Vietnam that amongst other duties perform regular visits to the production facilities and report back on any labour issues misconduct. Our work environment evaluation report is due to take place by the end of the year and based on the results we take action to correct any areas shown to be lacking. All employees at Jyden receive an employee handbook when they start work. The handbook contains our policies on practical issues such as security, use of localities, work clothes, working times, work clothes, relocating, use of calendar and personal buying policy. The employees are also informed about the smoking and alcohol policy, IT confidentiality policy, support for courses and further education, work insurance and pension cover, salary details and meetings with management The handbook informs the workers of their rights regarding Sickness, doctor visits, holidays, maternity leave and breaks, dismissal and resignation. The management also decided to involve the employees in this process so that they can come with input about human rights and workers issues. As part of our 2015 action plan, we are planning to introduce the work environment evaluation system that we are using here in Denmark to our suppliers. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Our business pollutes throughout the life cycle of the products and our goal is to reduce the these environmental impacts. We are committed to continuous improvement of our impacts throughout the life cycle of our products. Assessment and Implementation Undertaking due diligence is part of our new supplier policy and this has been very evident in 2014 where we started with a possible major supplier. In cooperation with one of our customers, we investigated if the following: 1. Whether the company had a quality management system 2. Whether they make a green report yearly about the environment 3. If they have a written environmental policy 4. Do they have EMAS/ISO 14001 5. Do they have any certifications 6. Whether they can document the energy, chemical and water consumption for each product 7. Do they have a waste water treatment facility 8. Whether they use biodegradable sizing agents or reuse of these 9. Whether the dyes used comply with the criteria set out by the EU or Nordic Ecolabels 10. Whether carcinogenic chemicals, chlorine or optical brightener have been used 11. Whether the products comply with heavy metal and formaldehyde use according to the EU and Nordic Ecolabels criteria 12. Whether the polyester has been produced according to the EU Ecolabel The answers were evaluated and as a result, a dialogue is taking place about correcting some of the issues as well as discussing the joining of the supplier to the EU Ecolabel scheme. We have also been in dialogue with our existent suppliers carrying the EU Ecolabel about the revision of the EU Ecolabel criteria which have include organic cotton content of minimum 10% and up to 95% for certain products. Our suppliers have until the middle of next year to re-apply and awarded the licence and we are offering help to those that require it. We expect that our Ecolabelled suppliers will continue maintaining the Ecolabel licence. Locally, we are in the process of changing all our services and products used at our premises to Ecolabelled wherever possible. A waste system based on prevention, reuse and recycling is in place. Information about the waste procedures are explained to employees. Products that can be returned are returned, separate bins with labels are placed for separating waist according to the municipality and local waste station requirements. We are always looking at new technologies regarding sustainable solutions that may be relevant to us and also our suppliers. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Jyden policy states clearly that corruption in all its forms including extortion and bribery are not tolerated. Moreover all elements of Jyden’s activities are completely transparent which reduces the element of corruption greatly. Assessment and Implementation A more detailed examination in 2014 of Jydens anti corruption procedure pointed to the risk that Jyden needed to formalise its procedures to include several initiatives. These are planned for 2015 and include: Better information and communication of polices to stakeholders Training for key staff Written rules about cash bribes, gifts, entertainment and political contributions Possibilities in contractual anti-corruption clauses
