United Nations Global Compact Martogg Group of Companies – Communication on Progress Update March 2014 Martogg Group of Companies Locked Bag 1445 Telephone + 61 3 9791 5633 Dandenong South B/C 3164 Telefax + 61 3 9794 0971 Victoria, Australia Email plastics@martogg.com.au www.martogg.com.au Executive statement March 2014 The Martogg Group of Companies is a privately owned Australian business involved in the following commercial activities • Sale and distribution of plastic raw materials. • Manufacture, marketing of polymer compounds and masterbatches. • Manufacture and marketing of plastic raw materials based on recycled polymer feedstocks. The Martogg Group is one of Australia’s leading plastics raw material suppliers and has been providing quality polymer products to the diverse Australian plastics conversion industry since 1975. The Martogg Group acknowledges the importance of following the principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the operation of our business and expects that our customers, suppliers/ vendors and other business partners do the same. The Martogg Group of Companies carries out its business in a transparent and ethical manner and in accordance with all Australian legislative requirements. We believe that the United Nations Global Compact provides solid guidelines to support and sustain our business practises. Update March 2014: The Martogg Group remains undiminished in its commitment to the principles of the UN Global Compact which are entirely consistent with the Martogg Group’s business ethics. We continue to uphold the principles outlined in the compact in all of our operations and in full compliance with all Australian statutory requirements. Marcus Hogg – Managing Director Martogg Group and the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact. Martogg Group works with and relates to the ten principles of the United Nations Global compact in the following ways. Principle 1 and 2 – Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. • Martogg Group supports the Global Compact principles on human rights. • Martogg Group policies ensure that all of our operations are carried out in accordance with the relevant Australian legislative framework and the tenets of the Declaration of Human Rights. Principle 3, 4, 5 and 6 – Labour • Martogg Group supports the Global Compact principles on labour standards and adheres to all Australian labour and anti-discrimination laws in this regard. Martogg Group policies neither permit nor condone unethical and discriminatory behaviours and practises. • In addition Martogg Group is committed to providing its employees with a safe working environment and embarked on implementing an Occupational Health and Safety Management System that will meet the requirements of AS/NZS 4801.2001 in 2013 due for completion in 2014. Martogg Group of Companies Locked Bag 1445 Telephone + 61 3 9791 5633 Dandenong South B/C 3164 Telefax + 61 3 9794 0971 Victoria, Australia Email plastics@martogg.com.au www.martogg.com.au Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; • All Martogg Group employees are free to join the union of their choice for inter alia the purposes of collective bargaining. We keep no record of union membership as we regard this to be a matter for the individual employee solely. Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; • No Martogg Group employee has been or will be coerced or compelled to work for the company. All Martogg Group employees join the company by choice and may leave their employment of their own volition subject to any contractual or industry award terms of employment which are governed by Australian Industrial law. Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and • Martogg Group’s polices permit no children to be employed in any of our operations. Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. • Martogg Group is an equal opportunity employer. Martogg’s workforce is currently made up of employees of 20 different nationalities which reflect the diverse nature of contemporary Australian society. Table 1 shows the Martogg Group’s broad employee mix for 2013. African 4% Australian/NZ 55% European 3% Maori/Pacific Islander 19% Middle East 1% SE Asian 9% South Asian/Afghan 10% Total 100% We do not discriminate in respect to employment opportunities within our organisation. Principle 7, 8 and 9 – Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. • Martogg Group recognises the need for all businesses to reduce their environmental footprint and has invested substantially since 2006 to develop a commercially viable recycled polymers business to this end. • Martogg Group has reduced its internal waste to landfill volumes through its investment in its recycling business • Martogg Group actively promotes and markets recycled polymers as alternatives to virgin resin products where appropriate and fit for purpose. • Martogg Group has continued to invest in environmentally friendly technologies and has expanded its recycling production capacity and capability. As a result of this investment, sales of polymer products made from recycled industrial plastic waste have continued to grow and now account for over 20% of the Group’s sales volume in 2011. Martogg Group of Companies Locked Bag 1445 Telephone + 61 3 9791 5633 Dandenong South B/C 3164 Telefax + 61 3 9794 0971 Victoria, Australia Email plastics@martogg.com.au www.martogg.com.au • Martogg Group’s sustained investment in recycled polymer capability and capacity has increased the proportion of Group’s sales volume made from recycled industrial plastic waste feed stocks to 28% in 2012. • Martogg group invested in additional recycled polymer capacity in 2013 and maintained the recycled polymer proportion of the Group’s sales at 28%. Principle 10 – Anti-corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery • Martogg Group supports the Global Compact principles on anti-corruption. • The company operates entirely within the framework of Australian legislation in this regard and has zero tolerance of any form of corruption, extortion and bribery from its employees, suppliers/vendors, customers and other business partners. • Martogg Group purchasing policy permits the disqualification and removal of approved suppliers and vendors for inappropriate business ethics including but not limited to extortion and bribery. Update March 2014: Martogg Group continues to maintain zero tolerance of any form of corruption, extortion and bribery from its employees, suppliers/vendors, customers and other business partners. Martogg Group of Companies Locked Bag 1445 Telephone + 61 3 9791 5633 Dandenong South B/C 3164 Telefax + 61 3 9794 0971 Victoria, Australia Email plastics@martogg.com.au www.martogg.com.au
