7 Warwick Court London WC1R 5DJ United Kingdom T: +44 (0)20 7611 1750 F: +44 (0)20 7681 1007 E: info@dints-international.com www.dints-international.com 11 June 2014 Dints International Communication on Progress 2014 Dints International is fully committed to upholding the ten principles of the UN Global Compact and I am delighted to present our 2014 Communication on Progress. These principles are at the core of our work and we believe that responsible and sustainable business can be a powerful development tool. From a personal perspective, the principles are one of the main reasons that I started the company. My vision is to create a system of business, primarily in Africa and developing markets, that supports the communities in which we work. I believe that by creating a business environment that inherently adheres to the Global Compact it will make sense both financially and developmentally for all stakeholders to be a part of it. This communication reaffirms Dints’ support of the Global Compact and describes the activities that we have undertaken in the past year to continue to embed the principles in our business. I look forward to the leaps that we are expecting to make in the coming year and reporting on our progress in 2015. Geoffrey de Mowbray CEO Chief Executive and Founder: Geoffrey de Mowbray Dints International Ltd is a company registered in England and Wales. Registered number: 06075058 Registered office: Second Floor, Windsor House, 40-41 Great Castle St., London W1W 8LU Human Rights principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Over the past 12 months, Dints International has continued to refer to the UNGC on human rights practices in our dealings with clients and our suppliers to ensure that we are not complicit in human rights abuses. We have appointed an independent HR Director who finalised the staff handbook, which covers areas relating to employment rights. The handbook is freely available to all staff and a copy is provided to each employee and contractor when employment commences. A signed declaration confirming that they have received and read the handbook is requested and kept on file. The HR Director oversees employee welfare and as an independent party is able to provide unbiased mediation of any cases of employee dissatisfaction. To support this, we have taken part in the Human Rights and Business’ quick check on human rights compliance1 and will continue to do this on a yearly basis as the company grows. In all areas of the check, Dints International was compliant. We are pleased to report that in the past year there have been no grievances raised in relation to human rights principles. From an external perspective, Dints International has made public our support for the UN Declaration on Human Rights from our website and will continue this through our marketing materials that are currently being developed. In February 2014, Dints International’s Chief Executive Geoffrey de Mowbray contributed to a roundtable event held in London by the Africa Justice Foundation which considered the rule of law (RoL) in the post-2015 development agenda. The integration of RoL with the human rights principles was part of this discussion. Over the next year we will continue with our current initiatives and explore new ways to further our commitment and support of this principle. 1 http://www.humanrightsbusiness.org/files/Country%20Portal/quick_check_august_2006.pdf Labour principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Dints International does not and will not partner with an organisation that uses forced or child labour. All of our employees are over 18 years and are issued with a contract that clearly states their terms and conditions. All staff have unrestricted access to the staff handbook which includes information on standard terms and conditions of employment, company benefits, company rules, grievance and disciplinary procedures. At the senior management level, there is a 50:50 ratio of male to female and in the company overall a third of the workforce is female. We are proud to be an equal opportunities employer and do not tolerate discrimination of any kind: our multiethnicity staff are from countries around the globe from Togo to France and the UK. In 2014 we implemented a new yearly appraisal system to monitor and evaluate performance as well as allowing staff to reflect on their successes, future development needs and raise any issues or grievances. The appraisals are also in place for senior management and staff are given the opportunity to provide candid, anonymous feedback about their performance. The yearly appraisals provide a formal route for raising grievances. The appointment of the HR Director in 2013 gives all staff the ability to raise issues on an ad-hoc basis and we can report that there have been no grievances raised in the past year. To ensure the safety of employees based at our head office, two staff (one male and one female) underwent health & safety, first aid and fire defence training in November/December 2013. There have been no reported incidents in the workplace. Our business is based in London but all of our work is focused on Africa and we regularly have colleagues ‘in the field’ visiting clients, developing relationships and generally keeping abreast of developments in the African heavy industries. Their safety and security is of the utmost importance to us and in the past year we have formalised all of our policies and subscriptions to services such as International SOS, which provides them with care and assistance should any issues (from a lost passport to security risks) arise when they are on site. To date there have been no incidents that have required these services. Over the next year we will continue with our current initiatives and explore new ways to further our commitment and support of the labour principles. Environment principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Dints International has an environmental policy and in our industry, environmental concerns have to be actively tackled. We are working on major projects with existing mining company clients that will specifically address environmental issues and look forward to detailing the outcome of these in our next report. Throughout our London office we use low energy lighting to reduce energy costs and impact. Using the company Shred-it, we have implemented a ‘shred all’ policy for our discarded paper/cardboard, which not only protects sensitive information but also the environment. All material is recycled by Shred-it and in 2014 and going forward we will be able to report on the weight of our recycling. This policy was put into place in March 2014 so we expect our recycled weight to be up to six times greater in the next year. With our clients, we have managed and delivered engine rebuild services which support Dints’ vision that, by making ethical options make business sense, companies can save money whilst doing good. An engine rebuild can save a client around 60% of the cost of a new machine and means that something that would have otherwise been discarded is re-used therefore reducing the environmental impact. A publication from McKinsey & Co in February 2014 highlighted the importance of a circular economy to make the most of scarce resources as well as masking cost savings2. 2 McKinsey Quarterly, February 2014, http://www.mckinsey.com/Insights/Manufacturing/Remaking_the_industrial_economy Anti-corruption principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Corruption and bribery stifles competition and is a serious barrier to development, which goes against the principles that are at the very core of Dints and our work. Dints International has a clear anti-bribery policy which is provided in the staff handbook, which all staff and contractors must adhere to. Our finance team routinely checks all expenses submitted to ensure that there are no discrepancies and there have been no suspicions or confirmed cases of bribery in the past year. Since mid-2014 it has been made compulsory for all staff and contractors to undertake the UNGC and UNODC The Fight Against Corruption online e-learning modules. To date we have a 100% completion rate and will continue to enforce this as part of new starter inductions.
