Energy – Söderenergi (Sweden) UN Global Compact Progress Report 2013 Highways & Roads – A9 autoroute (France) Light Rail – OV SAAL (the Netherlands) Sustainable Buildings – Ronesans (Turkey) Water – STAR-FLOOD (Europe) Global Compact Progress Report 2013 2 Global Compact Progress Report 2013 Global Compact is an initiative of former UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan, which was launched in January 1999. Global Compact is a call to business world-wide to help build the social and environmental framework to ensure the open and free markets and to ensure that people everywhere have a chance to share the benefits of the new global economy. The Global Compact encompasses 10 principles from international declarations on human rights, labour standards, environment and anti-corruption. Grontmij has committed to uphold the Global Compact and the 10 principles by participating in the initiative, and as part of this commitment to implement the principles as part of its strategy, culture and day-to-day operations. Our progress in this process is reported in the following Communication on Progress 2013. For our offices and contact details, visit www.grontmij.com > addresses Global Compact Progress Report 2013 3 CEO statement Grontmij takes its commitment to the ten principles of the UN’s Global Compact very seriously. As a leading European firm focused on consultancy, design and engineering of the built and natural environment, all activities are driven by our ‘Sustainability by Design’ principle. This approach, which we execute around the world, is fully in line with the Global Compact precept on protection of the environment. It is our job to innovate environmentally responsible ways of managing the resources so that we contribute to conserving, managing, protecting and restoring the natural environment. And to share the knowledge we gain with all stakeholders. We have further used the Global Compact social principles as basis for the development of the Grontmij Integrity Management System (GIMS) that forms the foundation of our day-to-day work. GIMS helps us ensure that in its sphere of influence, Grontmij embraces, supports and acts according to a set of values based on the Global Compact’s principles of human rights, labour standards and anti-corruption. In this respect, Grontmij and its people are engaged in giving positive shape to the social and natural environment – every day. Michiel Jaski CEO Grontmij N.V. Global Compact Progress Report 2013 4 Ten principles In 2012 we implemented a tailored group wide integrity system to our group and our business activities. We identified and defined the components we needed: Responsibility (to our society, environment, stakeholders and employees), Competence, Diligence, Impartiality, Fairness and Anti-Corruption. The integrity system consists of a policy, the business principles, a code of conduct, and a whistle blowing arrangement. Five out of six components are derived from the Code of Ethics of the International Federation of Consulting Engineers (FIDIC). In addition, our Responsibility follows the ten principles of United Nations Global Compact. Furthermore we report yearly our progress on Corporate Responsibility in our CR year report in accordance to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). Principle no. Global compact Principle Process of Implementation 1 Business should support and respect the The protection of internationally proclaimed human rights is included in the Grontmij protection of internationally proclaimed business policy and principles and integrated in our integrity management system. human rights. Since January 2008, as part of the GRI-based CR reporting, Grontmij has conducted a monitoring process for non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety, labour practices, product standards, environmental regulatory compliance and anti-corruption. View our CR report for 2013 2013annualreport.grontmij.com/csr/Pages/Organisation-and-people.aspx 2 Business should ensure that they are As part of the GRI-based CR reporting, a conformity monitoring process for not complicit in human right abuses. non-discrimination was undertaken for the fifth year. In the period January 2009 to December 2012 Grontmij reported one incident that had occurred in 2012 (GRI indicator HR4). In 2013, there were no infringements of any human rights code. View our CR report 2013 on 2013annualreport.grontmij.com/csr/Pages/Organisation-and-people.aspx 3 Business should uphold the freedom of Grontmij upholds such a policy for its employees. The policy is included in the Grontmij association and the effective recognition of business policy and principles and integrated in our integrity management system. the right to collective bargaining. View our management approach to human rights www.grontmij.com/CorporateCovernanceDoc/Grontmij-Business-Policyand-Principles.pdf 4 Business should support the elimination of All employees have individual contracts stating terms and conditions of service and the all forms of forced and compulsory labour. notice of leave. Our employment policies forbid the use of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Our policies for the selection of subcontractors and suppliers similarly forbid the use of forced or compulsory labour in our supply chain. The policy is included in the Grontmij business policy and principles and integrated in our integrity management system. View our management approach to human rights www.grontmij.com/CorporateCovernanceDoc/Grontmij-Business-Policy-and-Principles.pdf Global Compact Progress Report 2013 5 Principle no. Global compact Principle Process of Implementation 5 Business should support the effective Grontmij fully supports the policy of abolishing child labour. The policy is included in the abolition of child labour. Grontmij business policy and principles and integrated in our integrity management system. View our management approach to human rights www.grontmij.com/CorporateCovernanceDoc/Grontmij-Business-Policy-and-Principles.pdf 6 Business should support the elimination of Grontmij has implemented a recruitment policy securing equal employment opportunities discrimination in respect of employment based solely upon an assessment of relevant qualifications. Our policies for ensuring and occupation. equality of opportunity expressly commit us to working towards elimination of all forms of discrimination. The policy is included in the Grontmij business policy and principles and integrated in our integrity management system. We began formally monitoring our compliance against human rights performance in January 2008. In the period from then until December 2012, we recorded one infringement of the anti-discriminatory code of practice (voluntary or otherwise). In 2013, there were no infringements of any human rights code. View our CR report for 2013 2013annualreport.grontmij.com/csr/Pages/Organisation-and-people.aspx 7 Business should support a precautionary Business approach to environmental challenges. We see it as our CR – and business – role to advise on how to develop the places where we live and work in ways that are responsible, both now and into the future, using increasingly scarce natural resources wisely. This is why our focus segments are: Energy, Highways & Roads, Light Rail, Sustainable Buildings and Water. Operations Since 2008, our CR report has been prepared to the standards of the Global Reporting Initiative 3.1. As our operations in France and Turkey also reported to the these standards for the first time in 2013, this means all our operating countries (except China) are now reporting on CR using the same standards. Grontmij will use 2013 as a new base year for measuring our footprint. The biggest change is we added the countries France and Turkey to our consolidated data. View our CR report for 2013 2013annualreport.grontmij.com/csr/Pages/cr-report.aspx Global Compact Progress Report 2013 6 Principle no. Global compact Principle Process of Implementation 8 Business should undertake initiatives to Grontmij undertakes a number of initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. promote greater environmental responsibility. Just about every project we undertake has an impact on the environment. That is why Grontmij’s purpose is to enable our clients to make informed decisions and well-considered investments as they develop our natural and built environment. Through our leading principle of ‘sustainability by design’, we see it as our task to innovate environmentally responsible ways of managing the planet’s finite resources, to conserve biodiversity and manage ecosystems to protect and restore the natural environment. As CR is of great value in the execution our projects, we also have to take up these responsibilities in our own operations. We are committed to developing and applying new technologies and processes that have great value in executing our projects in a sustainable way. In addition to our integrity system, almost all of our regions have a management standard accredited either to ISO 9001 (except France) and 14001 (except Belgium, France and Turkey) or are working towards accreditation (ISO 9001 in France). In 2013, Turkey was certified for ISO 9001. Examples of initiatives launched in 2013 are described throughout our group annual (CR) report. View our online CR report of 2013 2013annualreport.grontmij.com/csr/Pages/cr-report.aspx View our annual report 2013 2013annualreport.grontmij.com/Pages/annual-report-2013.aspx 9 Business should encourage the Grontmij contributes positively to some of the world’s most pressing environmental development and diffusion of problems through its innovative solutions and technologies. We solve problems, design and environmentally friendly technologies. engineer solutions and supervise or monitor their implementation – all from a sustainable perspective. Grontmij is making a widespread effort to encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Our responsibility to the use and development of environmentally friendly technologies is included in the Grontmij business policy and principles and is integrated in our integrity management system. View some examples of our initiatives on our website http://www.grontmij.com/services/Pages/Services.aspx http://2013annualreport.grontmij.com/projects/Pages/default.aspx and annual CR report 2013annualreport.grontmij.com/csr/Pages/cr-report.aspx 10 Business should work against corruption Anti corruption is an important part of our Grontmij business policy and principles and is in all its forms, including extortion and integrated in our integrity management system. bribery. Since January 2008 as part of the GRI-based CR reporting Grontmij has conducted a monitoring process for non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning anti-corruption. For the period January 2008 to December 2013 Grontmij has reported no incidents (GRI indicator SO4). View our CR report for 2013 2013annualreport.grontmij.com/csr/Pages/Organisation-and-people.aspx
