Innovation Improving Lives 2014 Sustainability Report CEO LETTER ..................................................... 5 Health & Wellness ........................................................76 Employee Engagement & Recognition ........................78 OUR SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY ........................ 9 Global Safety & Health ...............................................81 Our Strategy ..................................................................9 Sustainability Progress ..................................................7 OPTIMIZING OUR Key Global Sustainability Challenges ............................ 10 ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT ..........................91 Who We Are .................................................................. 16 Environmental Management & Compliance ..............93 Energy & Climate .......................................................97 STAKEHOLDERS & SUSTAINABILITY Greenhouse Gas Emissions .......................................102 MATERIALITY .................................................. 17 Energy Usage ............................................................110 Engaging Our Stakeholders .......................................... 17 Raw Material Scarcity ................................................111 Sustainability Materiality Process & Outcomes ........... 20 Waste & Recycling ...................................................115 Overview .................................................................... 20 Air Emissions ...........................................................117 Materiality Matrix ........................................................ 22 Packaging ................................................................117 Water Quality & Availability ........................................118 ABOUT 3M ....................................................... 23 Global Operations ....................................................... 23 ENGAGING OUR SUPPLIERS ..........................121 Our Products ............................................................... 24 Responsible Sourcing ...............................................121 Governance, Values & Ethics .......................................26 Assessing Supplier Performance ...............................122 Corporate Governance ..................................................27 Supplier Initiatives & Partnerships ............................124 Board of Directors .......................................................28 Sustainability Governance ........................................... 29 COLLABORATING WITH Shareholder & Stakeholder Input ...............................31 OUR COMMUNITIES .....................................125 Managing Enterprise Risk & Opportunities .....................34 Impacting Lives Through 3M Gives .......................... 125 Corporate Code of Conduct .........................................35 Global Results ..........................................................129 Respecting Human Rights ............................................39 Our Collaboration Impact ........................................130 Public Policy & Engagement .........................................43 SUSTAINABILITY AWARDS ............................135 Sustainability Performance Summary .......................................................45 ABOUT THIS REPORT ....................................137 Key Metrics ..................................................................45 Report Scope & Boundaries ......................................137 Reporting Schedule & Period .....................................137 BUSINESS GROWTH & PERFORMANCE ............55 Organization Boundaries ..........................................137 Financial Summary ......................................................55 Data Collection, Adjustments & Verification ...............137 Accelerating Innovation ................................................58 Global Principles & Guidelines ..................................139 Driving Growth Through Sustainable Product Table of Statement on GRI & Application Level ......................139 Stewardship .................................................................59 Assurance Statement ...............................................167 Achieving Customer Loyalty .........................................63 Contact Information .................................................139 ACCELERATING GROWTH THROUGH PEOPLE ....65 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) AND Globally Diverse Workforce ..........................................65 Contents UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON Investing in Our People ................................................71 PROGRESS CONTENT INDEX ........................140 Total Rewards ...............................................................71 Education & Career Growth ...........................................74 ApPendix A ................................................167 4 | 3M 2014 Sustainability Report A Message From Our CEO Since 1902, 3M has been improving lives. Social and environmental • We have developed and launched an increasing number of sustainability-focused products, including energy-efficient films stewardship is central to who we are and is embedded throughout our for tablets, Post-it® Super Sticky Greener Notes, air-barrier building solutions, Envision® graphics films, 360 Encompass™ vision: health information system, and an energy-saving, award-winning LED technology. • 3M Technology Advancing Every Company • The continued success of our Pollution Prevention Pays program, which has prevented nearly 2 million tons of air, water and waste pollution, and the reduction of our global greenhouse gas emissions by 57% from 2002-2013 on an absolute • 3M Products Enhancing Every Home basis (even as the company sales grew 30 percent over the same period of time). • 3M Innovation Improving Every Life • Ongoing support to protect and restore vital ecosystems around the world. By working with partners such as The Nature With operations in more than 70 countries — and 55,000 products sold Conservancy, the 3M Foundation has provided more than $21 million to preserve more than 1 million acres. across nearly 200 countries — we are intricately woven into the global • More than $61.6 million in global cash and in-kind product donations in 2013. economy and deeply invested in humanity. No one is ever far from a 3M product, which empowers us to make a difference city by city, village by • In early 2014, we joined the United Nations Global Compact. While 3M has always acted in accordance with the core values village and person by person. represented by the Compact, we are proud to formalize our commitment to its 10 principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environmental and anti-corruption and to grow our partnership with the organization. Rapid communication advances are quickly merging our world into a global community with shared values. Together, we face uncertainties As we celebrate our accomplishments, we recognize the magnitude of the global challenges we are all looking to address. This surrounding energy availability and climate change, water quality and will not be easy, and it will require shifts in how we operate, how we make long-term decisions and how we collaborate. But we availability, raw material scarcity, education, employment, and human firmly believe that, by working with our customers and partners, and by empowering people to exercise their own creativity and health and safety. passion, we can drive the transformational changes necessary for the success of both business and society. It’s clear that these global dynamics are challenging the sustainable 3Mers are a committed team, 89,500 strong, poised to help create a more sustainable future. We intend to do this by designing growth of future generations, which is why 3M is using its greatest products that support our customers’ sustainability efforts, embedding sustainable practices across our supply chain, and, assets — ideas and innovation — to address these challenges. perhaps most importantly, joining together with a shared purpose. “As we celebrate our With industries ranging from healthcare to electronics to automotive, I am proud to be a 3Mer committed to this effort and excited about the role 3M can play in helping everyone, everywhere, live a accomplishments, we invent technologies that make daily life easier, safer and more better life. fulfilling. Some of the recent ways in which we’ve applied our ideas and we recognize the innovation for a more sustainable future include the following: magnitude of the • In 2014, for our worldwide energy-conservation efforts, we Inge G. Thulin earned the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s ENERGY global challenges STAR® award. This was the 10th consecutive year 3M received Chairman, President and CEO the honor, an industry first. We were also, again, listed on the Dow we are all looking to Jones Sustainability Index – a credit we’ve had since its inception address.” in 1999. 3M 2014 Sustainability Report | 5 6 | 3M 2014 Sustainability Report 3M 2014 Sustainability Report | 7 8 | 3M 2014 Sustainability Report Our Sustainability Strategy At 3M, we look at sustainability in terms of shared global “By partnering with our needs and the future of our business. As the population grows, particularly in emerging economies, challenges “Sustainability is a natural part customers to better like energy availability and security, raw material scarcity, of who we are. We’ve been human health and safety, education, and employment understand these challenges, must be addressed to ensure people across the globe can operating with sustainability and by empowering the lead healthy, fulfilling lives. in mind since before it was With this in mind, social and environmental stewardship popular. Environmental and social passion and expertise of is core to the sustainability of our business and our vision considerations — both in our 89,500 3Mers, we see for growth: • 3M Technology Advancing Every Company own operations and across our an opportunity to create supply chain — have been part • 3M Products Enhancing Every Home technologies that drive real of our company’s value system • 3M Innovation Improving Every Life change and real impact Starting with technology and culminating with the from the beginning.” toward making a better future. improvement of every life on the planet, we are committed to driving a growing business while supporting the – Jean Sweeney, We are currently increasing personal growth of everyone on the planet. Vice President, 3M Environment, Health and Safety and Sustainability Operations the number of sustainable Like many organizations, we operate with the intent to balance the three key pillars of sustainability. To that end, products we create, deepening the principles by which we operate are as follows: our approach to operational • Economic Success: Build lasting customer relationships by developing differentiated, practical excellence and expanding our and ingenious solutions to their sustainability While we have been a leader in environmental stewardship for decades, we recently sharpened our focus and began a transformational shift in how we balance these three pillars toward overcoming the global challenges we all face. partnerships, particularly with challenges. Every day, 3M innovation aims to tackle the world’s most pressing areas of concern: • Environmental Protection: Provide practical and our customers, to bring our effective solutions and products to address Raw Material Scarcity Health & Safety environmental challenges for ourselves and our vision to life.” customers. Water Education & Employment – Gayle Schueller, • Social Responsibility: Engage key stakeholders Energy & Climate Vice President, 3M Global Sustainability in dialogue and take action to improve 3M’s The following pages outline these challenges and how we’re addressing them for the sustainability of our planet, our business and sustainability performance. our daily lives. To learn more about how we identified and prioritized these key challenges, see the materiality section of this report. 3M 2014 Sustainability Report | 9 10 | 3M 2014 Sustainability Report 3M can’t solve every raw material challenge, but we can create solutions and practices to address them — and to help our customers address them. We can develop renewable “The connections between water and replacements for impacted resources, revolutionize recyclable energy, human health, manufacturing, food materials and become more sustainable. We’ve worked on this challenge for decades — and we plan to continue supply … make it vitally important that we innovating well into the future. innovate with this global challenge in mind. It’s time to make electronic devices more recyclable. And that we do so in partnership with our 3M’s Thermal Bonding Films and Plastics Bonding Adhesives extend the potential lifespan of mobile devices and make customers, suppliers and communities.” it easier to recycle them. Our electronics bonding solutions enable faster assembly times and simplify rework by – David Schaefer, helping manufacturers fix damaged parts and salvage key Vice President and General components. Manager, 3M Purification Cleaning supplies can make the whole world cleaner, not just the home. Take tequila, for example, made using Photo courtesy of Gary and Phyllis Thompson agave. Since only the juice is used, often the rest of the plant is left to decompose in fields. 3Mers from the U.S. and France, looking to manufacture 3M products with more Water sustainable materials, partnered to create scrubbing fibers Raw Material made of 50 percent agave. These fibers are the scouring People consume it, farm with it and manufacture products with Scarcity muscle of a plant-based-fiber sponge that uses 23 percent recycled material. It took a lot of work to adapt the material it. Reducing water consumption and improving water quality are Water challenges are very local. In China, water challenges vary greatly across the country. important elements of environmental stewardship. to manufacturing processes, but thanks to their passion and So, 3M’s China Purification Residential Water The world’s population is growing larger, living longer persistence, they were able to create the Scotch-Brite® Water is our world’s most valuable natural resource. Despite its Product Development team worked to understand — and consuming more. With this increased pressure Greener Clean Non-Scratch Scrub Sponge. prevalence, freshwater makes up only 2.5 percent of our total global the multiple local water source challenges and on our finite natural resources and materials, we water supply1. A majority of freshwater is used for irrigation purposes, developed a residential product portfolio that must move beyond low-cost, recyclable materials to but nearly 30 percent of it is used for domestic consumption and supports human health and safety, as well as renewable products. industrial functions2. Aging infrastructure and increased demand places 3M business growth. That’s a win-win. The team “Sustainability is about using a premium on clean, accessible water for 3M and our customers. used 3M’s unique carbon/membrane technology As competition for nonrenewable materials increases, companies and people have been forced to become smarter materials to their fullest. Our customers are finding it difficult to source or deliver clean, accessible to create products that would remove the broad spectrum of local contaminants. The “whole house” water. We can help them solve this problem by developing technology and more efficient about resources when designing product Sometimes that means unlocking that increases water efficiencies and improves quality. portfolio now offers point of use water filters, lifecycles. For example: laptops, smartphones and tablets. To water softeners, a shower filter and water heaters keep pace with today’s technology, consumers are upgrading their hidden potentials.” Rehabilitate and protect water infrastructure. To use water resources (specifically created for local preference to drink devices at a faster pace and creating a greater need for raw with greater efficiency and safety, our customers need solutions to hot water). materials to manufacture those products. This puts a strain — Myhanh Truong, protect water quality and reduce losses from water main deterioration, on the world’s resources, and companies that address this 3M Product Development breaks and leaks. 3MTM ScotchkoteTM water pipe coatings and linings 1 “Water Use Rising Faster than World Population” Reuters (Oct, 2011) issue not only help the planet, but they also gain a competitive 2 World Resources Institute, (http://www.wri.org/our-work/topics/water) help rehabilitate aging potable water infrastructure while protecting new advantage in the marketplace. infrastructure. 3M 2014 Sustainability Report | 11 12 | 3M 2014 Sustainability Report “3M is known for its commitment to Health innovation, and that commitment doesn’t & Safety just apply to products. We’re innovative in Global health and safety issues HOW we invent — seeking out ways to are prevalent, and concerns are improve our processes, including greater growing to ensure safe and healthy workplaces around the world. Creative energy efficiency and resource savings. innovation, technology, education and Moreover, we share our best practices in collaboration are all critical if we an effort to pay it forward.” are to tackle the human health and workplace safety concerns of today, – Steve Schultz, for the sake of tomorrow. Energy 3M Corporate Energy Manager Governments, corporations and consumers are driving global healthy. Our robust Safety and Health Policy applies to all 3M & Climate demand for safety, protection, healthcare and food safety operations worldwide. It holds anyone working at or visiting a solutions. Food poisoning and water-borne illnesses lead to 3M location to strict safety and health requirements. Based Access to a dependable energy goal is to continue developing and energy management achievements the deaths of 3 million people across the globe each year. At on our core business values, the policy stems from our supply directly affects all implementing global concepts for the with the EPA ENERGY STAR Sustained the same time, approximately one of every 20 hospitalized integrated vision for safe and healthy people, products and businesses and communities. greatest long-term impact. Excellence Award for the 10th year in a patients in lowand middle-income countries will contract an planet. Energy usage and climate concerns row. 3M is the only industrial company infection while under medical care. Smaller footprint, greater power. In require systematic change, and in the world to attain this privilege. collaboration with Intel and SGI, 3M For decades, 3M has had entire business divisions focused on we’re here to drive that forward. developed a revolutionary two-phase Award-winning efforts included 252 creating products and services for human health, protection, “The health of our energy management projects resulting From air emissions to fossil fuels, 3M immersion cooling technology which is takes a proactive and collaborative now being used as a proof-of-concept in reductions of 61,700 million metric security and safety. At the same time, the company has employees, our customers tons (MT) of CO2, the formation of embraced this commitment in its own operations. approach to addressing energy in a fully functional supercomputer. Centers of Excellence to integrate all Making hospital patients a bit more comfortable. and our communities has demand and climate change — in our This technology using 3MTM NovecTM operations and for our customers. The Engineered Fluids can reduce aspects of sustainability into business strategies across the company, Research shows that core body temperature drops rapidly always been a priority at 3M. issues around effective use of energy cooling energy costs by 95 percent following the induction of general anesthesia, which puts resources and climate change are and reduces water consumption by initiatives to bring energy-saving patients at an increased risk for unintended hypothermia, I’m proud of the role we play innovations to diverse markets, and leading to higher mortality rates, longer hospital stays and an complex and interconnected. At 3M, eliminating municipal water usage engagement with global communities increased rate of wound infection. 3M (TM) Bair Paws (TM) in making people healthier we are focused on understanding those for evaporative cooling. Heat can also in energy and sustainability dialogues. connections and seeking solutions that be harvested from the system and Warming Units are revolutionary forced-air warming systems across the globe.” promote energy conservation, clean reused for heating and other process that help to preventand treat hypothermia while enhancing energy infrastructure, and reductions technologies, such as desalination of patient comfort. – Greg Anderson, in atmospheric greenhouse gases. sea water. Protecting our most important asset, 3Mers. Our Technical Director, We already have many products and innovations are only possible with the minds, talent and 3M Critical and Chronic Care Unyielding commitment, an technologies that reduce the impact of commitment of our 89,500 employees worldwide. So, we Solutions industry first. In 2014, the U.S. energy use, promote energy efficiency, put a lot of thought and effort into keeping them safe and Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and reduce greenhouse gases. Our recognized 3M for a decade of global 3M 2014 Sustainability Report | 13 14 | 3M 2014 Sustainability Report “Management that is destructively critical when mistakes are made kills initiative. And it’s essential that we have many people with initiative if we are to continue to grow.” – William L. McKnight, Former President (1929–1949) Education and Chairman of the Board (1949–1966), 3M & Employment Global unemployment rates are expected to remain community engagement organization, supports programs steady through 2017, particularly among youth. Today’s like FIRST Robotics and Destination Imagination. These job market has fewer opportunities, with most available programs engage students with challenge-based projects, jobs too specialized for young people and recent addressing global challenges such as natural disasters or graduates. We’re training the workforce of tomorrow, rainforest protection. 3M also provides grants to teachers while empowering the workforce of today. to create and implement programs that bring science to life and that connect learning to the world beyond the classroom, Young people around the world are suffering from high student scholarships for higher education in STEM-related unemployment rates as the number of science, technology, fields, and investments in technical training programs such engineering and math (STEM) graduates is insufficient to as mechatronics. meet today’s technical job market demands. As a technology company, 3M recognizes the importance of well-trained STEM A “15% culture” for 65 years. A core belief at 3M is that graduates — we need young minds to step into specialized creativity needs freedom. That’s why, since about 1948, we’ve roles and help our company solve future challenges. At the encouraged our employees to take our resources, to build up same time, the workforce of today must feel supported to a unique team and to follow their own insights in pursuit of follow its own insights in pursuit of problem-solving, thus problem-solving — and to spend 15 percent of their working making education and employment both a social and a time to do it. If there’s a secret ingredient to 3M’s more than business challenge. 100 years of innovation, it’s this: Give talented people the time and resources to prove the worth of their ideas, and Energizing the classroom with 3M innovation. 3M is a in the long run, you’ll come out well ahead. Even if those leader in partnering with local schools on science, technology, talented people are mistaken, you’ve learned something. engineering and mathematics (STEM) related programs. 3Mgives, the company’s strategic philanthropic and global For more information, visit 3M.com/sustainability or check out #3Msustainability 3M 2014 Sustainability Report | 15 16 | 3M 2014 Sustainability Report Our Approach Major Stakeholders and Key Actions Major Stakeholders 3M Key Actions Employees • Respecting human rights and diversity • Supporting, optimizing and promoting development and growth • Ensuring a safe and healthy work environment • Ensuring equal opportunity • Providing competitive compensation and benefits Customers • Providing diverse innovative product solutions and high-valued customer service and support • Offering a diversified portfolio of safe, reliable, dependable and sustainable products • Providing sustainable products to address energy, climate change and water challenges Investors • Delivering profitable returns on investment Engaging Our Stakeholders • Disclosing timely, concise and relevant information (related to Economic, Environmental and Social) Overview • Responsive to inquiries that concern our stakeholders. A quantitative, stakeholder3M has created a robust, stakeholder-driven approach to • Upholding corporate values driven approach was used to determine and prioritize the sustainability materiality that serves as a foundation for our key sustainability issues for 3M’s internal and external sustainability strategy and reporting. Through understanding Government/Regulators • Complying with laws, regulations and policies stakeholders, which can be tracked over time and provides the critical sustainability issues from both internal and external • Supporting and engaging on development and modification of changes rigor in driving strategy internally. perspectives, 3M can deepen its social license to operate and develop corporate strategy, goals, targets, programs, This quantitative and systematic understanding of stakeholder Suppliers/Contractors/ • Selecting credible suppliers and contractors that meet or exceed expectations initiatives and a stakeholder engagement strategy to advance priorities provides a robust and transparent assessment for Industry Associations • Supporting collective efforts to deliver business results sustainability globally. advancing 3M sustainability and engaging stakeholders. • Respecting human rights for workers in our supply chain The assessment conducted by 3M includes both the significant sustainability impacts on 3M and the most important issues Local Communities • Supporting and engaging in citizenship activities Stakeholders • Providing economic and social value to communities, while minimizing environmental impact • Supporting safe and healthy communities Academia/Scientific • Engaging on technical scientific research to develop innovative solutions for society Organizations & Sustainability Media • Ensuring 3M is represented accurately with current information Materiality Nonprofit Organizations/ • Partnering to understand societal concerns NGOs • Providing support to advance and solve global issues 18 | 3M 2014 Sustainability Report Memberships & Partnerships 3M is a member of global business associations that work on sustainability and various aspects core to our sustainability strategy, including the following: It is through collaboration and partnerships that 3M can accelerate sustainability in our company and in the world. We value our partnerships with numerous stakeholders as a way to not only address our sustainability issues, but to help our partners address • World Business Council for Sustainable Development • Global Environmental Management Initiative (GEMI) their sustainability challenges. 3M has joined numerous organizations globally to advance sustainability through collaboration with • The Conference Board, Sustainability Councils I & II • London Benchmarking Group the organization and its members. Memberships have provided a forum for working on key sustainability issues that are relevant to both 3M and our stakeholders. • Corporate Eco Forum • Sustainable Brands Memberships and partnerships help provide us with diverse viewpoints on sustainability, a better understanding of the positions of our stakeholders, and a mechanism to learn from the successes and failures of our peers. 3M partners with many organizations. Some examples of key engagements are listed below. Sustainability Materiality Major Stakeholders Memberships and Partnerships Major Stakeholders Memberships and Partnerships Process & Outcomes Employees • United Nations Global Compact Government/ • U.S. EPA Green Power Partnership Regulators Overview • Committee to Encourage Corporate • U.S. EPA Energy Star Program and Philanthropy U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) Sustainability materiality assessments are vital components of organization’s significant economic, environmental, and social • The League of American Bicyclists a company’s sustainability strategy and reporting. In 2013, 3M impacts or would substantively influence the assessments Local Communities began a comprehensive sustainability materiality assessment and decisions of stakeholders. • The Science Museum of Minnesota • United Way and stakeholder engagement project. 3M commissioned • Habitat for Humanity To create this matrix, 3M worked through a number of stages GlobeScan, an independent research consultancy, to assist in Customers • Retail Industry Leaders Association • American Red Cross with GlobeScan. The first stage of desk research involved better understanding stakeholders’ perspectives of key social • The Sustainability Consortium the examination of relevant literature on sustainability and environmental issues. In addition, the study assisted Academia/Scientific • University of Minnesota, NorthStar materiality issues. Outputs from the desk research fed into in assessing 3M’s corporate reputation and leadership Organizations Initiative for Sustainable Enterprise the development of two interview discussion guides— Investors • Dow Jones Sustainability Index opportunities in the area of sustainability. A key output of and Center for Sustainable Polymers one for internal (i.e. 3M employees) and one for external • National Investor Relations Institute research conducted with GlobeScan is the evidence-based • Iowa State University for Bioplastics stakeholders. GlobeScan interviewed internal stakeholders and Biocomposites sustainability materiality matrix. This matrix plots significant in 3M’s various business units and regions and external Suppliers/ • The Conference Board issues related to sustainability along three axes. From this • Harvard Medical School, Center for stakeholders from around the world who have knowledge of Contractors/ • American Chamber of Commerce Health and the Global Environment matrix, 3M and the readers of this report can understand the 3M and sustainability issues. The external stakeholder group Industry (AmCham) degree of importance stakeholders accord to each issue, the • Intergovernmental Panel on Climate included respondents from academia, civil society, the private Associations • CAPS Research ability of 3M to make a positive difference on these issues and Change sector, 3M suppliers, trade associations, and media as well • National Association of Manufacturers the level of impact these issues may have on the company’s as 3M customers. The primary purpose of these interviews (NAM) Media • Sustainable Life Media reputation. The matrix is evidence-based as each point on was to identify and understand the array of important social • Practice Greenhealth this matrix is determined from quantitative measures gained and environmental issues to both internal and external • Mission Ready Sustainability Initiative from an online survey as described below. Nonprofit • The Nature Conservancy stakeholders. (MRSI) Organizations/NGOs • Forum for the Future We identified and evaluated relevant aspects of 3M’s • American Chemistry Council (ACC) The important issues from the in-depth interviews were then • WorldSkills sustainability performance as defined by our internal and • European Chemistry Industry Council compiled into a list and evaluated in a quantitative survey • Net Impact external stakeholders. Materiality with respect to sustainability (CEFIC) with internal and external stakeholders. The survey was • Alliance to Save Energy reporting, as defined by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) conducted online, in English only, and completed by 1260 guidelines, includes topics and indicators that reflect the • Friends of EU Emissions Trading Scheme (ETS) 3M 2014 Sustainability Report | 19 20 | 3M 2014 Sustainability Report 3M Sustainability Materiality Matrix Views of Internal Stakeholders, Customers, and Externals Stakeholders, 2014 Perceived ability of 3M to make a positive difference Water quality low high Water shortages Air quality Community safety and health Impact on 3m reputation Climate change Energy use Availability of Reducing waste Supporting sustainable Working community building products and conditions services Reducing toxic Employment substances Scarcity of Engagement with raw materials Human rights Ethical business citizens on sustainable Transparency Treatment of workers behavior Human health Advocating laws supporting sustainability employees at 3M across all business units and regions, 122 performance on reducing greenhouse gas emissions. The Importance to Stakeholders 3M customers and 224 external stakeholders. 3M developed impact on 3M’s sustainability reputation was derived through the internal and customer samples ensuring that both regression analysis to determine the importance of 3M’s samples were reflective of 3M’s diverse business. 3M and perceived performance in each issue area across the three GlobeScan collectively built the external stakeholder sample. audiences. Mean scores from the online survey were used to on 3M’s reputation. These three issues are also ones that addressed in our 3M Values, Code of Conduct, and Human Similar to the other two groups, the sample was inclusive determine the relative importance of all of the sustainability 3M has a higher degree of control over. We also recognize Rights Policy Statement and are represented in the Key with a good spread across geography, stakeholder type and issues, 3M’s perceived performance on the issues and the the connection between these issues and others identified Global Sustainability Challenges of Education & Employment, function. To safeguard the confidentiality and anonymity of perceived ability of 3M to make a positive difference on the with significant reputational impact and stakeholder concern, and Health and Safety. respondents, GlobeScan managed the online survey process. issues. These questions formed the basis of the matrix. such as water shortages, climate change and air quality. Findings were reported in aggregate form with no responses For all of the sustainability issues that are material to 3M, These areas are represented in the Key Global Sustainability being attributed to any one respondent or organization. Sustainability Materiality Matrix Results stakeholders indicate we can make a difference on a variety Challenges of Raw Material Scarcity, Water, and Energy & of fronts. They view 3M product and process innovation as Internal stakeholders were asked to rate the ability of 3M to The Materiality matrix is a synthesis of findings from the Climate, described in this sustainability report. a key approach to address these issues. Indeed, 3M drives make a positive difference on the significant issues listed survey data achieved via using various statistical techniques The matrix also shows that ethical business and working progress on environmental and social challenges both within in the survey. External stakeholders and customers were including predictive modeling. After completing a draft conditions are both issues of high importance and where our own operations and supply chain, and through the asked to rate the importance to them of 3M addressing each matrix, GlobeScan held a work session with the 3M team to 3M has a degree of control. Community safety and health products we offer to society. Our stakeholders also suggest of the issues. All three stakeholder groups were asked to discuss findings. and human rights also have a high importance but are that 3M can help advance sustainability performance within rate 3M’s performance on actions that would address the The top right area of the matrix shows that the environmental viewed as 3M having less control. Although these issues our sphere of influence, including our suppliers, customers significant issues. For example, climate change was one key issues of water quality, energy use and reducing waste and may have slightly less impact on 3M’s reputation, they are and communities. Throughout this report, we discuss how issue tested in the online survey. Respondents were asked to toxic substances warrant the greatest attention as they are representative of 3M’s core values and governance and are 3M is utilizing all of these methods to address our material rate the importance of this issue as well as 3M’s perceived of high stakeholder concern and have a significant impact rated highly in perceived performance. All of these issues are sustainability priorities. 3M 2014 Sustainability Report | 21 22 | 3M 2014 Sustainability Report laboratory sites, sales and marketing offices, technical centers, distribution centers, and regional headquarters. The Company is a member of the Dow Jones Industrial Average and is a component of the Standard and Poor’s 500 Index. About 3M Global Operations As of December 31, 2013, the Company employed 89,583 people (Total Employee Headcount; Full-Time and Part-Time 3M is a $31 billion diversified science-based technology Headquartered in St. Paul, Minnesota (USA), 3M has Employees). company with a global presence and the following business operations in more than 70 countries and serves customers groups: Consumer, Electronics and Energy, Health Care, in nearly 200 countries. The Company began operations in Our Products Industrial, and Safety and Graphics. These five business 1902, and it was incorporated and began selling products 3M serves customers through five business segments, which increase speed and efficiency by sharing technology, manufacturing, segments bring together combinations of 3M’s 46 unique outside the United States in 1929. An international operations marketing and other resources across all segments. technology platforms to produce over 55,000 products, organization was established in 1951. Types of operations driving innovation and providing for efficient sharing of include manufacturing facilities, research and development/ business resources. Consumer Supplying an array of innovative products that keep homes cleaner, well-maintained and decorated, and workplaces and lives organized. Our consumer and office business is home to some of the world’s best-known brands, including Post-it®, Scotch®, Scotch-Brite®, Filtrete™, O-Cel-O™, Nexcare™ and Command™. Poland Sweden Czech Republic Denmark Finland Germany Estonia Electronics and Energy Netherlands Austria Belgium Hungary Russia We turn 3M technology into solutions for customers in electronics and energy markets around the world. Canada United Kingdom Romania France Ukraine We contribute to reliable and efficient sources of power, high-performance electronic devices, and speedy, Switzerland Kazakhstan Italy Greece Korea dependable telecommunications networks. We’re also leading the way in renewable energy to improve Portugal Turkey Japan Mexico Jamaica Spain quality, and reduce environmental footprints while reducing costs. Morocco Isreal China Taiwan Dominican Republic Egypt Pakistan Puerto Rico India Hong Kong Guatemala El Salvador Trinidad & Tobago Venezuela Vietnam Health Care UAE Philippines Costa Rica Colombia Sri Lanka Supplying innovative and reliable products that help health care professionals improve the quality of care, Kenya Indonesia Panama Ecuador Thailand we are a global leader in medical and oral care products and drug delivery and health information systems. Brazil Malaysia Singapore Peru Zimbabwe Australia South Africa Chile Uruguay Argentina Sales & Marketing New Zeland Industrial Manufacturing/Converting We provide thousands of innovative products, including tapes, abrasives, adhesives, films, specialty materials Technical Capabilities and filtration systems, to dozens of diverse markets — from water purification to green buildings to automotive and aerospace. About 3M Safety and Graphics Our products — personal protective equipment, safety and security products, track-and-trace solutions, and more — increase the safety, security and productivity of people, facilities and systems around the world. We also inspire creative communication and design with a broad portfolio of graphic solutions to enhance visual impact. 24 | 3M 2014 Sustainability Report Governance, 3M Governance Structure Values & Ethics 3M Shareholders Corporate Values 3M’s actions are guided by our corporate vision 3M Board of Directors and values of uncompromising honesty and Corporate Auditing Board Committee integrity. We are proud to be recognized worldwide • Nominating and Governance Chairman, President & Committee as an ethical and law-abiding company. As a Chief Executive Officer • Audit Committee company, we are committed to sustainable 3M Foundation Board • Compensation Committee development through environmental protection, (Independent Corporate • Finance Committee Contributions) social responsibility and economic success. Corporate Operating Committee Crisis Corporate Environmental, Other Committees 3M Values Business Conduct Management Health and Safety (EHS) & Centers • Act with uncompromising honesty Committee Committee Committee of Excellence and integrity in everything we do. • Satisfy our customers with innovative technology and superior quality, value and service. Corporate Staff Function • Center for Sustainability • Provide our investors an attractive • EHS • Sourcing/Supply Chain return through sustainable, global • Finance Business Group Area Management growth. • Information Technology • Engineering/Packaging Management • Asia Pacific • Human Resources • Consumer • Canada • Respect our social and physical • Europe/Middle East/Africa • Compliance & Business Conduct • Electronics and Energy environment around the world. • Health Care • Latin America • Community Affairs • Industrial • United States • Office of General Counsel • Value and develop our employees’ • Public Affairs • Safety and Graphics • Marketing/Sales/Communications diverse talents, initiative and • Research and Development leadership. • Strategy and Corporate Development • Earn the admiration of all those • Security associated with 3M worldwide. 3M 2014 Sustainability Report | 25 26 | 3M 2014 Sustainability Report Corporate Governance 3M Board of Directors The Company believes that good corporate governance practices serve the long-term interests of stockholders, strengthen the Board Inge G. Thulin Michael L. Thomas and management, and further enhance the public trust 3M has earned from more than a century of operating with honesty and integrity. Chairman of the Eskew “Tony” K. Board, President Lead Director of the The following provides corporate governance practice highlights, the Board’s leadership structure and responsibilities, the Board’s role and Chief Brown Board and Retired Retired Group Vice in risk oversight, and the process for stakeholder input. For further information regarding 3M’s governance practices, see 2014 Proxy Executive Officer, Chairman of the Board President, Global Statement and 2013 Annual Report. 3M Company. and Chief Executive Purchasing, Ford Officer, United Parcel Motor Company, a The following table provides an overview of our corporate governance practices: Service Inc. global automotive industry leader. Corporate Governance Highlights Vance D. Linda G. Herbert L. • Board size: 12 directors (11 independent directors) • Annual advisory approval of executive compensation Coffman Alvarado Henkel Retired Chairman President and Retired Chairman • Annual election of all directors with 96 percent of the votes cast in favor of the of the Board and Chief Executive and Chief Executive company’s executive compensation program in 2013 Chief Executive Officer, Alvarado Officer, Ingersoll• Majority voting for directors in uncontested Officer, Lockheed Construction Inc. Rand plc, a elections • Stockholder ability to call a special meeting (25 Martin Corporation, manufacturer of percent threshold) a high-technology industrial products • Combined Chairman and CEO positions • No supermajority voting provisions aerospace and and components. • Lead Independent Director defense company. • No stockholders’ rights plan (also known as a • Independent directors regularly meet in Board and “poison pill”) Committee executive sessions without management Muhtar Kent Edward M. Robert J. Ulrich • Disclosure of public policy engagement, on our Chairman of the Board Liddy Retired Chairman of • Annual Board and Committee self-evaluations Investor Relations website, including political and Chief Executive Partner, Clayton, the Board and Chief • Annual independent directors’ evaluation of contributions and membership in key trade Officer, The Coca-Cola Dubilier & Rice LLC, Executive Officer, Chairman and CEO Company, the world’s a private equity Target Corporation, associations Long-standing commitment to the largest beverage investment firm. an operator of large • Annual equity grant to non-employee directors environment and sustainability company. format general • Executive compensation best practices: merchandise and • Board orientation/education program food discount stores. • Seven Board meetings in 2013 (overall attendance – Strong pay-for-performance philosophy at Board and Committee meetings was 98 percent) – Incentive compensation subject to clawback policy • Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for directors – Robust stock ownership guidelines for executive W. James Farrell Aulana Peters Robert • Code of Conduct for all employees, including our officers and stock retention policy for directors Retired Chairman Retired Partner, Morrison and Chief Executive Gibson, Dunn & Retired Vice Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and – Prohibition of hedging or pledging 3M stock by Officer, Illnois Tool Crutcher LLP, Law Chairman of PepsiCo, Chief Accounting Officer directors and executive officers Works, Inc., a multi Firm Inc., a processor of • Risk oversight by the Board and Committees national manufacturer packaged foods and – No employment, severance or change-in-control of highly engineered beverages • Disclosure Committee for financial reporting agreements with any of its senior executives, fasteners, components, including its CEO assemblies, and systems. 3M 2014 Sustainability Report | 27 28 | 3M 2014 Sustainability Report • Vice President and Medical commitment to integrate innovation Executive Sessions the Company’s day-to-day operations Director of medical department and sustainability for the benefit of Independent directors regularly meet and with in-depth knowledge and our operations and customers. The in executive sessions without the understanding of the Company, he • Vice President of compliance primary role of the center is to develop Chairman and CEO or other members is best positioned to chair regular and business conduct strategy, set significant goals to track of management present to review Board meetings as the directors • Vice President and general progress and drive sustainable actions the criteria upon which the Chairman discuss key business and strategic manager of Materials Resource throughout 3M, its supply chain and its and CEO’s performance is based. issues. Coupled with an independent Division product portfolio. They also review the performance of Lead Director, this structure provides the Chairman and CEO against those independent oversight while avoiding • Technical Director of the Corporate Governance criteria, ratify the compensation of unnecessary confusion regarding Materials Resource Division Guidelines the Chairman and CEO as approved the Board’s oversight responsibilities • Associate General Counsel, EHS The Board has adopted Corporate by the Compensation Committee, and and the day-to-day management of and Supply Chain Governance Guidelines, which discuss any other relevant matters. business operations. provide a framework for the effective 3M’s Center for Sustainability within The Board believes that combining the governance of the Company. Board’s Leadership Structure Supply Chain Operations collaborates roles of CEO and Chairman contributes The guidelines address matters The Board’s leadership structure is with various other global staff to an efficient and effective Board. The such as the respective roles and characterized by the following: organizations and business units to Board believes that to drive change responsibilities of the Board and develop the corporate sustainability • A combined Chairman of the and continuous improvement within management, the Board’s leadership strategy and goals. In addition, Board and CEO the Company, tempered by respect for structure, the responsibilities of the 3M’s corporate staff groups provide 3M’s traditions and values, the CEO lead director, Board independence, • A strong, independent and highly Sustainability Governance technical expertise to assist business Board membership criteria, experienced Lead Director with must have maximum authority. The CEO groups and area management in is primarily responsible for effectively The Corporate Operating Committee, which is comprised of the CEO and his Board Committees, and Board well-defined responsibilities that implementing and meeting the leading significant change, improving direct reports, approves 3M-wide sustainability principles, strategy and goals, and management evaluation. The support the Board’s oversight corporate sustainability strategy, operational efficiency, driving growth, as well as any associated major changes. Executive Committees associated with Board’s Nominating and Governance responsibilities policies and goals. managing the Company’s day-to-day the strategic sustainability functions (composed of cross-functional members) Committee is responsible for • A robust Committee structure business, managing the various risks help set and approve relevant policies and provide direction on executing the The Center for Sustainability is led overseeing and reviewing the composed entirely of independent facing the Company, and reinforcing developed sustainability strategies. by two Vice Presidents. One focuses guidelines at least annually and directors with oversight of various the expectation of all employees to on developing and commercializing recommending any proposed changes For example, the Environmental Health and Safety (EHS) Committee, appointed types of risks continue building on 3M’s century-old products, which help our customers to the Board for approval. The Corporate by the Corporate Operating Committee, is composed of the following functions: tradition of uncompromising honesty solve their sustainability challenges Governance Guidelines, the Certificate • An engaged and independent and integrity. • Senior Vice President of corporate supply chain operations (Global Sustainability), and the of Incorporation, Bylaws, charters Board other ensures sustainability within of the Board Committees, Director The Board believes that adopting a • Executive Vice President of research and development and Chief The Board of Directors believes that 3M operations and supply chain Independence Guidelines and Codes rigid policy on whether to separate Technology Officer this leadership structure provides (Sustainability Operations). Both Vice of Conduct provide the framework or combine the positions of Chairman for the governance of the Company independent board leadership and of the Board and CEO would inhibit • Vice President of EHS and Sustainability Operations Presidents report to the Executive and are available at www.3M.com, engagement while benefiting from the Board’s ability to provide for a Vice President of 3M Supply Chain, • Vice President of public affairs under Investor Relations — Corporate having our CEO serve as Chairman who reports to the CEO. The formation leadership structure that best serves Governance. of the Board. As the individual with stockholders. As a result, the Board has • Vice President of corporate research laboratory and international of the Center for Sustainability in primary responsibility for managing rejected adopting a policy permanently technical operations 2013 demonstrates the corporation’s 3M 2014 Sustainability Report | 29 30 | 3M 2014 Sustainability Report separating or combining the positions of Chairman and CEO Parcel Service Inc., International Business Machines Corp. in its Corporate Governance Guidelines, which are reviewed and Eli Lilly and Company, and was the former Chairman and at least annually and available at www.3M.com, under CEO of United Parcel Service Inc. His responsibilities include, Investor Relations — Corporate Governance. Instead, the but are not limited to, the following: Board adopted an approach that allows it, in representing the • Presides at all meetings of the Board at which the stockholders’ best interests, to decide who should serve as Chairman is not present, including executive sessions Chairman or CEO, or both, under present or anticipated future of the independent directors circumstances. • Acts as a key liaison between the Chairman/CEO and The Board believes that the Company’s corporate governance the independent directors measures ensure that strong, independent directors continue to effectively oversee the Company’s management and key • Approves the meeting agendas for the Board, as well issues related to executive compensation, CEO evaluation as the meeting schedules to assure there is sufficient and succession planning, strategy, risk, and integrity. The time for discussion of all agenda items Corporate Governance Guidelines provide, in part, that (i) • Has the authority to approve materials to be delivered independent directors comprise a substantial majority of to the directors before each Board meeting, and the Board; (ii) directors are elected annually with majority provides feedback regarding the quality, quantity and vote standard in uncontested director elections; (iii) only timeliness of those materials, which instills a feedback independent directors serve on the Audit, Compensation, mechanism so the materials may be improved for other interested parties may communicate with the Lead financial relationship with the Company, and they restrict both Finance, and Nominating and Governance Committees; (iv) future meetings Director, the chairs of the Audit, Compensation, Finance, and commercial and not-for-profit relationships of all directors the Committee chairs establish their respective agendas; (v) Nominating and Governance Committees of the Board, or with with the Company. Directors may not be given personal loans the Board and Committees may retain their own advisors; • Has the authority to call meetings of the independent any of our other independent directors, or all of them as a or extensions of credit by the Company, and all directors are (vi) the independent directors have complete access to directors group, by sending a letter to the following address: Corporate required to deal at arm’s length with the Company and its management and employees; (vii) the independent directors • Communicates Board member feedback to the Secretary, 3M Company, 3M Center, Building 220-13E-34, subsidiaries and to disclose any circumstance that might be meet in executive session without the CEO or other employees Chairman/CEO (except that the chair of the St. Paul, MN 55144-1000. perceived as a conflict of interest. during each regular Board meeting; and (viii) the Board and each Committee regularly conduct self-evaluations to Compensation Committee leads the discussion of the determine whether they function effectively. The Board has Chairman/CEO’s performance and communicates the Director Independence Board Membership Criteria Board’s evaluation to the Chairman/CEO) The Board of Directors has adopted a formal set of Director 3M’s Corporate Governance Guidelines contain Board also designated one of its members to serve as Lead Director, Independence Guidelines with respect to the determination Membership Criteria that include a list of skills and with responsibilities (described in the next section) similar to • If requested by major stockholders, ensures that he is of director independence, the full text of which is available characteristics expected to be represented on 3M’s Board. those typically performed by an independent Chairman. available, when appropriate, for consultation and direct at www.3M.com, under Investor Relations — Corporate The Committee periodically reviews with the Board the communication Governance. In accordance with these Guidelines, a director or appropriate skills and characteristics required of Board Lead Director • Performs such other duties as requested by the nominee for director must be determined to have no material members given the current Board composition. It is the The 3M Board of Directors designated one of its members to independent directors relationship with the Company other than as a director. The Board’s intent that it will be a high-performance organization serve as a Lead Director, with responsibilities similar to those Guidelines specify the criteria by which the independence of creating competitive advantage for the Company. To perform typically performed by an independent chairman. Michael L. Eskew was appointed Lead Director by the independent Communication With Directors our directors will be determined, including strict guidelines as such, the Board will be composed of individuals who have directors, effective November 12, 2012, succeeding Dr. Vance (Stockholder & Stakeholder Input) for directors and their immediate families with respect to past distinguished records of leadership and success in their The Board of Directors has adopted the following process employment or affiliation with the Company or its independent arenas of activity and who will make substantial contributions Coffman who served as Lead Director since 2006. Eskew is for stockholders and other interested parties to send registered public accounting firm. The Guidelines also prohibit to Board operations and effectively represent the interests a highly experienced director, serving on the boards of United communications to members of the Board. Stockholders and Audit Committee members from having any direct or indirect of all stockholders. The Committee’s and the Board’s 3M 2014 Sustainability Report | 31 32 | 3M 2014 Sustainability Report Board Skills & Responsibilities responsible for managing a particular risk may also report to For more information on the roles and responsibilities of Lead the full Board on how the risk is being managed and mitigated. Independent Director and each of the Board Committees, While the Board’s primary oversight of risk is with the Audit refer to 3M’s 2014 Proxy Statement and 2013 Annual Report. Committee, the Board has delegated to other Committees the oversight of risks within their areas of responsibility Managing Enterprise Risks & and expertise. For example, the Compensation Committee Opportunities oversees the risks associated with the Company’s compensation practices, including an annual review of the Inherent Aspects Company’s risk assessment of its compensation policies and Environmental Social Economic practices for its employees. The Finance Committee oversees Strategic risks associated with the Company’s capital structure, its credit Enterprise Risk Operational ratings and its cost of capital, long-term benefit obligations, Financial and the Company’s use of or investment in financial products, Categories including derivatives used to manage risk related to foreign Legal/Regulatory currencies, commodities and interest rates. The Nominating Hazard and Governance Committee oversees the risks associated with the Company’s overall governance and its succession The Board has delegated to the Audit Committee through planning process to understand that the Company has a its charter the primary responsibility for the oversight of state of future, qualified candidates for key management risks facing the Company. The charter provides that the positions. The Auditor also actively and routinely seeks input Audit Committee shall “discuss policies and procedures from executive Committees with expertise in specific risks. with respect to risk assessment and risk management, the For example, the EHS Committee provides input on risks with assessment of Board candidates includes, but is not limited In addition to these minimum requirements, the Committee will Company’s major risk exposures and the steps management environmental or social impacts. to, consideration of the following: also evaluate whether the nominees’ skills are complementary has taken to monitor and mitigate such exposures.” to the existing Board members’ skills; the Board’s needs for The Board believes that its oversight of risks, primarily (i) Roles and contributions valuable to the business community particular expertise in fields such as business, manufacturing, The Vice President and General Auditor, Corporate Auditing through delegation to the Audit Committee, but also (ii) Personal qualities of leadership, character, judgment, and technology, finance and accounting, marketing, international (“Auditor”), whose appointment and performance is reviewed through delegation to other Committees, and the sharing of whether the candidate possesses and maintains throughout business, government or other areas of expertise; and assess and evaluated by the Audit Committee and who has direct information with the full Board, is appropriate for a diversified service on the Board a reputation in the community at large the nominees’ impact on Board dynamics and effectiveness. reporting obligations to the Audit Committee, is responsible for technology and manufacturing company like 3M. The chair of integrity, trust, respect, competence and adherence to the leading the formal risk assessment and management process of each Committee that oversees risk provides a summary of highest ethical standards Diversity within the Company. The Auditor, through consultation with the matters discussed with the Committee to the full Board The Board of Directors values diversity as a factor in the Company’s senior management, periodically assesses following each Committee meeting. The minutes of each (iii) Relevant knowledge and diversity of background selecting nominees to serve on the Board because it provides the major risks facing the Company and works with those Committee meeting are also provided to all Board members. and experience in business, manufacturing, technology, significant benefit to the Board and the Company. Although it executives responsible for managing each specific risk. The finance and accounting, marketing, international business, The Board also believes its oversight of risk is enhanced by its has no specific policy on diversity, the Committee considers Auditor periodically reviews with the Audit Committee the government, and the like current leadership structure (discussed above) because the CEO, the Board Membership Criteria in selecting nominees for major risks facing the Company and the steps management who is ultimately responsible for the Company’s risk management, (iv) Whether the candidate is free of conflicts and has the directors, including diversity of background and experience. has taken to monitor and mitigate those risks. The Auditor’s also chairs regular Board meetings, and with his in-depth time required for preparation, participation and attendance Such considerations may include gender, race, national origin, risk management report, which is provided in advance of knowledge and understanding of the Company, he is best able to at all meetings functional background, executive or professional experience, the meeting, is reviewed with the entire Board by either the bring key business issues and risks to the Board’s attention. and international experience. Chair of the Audit Committee or the Auditor. The executive 3M 2014 Sustainability Report | 33 34 | 3M 2014 Sustainability Report The Board of Directors Public Issues Committee reviews public • Programs to conduct appropriate due diligence on distributing over 2,000 of the posters in multiple policy issues and trends affecting the company, which inform business partners, potential and new acquisitions, and languages to each global office the Audit Committee’s enterprise risk assessment process. candidates for hiring and promoting • Redesigned the Compliance and Business Conduct The Committee also reviews and approves the company’s • Investigative expertise website to improve functionality and make compliance response to stockholder proposals relating to public policy information more readily accessible issues. The Board of Directors has determined that all Public • Incentives and discipline to address compliance Issues Committee members are independent under the New successes and failures • Enhanced the tools and systems used to conduct York Stock Exchange listing standards. reputational due diligence on 3M’s third-party The Compliance and Business Conduct Department Jim Zappa ( VP, Associate General Counsel, Chief Compliance intermediaries collaborates with and is assisted by dedicated compliance Officer, 3M Compliance and Business Conduct) (center) Corporate Code of Conduct organizations and subject matter experts in areas such At 3M, we believe that what the Company stands for is just Global Code of Conduct 3M was proudly recognized in 2014 by Ethisphere as as corporate audit, corporate security, trade compliance, as important as what we sell. For 112 years, 3M has built While 3M has subsidiary operations in more than 70 countries, one of the World’s Most Ethical Companies. Ethisphere government contracting, health care regulation, and recognizes companies that promote ethical business a reputation for integrity and doing business the right way. the Company has one Code that applies everywhere 3M environmental health and safety. In addition, 3M’s business standards and practices while exceeding legal 3M expects all employees to act ethically and to sustain and does business. Our Code establishes a consistent standard divisions and subsidiaries utilize staff who liaise with the compliance minimums. Through receipt of this award, advance 3M’s global reputation. of conduct for every employee and helps define the ethical Compliance and Business Conduct Department staff in 3M is acknowledged for introducing best practices and decision-making we expect our employees to make every 3M’s global compliance program is managed and administered ensuring that their organizations continuously demonstrate shaping future compliance industry standards. day. Our Code of Conduct Principles are comprehensive, clear, by the Compliance and Business Conduct Department, led by legal compliance and ethical business conduct. These consistent, well-communicated and available to all employees. the Vice President, Associate General Counsel, Compliance staff members assist in business conduct policy training, The Code helps employees and others acting on 3M’s and Business Conduct, who is also 3M’s Chief Compliance communications and completion of periodic risk assessments behalf take a consistent, global approach to understanding 3M conducts extensive interviews, group assessments and Officer (CCO). The department is staffed with compliance for their organizations. and following fundamental compliance requirements. 3M reviews by senior management for completion of risk analysis professionals stationed at company headquarters and around employees, including supervisors, managers and other assessments to provide more customized and useful prioritized the world. The CCO reports to the Audit Committee of the 3M Compliance Program Enhancements in 2013 leaders, are responsible for understanding the legal and results and to incorporate understanding of external factors Board of Directors, which assists the Board in oversight of In 2013, 3M made a number of enhancements to its corporate policy requirements that apply to their jobs and for reporting that could influence the nature and gravity of risk. This process 3M’s legal and regulatory compliance efforts. The Compliance compliance program, using several creative and innovative any suspected violations of law or these policies. assures that the appropriate risks are properly identified as and Business Conduct Department oversees and administers ways to promote awareness and improve compliance an enterprise risk, to identify key “failure modes” that could strategic, systematic and operational components of 3M’s controls, specifically: In 2013, we developed a Code of Conduct Global Handbook. lead to a risk incident, and to review and assess the quality of compliance program design and implementation. The The Handbook is contemporary, user-friendly and accessible • Aligned its Business Conduct Principles into a Code ownership of the risk and related resources available to ensure compliance program is based on the U.S. Federal Sentencing to all employees worldwide. It summarizes 3M’s compliance of Conduct (“Code”), and created, implemented and proper avoidance, mitigation and response capabilities. Guidelines. Its elements include the following: principles and raises awareness of 3M’s core requirements of distributed to all employees a new Code of Conduct doing business “the right way, every day and everywhere.” It A gap assessment is completed to provide quantification on • A core set of business conduct principles Global Handbook also includes an “Ethical Decision-Making” Business Conduct a common scale of the level of risk and 3M’s corresponding • Education, training materials and the schedule upon • Updated its Business Conduct Principles to improve Principle, which requires 3M employees to make decisions capabilities relative to each enterprise risk identified. The which compliance training is conducted readability and reinforce 3M’s core requirement based on 3M’s fundamental values: honesty, integrity, outcomes are used to prioritize action plans for each topic. of doing business “the right way, every day and promise keeping, fairness, respect, concern for others and More detailed quantitative and qualitative sensitivity analyses • Periodic evaluations, audits and measurements of the everywhere” personal accountability. may be conducted and cover topics such as operational compliance program’s effectiveness risk (business continuity), raw material sourcing and price • Improved global awareness of the manner in which 3M developed a communication and awareness program for fluctuation, compliance, revenue forecasting, climate change • A 24-hour helpline and website through which issues or concerns may be raised by creating new the Code and Handbook deployment to ensure that each of legislation, petroleum pricing and strategic planning processes, employees and others can report concerns and ask posters promoting the 3M-Ethics.com hotline and 3M’s more than 89,000 employees received a copy of the and many other areas. questions Handbook. That program included the following: 3M 2014 Sustainability Report | 35 36 | 3M 2014 Sustainability Report several senior executives and is chaired by 3M’s CCO. The who act on 3M’s behalf. “Global Bribery and Corruption Committee has oversight for 3M’s various compliance efforts. Awareness” training is required of employees in higherThe Business Conduct Committee reports jointly to the Audit risk roles, including those in Legal, Audit, Sales, Marketing, Committee of the 3M Board of Directors and to the Corporate Export and Global Trading. “Understanding the Foreign Operating Committee. Corrupt Practices Act” training is required of a similar subset of the employee population. 3M’s Anti-Bribery Principle and Compliance Training and Education 3M-provided training are designed to educate our employees 3M offers a comprehensive online compliance training and business partners on recognizing the many forms in program to all employees worldwide. The program’s training which bribes can appear and how to avoid them, even at the modules are mandatory for approximately 44,000 global risk of losing business opportunities. employees, who are required to take modules on a two3M’s commitment to anti-corruption also applies to assessing or three-year cycle, depending on the course. Modules and mitigating risks of using third-party intermediaries. include conducting business across borders, understanding Based upon a risk calibration resulting from an assessment the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, financial reporting, of transaction, geography and other risk factors, 3M conducts government relationships, business conduct and ethics, reputational due diligence reviews on these third parties. conflicts of interest, and other key compliance areas. More Depending on the outcome of those reviews, 3M responds to than 25 courses are offered in multiple languages. The 3M identified risks with training, inclusion of relevant contractual Compliance and Business Conduct website on 3M’s intranet terms and other risk-mitigating controls. offers additional anti-bribery training on 3M’s global antibribery compliance program. In addition to online training, The Compliance and Business Conduct Department also the Compliance and Business Conduct Department, in collaborates with 3M Legal Affairs on preand postclose collaboration with 3M Legal Affairs, provides frequent, acquisition due diligence processes in the merger and • A hard copy of the Code of Conduct Global Handbook was Following the rollout of the Code in the United States, the tailored in-person training to business, subsidiary and staff acquisition setting. These processes help identify and assess provided to all employees globally. To quickly and efficiently team conducted a survey of a random employee sample groups. Some of this training occurs as part of an annual risks in the target company before acquisition. And, for any distribute the Handbook, using the innovative spirit of 3M, to measure the awareness and impact of the new Code. calendar and other training occurs as requested or deemed company 3M acquires, the processes accelerate our efforts the team developed a method for storing printable versions The results indicated that more than 98 percent of U.S. appropriate. to identify compliance gaps and begin to transition the online, where 3M subsidiaries could obtain the content in employees and 95 percent of employees outside of the U.S. acquired company’s employees to 3M’s compliance program the language of their choice and print it through their local recalled information from the rollout, and a majority believed Commitment to Anti-Corruption and culture. printer. the material in the rollout was understandable and increased As a recent member of the United Nations Global Compact, • The Code and Handbook were translated into 18 languages. knowledge of the Code’s expectations. 3M is committed to support Principle 10 on Anti-Corruption Reporting Systems and is working against corruption in all forms. We plan to use 3M recognizes that reporting suspected misconduct or All 3M employees are responsible for reporting any suspected • The Code and Principles are available on 3M’s internal and this opportunity to benchmark and learn best practices from even asking a compliance question can take courage, but violations of law or the Code. Consistent with historic practices, external websites. other peer companies and participate in relevant working we believe it is the right thing to do. Our employees are and where permitted by local law, 3M requires an Annual group opportunities. encouraged to raise questions or report misconduct or • Every employee with a 3M email account received weekly Code of Conduct certification from nonproduction employees potential misconduct to management, 3M Legal Counsel, the emails for eight weeks, including an introductory email from at certain job grade levels, representing more than 38,000 3M’s Anti-Bribery Principle requires compliance with all Compliance and Business Conduct Department, or to their CEO and Chairman of the Board Inge Thulin. The videos employees. applicable anti-bribery laws, including the U.S. Foreign Human Resources Manager. featured senior leaders discussing the six “fundamental Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act and all applicable expectations” in our Code (Be Good, Be Honest, Be Fair Business Conduct Committee local laws where 3M operates. The Anti-Bribery Principle In addition, a 24-hour confidential and anonymous helpline and Impartial, Be Loyal, Be Accurate, and Be Respectful). The 3M Business Conduct Committee is composed of applies to 3M employees, as well as to our business partners is available internally and externally through EthicsPoint, an 3M 2014 Sustainability Report | 37 38 | 3M 2014 Sustainability Report independent third-party vendor. Reports are made through this compliance risk assessments of 3M’s businesses, including system telephonically or online and are promptly investigated assessment of risk related to corruption, and specific riskand responded to by the Compliance and Business Conduct based compliance and ethics audits performed by 3M’s Department or another staff department. EthicsPoint does Internal Audit function. These audits follow a specific audit not trace phone calls or use caller identification, nor does module that focuses on ethics and business as part of EthicsPoint generate or maintain internal connection logs systematic audits of financial and other business controls. containing Internet Protocol (IP) addresses. Web-based In addition, a dedicated team within 3M’s Compliance and reports are made through a secure Internet portal, which Business Conduct Department conducts periodic compliance does not trace or show user screen names. 3M’s Employee and anti-bribery evaluations in various 3M subsidiaries and Obligations and Reporting Principle prohibits retaliation operating units each year. These evaluations are selected against anyone who raises a business conduct concern in based on objective and subjective risk factors, and they good faith or cooperates in a company investigation. Below include reviews of sample financial transactions, compliance is a bar graph illustrating four-year metrics for allegations records and interviews with subsidiary and business unit raised using the telephone and online reporting tool. personnel. In 2013, over 300 nonproduction employees were interviewed as part of the evaluation process. Allegations & Disciplinary Action 500 Audits, evaluations and risk assessments are all important 450 activities for the purposes of detecting any opportunities for 400 improvement or even gaps in processes or procedures. Of 350 equal importance, they provide opportunities to reinforce 300 250 the importance of operating with a compliance and 200 ethical behavior mindset and facilitate the identification of 150 compliance risks. All these outcomes reinforce prevention of 100 future compliance gaps or failures. Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. 3M is dedicated embracing its related principles. 3M’s approach for managing 50 0 to enriching the workplace, engaging with stakeholders and ensuring human rights in the workplace will continue to 2010 2011 2012 2013 Further Information: and continuously improving the communities in which we align with 3M’s Code of Conduct in 2014, which recognizes Allegations Reported Substantiated Allegations Disciplinary Actions 3M Business Conduct Website operate. 3M’s Human Resources organization is responsible the right of employees to have a respectful workplace. 3M Disciplinary action is taken when necessary and comes in for oversight and enforcement of the Human Rights Policy continues to implement our human rights principles through a range of forms, from issuing warnings to termination. As Respecting Human Rights Statement. Issues are addressed by the Employee Relations Director, at the direction of the Senior Vice President for our global policy statement, a management system utilizing self-assessments, audits, training and, ultimately, metrics indicated in the graph above, disciplinary actions may include one or more persons associated with a single substantiated Overview Human Resources. tracking. violation. Leading With High Integrity and Values: 3M is committed to 3M values its people and has considered them a key values that sustain a culture of high-integrity business ethics Our Approach & Progress contributing factor to our success and growth for 112 years. Maintaining Business Conduct Compliance with our partners and within our own operations. In 2013, 3M has reviewed internal corporate policies, management We work hard to foster an environment where all employees Operating with uncompromising integrity is one of 3M’s core 3M adopted a Global Human Rights Policy Statement. 3M systems, and external frameworks, principles, standards and are treated with respect and allowed to develop their skills values and includes avoiding bribery or corruption in any respects international human rights principles, including affiliated organizations related to human rights. 3M made a and talents and to always act with integrity. We not only form. the United Nations Declaration of Human Rights, the United significant commitment to human rights and labor practices comply with laws and regulations, but we are rooted in going Oversight, monitoring and testing of 3M’s corporate Nations Guiding Principles for Business and Human Rights, in 2013, adopting a Human Rights Policy statement, and above and beyond to do the right thing. compliance program and controls is supported by periodic and the International Labor Organization’s Declaration on becoming a member of the U.N. Global Compact in early 2014, 3M 2014 Sustainability Report | 39 40 | 3M 2014 Sustainability Report intimidation, reprisal or harassment, in an environment to human rights, 3M provides regular training to employees where employees are able to get their questions regarding our Business Conduct Policies, including 3M’s addressed in a fair and timely manner. In all locations, Respectful Workplace Principle. Employee training regarding the company’s relationship with employees, whether our Respectful Workplace Principle has been updated and will union or nonunion, is a key responsibility of all leaders, be launched in 2014 to address 3M’s Human Rights Policy assisted by human resources representatives. Human and 3M’s commitment to human rights. Current training resources professionals work with all employees to includes direction on how employees can raise issues for maintain positive employee relations. 3M recognizes and investigation and response. All 3M locations also post respects the ability of employees to choose whether or information on how employees can report any concerns. The not to join unions and engage in collective bargaining, as enhanced training will be rolled out to all employees globally, permitted by applicable laws in the countries where 3M except for production employees outside the U.S. because of does business. Approximately 29 percent of 3M’s global translation barriers. 3M will work toward providing training workforce is unionized. to that population as well in the future. Finally, 3M’s website also has information on corporate policies, as well as links • Child Labor/Minimum Hiring Age: 3M complies with and additional information on how to report any concerns. all applicable laws relating to hiring minors and applies a global minimum hiring age of 16 even where the law Human Rights Performance and Assessment allows hiring workers younger than 16. 3M has those 3M’s employee relations staff conducts site self-assessments same expectations for all vendors doing business with us. of workplace practices on a biannual basis, which include Human Rights Elements: review of practices related to 3M’s Human Rights Policy to • Forced and Compulsory Labor: 3M complies with all ensure that practices are consistent with and reinforce that • Safe and Healthy Workplace: One of 3M’s primary opportunities for qualified minorities, women, covered applicable laws and employment regulations and does policy. Various data is tracked through the process to identify goals is to ensure that all employees are provided a safe veterans and individuals with disabilities, and also to not engage or participate in forced labor. 3M has those potential gaps and opportunities for improvement. The selfand healthy workplace. 3M has environmental, health provide reasonable accommodation to individuals with same expectations for all vendors doing business with us. assessments have been implemented in 3M operations in the and safety policies and practices that comply with or, disabilities. 3M is committed to attracting and retaining a Human Rights Remediation/Grievance Resolution United States, Canada, Asia and Western Europe. In 2014, in many cases, exceed applicable laws and regulations. diverse workforce by creating the kind of inclusive work 3M has several means by which an individual can report his 3M will work toward implementation in Eastern Europe, the See Safety and Health section of this report for further environment 3M employees want and can be proud of. or her concerns. An employee (or any third party) may report Middle East and Latin America. information. • Working Hours and Compensation: 3M complies with an issue online or by phone, and may do so anonymously In addition, corporate audits are conducted of site workplace • Respectful Workplace: 3M is committed to minimum wage legislation globally. In most countries through 3M’s Compliance and Business Conduct independent and human resource practices. Assessment and auditing of attracting and retaining a diverse workforce. Our where 3M does business, our compensation exceeds third-party vendor, EthicsPoint. In addition, employees have suppliers is also conducted to assure compliance with 3M’s Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) policies prohibit legal minimum wage requirements. Our competitive several additional ways to report issues, such as talking to a expectations related to labor practices (see the Engaging Our all forms of discrimination or harassment against compensation reflects our practice of establishing manager, supervisor or any Human Resources professional. Suppliers section of this report for more details). applicants, employees, vendors, contractors or competitive salary ranges based on actual pay data from However concerns are reported, 3M will assign an individual customers on the basis of race, color, creed, religion, benchmark peer companies. 3M also complies with all to investigate the issues raised and to report back to the party applicable laws relating to working hours, overtime and Further information sex, national origin, age, disability, veteran’s status, expressing concern. 3M prohibits retaliation against anyone • 3M Global Human Rights Policy Statement pregnancy, genetic information, sexual orientation, breaks. who reports a business conduct concern in good faith or marital status, citizenship status, status with regards cooperates in a company investigation. • 3M Equal Employment Opportunity Policy • Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining: to public assistance, gender identity/expression or any 3M works diligently to create a work culture that affords Human Rights Awareness and Training • 3M Respectful Workplace Principle other reason prohibited by law. Our affirmative action all employees the opportunity to work without fear of To ensure that employees are aware of 3M policies related policies and programs are designed to ensure equal 3M 2014 Sustainability Report | 41 42 | 3M 2014 Sustainability Report Public Policy & Engagement Worldwide (1) Tax Policy − Tax reform is essential to ensuring the longsystem. Reforms of the U.S. health care system should through the passage of new trade agreements. 3M supports 3M lives its values through its public policy pursuits — and term competitiveness of American businesses and workers. focus on increasing efficiencies within the system as well as renewal of the president’s Trade Promotion Authority so as to in a manner consistent with our corporate vision. As a diverse 3M believes business tax reform should focus on a significant improving quality outcomes and patient safety. allow additional agreements to be negotiated. International global company, developing 3M public policy priorities can reduction of the corporate income tax rate, transitioning to a trade policy also requires a level playing field, including (5) Homeland Security – 3M believes our nation’s homeland be a challenge. 3M manages this by working with local, competitive international system and creating incentives for recognition, protection and enforcement of intellectual security and defense preparedness should be strengthened national and international government agencies and through U.S.-based IP ownership. In addition, state tax policy should property rights and trading rules. through improved border and immigration security, improved membership organizations. The public policy issues on which incentivize capital investment and sustainable job creation by force protection measures, additional support for first (8) Transportation Infrastructure Policy – The maintenance 3M engages extend beyond borders to include promoting rewarding plant expansion and modernization investments, responders, and planning for pandemics or other national and improvement of the nation’s transportation infrastructure international trade, sustainability, respect for intellectual and efforts to increase employment. emergencies. — which is important to 3M as a supplier of traffic safety and property rights, public health, worker safety, security and (2) Regulatory Reform − The U.S. regulatory environment construction products, and as a user of the system — can international law, and innovation. (6) Legal Reform/Patent Policy – The U.S. legal system plays a vital role in advancing the nation’s economic security only be achieved if the Highway Trust Fund remains solvent. is the most expensive in the world, driven often by lawsuit In a fast-moving global environment, 3M’s public policy interests. So as to promote genuine competition and 3M believes all highway user fees should be dedicated to the abuse. To ensure the legal justice system is fair, efficient values remain consistent even as they address the unique sustainable job creation, regulatory reforms must include fund; additional steps should be taken to crack down on fuel and consistent, we support reforms making liability litigation needs of the national, regional and local governments in thorough cost-benefit and risk assessments, while preserving tax evasion; and Congress should consider other measures, more equitable, subjecting punitive damages to reasonable locations where we operate. 3M reinforces our corporate the highest standards for safety, quality and efficiency. Efforts if necessary, to ensure the fund’s solvency. caps, and ending destructive practices like indiscriminate vision and principles, but we continually identify and reby certain federal agencies to extend their regulatory reach screening, venue shopping and case bundling. Such reforms (9) Labor Policy – 3M supports the full measure of rights evaluate our global public policy priorities to address changing without congressional oversight must also be curtailed. can be achieved while ensuring that those injured by faulty provided to employers and employees under the National circumstances. (3) Sustainability/Environmental Policy − 3M’s strategies products receive fair compensation proportionate to the injury Labor Relations Act. However, we strongly oppose actions Each country has an evaluation process. For example, in the for sustainable development encompass the pursuit of of the claimant and the fault of the defendant. 3M believes by the National Labor Relations Board that challenge U.S. United States, an evaluation process developed by the 3M customer satisfaction and commercial success within a in strongly supporting patent rights for innovators and patent manufacturing leadership. We also oppose any legislative Public Affairs Department establishes a public policy agenda framework of environmental, social and economic values. holders across this nation and globally. We support efforts or regulatory efforts to diminish or eliminate secret ballot of issues impacting our businesses. U.S. public policy teams To that end, 3M has made significant investments designed to enhance the resources and capabilities of the United elections for employees as relates to either accepting or develop a Top 10 list (see below) of Priority Public Policy Issues to reduce the environmental footprint of our operations, States Patent and Trademark Office, improve the quality rejecting union representation. 3M invests in STEM initiatives that serves as a road map for all forms of engagement with investments which continue today. And by developing and transparency of the patenting process, and bring more that encourage and support student interest and achievement. federal, state and local governments. Besides linking 3M’s sustainable products, we help our customers reduce their balance, objectivity and predictability to patent infringement We also support reform of our immigration system to ensure vision to the needs and priorities of government officials, the environmental footprint and help to meet their sustainability litigation. We support efforts, both in the U.S. and in patent American companies are able to hire those with advanced Top 10 list helps ensure the many faces of 3M speak with goals. Finally, 3M believes environmental policy and offices and courts globally, to enhance the enforceability of degrees in STEM fields so we can continue to grow and a single, unified voice. Internationally, 3M managing directors regulations should be guided by science-based decisionpatent rights against infringing activities (including bad-faith innovate in the U.S. of host country businesses are responsible for evaluating making. claims of infringement) and the remedies available against (10) Energy Policy – National (and state) energy policy and determining key government issues in their respective infringement. (4) Health Care Policy – The U.S. health system should should ensure a continuous, reliable and uninterrupted countries. remain market-driven and efforts to address the uninsured (7) International Trade Policy – The U.S. economy and supply of energy at competitive rates. 3M supports policies The following is 3M’s Top 10 list for the United States in 2014: should not weaken the current employer-based coverage American jobs depend on the expansion of free and fair trade that address new sources of energy, alternative energy, faster adoption of technology and improved energy efficiency. 3M 2014 Sustainability Report | 43 44 | 3M 2014 Sustainability Report 2012-2013 2010-2013 2015 Sustainability Goal Units 2010 2011 2012 2013 ANNUAL % % Change Change Financial Performance Operating Results Net Sales Million $USD $ 26,662 $ 29,611 $ 29,904 $ 30,871 3.2% 15.8% Operating Income Million $USD $ 5,918 $ 6,178 $ 6,483 $ 6,666 2.8% 12.6% Net Income attributable to 3M Million $USD $ 4,085 $ 4,283 $ 4,444 $ 4,659 4.8% 14.1% Per share-Basic Million $USD $ 5.72 $ 6.05 $ 6.40 $ 6.83 6.7% 19.4% Per share-Diluted Million $USD $ 5.63 $ 5.96 $ 6.32 $ 6.72 6.3% 19.4% Additional Information Capital Expenditures Million $USD $ 1,091 $ 1,379 $ 1,484 $ 1,665 12.2% 52.6% Research, Development and Related Million $USD $ 1,434 $ 1,570 $ 1,634 $ 1,715 5.0% 19.6% Expenses Employee Compensation and Benefits Million $USD $ 7,226 $ 8,059 $ 8,347 $ 8,732 4.6% 20.8% Payments to providers of capital Million $USD $ 1,701 $ 1,774 $ 1,801 $ 1,899 5.4% 11.8% Provision for Income Taxes Million $USD $ 1,592 $ 1,674 $ 1,840 $ 1,841 0.1% 15.6% Product Development Percent of net sales of products introduced within the New Product Vitality Index (NPVI) 31.4% 31.7% 33.1% 33.3% 0.2% 1.9% last five years as compared to total net sales Formal Sustainability Goal Goal Achieved Goal On Track Sustainability Performance Summary 46 | 3M 2014 Sustainability Report 2012-2013 2010-2013 2015 Sustainability Goal Units 2010 2011 2012 2013 ANNUAL % % Change Change Supplier Responsibility Review 80% of Supplier Spend in Top 10 High Risk Supplier Spend Reviewed (Alignment with Percent of Supplier Spend Reviewed in Top 10 High Countries for Alignment with 3M Supplier Policy and Base Year 74.0% 78.0% 80.0% 2.0% – Supplier Sustainability Policy and Standards) Risk Countries Standards Environmental Performance Environmental Management Systems % ISO14001 Certified Sites per Sales Percent of Global SVOP with ISO 14001 Certified – – 90% 89% -1.0% – Value of Production (SVOP) Environmental Management Systems Percent of acquired sites with an EHS Onboarding Promote a Road to EHS Excellence at New 3M Sites EHS Onboarding for Acquired Operations 100% 100% 100% 100% 0.0% 0.0% Plan Energy Management Improve Energy Efficiency 25% Indexed to Net Sales by Total Energy (Indexed to Net Sales) MMBTUs per Net Sales(MM $USD) 1010 902 931 930 -0.1% -7.9% 2015 from 2005 Base Year Total Energy Use (Absolute) MMBTUs 26,917,031 26,703,396 27,838,414 28,714,940 3.1% 6.7% Total Natural Gas MMBTUs 15,277,671 15,127,844 14,885,922 15,505,194 4.2% 1.5% Total Electrical MMBTUs 9,573,615 9,675,104 10,098,298 10,316,441 2.2% 7.8% Total Steam MMBTUs 807,211 832,820 839,832 901,783 7.4% 11.7% Total Fuel Oil #1, #2, #6 MMBTUs 686,393 549,059 1,485,352 1,495,673 0.7% 117.9% Total Gasoline and Diesel MMBTUs 233,461 202,293 225,343 191,715 -14.9% -17.9% Total Propane and Jet Fuel MMBTUs 338,680 316,276 295,203 281,177 -4.8% -17.0% Total Coal MMBTUs – – – – – – Formal Sustainability Goal Goal Achieved Goal On Track 3M 2014 Sustainability Report | 47 48 | 3M 2014 Sustainability Report 2012-2013 2010-2013 2015 Sustainability Goal Units 2010 2011 2012 2013 ANNUAL % % Change Change Air Emissions Management Reduce Greenhouse Gas Emissions 5% Indexed to Net Total Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Indexed to Million Metric Tons per Net Sales (MM $USD) 233 206 221 258 16.7% Sales by 2011 from 2006 Base Year Net Sales) (1) Total Greenhouse Gas Emissions (AbsoluteMillion Metric Tons CO2e 6.230 6.090 6.620 7.950 20.1% Kyoto and Non-Kyoto) (1) Scope 1 Emissions (Direct) (1) Million Metric Tons CO2e 4.280 4.060 4.370 5.590 27.9% Scope 2 Emissions (Indirect) (1) Million Metric Tons CO2e 1.940 2.030 2.250 2.360 4.9% Scope 3 Emissions (2) Million Metric Tons CO2e Not Evaluated 8.15 10.66 10.64 -0.2% Upstream (2) (3) Not Evaluated 8.15 9.15 9.41 2.8% Downstream (2) (4) Not Evaluated Not Evaluated 1.51 1.23 -18.5% Reduce Volatile Air Emissions 15% Indexed to Net Total Volatile Organic Compound Emissions Metric Tons per Net Sales (MM $USD) 0.23 0.20 0.20 0.17 -13.4% -23.8% Sales by 2015 from 2010 Base Year (Indexed to Net Sales) Total Volatile Organic Compound Emissions Metric Tons 6074 6054 5984 5354 -10.5% -11.9% (Absolute) Waste Management Reduce Waste 10% Indexed to Net Sales by 2015 from Total Waste (Indexed to Net Sales) Metric Tons per Net Sales (MM $USD) 6.6 6.04 5.98 6.12 2.3% -7.3% 2010 Base Year Total Waste Generated (Absolute) Metric Tons 176,293 178,817 178,728 189,081 5.8% 7.3% Hazardous Waste Metric Tons 42,316 41,253 39,663 38,865 -2.0% -8.2% NonHazardous Waste Metric Tons 133,977 137,564 139,065 150,216 8.0% 12.1% Total Waste Recycled and Reused (Absolute) Onsite Recycle & Reuse (5) Metric Tons 850,133 766,118 728,035 719,637 -1.2% -15.4% Offsite Reuse (5 Metric Tons 1,972,152 1,868,424 1,423,300 1,788,981 25.7% -9.3% Offsite Reuse (5) Metric Tons 127,965 129,198 128,160 130,516 1.8% 2.0% Formal Sustainability Goal Goal Achieved Goal On Track 3M 2014 Sustainability Report | 49 50 | 3M 2014 Sustainability Report 2012-2013 2010-2013 2015 Sustainability Goal Units 2010 2011 2012 2013 ANNUAL % % Change Change Water Management Total Water Use (Indexed to Net Sales) Million Cubic Meters per Net Sales (MM $USD) 0.0016 0.0014 0.0015 0.0014 -6.7% -12.5% Total Water Use (Absolute) Million Cubic Meters 42.98 41.13 43.51 43.18 -0.8% 0.5% Total Water Recycled (6) Percent of Total Water Use – – 36.6% 37.0% 1.1% – Develop Water Conservation Planning for 3M Sites Number of manufacturing sites in water stressed/ Sites located in Water Stress/Scarce Areas (7) Base Year 18 24 22 -8.3% – Located in Water Stressed/Scarce Areas scarce areas with water conservation planning efforts Social Performance Employees Total Global Employees at Year-End Number of Employees 79,179 83, 253 86,557 89,583 3.5% 13.1% (Headcount) % Full Time Employees Percent of total employee headcount 97.0% 97.2% 97.2% 97.1% -0.1% 0.1% % Part Time Employees Percent of total employee headcount 3.0% 2.8% 2.8% 2.9% 0.1% -0.1% % Female employees Percent of total employee headcount 33.3% 33.6% 33.7% 33.7% 0.0% 0.4% % Female employees in management Percent of total employee headcount 22.9% 24.0% 24.6% 25.3% 0.7% 2.4% positions Total Global Employees Hired Number of Employees 11,067 10,775 9,322 10,471 12.3% -5.4% Global Giving Total Global Giving $ Million USD $ 58.79 $ 66.28 $ 60.30 $ 61.60 2.2% 4.8% Total Cash Donations $ Million USD $ 27.16 $ 29.40 $ 27.91 $ 30.29 8.5% 11.5% Total In-Kind Product Donations $ Million USD $ 31.63 $ 36.88 $ 32.39 $ 31.32 -3.3% -1.0% Community Engagement Develop Community Stakeholder Engagement Plans for Number of Global Manufacturing Sites with Local Stakeholder Engagement Plans Base Year 70 113 116 2.7% – Select Manufacturing Sites Stakeholder Engagement Plans Formal Sustainability Goal Goal Achieved Goal On Track 3M 2014 Sustainability Report | 51 52 | 3M 2014 Sustainability Report 2012-2013 2010-2013 2015 Sustainability Goal Units 2010 2011 2012 2013 ANNUAL % % Change Change Safety and Health Management Annual Recordable Incidents per 100 Employees Global Recordable Incident Rate 1.56 1.46 1.42 1.41 -0.7% -9.6% (200,000 work hours) Annual Lost time incidents per 100 employees Global Lost time Incident Rate 0.36 0.38 0.39 0.34 -12.8% -5.6% (200,000 work hours) Work Related Fatalities Total Number 1 1 2 2 3M Employees Total Number 1 0 1 1 3M Contractors Total Number 0 1 1 1 Formal Sustainability Goal Goal Achieved Goal On Track Footnotes: (1) 2012-2013 US EPA GHG-MRR/IPCC AR5 based inventory accounting is not directly comparable to 2010-2011 WRI/IPCC TAR,AR4 based GHG accounting for data provided in this table. (2) The data reported is in accordance to the World Resources Institute (WRI)/ World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard. (3) Includes Categories 1, 2, 6, 7; Category 3 and 8 are included in Scope 1, 2 emissions. (4) Includes Categories 9, 14, 15; Category 13 is included in Scope 1, 2 emissions. (5) 98% of Offsite Reuse and 91% of Onsite Recycle+Reuse is from the production of Roofing Granules. (6) There were data entry errors in the 2012 Water Source Data for Total Water Recycled. This data point has been corrected in this table and in the report. (7) 3M uses the WBCSD Global Water Tool to screen site locations for water stress/scarce levels and prioritizes conservation plan development based on internal criteria. 3M 2014 Sustainability Report | 53 54 | 3M 2014 Sustainability Report Selected Financial Results (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2012 2013 Change Operating Results $ $ $ $ $ % Net Sales 26,662 29,611 29,904 30,871 967 3.2 Operating Income 5,918 6,178 6,483 6,666 183 2.8 Net Income Attributes to 3M 4,085 4,283 4,444 4,659 215 4.8 Per Share Basic 5.72 6.05 6.40 6.83 0.43 6.7 Per Share Diluted 5.63 5.96 6.32 6.72 0.40 6.3 Financial Summary Additional Information Capital Expenditures 1,091 1,379 1,484 1,665 181 12.2 Our Vision Research, Development and Relat1,434 1,570 1,634 1,715 81 5.0 3M continues to be inspired and motivated by our corporate ed expenses • Expand relevance to our customers and our presence in vision: Employee Compensation and the marketplace 7,226 8,059 8,347 8,732 385 4.6 Benefits • 3M Technology Advancing Every Company • Gain profitable market share and accelerate market Payments to Providers of Capital 1,701 1,774 1,801 1,899 98 5.4 penetration everywhere • 3M Products Enhancing Every Home • Invest in innovation: Invigorate existing market • 3M Innovation Improving Every Life • Grow earnings per share 9–11 percent per year, on be the heartbeat of our company. We continue to invest opportunities and focus on emerging megatrends average in R&D and increased investment focused on long-term The vision captures the essence of 3M: technology, products • Intensify capabilities and achieve regional self-sufficiency disruptive technologies aimed at opportunities with and innovation. It describes what we do for our customers every • Grow organic sales 4-6 percent per year, on average significant growth potential. Twenty-six new product day: advance, enhance and improve. And it sets a stretch goal • Build high-performing and diverse global talent • Achieve return on invested capital of approximately 20 platforms aimed at accessing new markets were funded for all of us: We have the capability to reach every company, • Drive consistent superior levels of operational excellence percent in 2013, several of which are expected to be introduced every home and every life all around the world. to the market in 2014. By 2017, our annual investment As a result of our strong performance in 2013, we remain on • Convert approximately 100 percent of net income to free Concurrent with our vision, 3M introduced six strategies that in R&D will increase to 6 percent of sales. track to deliver on 2013–2017 financial goals: cash flow will propel the Company forward and achieve our financial • Business Transformation: We are making good progress goals: Three key strategic levers enabled outstanding performance as we continue to implement our global Enterprise Business in 2013: Resource Planning system. It was successfully launched • Portfolio Management: We combined and scaled in multiple countries in 2013, and learnings will business to better serve our customers, to gain cost accelerate success going forward. This integrated global savings and to address underperforming businesses. IT platform will enable greater organization efficiency Similarly, we enhance our product offering and improved and productivity. Growth & our relevance to customers in other businesses and, when it made sense, we exited. As a result of our strong performance in 2013, 3M remains on track to deliver on our financial goals while investing and building Performance • Investing in Innovation: Innovation is now and always will for long-term success: 56 | 3M 2014 Sustainability Report up to 6 percent of eligible compensation and also receive an Collaborating Pension and Postretirement Benefits Qualified and NonQualified Pension Benefits (in millions) employer retirement income account cash contribution of 3 percent of the participant’s total eligible compensation. to Create More 2010 2011 2012 2013 2012 2013 Change Additional financial details can be found in 3M’s 2013 Annual Sustainable Light $ $ $ $ $ Report. Technology United States The new 3MTM LED Advanced Light is an example Projected Benefit Obligation 12,319 14,499 14,830 13,967 (863) Accelerating Innovation of applying 3M technologies and culture of Overview collaboration to create 3M’s first-ever light bulb, Fair Value of Assets 11,575 12,102 13,781 13,889 108 advancing lighting technology by utilizing light3M has a long-standing reputation as being a company emitting diodes (LEDs). Developed with 3M’s Net Funded Status (744) (2,397) (1,049) (78) 971 committed to innovation and continues to dedicate a unique multilayer optical film, adhesives and heat large percentage of revenue (5.6 percent) to research and International management technologies, the bulb provides development (R&D) around the world. In addition to having energy efficiency far beyond both incandescent Projected Benefit Obligations 4,912 5,332 6,414 6,346 (68) extensive resources at our headquarters in Minnesota, 3M and fluorescent lighting alternatives and longhas rapidly expanded R&D operations globally and now Fair Value of Assets 4,355 4,643 5,222 5,758 536 term cost savings over an impressive 25-year operates approximately 85 laboratories and 45 technology product life span. In addition, with the new federal Net Funded Status (557) (689) (1,192) (588) 604 centers. To drive further global growth of the company, a standards phasing out incandescent light bulbs, specific Invest in Innovation (I3) program was put in place the 3MTM LED Advanced Light provides an option in 2012 to focus on organic growth through prioritized Key Economic Highlights for 2013: • Free cash flow conversion was 89 percent with ROIC at that is just as bright as a traditional bulb at a investments in new-to-the world platform development areas 20 percent. fraction of the energy. The 3MTM LED Advanced • Earning per share increased 6.3 percent to $6.72. aimed at new markets for 3M. The increased R&D spending Light received a Golden Edison Award in 2013. 3M has company-sponsored retirement plans covering began in 2013 and is projected to stabilize at six percent to • Operating income was $6.7 billion, a 2.8 percent sales by 2017. One of the key metrics for organic growth is substantially all U.S. employees and many employees outside increase. the New Product Vitality Index (NPVI) which 3M developed the U.S. The primary U.S. defined-benefit pension plan was • Operating income margins remained strong at 21.6 closed to new participants effective January 1, 2009. 3M as a measure of the percentage of 3M total sales coming seven-phase New Product Introduction process provides percent, with four of our five business groups delivering expects to contribute $100 million to $200 million to its U.S. from products launched in the last 5 years. Currently at 33.3 the robust framework for developing products from idea to margins above 21 percent. and International plans in 2014. 3M does not have a required percent, our NPVI has steadily increased since the metric launch. Many other tools and systems are in place to expand, minimum cash pension obligation for its U.S. plans for 2014, was established in 2002. The additional Invest in Innovation promote, manage and accelerate the innovation process. • Sales for the year were $31 billion. In organic local R&D funding is aimed at injecting additional fuel to take 3M’s due to the funded status as shown above. These include but are not limited to technical committees, currency terms, sales increased 3.4 percent. organic growth rate to new levels and continue our NPVI collaborative ideation, tracking systems, and customer The Company also sponsors employee savings plans under trajectory. The vast majority of Invest in Innovation funding • Latin America/Canada led the way with organic growth interaction and insights processes and forums. Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code. Effective January is aimed at new product platforms and applications with of 7 percent. Asia Pacific rose 4 percent, the U.S. was 1, 2010, substantially all Company contributions to the plans significant sustainability advantages. up 3 percent and Europe/Middle East/Africa was up 2 are made in cash. For employees hired prior to January 1, Technology Platforms: 3M’s Innovation Engine percent. A broad base of 46 innovative technology platforms — 2009, employee 401(k) contributions of up to 6 percent Our Approach ranging from adhesives, abrasives and ceramics to fiber • Currency impacts reduced worldwide sales by 1.6 of eligible compensation are matched at rates of 60 to 75 By leveraging strategic partnerships with several stakeholders optics, imaging, light management, molding, nonwoven percent, and acquisitions added 1.4 percent. percent, depending on the plan the employee participated both internally and externally, 3M is enabled to integrate a rich materials, polymer melt processing and many more — in. Employees hired after January 1, 2009, receive a cash • $6.9 billion in cash was returned to shareholders diversity of ideas and creativity into superior technologies, come together in new and groundbreaking ways for match of 100 percent for employee 401(k) contributions of through dividends and share repurchases. business assets and innovative product platforms. 3M’s customized solutions. Our technologies are transformed into 3M 2014 Sustainability Report | 57 58 | 3M 2014 Sustainability Report Product Spotlight: Scotch-Brite® Greener Clean Cleaning supplies should make the whole world cleaner, not just the home. But we didn’t expect tequila would be consumer brands known and respected around the world, Goals & Results the answer. including Scotch®, Post-it™, Scotch-Brite™, Filtrete™, New Product Vitality Index Jalisco, Mexico, is the state of tequila. In 2011, over 41 million gallons of tequila were produced here by 145 Command™, Nexcare™ and Scotchgard™ Brands. Learn registered distilleries. It took over 700,000 tons of agave to produce the tequila. Since only the juice from the root more about 3M’s Technology Platforms. 2010 is used, what happens to the rest of the agave plant afterward? 3M Tech Forum: Innovation Through Collaboration The answer, until recently, was nothing much: it was often left to decompose in the fields. But it takes 6–10 2011 Established in 1951, the 3M Technical Forum is the central years of farming — spending energy and water — to grow agave before it’s harvested for tequila. That’s up to a organization within 3M for productive technical interaction 2012 decade’s worth of energy that could be used productively. at the interpersonal grass-roots level. Through the collective 3M scientist Myhanh Truong was part of an informal self-directed team in the U.S exploring ways to manufacture knowledge and global relationships of over 11,000 technical 2013 3M products with new, more environmentally sustainable materials. At the same time in France, another 3M team employee members and over 40+ technical chapters and pioneered a way to turn agave fiber, called bagasse, into a nonflammable nonwoven material based on one of 0% 5% 10% 15% 20% 25% 30% 35% committees, this interconnected global network continues to 3M’s most fundamental core technologies. Could it be adapted for use in a new kind of scouring sponge? Agave build our technology platform knowledge and share ideas and 2010 2011 2012 2013 might be great at scrubbing, but it took a lot of work to adapt the material to manufacturing processes. expertise to spark solutions for our customers. NPVI 31.4% 31.7% 33.1% 33.3% Through prototyping various manufacturing processes, the 3M team learned how best to address flammability and stickiness and inherent challenges of mass-producing scrubbing fibers with the material. The 3M team created scrubbing fibers made of 50 percent agave, the scouring muscle of a new 100 percent plant-basedfiber sponge using 23 percent recycled material. It’s called the Scotch-Brite® Greener Clean Non-Scratch Scrub Sponge. Life Cycle Management & Analysis Driving Growth Through In addition to providing a valuable use for previously wasted plant material, this program provides new work and earning potential for rural families harvesting and preparing the agave plants and fiber for manufacturing at Sustainable Product 3M. And the innovation doesn’t stop with the United States and France. 3M’s global new product development Stewardship network identified similar opportunities in Brazil with curaua fiber and in India with coconut fiber. In each case, previously wasted plant material is harvested and Research & prepared to provide locally sourced raw materials Development Overview to produce sanitary means for people to clean Raw Material To further advance 3M’s vision and to make a positive surfaces that come in contact with their food on a Acquisition difference for an expected growing population of over 9 daily basis. Manufacturing billion lives by 2050, 3M is focused on purposeful and Learn more: Scotch Brite® Greener Clean & Production responsible solutions to contribute to a healthier world while creating new business opportunities. Our people are committed and inspired to use our core technology Our Approach to the products, applications, marketplace, and environmental and toxicological implications. It applies globally to all platforms, our large-scale manufacturing infrastructure Life Cycle Management & Analysis 3M products whether 3M-developed, developed jointly Disposal & and expertise and our local presence in every 3M’s global Life Cycle Management (LCM) process is used Recycling with another company or acquired from a third party. Any geography to enable new and improved solutions. Our to identify opportunities associated with environmental, Distribution & product purchased from an outside supplier for sale as a 3M teams are focused on collaborating with our customers health and safety (EHS) performance, and to characterize and Transportation product receives the same product life-cycle consideration and developing product experiences that integrate manage EHS risks and regulatory compliance throughout as an internally developed and manufactured product. LCM full life-cycle thinking, have net-positive impacts and a product’s life cycle and supply chain. LCM is a broad, Product Use evaluations are a required component of 3M’s New Product & Reuse create more sustainable business practices. Watch this customized evaluation process within 3M, including subject Introduction (NPI) process, essential for each and every new video to learn more. matter experts with deep knowledge and experience related product launched by 3M, anywhere in the world. Key elements 3M 2014 Sustainability Report | 59 60 | 3M 2014 Sustainability Report Product Spotlight: Cubitron II™ With decades of experience of common technologies and chemistries is the top sustainability-related priority in ceramic, abrasive and that are then shared across multiple products for employees across the company. microreplicated technologies, 3M and applications. Having LCAs on common With over 55,000 products based on has reinvented abrasives with technologies and chemistries enables various combinations of our 46 core 3M™ Cubitron™ II Products. more consistent and timely completion of technologies, 3M is invigorating our This new brand of abrasive products contains a new patented meaningful full-product LCAs. product developers to find new and triangular-shaped abrasive grain unique ways to apply our technologies that is electrostatically oriented to Deepening Sustainability in Solution and creative product design with maximize cutting potential. Development customer and consumer insights to 3M launched a project in 2013 to build help make a positive difference in The result: Each individual precision-shaped ceramic grain acts like capabilities to further enhance the extent some of the world’s most difficult a cutting tool, slicing through metal like a knife and continuously reto which our new products improve lives sustainability challenges. Deepening sharpens as points break off. This allows 3m™ Cubitron™ Abrasive in socio-environmental terms. With this, social and environmental thinking Products to cut faster, run cooler and last up to four times longer than we are building on our existing Life Cycle further into solution development will conventional abrasive products. Learn more: www.3Mcubitron2.com. Management (LCM) process and tools enable our customers to advance and as well as other organizations to assist user as specified by the Advertising for assessment and prompting creative help improve lives around the world. in establishing Product Category Rules and Product Representation Policy. sustainability-focused solutions throughout while internal guidance is provided to 3M’s environmental claims support that may be included in the LCM evaluation are energy and greenhouse the seven stages of our new product Product Marketing & our businesses globally to ensure the team assists businesses in determining gas impacts, reduction of hazardous materials, and potential health and introduction process to guide teams to invent Communications EPDs meet the company’s requirements the appropriate product claims and is more sustainable solutions and understand Environmental Product Declarations environmental effects, customer/worker safety, and design for product and are substantiated in accordance comprised of laboratory scientists, and improve product impacts. Getting to the 3M uses Environmental Product “end of life” including potential for recycling. to the standards and methodologies legal staff, life-cycle management core of who we are at 3M -Innovation. This Declarations (EPDs) as one tool to specified. professionals and others with 3M’s global strategy for detailed quantitative Life Cycle Assessments project will help to educate cross-functional standardize reports and communicate environmental marketing and business (LCA) is first and foremost based on using sound science. 3M has a teams on how to think about improving the LCA results that are environmentally Product Marketing & Communications expertise. Extensive environmental global strategy for conducting consistent LCAs, led by the Corporate sustainability attributes and applications of beneficial to the user/consumer. Various It’s our policy (3M’s Advertising and marketing claim information and Environmental Laboratory, which has adopted the ISO 14040 series products from before a new idea even gets methodologies (for example: ReCiPe, Product Representation Policy) to guidance is provided in 3M’s internal standards, World Resource Institute standards and World Business drawn out on paper all the way through Tracy and CML) are used for creating represent our products truthfully, fairly Environmental Claims Guide. Council for Sustainable Development standards as guidance. Other the finalization of the manufacturing scaleEnvironmental Product Declarations, and accurately in all sales, advertising, standards as well as Product Category Rules are applied and used as up and product launch. This will build on and Product Category Rules (PRCs) are packaging and promotional efforts. applicable. Individual LCAs may be conducted on a full product’s life Goals & Results our long-standing Life Cycle Management developed to standardize application of Management of every 3M business unit cycle or on specific life-cycle stages. process to further integrate sustainability an LCA standard to a specific product is responsible for ensuring appropriate In 2011, 3M established a goal to into our product development culture and category. 3M uses published Product review of advertising and claims “Further Enhance the Environmental This flexibility enables 3M to evaluate risks and opportunities in more Sustainability Attributes of New processes. Category Rules where appropriate regarding respective business products detail during the new product introduction process as needed. Due to Products.” Externally, the goal is to guide us in making Environmental and services. All Environmental the tens of thousands of unique products and differences in sourcing, We know that 3M employees care. A aspirational and directional. Internally, Product Declarations. We continue to Product claims must be substantiated manufacturing, supply chain, and end uses, 3M’s core strategy for global employee survey conducted in 2013 we have developed a process to work with the Sustainability Consortium and technically accurate to the end conducting LCAs and advancing our evaluations is focused on evaluations indicated sustainable product development 3M 2014 Sustainability Report | 61 62 | 3M 2014 Sustainability Report measure our progress on this goal that today, see 3M’s Environmental Solutions Catalogs. Responding to Customers involves evaluating all new products Combined with customer experience against a set of sustainable environmental Achieving Customer Loyalty studies, 3M has a variety of mechanisms product criteria and measure the sales of to listen, gather and, most important, those products versus new products that Overview act on feedback from customers in the do not meet the criteria. marketplace about product and service One of 3M’s six global strategies is to expand relevance to our customers quality. 3M’s main customer contact Today, to be included internally as part and our presence in the marketplace. For us, achieving customer relevance center is staffed 24/7 with trained of the enhancement product goal, a new is about building relationships and loyalty, through increasing the entire personnel to direct customer inquiries to product’s attributes must meet all of these integrated customer experience. We continuously strive to deliver purposeful the correct resources. Cross-functional criteria: solutions that help our customers, products that make them successful, teams, in addition to independent and align our shared goals with theirs. Collaborating together will provide • It must not pose any significant quality managers not reporting to solutions to advance every company, enhance every home and improve every environmental, health or safety the manufacturing organization, staff life and long-term success. concerns that would outweigh the each division. They review customer sustainability benefit. feedback with key stakeholders and Approach assure that all questions are addressed • It must be relevant to the product 3M’s approach to achieving customer relevance is built on the evolution of in a professional, timely and effective type and marketplace. This means customer satisfaction and loyalty measurement to encompass the entire manner. a product must be relevant in the customer experience. By having shared goals with our customers, we are market it is primarily sold in the year committed to helping people succeed as much as ourselves, which will Our Corporate Quality Management when it is introduced. For example, lead to strong business success. Using quality, competence and curiosity and Global Quality Network are led by the attribute cannot be integrated to as our foundation, the path to sustainable growth is linking our customer the Strategic Quality Leadership Team comply with legislation or regulation, experiences to relevant business strategies and performance metrics. Our supported by the Quality Council. The and at least 30 percent of the regions, businesses and divisions have global responsibility for sales and Strategic Quality Leadership Team existing competitor products must results. To advance sustainable customer loyalty, a key account management sets strategy, identifies common not contain the same attribute. structure is implemented and supported by marketing, sales and technical opportunities for improvement and experts to provide customers with tailored, ongoing dialogue to meet their directs global synergy across all • It must contain one or more of the needs. business units within 3M. We use 3M Defined Product Environmental several tools to manage variation in all Sustainability Attributes within the product’s life-cycle stages (raw Goals & Results our business processes to ensure that Further Understanding Our Customers 3M understands, meets and exceeds material sourcing, manufacturing, To ensure continuous improvement, in 2013, 3M conducted global studies customer quality expectations. The customer use and design/function, to further understand our strengths and opportunities regarding customer Quality Council includes all quality and/or disposal). relationships across businesses and geographies. The studies included leaders from divisions, facilities and 3M’s current work to deepen sustainability outcomes that reflect our current progress regarding experience categories: countries where 3M has operations into product development will help products and pricing, customer touch points, knowledge of customer values and is responsible for ensuring the further refine criteria and expand product and requirements, and ordering. 3M is using these insights to evaluate and deployment of best practices and sustainability attributes. To learn more our products and services and optimize the value we provide. the implementation of the Quality about current 3M Products featuring Management System company-wide. environmental sustainability attributes 3M 2014 Sustainability Report | 63 64 | 3M 2014 Sustainability Report allow us to maintain our competitiveness. With operations in more than 70 countries, we strive to represent the diversity of geography, markets and customers we serve. This ensures that different values, backgrounds and cultures are represented in all that we create. Our goal is to reflect the diversity of our global customers and build on each employee’s unique abilities to grow. Goals & Results Recruiting & Retaining Diverse Talent Employee Resource 3M actively builds a culture of diverse representation and inclusion. We look closely at each step in the process so that Networks we attract and retain the right talent and help our people “One of the biggest benefits of being part of advance in their careers. an Employee Resource Network is gaining an insight into our diverse workforce and finding In the U.S., we participate in recruiting fairs at top colleges common threads that connect us to 3M’s and universities. We also participate in recruiting events where broader culture. I also find that we have unique access to leadership — who are, in turn, very thousands of talented, diverse candidates congregate. During supportive and forthcoming when we approach 2014, our goal is to attend 15 events to reach these candidates. them for advice, resources and events. These events include: Globally Diverse Approach • American Indian Sciences and Engineering Society In participating in an Employee Resource Network, my knowledge of 3M’s businesses Workforce Having a diverse global workforce and an inherently collaborative culture helps us generate more ideas, which yield • Asian MBA and objectives grows deeper and broader. I participate in fascinating projects and meet new Overview more innovative solutions. As global markets expand and more people while strengthening my leadership skills.” than 60 percent of 3M’s sales live outside the United States, • Martin Luther King Jr. Day Career Fair Our innovations have improved daily life for hundreds of millions Vijay Rajamani of people around the world. When you work with 3M, you join we rely on employees who understand the needs of diverse, • National Black MBA Association Technical Supervisor, 3M Automotive Division, with a collaborative, diverse group of people whose ideas local customers. St. Paul, MN • National Organization for the Professional Advancement are transforming the future. We are continuously focusing on 3M has been known for our innovation for more than 100 years. of Black Chemists and Chemical Engineers building and maintaining an inclusive culture where creative We believe that this is only possible because our culture values thinking is nurtured. and leverages the diverse perspectives of our employees. They • National Sales Network • The Consortium for Graduate Study in Management Accelerating • National Society of Black Engineers • University of Saint Thomas Multicultural Forum Career • National Society of Hispanic MBAs Fair • Reaching Out LGBT MBAs On the retention front, we are making progress in developing a more inclusive culture and environment through new Growth Through • Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers training options. We started with cultural competence and • Society of Women Engineers (two events) global mindset training, and more than 60 percent of U.S. managers and supervisors have already participated in it. People • South by Southwest We’ve also integrated diversity content in corporate leadership 66 | 3M 2014 Sustainability Report development programs and developed several training groups is impressive. Many of our ERNs are able to identify modules that cover topics such as unconscious bias, multiple significant market potential in specific customer segments generations and engaging diverse perspectives. — some of which include millions of current or potential customers. For example: To advance our efforts, we also engage with nationally known organizations, including Catalyst and Diversity Best Practices. • GLBT+ has been instrumental in driving changes to These organizations offer members several opportunities for our policies and benefits offerings. As a result, we were training and education such as conferences, webinars, white recognized as a Best Place to Work for LGBT Equality papers, etc. 3M human resources (HR) teams rotate attendance with a rating of 100 percent for the third year in a row. at sessions to maximize our memberships. • Our businesses are leveraging ERNs to accelerate Finally, 3M encourages and supports Employee Resource growth in emerging markets. For example, the Industrial Networks (ERNs). 3M ERNs have often impacted 3M policies and Transportation Business partnered with the Latino and benefits offerings. These networks include: Resource Network to understand how to engage and sell to diverse customers using a multicultural business • African American Network development process. • China Resource Network • Team Africa has been working with 3M businesses to • disAbility Awareness Network help apply 3M technology to develop products suitable for the African market such as affordable water solutions • GLBT+ Network and solar cooking solutions. • Latino Resource Network • In 2013, 3M formed the Women’s Leadership Forum, a • Military Support Network global effort to encourage women in leadership. Chapters are underway in 3M India and 3M Japan as well as in U.S. plant • Native American Network locations. In addition, new Latin America Womens Leadership Forums are launching across the region. • New Employee Opportunity Network Globally, we are enabling our HR leaders to accelerate their • South Asia Network strategies and tactics on diversity and inclusion. We have • Team Austin assigned a team to work with HR internationally to support them with development and other key tactics. During 2014, • Team Dynamic Korea there will be a strong deployment of development elements • Women’s Leadership Network and training. ERNs partner with 3M businesses to tackle specific business To learn more about 3M Diversity and Inclusion, challenges. What results from the partnerships among the visit www.3M.com/Diversity. 3M 2014 Sustainability Report | 67 68 | 3M 2014 Sustainability Report Total 3M Employees Females Hired Employees in management Includes both full-time and part-time employees (As a percentage of new hires) Our Footprint 2010 2011 2012 2013 2010 2010 The employee metrics below are reflective United States 32% 36% 34% 37% of employee headcount (total number of 3M 2011 2011 full-time and part-time employees) not 3M full-time equivalent (FTE) employees. 3M’s 2012 Latin America 45% 50% 51% 55% 2012 Annual Report (10K) reports employee FTE for all 3M legal owned entities at year end 2013. 2013 Asia Pacific 24% 27% 26% 31% 2013 Due to acquisition integration schedules onto 0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% Europe/Middle East/Africa 38% 35% 37% 34% 3M’s human resources systems, detailed 2010 2011 2012 2013 2010 2011 2012 2013 employee information below may differ from Global Total 79,179 83,253 86,557 89,583 Total 6,616 6,875 7,100 7,334 employee totals in 3M financial reports. Canada 40% 38% 40% 42% United States Latin America Asia Pacific Europe/ Middle East/ Africa Canada % Female 23% 24% 25% 25% Total 3M Employees age distribution Includes both full-time and part-time employees Percentage of Total 3M Employees 2010 2011 2012 2013 2010 2011 2012 2013 Per Year Global Total 79,179 83,253 86,557 89,583 Baby Boomers (1943-1960) 26.6% 24.2% 22.0% 20.1% % Full Time (FT) / Part Time (PT) (FT) (PT) (FT) (PT) (FT) (PT) (FT) (PT) Asia Pacific 1.7% 1.5% 1.2% 1.2% United States 97.4% 2.6% 97.5% 2.5% 97.8% 2.2% 98.0% 2.0% Canada 0.8% 0.7% 0.6% 0.5% Europe/Middle East/Africa 5.5% 5.0% 5.0% 4.4% Latin America 99.9% 0.1% 99.9% 0.1% 99.9% 0.1% 99.9% 0.1% Latin America 1.2% 1.1% 1.0% 0.8% Asia Pacific 99.1% 0.9% 99.2% 0.8% 99.3% 0.7% 99.3% 0.7% United States 17.5% 15.8% 14.2% 13.1% Europe/Middle East/Africa 92.5% 7.5% 92.8% 7.2% 92.7% 7.3% 91.8% 8.2% Generation X (1961-1981) 60.2% 59.9% 60.1% 59.3% Canada 98.9% 1.1% 98.9% 1.1% 98.8% 1.2% 99.3% 0.7% Asia Pacific 14.4% 14.8% 14.1% 13.4% Canada 1.5% 1.5% 1.4% 1.4% Female employee headcount Employees Hired (As a percentage of total) Europe/Middle East/Africa 14.7% 14.7% 15.2% 15.0% 2010 2010 Latin America 8.7% 8.5% 8.5% 8.5% United States 20.8% 20.5% 20.9% 21.0% 2011 2011 Generation Y (> 1981) 13.2% 15.9% 17.9% 20.6% 2012 2012 Asia Pacific 3.9% 5.2% 5.4% 6.0% Canada 0.1% 0.1% 0.1% 0.2% 2013 2013 Europe/Middle East/Africa 2.6% 3.1% 3.6% 4.1% 0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 0 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 Latin America 3.3% 3.8% 4.5% 5.3% United States Asia Pacific Canada United States Asia Pacific Canada Latin America Europe/ Middle East/ Africa Latin America Europe/ Middle East/ Africa United States 3.3% 3.7% 4.3% 4.9% 3M 2014 Sustainability Report | 69 70 | 3M 2014 Sustainability Report Investing in Our People Total Rewards and their eligible dependents at group rates. Shortand longMedical Costs term disability benefits offered to help employees who cannot work due to illness or injury. Overview Overview The long-term success of 3M is due to the dedication, skill and 3M’s Total Rewards include a range of plans and Health Care: Medical, prescription drug, dental and vision effort of our employees. We continue to place importance on programs designed to attract, retain and motivate our benefits. helping employees develop their diverse talents to drive the high-performing talent. 3M regularly benchmarks its Health Savings Account: An employee-owned Health Savings 80% 20% company’s success. To that end, one of our six company-wide compensation and benefits with those of companies Account that includes an annual 3M contribution. 3M Employees strategies is to continue to Build High-Performing and Diverse that are comparable in size and scope to ensure that we Global Talent. As this illustration shows, we purposefully develop remain highly competitive. Flexible Spending Accounts: Tax-free reimbursement accounts our people in ways that prepare them to lead business growth. for qualified health care and dependent care expenses. • Competitive pay. Base salary and variable incentive pay linked to company and individual performance. Parental Leave: (U.S. example) To allow parents enough time to Growing Our Business by Growing Our People bond with their new children, 3M’s Family/Medical Leave Policy • Competitive benefits. High-quality medical and offers employees additional bonding leave for this purpose dental plan options, savings and retirement plans, and a 3M employee stock purchase plan that even if this means they will exceed their 12-week allotment of 3M health care benefits continue to rank in the helps you become an owner of the company you family/medical leave for the year. The additional bonding leave top quartile of plans offered by Fortune 500 work for. must be taken on a full-time basis and must be completed companies. 3M pays the majority of employees’ within 12 months after the birth of the child or placement in health care coverage, including about 80 percent Regio • Innovative programs and resources. Professional of U.S. employees’ health care costs. That na the home for adoption or foster care. 3M complies with state l and personal growth opportunities, community C laws within the U.S. and with local laws and requirements for equates to about $9,600 per employee, or nearly om involvement, and recreational pursuits. a $325 million total. p e t e n cy / C t operations outside the U.S. D e velop m en on Approach Retirement Programs: 401(k) plan and retiree medical re ce a l ti er O p e r a ll e n Comprehensive Benefits insurance. The 3M Voluntary Investment Plan (VIP), 3M’s Exc e 3M is committed to providing competitive market pay 401(k) plan, is an opportunity for employees and 3M to employees a 15 percent discount on 3M stock purchases. and comprehensive benefits. In addition to providing a share responsibility for building income for our employees’ 3M hopes the GESPP will help employees achieve their professional work environment that promotes innovation retirement years. Employees have the opportunity to save long-term financial goals. Over the years‚ employees and rewards performance, 3M’s total compensation both on a before-tax basis to the Before-Tax 401(k) Account have used their GESPP investments for everything from for employees includes a variety of components for and on a Roth 401(k) basis to the Roth 401(k) Account in the home improvement projects to funding their children’s Employee development drives company performance and sustainable employment and the ability to build a strong 3M VIP. 3M contributes to employees’ retirement savings with and grandchildren’s educations. 3M has encouraged builds high performing and diverse talent across the globe financial future. 3M’s total compensation program both matching and nonelective contributions. Employees also employees to become owners of the Company through includes the following for all eligible employees worldwide. have the opportunity for additional savings by contributing to the GESPP since 1964‚ when the Company introduced We have a learning culture that fosters the spark of innovation Some programs and benefits may differ internationally their After-Tax Savings Account in the VIP. Employees who the plan. Today‚ more than 40 countries have adopted due to local laws and regulations. retire from 3M after reaching age 55 with at least five years the plan‚ more than 68‚000 employees worldwide are We provide relevant and meaningful tools and resources eligible and more than 19‚000 employees currently of service are eligible to purchase retiree medical insurance for employees and leaders Compensation: Annual salary, short-term annual cash coverage through a retiree medical savings account, which participate in the plan. incentives and long-term equity incentives. Our employees and leaders are engaged people includes credits that accumulate while people are employed developers Dependent Care: 3M provides a range of resources to Vacation/Paid Leave: Vacation, holidays and paid leave, by 3M. assist employees with dependent care, including child There are boundless opportunities to grow and develop including short-term and long-term disability benefits. Stock Ownership/Investment Programs: Through 3M’s care and elder care. 3M offers child care and adult your career Life/Disability Insurance: Life insurance for employees General Employees Stock Purchase Plan (GESPP)‚ 3M offers care consultation and referral services through the 3M 3M 2014 Sustainability Report | 71 72 | 3M 2014 Sustainability Report flexible work arrangements with their management, including 3M on the back end. Currently live in 21 countries, the phase part-time, job share, flex-time, compressed work week and two technology will be fully deployed globally by early 2015, telecommuting. These opportunities are communicated to providing new employees with a better introduction to their employees through management and are administered through career at 3M.This investment sets new employees up to be 3M internal systems. successful and make meaningful contributions from the start. Instituting a 3M-wide onboarding process is also one way we Additional Resources and Opportunities Offered Globally: help supervisors and managers support employee growth and • Scholarships for eligible dependents of employees achievement consistently throughout the company. • Employee stores for purchase of 3M products online or A new program for new supervisors also ensures that new at many 3M locations leaders have all the information and tools they need to lead • Support for community involvement: Matching Gifts, teams successfully. This program covers topics that are needed Volunteer Match and 3M Community Giving for compliance, as well as how to lead, motivate and develop a high-performing team. • A 3M-owned 486-acre park offering employees the use of a 27-hole golf course, recreational areas for softball, Skill Mapping and Contribution and Development Employee Assistance Program in order to help employees to assist them in navigating challenging situations. In some tennis and more, as well as a clubhouse/conference Assessment: 3M has separate processes for employee locate appropriate services for their loved ones across the locations outside of the United States, 3M offers employee center and picnic pavilions for personal use, such as performance and career development reviews. Each year, all 3M United States. 3M employees in the St. Paul area also have assistance resources at the local level. Resources enhance weddings, graduations, family gatherings and sporting nonproduction employees identify their contributions in meeting access to back-up child care, which is available when their well-being and effectiveness; prevent problems; or address events. their specified goals through an employee performance review regular day care cannot care for their child. a wide range of personal, family, work or behavioral health system. 3M strives to have 100 percent of nonproduction challenges; and are available online, in print literature and Adoption Assistance: 3M provides financial assistance to Education & Career Growth employees receiving performance and career development other media. In addition, 3M offers U.S. employees legal and eligible employees who choose to adopt children by covering a Today’s business environment demands that we become faster reviews at least annually. In 2013 approximately 95 percent of financial consultation and referral services through the EAP. portion of the eligible expenses associated with the adoption. and more flexible in anticipating and exceeding the needs of global nonproduction employees set up a performance review Financial issues include debt management and taxes, while our customers, shareholders and employees. Creating a highform and 67 percent completed the entire performance review Employee Assistance Program (EAP): In 1974, 3M began legal issues include family, civil, tax or criminal law. performance culture built on continuous learning helps 3M process. an employee assistance program that today provides more Corporate-Supported Employee Groups: Through 3M achieve business growth for the Company and professional than 8,100 hours of consultation and education per year to In addition, employees create or update their development plan clubs around the world, 3M encourages employees with growth for employees U.S. employees and their dependents, and leaders across 3M that includes goals to elevate individual performance and skills. shared interests to pursue those interests in a supportive New Employee Onboarding: 3M invests in onboarding Additional skill-mapping tools may be used in collaboration environment. Every country in which 3M does business has a and developing new employees so that they have the tools, with the employee’s supervisor to identify long-term desired 3M employee club that sponsors special events, activities and “One of the beauties of working resources and networks they need to succeed. Our onboarding goals. Contribution and development assessments for sports programs and offers special discounts and privileges in for 3M is that there are so many process begins at the time a candidate accepts a job offer and production staff follow site-specific procedures depending on opportunities at your fingertips. support of exercise, friendship and fun. The largest employee continues through the first year of employment. In 2013, we local requirements and business-specific needs. In my 15 years here, I’ve club is in St. Paul, Minnesota, and has approximately 7,000 transitioned to several different implemented an onboarding portal via our intranet in more than members. 3M also sponsors Employee Resource Networks Accelerated Leadership Development: 3M views leadership types of assignments, each 60 countries. Countries have customized information available under the direction of 3Mgives. development as a competitive advantage and is accelerating completely different from the in local languages. We are in the process of deploying a more other.” leadership development across all employee segments by Flexible Work Arrangements: 3M recognizes the importance comprehensive onboarding technology that provides pre-start using new technologies and delivery methods to make its – Monica Barros of helping employees balance their life concerns with their work information delivery and engagement for new employees on programs globally inclusive. Business Manager, Electrical Markets Division, responsibilities. 3M employees are able to explore a variety of the front end and clear metrics, reporting and tracking for Sao Paulo, Brazil 3M 2014 Sustainability Report | 73 74 | 3M 2014 Sustainability Report Health & Wellness 3M wants our employees to stay healthy and productive, which is good for employees, the Company and the community. With 3M Healthy Living, a healthy lifestyle is within reach. It helps support all areas of employees’ lives — social, emotional, mental and physical — both at home and at work. At 3M, we understand that health management programs help to differentiate 3M as an employer of choice. Good health improves business reputation, safety and business continuity. Productivity also improves. Investments in employee health can show a positive return on investment for the employee, 3M and the community. 3M also offers valuable incentives to help motivate employees and support the community at the same time. We’ve focused our efforts on improving three risk factors to help improve overall health: physical inactivity, poor eating behaviors and lack of health screenings. Healthy Living Resources Additional Onsite Services St. Paul/Austin • 3M Employee Assistance Program (EAP) • 3M Fitness Centers There are multiple leadership development programs offered Mentoring: Through the 3M Mentoring Network, the • Back-up child care • 3M Medical Clinic: for different stages in employees’ career journey. There are organization encourages self-directed mentoring partnerships. • Dependent scholarship programs – Cardiovascular risk reduction program business and leadership courses available to employees at any Mentors are identified globally throughout the Company • Educational tools Mammography screenings level, including online programs that are free and available to utilizing online social platforms, including profile tagging and • Family, parenting and couples – Migraine clinic employees in all geographies and cover topics ranging from wikis. An online mentoring program design kit with guidelines • Financial and legal information and referrals – Physical therapy personal effectiveness to finance. There is also a year-long for developing and implementing a mentoring program in • Flexible work arrangements – Registered dietitian onboarding program for new supervisors, as well as several alignment with strategic business objectives is available to • Frequent fitness discount – Smoking cessation programs for leaders as they progress into different leadership support organizations wanting to offer mentoring programs. – Travel services • Grief, loss and domestic violence support roles. An executive mentoring program supports the professional – Urgent care clinic • Help finding child and adult/elder care, development of high-performing employees. Originally focused including back-up or sick-child care • Banking 3M is building leadership capability through all our programs on minority and women, this program was expanded in 2013 • Incentives for participating in different health • Employee Store by embedding diversity, collaboration and inclusion strategies to include all high-performing employees. Since January 2002, activities • Farmers market directly into our programs. We have also aligned courses to approximately 800 employees have enrolled in the executive • Know your numbers key leadership behaviors, which are aligned to performance • FedEx mentoring program. • Lactation program assessments and aim to encourage and foster the development • Flu shots of self and others. We place great importance on driving Outplacement Assistance: 3M offers a range of outplacement • Maternity management program • Hair salons engagement of all employees by focusing on their career and services and resources for employees whose positions are • New parent kits • Healthy Living Center for Wellness development desires. eliminated due to business needs. These resources are • Parenting support • Notaries offered on a worldwide basis to help employees transition to • Partial reimbursement for qualifying weight • On-site health coaching Tuition Reimbursement: In 3M locations around the world, management programs employment in other areas of 3M or outside of the Company • Pharmacy employees are encouraged to continuously learn and improve • Pet care and include services such as development of career transition • Sick-child care their skills. In most countries where we do business, 3M offers, • Preventive care offerings skills and identification of job placement opportunities. • Tartan Park with management support, tuition reimbursement to encourage • Sick-child care employees to upgrade their education to better meet current • Walking paths and skywalks • Tobacco cessation programs job responsibilities, prepare for future responsibilities and help • Weight Watchers® At Work qualify for changes in career paths within 3M. 3M 2014 Sustainability Report | 75 76 | 3M 2014 Sustainability Report What 3M Employees Are Saying: “eat five fruits and vegetables a day” challenge number of years, companies have implemented health Employee Engagement to improve overall eating habits. and well-being programs in the U.S. in an effort to Vickie Crouse, a human resources coordinator at 3M’s Industrial • In 2011, 38 percent of our employees participated reduce health care costs. These programs are now being & Recognition expanded to global operations for a number of reasons. Adhesives & Tapes plant in Conover, in a health assessment and screening. If North Carolina, had a health employees participated, they earned $50, plus Healthy employees typically have fewer absences and Overview assessment that hinted of more are more productive when they are at work. Supporting their name was placed in a drawing for a free Employee engagement is a priority for 3M. We know that serious health problems. By taking employee health and well-being improves workforce year of 3M Medical Plan premiums or $500. employee engagement is good for the Company and advantage of 3M’s frequent fitness morale and engagement and promotes a positive program (if you work out 12 times employees. Engaged employees are more satisfied with Aggregate results from 2013 indicated that 3Mers who corporate image. Implementing a global healthy living a month, you earn $20 back in your their work, tend to stay longer, and are more productive and “I even got a letter from focused on weight loss lost an average of 15 pounds strategy for 3M employees leverages our resources more pocket), Vickie was able to get her committed. Employees are encouraged to pursue their ideas my doctor saying he per person. Seventy-three percent saw stress levels efficiently to achieve positive results. doesn’t need to see me health issues under control to better with a passion and collaborate with others to make their ideas for another year. He finally enjoy time with her family. improve, and 90 percent of 3Mers who focused on We recently conducted a global survey to establish a reality. To facilitate employee engagement, we foster and stopped harping at me! physical activity spent an average of 150 minutes per If I can do it, anyone can.” baseline on current health promotion and well-being reinforce behaviors that support engagement using multiple week exercising. programs in the countries where 3M does business. avenues including networking and collaboration, diversity and – Vickie Crouse Through the aggregate results we received on the 3M HR representatives in 50 countries (not including inclusion, and measurement and feedback on engagement. “When my doctor wrote in my chart health assessment and screening, we learned that 3M the U.S.) completed the Healthy Living Global Survey in ‘middle-aged obese woman’ that employees who participated in health assessment and 2013. Their responses represent over 38,000 employees Approach was a turning point for me,” says screenings had lower health care costs by $1,004 per for an average of 760 employees per response. While Networks & Collaboration 3Mer Bonnie Showstack. “I didn’t participant. most countries reported that they offered some type of 3M has numerous pathways to support organizational see myself as that and certainly did health and wellness initiative, we know that there is more communications, learning and knowledge management. not want to be labeled that way.” A Community Affair work to do. There are a variety of corporate and job functional systems to Today, four years later, Bonnie has In May 2013, 3M Healthy Living held a fitness walk. methodically help information and knowledge emerge and flow successfully lost 63 pounds and Healthy Living partnered with the 3Mgives to contribute Goals & Results to the right people at the right time to add value. For example: “I often look in the mirror has gone from a size 18 to a size 6! $2,500 to Hunger Solutions Minnesota. In total, we had Our goals are to continue to attract and retain employees and say to myself, ‘Is that “I often look in the mirror and say • Formal Learning Networks: The Learning Solution is really me?’” to myself, ‘Is that really me?’” says more than 1,600 walkers participate on our Maplewood, through offering competitive total rewards, including 3M’s corporate learning management system and is a Bonnie who is the Occupational Minnesota, campus. health and wellness programs that are valued by – Bonnie Showstack one-stop electronic learning center that helps employees Health Nurse and manages the our employees. We monitor what is important to our Healthy Living program at the 3M In 2013 we have again partnered with 3Mgives, which enroll in, deliver, track and report on learning activities. donated $1 to the American Red Cross for every employees, and benchmark externally, to ensure we location in Rockland, Mass. The Learning Solution serves the learning needs of wellness screening completed, up to $25,000. We continue to offer programs that are competitive. 3M business units, plants and learning organizations surpassed our goal with more than 25,000 participants. We are also focused on developing our employees and globally. Here is a summary of what we’ve provided to-date: providing them with resources to grow in their career at • Intranet Knowledge Platforms Databases: 3M’s intranet • In 2013, we increased health screening participation to Our Challenges 3M. We are reaching more people more quickly by utilizing 80 percent by offering a health assessment and allowing site structure is set up so that each employee has a In the U.S., visibility for the Healthy Living program new technologies and delivery methods. For example, we employees to self-report on activities to improve their Work Center as one of the quick-link tabs following login. is high. In just three years, the familiarity of Healthy have recently launched a revised development program health. Employees who participated earned up to $480 Each Work Center is a collection of tools, systems and Living went from 22 to 89 percent. One of our biggest for new leaders. Approximately 50 facilitators have been off their 2014 3M medical plan premiums. processes that are used routinely in daily work practices challenges is implementing a global wellness program. trained to deliver these sessions around the globe and we to successfully complete projects and work assignments • In 2012, we offered incentives for employees to participate The health of employees is evolving as an increasingly now expect to reach most new supervisors within their in an employee’s functional work area. Company news in a shape-up challenge to encourage exercise, and an important priority for global businesses like ours. For a first six months of becoming a new supervisor. for employees is available on a global news site called 3M 2014 Sustainability Report | 77 78 | 3M 2014 Sustainability Report Transforming a Legacy Culture at 3M Results from 2013 Vision and Strategies 3M, along with four other large companies, is featured in Alignment Survey: The Oxford Handbook of Organizational Climate and Culture, Goals & Results New York: Oxford University Press (May 2014. Schneider, B., Survey Measurements on Employee & Barbera, K. M. (Eds.). The book looks at how organizations Engagement acquire, develop, motivate and lead employees in contemporary Results from the Standard Opinion Survey and the Vision organizations. and Strategies Alignment Survey indicate 3M’s support “Transforming a Legacy Culture at 3M: Teaching an Elephant of employee engagement is strong and continuing to get How to Dance,” is devoted to the central role of employee stronger. For instance, engagement results have been engagement in culture maintenance and change in 3M. tracked over the last four administrations of the Vision and Strategies Alignment Survey, which is completed every two years. Results have improved with each administration, up to 83 percent in 2013 which is well above the threshold for strength (70 percent favorable). Spark 3M News. It enables employees to share news articles, Measurement, Feedback & Action videos and links with others both internally and externally via on Employee Engagement Employee Rewards & Recognition email and social media. Since 2006, key survey content and follow-up actions have Hard work and extra effort are rewarded and recognized focused on employee engagement. We measure engagement at 3M through an array of award programs. 3M sponsors • Best Practice Descriptions/Processes: As a diverse technical and engagement drivers, and provide these results to leaders many corporate award programs to honor individuals and company, 3M shares best practices several ways. Two of the and their organizations for follow-up. teams that make significant contributions to the company. most widely used internal organizations are the 3M Technical Forum and the 3M Engineering Technology Organization. These two organizations provide an extensive network of As 3M corporate policy, a standard opinion survey is administered to all employees at locations worldwide once every two years. In addition, many divisions also have their own specific ways of recognizing and rewarding people. Across 3M, 90% Reported they perservere when faced with difficulties, take on new roles and responsibilities as the need arises, and are excited that expertise through specialized chapters focused on 3M’s core 3M uses survey results to address employee concerns and management can choose from a variety of monetary and technologies and other emerging markets. Employees in identify opportunities for improvement. Summaries of survey nonmonetary awards to show appreciation for exceptional their work contributes to company success. R&D, manufacturing and other parts of the supply chain are results and actions taken are circulated up the management contributions. Examples of corporate awards include: able to collaborate and drive innovation globally across the organization. chain to ensure visibility and accountability. 3M also conducts a more strategically focused survey every two years that includes • Awards for specific professionals, such as the Global Marketing Excellence Award and the Circle of Technical 89% Respondents saw they feel like they really belong in the company. engagement measures. The Vision and Strategies Alignment • Company Education Facility: In addition to a variety of general Excellence and Innovation Award 83% Survey (formerly Leadership Survey) was last conducted in Highest worldwide Engagement courses, webinars, etc., 3M offers specialized extended October 2013. • Awards for cross-functional teams, such as the category score since the first survey courses to increase skills such as the 3M Leadership Golden Step Award was conducted. Development Institute, the 3M Marketing University and the 3M also requires its leaders to actively foster engagement as General Managers’ and Managing Directors’ program. part of their day-to-day coaching and interactions with others. • Awards focused on employees who improve safety • Idea Sharing: Idea management is driven differently across This expectation is embedded in our leadership behaviors, which apply to all 3M leaders and links to their annual or pollution prevention 76% Reported the people in my work group actively pursue self-development opportunities to meet company needs. the Company depending on organizational needs and what • Two prestigious lifetime achievement awards: the performance assessment. 3M supports leaders in these efforts works best for the area of work. Some platform examples Engineering Achievement Award and the Carlton via formal training, videos and on-demand tools. 72% include Yammer, Wiki Enterprise, and various 3M internal and Society recognition, which honor employees for Reported it is very easy to maintain my external social media channels. Systems are implemented their scientific achievements focus. and available globally to share best practices and ideas. 3M 2014 Sustainability Report | 79 80 | 3M 2014 Sustainability Report Global Safety & to high-hazard activities launched in 2014. This initiative is part of a 3M challenge to go from “Good to Great” in our EHS illness data and conducted research into human performance. Individuals and teams of knowledgeable professionals identified including incidents, near misses, and potential hazard reviews. Hazard risks are systematically prioritized and the layers of Health performance. The goal for Safety and Health in 3M is for all the effective elements companies must have in place to reduce protection analysis results used to define the most effective and Overview sites to achieve 100 percent conformance to six critical GSHP the incidence of FSIs. (Krause, T.R. and Murray, G.A.) efficient mitigation strategy. A final hazard risk characterization standards related to risk management of high-hazard activities: is performed after mitigation is complete so that overall risk 3M has a long history of ensuring its Global Safety and Health The implementation of this methodology in 3M has effectively reduction can be quantified. commitment to all employees. 3M’s Safety and Health Policy • Safety and Health Hazard Recognition and Risk lowered risk levels associated with many higher-hazard tasks applies to all 3M operations, including new acquisitions. It Assessment and activities to acceptable levels in a well-documented, and Common risk reduction successes have been achieved for is based on our core business values and stems from our quantifiable manner. Through the proper use of this approach, machine hazards. In the example, this equipment was only • Incident and Potential Hazard Reporting, Record Keeping, Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS) vision for “Safe and safety professionals and others involved with hazard analyses partially guarded due to perceived operational needs. The Investigation and Follow-up Healthy People, Products and Planet.” All visitors, vendors, no longer need to only rely on their experience or instinct risk assessment revealed that a serious Level 5 risk existed. and contract workers at 3M locations are held to the same • Powered Industrial Vehicles to determine whether or not the tasks or activities meet an Additional actions were implemented to further control the safety and health requirements as 3M employees, therefore acceptable level of risk. hazards of hand injury. These controls reduced the risk from • Machine Guarding consistent management systems and evaluation tools are Level 5 to Level 1. Installation of additional guards to prevent Measuring Risk Reduction Impact critical to company safety and health success. • Work at Height access to the point of operation for this equipment reduced the Many incident management systems focus solely on the risk score significantly. • Process Hazard Analysis severity of the incidents rather than identifying the level of risk Approach associated with incidents, potential hazards or near misses. In 1996, a Global Safety & Health Plan (GSHP) tool was initiated Requiring incident management system users to identify the for all 3M locations worldwide. It utilizes a well-developed most likely consequence from the incident, potential hazard self-assessment process that is categorized into multiple or near miss, not just the actual severity of the incident, is a elements addressing various areas and standards related to critical step to identifying tasks with an elevated potential to safety and health. 3M utilizes a variety of tools to manage risks result in an FSI. from hazards in the workplace. We’ve used specialized tools successfully for a number of years in the areas of Industrial Over 6,000 risk assessments were completed in 2013 after Hygiene, Ergonomics and Process Safety. Each of these the RAP Tool was released in the newly upgraded Worldwide disciplines uses a risk management approach to categorize Incident Management System (WIMS) database. Approximately hazard levels and define appropriate levels of control. 14 percent of these assessments had risk levels that required action to achieve acceptable risk reduction. The data has proven Recognizing the need to further minimize the rates of fatalities itself invaluable due to our ability to track risk reduction in terms and serious injuries (FSI), 3M has been engaged in the of real numbers. The upgrade has also provided measures of development of a practical new approach to better managing how timely the risk reductions are being implemented. 3M hazards that have the potential to result in fatalities or serious locations are now setting goals for themselves not only for life-altering injuries. Risk Assessment & Prioritization (RAP) conducting targeted numbers of risk assessments but also for The new approach was implemented in 2013, and includes Risk Assessment & Prioritization or RAP is a practical new reaching timely closure of implemented improvement actions. development of an inventory of FSI precursors — a list of approach to risk management that has been incorporated into high-hazard activities, operations and situations that have existing facility risk management systems. In most situations it Operational Risk Management the potential to result in a fatality or life-altering injury. These supplements rather than replaces existing hazard management At the operational level, the RAP process integrates a potential hazards are taken through the risk assessment and tools. 3M has participated with member companies in ORCHSE uniform approach to risk characterization, prioritization and reduction process along with all near misses and incidents. Strategies, LLC’s Occupational Safety and Health Group management. This includes systematic evaluation of layers of Network, in a multiyear project that analyzed years of injury and protection (LOP) for all common hazard identification inputs, A new five-year objective to achieve risk reduction related 3M 2014 Sustainability Report | 81 82 | 3M 2014 Sustainability Report RISK ASSESSMENT AND PRIORITIZATION (RAP) TOOL Over the past decade, over 95% of all chemical agents and noise Disorder (WMSD) risk factors and support operational efficiency RiskChoose Assessment and Prioritization Most Appropriate (RAP) Tool Factor For Each Column baseline exposure risk assessments have been completed for throughout 3M. Choose Most Appropriate Factor For Each Column all jobs, creating a foundation of exposure assessments used P Probability Of Control F Frequency Of Exposure C Consequence Severity Risk Level Score ACTION STEPS 3M’s vision for ergonomics is to eliminate the existence of What is the likelihood of existing How often or how long does If a control does not work as to drive the following: controls not working as intended? personnel exposure to the hazard intended, what is the most likely unacceptable levels of WMSD risk exposure as defined by (Safeguards / LOP) occur? consequence ? PxFxC • Baseline exposure assessments the Ergo Job Analyzer (EJA)©. A long-term EHS Scorecard Consider the effectiveness of the Choose the factor of 1 if Consider the effectiveness of the controls. personnel exposure is not controls. Metric since 2008, approved by the EHS Committee, is to drive applicable. • Annual air and noise sampling plans progress toward achieving this goal. While the goal is to reduce 0 to 11 Maintain Current Risk Controls • Exposure assessment validation plans WMSD risks to the lowest level feasible, focus is first given to 0.5 Highly Effective 1.0 Very rare 1 Very Minor / Near Miss PERIODICALLY EVALUATE RISK LEVEL (Level I Risk) the potential higher-risk operations, processes or tasks. 1.0 Effective 1.5 Rare 3 Minor 12 to 80 Maintain Current Risk Controls • Medical surveillance applicability analysis plans (Level II Risk) CONDUCT REGULAR EVALUATION OF RISK LEVEL 2.0 Somewhat Effective 2 Unusual 7 Moderate 81 to 160 (Level III Risk) Further Risk Reduction Is Recommended CONDUCT CORRECTIVE ACTION ANALYSIS • Hearing conservation programs including E-A-Rfit Auditing & Compliance 4.0 Somewhat Ineffective 3 Occasional 15 Serious 161 to 600 Further Risk Reduction Is Required training To assure that the facility self-assessment and improvement (Level IV Risk) IMPLEMENT CORRECTIVE ACTION Further Risk Reduction Is Required process is effectively being utilized across the company, a risk6.0 Ineffective 4 Daily 40 Severe 601 to 1600 HIGH PRIORITY CORRECTIVE ACTION MUST BE • Respirator and personal protective equipment programs based auditing program for Safety and Health is managed at (Level V Risk) IMPLEMENTED IMMEDIATE Risk Reduction Is Required SHUTDOWN OF OPERATION AT POINT OF HAZARD • As needed, other exposure management programs the corporate level. Audit findings are ranked using the same 1601 to 4800 8.0 Highly Ineffective 6 Repetitive 100 Catastrophic COULD BE REQUIRED UNTIL THE LEVEL OF RISK IS (Level VI Risk) REDUCED including administrative, industrial ventilation and risk matrix that is utilized for the analysis of potential hazards isolation controls and incidents. Areas of nonconformance are examined for potential hazards, which can then be investigated for causal Evaluation Tool (HazPET), which provides a consistent and Each year, active qualitative assessments are used to define factors, risk assessment and corrective action to achieve simplified categorization of the hazardous processes. Process annual air and noise monitoring and validation plans for each risk reduction and conformance to established standards. All Hazard Analysis methodologies are used to assess the process facility around the world. The air and noise exposure monitoring moderateto high-risk audit findings are tracked to closure, hazards and evaluate the effectiveness of existing safeguards. results are then analyzed using statistical methods to determine and are then reviewed and approved by the lead auditor for if any exposure management programs are required. Process Hazard Risk Management Recent enhanced PHA requirements will provide a more satisfactory improvement. Process Hazard Management (PHM) is a systematic approach 3M requires each facility where there is potential for significant sustainable rigorous hazard assessment methodology. Layers for prevention of process-related fires, explosions and sudden exposure to chemicals or noise to have annual Chemical Safety & Health Committees of Protection Analysis (LOPA) will also be used to analyze the release of toxic materials. 3M PHM employs accepted industry and Noise Assessment and Validation Plans that identify and 3M seeks employee participation at all levels to ensure effectiveness of critical safety devices and systems providing practices and regulations. 3M PHM allows facilities to identify, prioritize processes for exposure assessment, monitoring and involvement and ownership of safety and health programs more attention to independent protection layers. control and verify that process hazards are understood and statistical validation. The Chemical and Noise Assessment and and systems. This involvement is critical to achieving effective, managed. The framework for PHM consists of: Validation Plans enable facilities to prioritize annual activities proactive solutions to safety and health issues. Increasing Comprehensive Chemical & Noise Exposure toward completion of the goal of understanding and managing employee ownership and involvement in the safety and health Risk Assessment and Management • Hazard Identification and Assessment all workplace exposure risks. process helps provide a safer, healthier workplace. Emphasis Comprehensive exposure risk assessment and management is placed on a cooperative effort between management and • Hazard Reduction and Control is a systematic approach for estimating workplace exposures to Ergonomics Risk Management employees in achieving these goals. Primary examples of how chemical and physical agents for all materials, processes and 3M’s Ergonomics Risk Reduction Process (ERRP) is a global, • Control Effectiveness Verification these efforts align with the risk reduction elements include: employees. Accurate exposure assessments are critical to all comprehensive program integrating Ergonomic Job Analysis, Various tools are being used to ensure the appropriate rigor exposure management programs and activities. 3M uses the Safety and Health, and Engineering professional development • Job hazard analysis and risk assessments is being provided to manage the hazards associated with comprehensive approach outlined by the American Industrial and ergonomics engineering design criteria in order to reduce • Ergonomics teams hazardous processes. Risk management of the hazardous Hygiene Association (AIHA), creating an effective and efficient exposure to commonly identified Work-related Musculoskeletal process begins with the use of the Hazardous Process system for assessing and managing all exposure risks. • Process safety management 3M 2014 Sustainability Report | 83 84 | 3M 2014 Sustainability Report • Potential hazard reporting programs Our Footprint the steel beam that was being staged on the ground prior to lifting it into the building framework. As the tension on the beam was released, it became unstable and tipped over and struck the supervisor. • Participation in investigations and prompt follow-up of 3M has been monitoring, measuring and working toward incidents and potential hazards improving leading indicators of performance while Injury and Illness Rates simultaneously increasing the growth of the company. As Through this collaborative effort, all employees have the Global incident rates for injuries and illnesses continue to trend downward. There has been a 42 percent reduction in days away from a result of our efforts, lagging indicators such as worldwide opportunity to be involved in risk assessment activities to then work case rates (LTIR) since 2006. The most frequent cause of injuries is from contact with objects or equipment. recordable and lost time rates have continued to decrease. develop action plans and assign responsibilities for completing The implementation of the new risk management process is primarily designed to prevent fatal and serious injury events related to goals and objectives to resolve safety and health issues. 3M follows the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health (OSHA) recordkeeping rules and formulas to record and measure 3M Worldwide by Region 3M Worldwide by Region Formal Safety and Health Committees are the most active and Lost Time Trends Recordable Trends injury and illness rates worldwide. All 3M employees and 0.70 3.50 visible way that this is demonstrated within 3M. In fact, this contingent employees, regardless of facility type but within 0.60 3.00 aspect is represented by its own standard of performance in Recordable IR 0.50 2.50 3M’s operational control, are covered by our injury and illness Lost Time IR the GSHP that requires locations to establish and maintain 0.40 2.00 active safety and health committees. They are defined Fatalities 2010 2011 2012 2013 0.30 1.50 0.20 1.00 specifically as an organized group of employees from all levels Total Employees 0.10 0.50 of the facility whose function is to support the safety and health 1 0 1 1 (work-related fatalities) 0.00 0.00 2010 2011 2012 2013 2010 2011 2012 2013 management system by identifying preventive and corrective Total Contractors Asia Pacific 0.11 0.18 0.12 0.08 Asia Pacific 0.46 0.49 0.44 0.35 measures needed to eliminate or control recognized safety and 0 1 1 1 (work-related fatalities) Canada 0.10 0.18 0.27 0.13 Canada 0.48 0.75 1.08 0.98 health hazards. Europe/ Middle East/ Africa 0.51 0.62 0.62 0.43 Europe/ Middle East/ Africa 0.75 1.08 1.11 0.95 recordkeeping rules. In addition, contractors are asked to Latin America 0.42 0.29 0.32 0.16 Latin America 0.55 0.67 0.55 0.67 Goals & Results submit notification to 3M of worker hours and any injuries United States 0.46 0.42 0.46 0.48 United States 2.90 2.3 2.3 2.34 Worldwide 0.36 0.38 0.39 0.34 Worldwide 1.56 1.46 1.42 1.41 Measuring leading indicators of Safety and Health performance occurring while performing work in accordance with a 3M is a key focus for 3M. Aggregated data from all Global Safety contract. and Health Plan Assessments, Audits and Incident Reporting 3M Worldwide are evaluated to identify performance status and corporateFatal Incidents Recordable Incident Rates by Cause Sadly, 3M experienced the tragic loss of one employee and one 0.8 wide opportunities. Metrics are tracked and reported for continuous improvement at the facility, business unit, regional contractor in the workplace in 2013. 0.7 and corporate levels. Initiatives such as improving the quality A 3M employee was fatally injured when she pinned herself 0.6 and level of implementation of safety and health management between a warehouse storage rack and the powered industrial system elements (including preventive measures) at each 3M 0.5 vehicle she was operating while trying to push a loaded pallet site results in increased awareness, mature programs, and from underneath the storage rack. Training had been completed 0.4 reduced injury and illness rates. In 2011, 3M set key corporateby the employee, however the investigation concluded that wide safety and health objectives to continuously improve 0.3 a shortcut was being taken. Justification for the shortcut related management systems and to proactively reduce could not be determined. Additional layers of protection were 0.2 negative Safety and Health impacts. Significant achievement incorporated into this operation to address organizational 0.1 was made in meeting those objectives. The 2013 results are performance and gaps in training. listed in the table on pages 87-90. Continuous improvement 0.0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 objectives have been identified for achievement by year-end A sub-contractor supervisor died from injuries sustained when Ergonomic Contact with Slip, trip, fall Miscellaneous 2018. he was struck by a steel beam at a new construction site. The object/equipment supervisor had ordered a crane operator to relieve tension on 3M 2014 Sustainability Report | 85 86 | 3M 2014 Sustainability Report Global Safety & Health Objectives Corporate Safety & Health Objectives Target Milestones 2013 Results Implement standardized tool for risk characterization and year end • Conduct training on use of tool A standardized Risk Assessment & Prioritization (RAP) tool was developed and is being used for prioritizing audit prioritization 2013 • Integrate into global EHS auditing system findings and reducing the risk levels of potential hazards. • Integrate into potential hazard reporting The RAP tool was also integrated into the incident investigation process to determine the effectiveness, strength and reliability of safeguards and controls for the prevention of incidents. Enhance and improve worldwide incident reporting data year end • Conduct Six Sigma Improvement Project The Six Sigma project was completed in June 2012 and resulted in significant changes to the approach used for the quality for statistical accuracy and metrics evaluation 2013 • Establish timeline and work teams to complete project investigation of incidents. recommendations All incidents, near miss cases and potential hazards are given a risk assessment using the new RAP tool that was • Implement project recommendations incorporated into the 3M incident management system. The data entry process was also improved to minimize reporting errors. Increase quality of incident investigation reports and action year end • Define, pilot and refine a quality assessment tool A layer of protection approach was defined as the basis for incident investigations. This method has been incorporated items to drive better understanding of contributing factors 2013 • Conduct training on use of tool into the 3M incident management system. and improvements in the control of hazards. • Implement use of tool Training on the use of this new method is ongoing. • Adjust tool as needed for improvement Implement a standardized method for the identification, year end • Assess methods and tools currently in use The assessment resulted in the selection of two methods for machine hazard analysis. The RAP tool is used to assess evaluation and control of machine hazards 2013 • Select method(s) that provide greatest control of machine hazards all layers of protection related to equipment operation. An additional risk tool is used to evaluate the strength of safety • Pilot at locations where high-severity events related to machine control circuitry necessary to prevent severe injuries. hazards have occured Training for both methods is ongoing. • Implement final method(s) and tools Conduct facility EHS perception surveys and implement year end • Conduct EHS perception surveys at all 3M manufacturing facilities 84 percent of 3M manufacturing facilities had completed an EHS perception survey at the end of 2013. improvement activities 2013 • Develop and implement facility EHS culture improvement plans Best practices taken from the improvement plans were shared across 3M. • Collect and share best practices for EHS culture improvement Implement new global audit management system year end • Define and deliver new software Software has been developed and deployed for use. 2013 • Conduct training for lead auditors Training for lead auditors has been conducted as scheduled and the tool is in use globally. • Pilot and implement use of tool Complete baseline exposure assessments worldwide year end • Complete Comprehensive Chemical & Noise Baseline Qualitative New Web-based exposure assessment and management system has been implemented to support a comprehensive 2013 Exposure Assessments in new Industrial Hygiene software system for strategy across all sites globally. The system implementation included Web-based and hands-on training of over 250 all sites users worldwide to complete >500,000 process-task-chemical assessments. Comprehensive task-based exposure assessments for all materials and chemicals are used across every site globally. 3M 2014 Sustainability Report | 87 88 | 3M 2014 Sustainability Report Global Safety and Health Objectives Corporate Safety and Health Objectives Target Milestones 2013 Results Implement Air and Noise Monitoring Certification program year end • Develop Air and Noise Monitoring Certification program An updated Air & Noise Certification training program including proficiency testing was completed in 2012. to enhance protection and performance 2014 • Certify an Air and Noise Monitoring resource for each site where Implementation began in late 2012 with a total of 27 percent of sites globally having an assigned certified resource. monitoring is conducted Improve global implementation of 3M Ergonomic Program year end • Assist acquisitions to implement ergonomic program New acquisition sites were visited on schedule to begin implementation of the 3M ergonomics program. 2013 • Assess MSD risk exposure data and re-evaluate job assessment MSD risk assessments were conducted as planned. criteria Regional workshops are ongoing to improve expertise of EHS personnel globally in the use of ergonomics risk • Expand location and regional ergonomics self sufficiency reduction tools. Develop and Implement new medical surveillance year end • Integrate new medical surveillance applicability analysis module into In progress applicability analysis system 2017 the global exposure assessment system. • Develop and deliver training on new module for all global users. Job tasks associated with targeted high hazard activities year end • Affected sites meet 95 to 100% of requirements for: In progress are evaluated for adequate control using the 3M Risk 2018 Work performed near mechanical hazards; Assessment & Prioritization (RAP) tool. Work performed at height; Operation of mobile equipment or vehicles; Process Hazard levels are determined for every process in year end • Affected sites meet 95 to 100% of HazPET requirements In progress the covered facility using the Hazardous Process Evaluation 2018 Tool (HazPET) E-A-Rfit system implemented for all high priority sites year end • Develop and deliver training for effective implementation of E-A-Rfit In progress 2018 system. • Implement E-A-Rfit across all sites with large hearing conservation programs. Validate protection factor for first tier priority operations year end • Build reports to efficiently identify all first tier priority operations and In progress with required respirator use. 2018 relevant air sampling data for applicable respirator tasks. • Complete validation of all respirator assessments for first tier priority operations. 3M 2014 Sustainability Report | 89 90 | 3M 2014 Sustainability Report Optimizing Our Environmental Footprint 3M is committed to managing and minimizing its Environmental Footprint. Our strategy and resulting actions are categorized in the following sections: Environmental Management Systems and Compliance, Climate and Energy, Raw Material Scarcity, and Water Quality and Availability. Amanda Jarvis is an Environmental, Health and Safety Specialist and a steward lead for 3P at 3M Rockland, Pollution Prevention Pays (3P) Massachusetts. 3M Rockland had 285 short tons of waste (pollution prevented) saved in seven 3P 3M’s Pollution Prevention Pays (3P) program celebrated its programs recognized in 2013. Amanda credits the 38th anniversary in 2013. In those 38 years, the program site’s division leadership for its strong support of the has prevented more than 1.9 million metric tons of pollutants 3P and environmental, health and safety programs. and saved nearly $1.8 billion (USD) based on aggregated Although Rockland recently integrated into 3M, the data from the first year of each 3P project. The 3P program team enthusiastically embraced the 3P program helps prevent pollution at the source, in products and in with 9 projects in two years, and 38 employees were manufacturing processes rather than removing it after it has recognized for 2013 3P projects. The team takes been created. When the 3P program was launched in 1975, pride in continuously improving and reducing its the concept of applying pollution prevention on a companyenvironmental footprint, and Rockland’s competitive wide basis and documenting the results was an industry first. nature leads it to pursue the 3P projects that most Active and thriving today, the 3P program invites participation significantly impact pollution prevention. Amanda says from all sectors of the Company, including research and the 3P program’s longevity and continued success is development, manufacturing, logistics, transportation, and indicative of 3M’s commitment to pollution prevention. packaging employees. The program is a key element of our 3P Global Prevention Achievements: 1975-2013 First Year Savings Cumulative Totals (Tons) Optimizing 2,500,000 2,000,000 1,500,000 1,000,000 500,000 Our Environmental 0 1975 1980 1985 1990 1995 2000 2005 2010 2011 2012 2013 Total Waste Total Air Total Water Pollution Prevented Pollution Prevented Pollution Prevented Footprint Total Number of Projects: 11,000 Total Savings: $1.7 Billion USD Total Pollution Prevented: 1.9 Million Metrics Tons 92 | 3M 2014 Sustainability Report environmental strategy and is advancing our sustainability Approach efforts. 3P has achieved that status based on our belief In 1975, 3M’s commitment to environmental stewardship that a prevention approach is more environmentally was formalized when the Board of Directors adopted the 3M effective, socially acceptable and more economical than Environmental Policy. It is a comprehensive statement of 3M’s conventional pollution controls. 3P seeks to eliminate environmental commitment, emphasizing preventing pollution at pollution through the following methods: the source. The executive Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS) • Product Reformulation Committee, reporting to the Corporate Operating Committee, provides oversight of 3M’s environmental programs. • Process Modification and Redesign • Equipment Redesign Environmental Management Systems 3M’s multifaceted strategy for implementing environmental • Supply Chain Improvements management systems and global auditing of environmental • Recycling and Reuse of Waste Materials compliance for our operations is key to understanding any potential gaps and gaining resolution quickly. All manufacturing facilities are The program depends directly on the voluntary required to complete a Global Environmental Management Self• Incident Prevention Reporting and Investigation include environmental performance data at the facility, division, participation of 3M employees. Innovative projects Assessment at least annually, which consists of a detailed evaluation business unit and corporate levels and are reviewed by are submitted and then reviewed and selected based • Incident Reporting and Investigation of each facility’s systems alignment for ensuring environmental executive management for performance on selected indicators. on defined criteria by a 3P committee representing compliance and management system performance. Following is a • Planning and Goals This enables 3M to monitor and identify successes, risks and R&D; engineering; Environmental, Health and Safety; list of topics covered in the self-assessment: opportunities for improvements and reductions worldwide. manufacturing; and supply chain organizations. Selected • Training and Communications project teams receive recognition for their achievement. • Regulatory Applicability Ensuring Regulatory Compliance The elements reflect procedures, systems and processes that • Regulatory Change Management are comprehensive and mandatory to maintain compliance with 3M operations are subject to global environmental laws Environmental • Air Regulatory Compliance and Conformance legal or other requirements. Additional ISO 14001 elements and associated questions are provided to enable sites to conduct and regulations, including those pertaining to air emissions, wastewater and stormwater discharges, hazardous substances Management Systems • Air Emission Control Operation further review of their Environmental Management System. or materials of concern, and the handling and disposal of Data from the assessments is validated through audits, site solid and hazardous wastes. These laws and regulations are & Compliance • On-Site Waste Management visits by subject matter experts and other data systems. enforceable by national, state and local authorities around the world. 3M is committed to compliance with all global Overview • Off-Site Waste Recycle and Disposal Tracking Operational Performance environmental requirements and regulations. Key elements of Setting and implementing global environmental • Wastewater the environmental auditing program include: 3M has extensive global environmental data management policies, management systems and tracking as well as • Rainwater and Stormwater systems in place to identify, track and manage relevant maintaining key performance metrics enables 3M to • To measure and assure that procedures, practices and information indicative of corporate-wide environmental continually integrate and drive environmental stewardship programs comply with environmental regulations • Water Supply and Use management and performance. This includes management throughout the Company. Environmental stewardship is • To identify potential environmental concerns and • Groundwater and Remediation systems covering a full range of environmental compliance and integrated into each of the five business units globally, establish plans to address them operational performance metrics relevant to 3M operations, ensuring consistency and innovative environmental • Storage Tanks some of which are provided in this report. thinking. As reflected by our environmental performance • To apprise management on compliance matters indicators and 2015 Sustainability Goals, environmental • Energy Management Information and performance data on a majority of these • To assure 3M environmental policy and standard stewardship is a core corporate commitment backed by program elements are tracked and reported through corporate • Environmental Policies and Standards expectations are met decades of proven performance. electronic reporting systems. Scorecards published quarterly 3M 2014 Sustainability Report | 93 94 | 3M 2014 Sustainability Report Following are several key elements of the auditing program: • Exceedances: emissions or other environmental • Manufacturing, distribution and laboratory operations parameters above permitted or allowable regulatory are audited for environmental compliance on a frequency levels determined based on relative risk • Significant Spills: Spills that are deemed above a • At least annually, all global operations are assessed designated risk level based on internal company set against a variety of criteria to establish a prioritized list of volume and response level required to adequately facilities for compliance auditing respond. • 3M uses a variety of tools and resources for compliance • Agency Notices: Notices received by 3M for allegations auditing, including: from an environmental regulatory or permitting – Internally developed compliance protocols, created requirement by subject matter experts in regulatory programs and 3M processes • Fines: Compensation paid by 3M to address an administrative fine or penalty imposed by an – 3M’s Global Environmental Management Selfenvironmental regulatory agency. Assessment as an evaluation tool – Externally purchased compliance protocols, We implemented WIMS in 2010 as the new corporate-wide especially for international operations, to ensure database for reporting all EHS incidents. As we’d previously local compliance obligations are understood and used several different systems, the consolidated WIMS has led met to continuous improvement related to increased awareness of responsibilities, understanding of the holistic system and more – Internal environmental compliance experts from consistent reporting requirements. In turn, this has provided around the company or level 3 (severe/most significant) based on several risk Global environmental fines reported herein include more than the more accurate reporting by the 200-plus sites globally since – External environmental consultants as needed factors (including regulatory compliance, volume released GRI definition of significant and reportable in 3M’s Annual Report 2010. to provide additional expertise and third-party and response requirements) with the 3M WIMS system. The (10K), as global fines regardless of significance are tracked and verification of our auditing protocols increased number of significant global spills is due to improved reported through WIMS. The increase in 2010 was the result of Our Footprint understanding and reporting processes within 3M. We plan to fines incurred at one of our U.S. manufacturing sites. – Complete and robust documentation of audit EMS Implementation & Environmental use the improved data to better drive spill-prevention activities. findings, assignment of responsibility and due Compliance dates for closure of findings, and detailed review In addition to 3M’s Global Environmental Management System 3M Environmental Compliance Metrics 3M Global Environmental Fines of findings closure to assure corrective actions are annual self-assessment, approximately 89 percent of sales 120 $180,000 appropriate and sustainable value of production (SVOP) have ISO 14001-certified (or $160,000 100 equivalent) management systems that are reviewed by an $140,000 3M’s environmental auditing program is audited periodically by 80 independent third party. SVOP is defined as the Sales Value of $120,000 3M’s Corporate Auditing department. 60 all output of a location. This includes not only Finished Goods $100,000 sold within the producing country, but also the Sales Value of 40 $80,000 Tracking Environmental Incidents products transferred out of a facility to other locations within 20 $60,000 All global 3M-owned facilities that are within 3M’s operational country, or as an intercompany sale $40,000 control are required to internally report environmental 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 $20,000 exceedances, spills, agency notices and fines through 3M’s 3M had 85 significant unplanned releases (spills) to the All Global Exceedances 30 23 42 73 $0 2010 2011 2012 2013 Worldwide Incident Management System (WIMS). These are environment in 2013. This includes releases that have been Significant Global Spills 93 102 111 85 defined as follows: designated with 3M severity evaluation of level 2 (significant) All Agency Notices 16 21 32 47 Fines ($USD) $169,534 $25,835 $21,275 $5,600 3M 2014 Sustainability Report | 95 96 | 3M 2014 Sustainability Report Exploring Energy-Efficient Energy ongoing dialogue on strategies to address potential global climate change issues. Technologies and Solutions for the & Climate • 3M endorses a voluntary approach that Chinese Market involves all nations. If reductions are mandated Overview by regulation or legislation, 3M endorses a 3M has a history of proactive leadership in addressing both the 3M announced earlier this year uniform market-based approach that includes challenges and opportunities presented by climate change and energy that it was selected as a partner all nations; this approach should also include conservation. We operate under the philosophy that early action is in the U.S.-China Clean Energy provisions for emissions trading and credit for paramount to being a leader in this space, and our programs and Research Center (CERC) Building early action. results prove our success. Energy Efficiency consortium. Helping Data Centers • 3M supports continued research to assess the The CERC, established in 2009 This proactive leadership can perhaps best be understood through five scientific and economic impacts of strategies by President Barack Obama Manage Energy Efficiency areas of action: to address climate change, while considering the interrelationship to other environmental and President Hu Jintao, is intended to facilitate joint research and development on clean energy technology by teams of scientists and In addition to dramatically reducing our own GHG 1. Executive-level commitment to these important topics and regulations and issues. engineers from the U.S. and China. emissions, 3M has introduced several products into our related principles, commitments and risk-mitigation planning efforts • 3M applies its environmental goals and the marketplace to enable meaningful reduction in As part of the Building Energy Efficiency consortium, 3M will standards, including those pertaining GHG emissions for our customers. One example participate in research on building-efficiency strategies, tools 2. Industry-leading efforts to reduce our own greenhouse to GHG reductions, consistently around includes our 3MTM NovecTM Engineered Fluids, which and practices in areas such as building envelope technologies gas (GHG) emissions the world. have recently enabled a new paradigm in data center and integration of new construction materials for building energy cooling that dramatically reduces energy use, GHG 3. Extensive public policy engagement on both climate 1) Executive-Level Commitment efficiency. emissions and municipal water consumption for change and energy conservation Climate change and energy efficiency are Among other projects, the consortium will collaborate during the evaporative cooling. In the past year, the technology issues of great importance throughout 3M up 4. A decades-long track record of improving energy remaining years of its charter on a number of demonstration and customer applications for the Company’s twoto the Corporate Operating Committee and efficiency at our facilities buildings in China to incorporate 3M energy-efficiency technologies. phase immersion cooling products in data centers CEO. Top-level executives have empowered It will study these products at work in various Chinese environments, have been recognized with numerous awards. For 5. Serving our customers through a wide range of innovative the Corporate EHS Committee to take proactive as well as with locally sourced Chinese building components. example, one data center in Hong Kong using 3M products that help them improve energy efficiency and reduce steps and be responsible for all final decisions NovecTM technology reports 4,000 times energy their carbon footprint on climate change and energy strategy. This “3M’s participation in the consortium will not only help us drive the efficiency improvements over traditional data center includes setting Company reduction goals and growing market for large-scale energy efficiency and sustainability Our Approach cooling approach. Watch this video to learn more policies. projects forward, but will give all members the opportunity to learn about how data centers are using this technology to Guiding Principles firsthand about the energy efficiency needs of the Chinese market,” 3M’s approach to global climate change is based on several In addition, for climate change strategy and GHG be more energy-efficient. said Stefan Babirad, Ph.D., technical director for 3M Industrial principles: emission advice, the Corporate EHS Committee Adhesives and Tapes Division. “This partnership will also allow us to has appointed the corporate Climate Change • 3M supports the long-term goal of sustainable development; the gain invaluable customer feedback to help shape future innovations.” Steering Team. Complementing the efforts Company is committed to continuous and measurable improvement of the Climate Change Steering Team, 3M’s in environmental performance as a means of achieving that goal. business continuity planning process and • 3M believes that sufficient information exists to take voluntary, our crisis management program review help responsible action to reduce its GHG footprint. manage risks facing the Company’s physical • 3M recognizes the activities of the United Nations Framework operations and supply chains (e.g., severe Convention on Climate Change and intends to participate in the weather events). 3M 2014 Sustainability Report | 97 98 | 3M 2014 Sustainability Report Engaging Our Stakeholders: To address the issue of climate change, 3M has committed to the following Corporate and local plans take into account natural disaster, infectious disease, employee safety, protection of assets, Creating Smarter Cities • Develop and maintain an inventory of our Scope 1 and 2 customer service and other business continuity requirements that may impact specific facilities and businesses. Every year, GHG emissions. Urban centers are the driving force in the local crisis management team must review and update its generating Europe’s economic growth. • Continue to improve energy efficiency in manufacturing plan to reflect current conditions. It also performs a tabletop And with almost 70 percent of the and administrative operations, including all aspects of or actual crisis response exercise. 3M Corporate Auditing European Union population living in direct and indirect use of fossil fuels and Corporate Security monitor facility compliance with the urban areas, smarter cities represent Corporate Crisis Management Program. • Manage emission of our GHG to optimize reductions and an enormous opportunity to improve the cost benefits 3M mitigates supply chain risks through a variety of management quality of life for millions of people. practices, including multisourcing raw materials, pre• Assess the potential use of renewable energy sources at As part of its Europe 2020 strategy qualification of potential outsource manufacturers, maintaining 3M operations for growth and jobs, the European appropriate stocks of raw materials and contingency plans with Commission launched the Smart Cities • Increase the use of energy efficiency products within 3M key suppliers to ensure allocation to 3M in the event of supply Initiative in July 2012. The initiative’s goal operations and encourage their use by 3M suppliers and disruption. is to foster smart, inclusive and sustainable growth in Europe. Eco-innovation is seen as an essential customers enabler of resource efficiency and a source of green growth to help EU member states exit the economic 2) Reducing Our GHG Emissions • Incorporate an evaluation of environmental and energy GHG emission reductions are achieved through a variety of crisis, keep manufacturing in Europe and meet environmental goals. impacts throughout the full product life cycle (from methods at 3M and include, but are not limited to, increasing At 3M, we recognized early on that doing business in new, smarter ways would not only create a more raw material acquisition through manufacturing, use the use of more sustainable raw materials, improving process viable Company, it could also enable us to meet our social responsibilities and reduce our impact on and disposal) as part of the Company’s Life Cycle and equipment efficiency, upgrading equipment, reducing our the environment. This passion for embedded sustainability made our participation in the Smart Cities Management assessment process demand for energy use, and implementing and maintaining Initiative a natural fit. So, in 2013, we engaged with key 3M stakeholders to better understand what they • Invest in research and development to create new pollution control technologies. All reduction efforts are integral value in smart cities and to share what we’re doing as a Company to help make cities smarter. products and technology that will reduce the generation to the Company’s overall success and assist the Company • Smart City Consumer Research: To understand what people living in urban areas felt were and emissions of GHG with the challenge of addressing climate change. Further the most important attributes of smart city living, we conducted a survey in May 2013 with 500 details regarding our GHG impressive emission reduction • Develop partnerships and participate in a positive achievements can be found in the Goals & Progress and Our European city dwellers across the United Kingdom, Italy, Germany, France and Sweden. We asked dialogue with governmental agencies and other Footprint sections that follow. them a range of questions related to mobility, day-to-day living, health and energy. Our results organizations engaged in tackling climate change indicate that EU citizens cite a good transportation system and being environmentally friendly as the most popular descriptions of a smart city. 3) Public Policy Engagement Risk-Mitigation Planning 3M is actively engaged in public policy development to address • Sustainable Solutions for Smart Cities Event: In June 2013, 3M hosted an event in Brussels Severe weather and long-term trends could affect 3M’s climate change. One such important direct engagement is with for hundreds of our customers and industry thought leaders to showcase examples of how 3M is operations and supply chain. To address these and other the National Climate Coalition (NCC). 3M is a founding member creating sustainable solutions for smart cities. We invited both 3M leaders and external partners to risks, 3M has developed and maintains a systematic Business of NCC, an organization committed to dialogue and policy speak at the event, highlighting 3M solutions that spanned smart grid applications, e-mobility and Continuity and Planning Process and Crisis Management development with decision-makers in the U.S. Environmental transportation uses, and health care and quality of life needs. Following the event, all attendees were Program. To implement this process and respond to specific Protection Agency (EPA) and many state agencies throughout invited to provide feedback via an online survey, and 80 percent of respondents indicated that the incidents, 3M’s Corporate Crisis Management Program the U.S. event was a valuable experience. coordinates efforts of local crisis management teams maintained at each 3M facility and international subsidiary. In 2013, NCC made great advancements through engagement with U.S. EPA, many state environmental agencies, the 3M 2014 Sustainability Report | 99 100 | 3M 2014 Sustainability Report 5) Innovative GHG-Reducing Products for Our Goals & Results Customers 3M is a leader in setting and achieving visionary goals to Many examples of the products we bring to market that help improve our energy efficiency and make a positive impact on the our customers reduce their GHG emissions can be seen found environment through early reduction of GHG emissions. When in the 2014 edition of our Environmental Solutions Catalog. others were talking about making reductions, the Company In addition to offering products that help our customers reduce took leadership actions to achieve those reductions in real life. their carbon footprint, 3M is actively involved in measuring the These goals and leadership actions have led to tremendous carbon footprint of many of our products. results, as demonstrated by our actual performance and the external recognition we have received. 3M conducts product carbon footprint evaluations as part of the product Life Cycle Assessment process on select products The Company first set an energy conservation goal in 1990 and is engaged with key stakeholders to improve and refine and has been setting such goals ever since. As a result of our common metrics for such analysis. leadership in energy management, the U.S. EPA has recognized 3M with the ENERGY STAR Sustained Excellence Award for an 3M defines a product carbon footprint as GHG (CO2 equivalent) industry-leading 10 years. emissions resulting from a product across its entire life cycle — including raw material acquisition, manufacturing, transport, In addition, the Company was among the first to set GHG storage, use and disposal of the product. To calculate carbon emission reduction goals. Two GHG reduction goals have been footprints, 3M applies currently available standards and tools. set and achieved with strong results. From 2002 through 2013, the Company reduced GHG emissions by an astounding 3M and Gossamer Unveil the World’s Largest Aperture Parabolic Trough in Daggett, California— May 2012 One of the challenges in this area is the wide range of 57 percent on an absolute basis. This industry-leading potential approaches and assumptions being used for such performance contributed to the Company being recognized Bipartisan Policy Center (BPC) and Resources for the Future At 3M, energy management extends beyond energy-efficiency calculations. To address these issues, 3M supports further with several external awards, including the Gigaton Award from (RFF). This work has accelerated in 2014, with the primary goal efforts in factories and buildings. It is a team effort guided development of common metrics and is working with the World the Carbon War Room and the Climate Leaders Award from to create effective climate change regulation in the U.S. (absent by the global Corporate Energy Policy. Energy management Resource Institute and World Business Council for Sustainable U.S. EPA. legislative action) that serves to reduce GHG emissions from responsibilities are coordinated by the Corporate Energy Development (WRI/WBCSD), peer companies, governments the utility sector and encourage additional GHG reductions, all Management team, with oversight by 3M’s Corporate Energy and environmental organizations. The goal of these efforts is to Industry-Leading Goals & Achievements while enabling U.S. businesses to remain competitive in the Manager and Senior Engineering Vice President and with enable 3M and others to provide cost-effective, accurate and Reducing our GHG emissions by 57 percent in only 11 years global marketplace. active support from the CEO. The team involves personnel from useful information to customers and other stakeholders. (2002–2013) has provided a direct and immediate benefit to the environmental operations, facility operations, finance, sourcing, environment. This reduction is even more impressive when one Using product carbon footprint information, 3M has offset 4) Improving Our Energy Efficiency engineering, energy management, corporate marketing and GHG emissions from certain products through the purchase considers it is an absolute reduction (e.g., it occurred even as 3M has identified a broad approach to managing our energy public affairs. Each department provides cross-functional the Company grew sales and production during this timeframe). of carbon offsets. To consistently manage carbon offsets, 3M footprint, which includes evaluating the energy impact of new contributions, ensuring that: The Company’s reductions from the 2002 base through 2013 adopted a Product Carbon Footprint Offsets Standard. This products and manufacturing processes being developed in resulted in a cumulative reduction of nearly 100 million metric • Energy-efficient technologies are being used and standard addresses the requirements for the calculation of our laboratories; new equipment and facilities being designed tons of GHG emissions to the atmosphere compared with the opportunities are being identified in the design process. product carbon footprints and the management of product and built by our engineering staff; and reducing our energy emission level during the base year. This calculation even takes carbon offsets. footprint of our manufacturing and administrative facilities. • Renewable energy opportunities are identified and into account the investment in acquisitions of $9.5 billion (not In addition, 3M actively shares information about the energy financed. For additional information about how 3M is tackling climate including inflation) that 3M has made since 2002, meaning management program with external stakeholders, such as change, visit www.3M.com/Sustainability. that even as the Company expanded in scope, substantial • Data is tracked routinely and consistently by facilities. suppliers, customers and other interested organizations. reductions in GHG emissions have been achieved. 3M 2014 Sustainability Report | 101 102 | 3M 2014 Sustainability Report To put this in perspective, the value the Company has provided R&D, manufacturing, distribution centers and administrative In 2013, a third-party audit of the input/output model data was conducted Setting Energy Performance Goals & to society throughout that time period is equivalent to any of support offices within 3M’s operational control, are accounted in accordance with the WRI/WBCSD Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Evaluating Progress the following: for in the current inventory. Both Scope 1 (direct) and Scope 2 standard to verify and determine the quality of the data reported and As previously noted, 3M has a long history in setting and (indirect) emissions as categorized by WRI are included. 3M tracks reliability of the calculation method for 2012. Regarding category 11, use achieving energy conservation goals. In 2010 as part of our 2015 • Removing nearly 2 million cars from the road and reports both absolute and indexed to net sales emissions of sold products, 3M has only started to estimate these emissions. We Sustainability Goals, 3M set a global goal to increase energy • Removing over 800,000 homes from the grid data. have a Climate Change Solutions product catalog with many products efficiency by 25 percent in 2015 from a 2005 base year. That that reduce GHG emissions for our customers. Preliminary estimates on goal was achieved in 2010, so we established a new internal • Eliminating the need for more than two coal-fired power GHG emission data for 2012 and 2013 cannot be directly our three largest Climate Change Solutions products indicate a reduction goal to improve by an additional 15 percent for a total increase plants in the U.S. compared to years before as the WRI-based GHG accounting of approximately 20 million metric tons CO2 eq in 2012 based on sales. of 40 percent in energy efficiency. We are presently on track to rules 3M has historically used were modified for 2012 and 2013 We continue to focus on appropriately managing our GHG Further work is being conducted on other Climate Change Solution meeting our new goal. to comply and be consistent with the requirements of the U.S. emissions and seek to achieve further reductions in the years products, as well as 3M products that use energy. EPA Mandatory Greenhouse Gas Reporting Rule (EPA GHGWe also identified three areas of focus that will make a stepto come. Given our progress to date, fluctuations in our own MRR). In addition, use of the U.S. EPA GHG-MRR resulted in the change in the energy and carbon intensity of our operations. GHG emission levels year-to-year have occurred and remain Future GHG Reduction Goals re-categorization of some chemical emissions from Non-Kyoto to The implementation of combined heat and power systems possible. For example, over the past six years, the Company’s As noted above, the early and rapid success the Company achieved Kyoto gas and vice versa, which resulted in a significant change to and heat recovery systems at certain 3M locations has a large GHG emissions have increased in three years and decreased presents a unique challenge when considering additional GHG 3M’s Kyoto/Non-Kyoto GHG emissions distribution as compared potential to improve efficiency and reduce carbon emissions. The the other three years. This fluctuation occurs for a variety of reduction goals. The Company, in essence, has already set and to the time period prior to 2012. Accordingly, the 2012 (and implementation of advanced energy information systems in our reasons, including the growth of products across our portfolio, achieved multiple GHG reduction goals in an accelerated time period now 2013) inventory methodology serves as a new framework manufacturing facilities is expected to give operations personnel the number of acquisitions we made, and overall economic (e.g., a 58 percent absolute reduction has already been achieved). for future GHG reporting by 3M and other companies subject to information they can use to more effectively manage energy use. conditions in the markets we serve. The Company continues to evaluate potential future goals to further the EPA GHG-MRR. 3M has recalculated our 2002 emissions strengthen and demonstrate our commitment to help address To meet global goals, 3M reviews its Strategic Energy It is important to note that even as those yearly fluctuations inventory due to the 2012-2013 emission factor changes. This climate change. The following considerations are part of our active Management Plan annually to prioritize programs. Longer-term occur, a large benefit to society has already been provided, and recalculated 2002 emissions inventory now serves as the new effort to establish a third GHG goal: action items are added periodically to achieve greater efficiency. additional significant net reductions continue to be realized each baseline to compare our emission reduction in future years. The plan uses input from stakeholders, including manufacturing year. In addition, the growth of products across the Company’s • How do our external stakeholders feel the Company directors, plant managers, operations employees and executive portfolio is beneficial in that many of those products help our Better Tracking of GHG Emissions From Our can best address climate change (e.g., advancing new management. The plan aims to continuously improve results; customers reduce their GHG emissions and meet their own Suppliers and Customers products and technologies that allow society to reduce leverage engineering expertise; drive plant-level efficiency climate change goals. With the publishing of the WRI/WBCSD GHG Protocol Corporate GHG emissions)? improvements; maintain top management support; and protect Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard in GHG emission inventory and accounting initiatives have been • What role should renewable energy play in our future 3M. October 2011, 3M has been working on developing a Scope 3 a key priority for 3M. Our GHG management strategy includes goals? emissions inventory. 3M places a high value on sound science and Energy Goals History and Results a rigorous accounting system to generate an annual inventory decision-making so data reported is in accordance to the WRI/ • How might the Company’s extensive supplier base play Environmental Targets Sustainability Goals of worldwide emissions. In addition, the process and associated Energy Goal WBCSD Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting a role in combating climate change? As these questions (ET’05) (Environmental Stewardship) GHG emissions reported from 1990–2007 were validated by Standard. When available for a Scope 3 category, primary data was 20% Reduction in 25% Reduction in Total are addressed, 3M will make a final decision on how to an external third-party consultant. Since 2002, the global 3M Total Energy Energy used to calculate the GHG emissions. When primary data was not proceed with a future greenhouse gas reduction goal. (Indexed to Net Sales) (Indexed to Net Sales) inventory has been developed, maintained and verified by 3M’s available or the complexity of the supply chain did not allow for ISO/IEC 17025 accredited laboratory in accordance to the World direct calculation, an input/output model calculation method was • Are there opportunities for the Company to expand 2000 2005 2013 Total Energy Resource Institute (WRI)/World Business Council for Sustainable used. The input/output model calculations were based on the level external partnerships and work with communities to 27% Total Energy 29% Total Energy Development (WBCSD) GHG Protocol. realize future GHG emission reductions? Reduction Reduction through 2013 Results of sourcing financial spend for each GHG emission category (Indexed to Net Sales) (Indexed to Net Sales) The total GHG Inventory encompasses the Company’s diversity and was conducted in collaboration with Climate Earth Inc. for and complexity. A total of approximately 600 facilities, including categories 1, 2, 6 and 7 (see scope 3 table on page 81). Total Reduction 2000-2013: 49% 3M 2014 Sustainability Report | 103 104 | 3M 2014 Sustainability Report Our Footprint Total Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Absolute) Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions (Indexed to Net Sales) (Scope 1 and Scope 2) (Scope 1 and Scope 2) 2002-2013 Greenhouse Gas Emissions-Absolute 2002-2013 Greenhouse Gas Emissions-Indexed to Net Sales 3M 2014 Sustainability Report | 105 106 | 3M 2014 Sustainability Report Total Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 3) Upstream and Downstream Absolute (Metric Tons CO2e) Scope 3 Category Boundary Comments 2011 2012 2013 Upstream Emissions 1 Purchased Goods and Services 7,620,000 8,155,000 8,357,000 From climate earth using Input/Output Model based on 3M spend 2 Capital Goods 498,000 584,000 647,000 From climate earth using Input/Output Model based on 3M spend Fuel-and-Energy Related Activities 3 Partially included in Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions reporting 3M Operational Control Electricity transmission & distribution losses included in Scope 1 and 2 (not including scope 1 or scope 2 emissions) 4 Upstream transportation and distribution Not Evaluated 3M Operational Control A complete data set was not available for Climate Earth to use Input/Output Model based on 3M spend Estimated <1% of Total 5 Waste generated in operations 29,000 Under Evaluation 3M Operational Control Only a partial characterization of emissions from operational waste could be made improvements are planned for the next reporting year. Upstream Emissions 6 Business Travel Not Evaluated 58,600 57,000 3M Operational Control Environmental Lab calculated from 3M primary data on business travel 7 Employee Commuting Not Evaluated 352,437 353,000 3M Operational Control From Climate Earth using Input/Output Model based on 3M employee population 8 Upstream, leased assets Included in scope 1 or scope 2 emissions reporting 3M Operational Control Total Upstream 8,147,000 9,150,000 9,414,000 Net GHG emissions based on the categories evaluated Downstream Emissions 9 Downstream transportation and distribution Not Evaluated 1,510,000 1,230,000 3M Operational Control Environmental Lab calculated from 3M primary data on downstream transportation With over 55,000 products and the diversity of products across many market sectors, this complexity and the unknown application (downstream processing) of 10 Processing of sold products Not Evaluated many products does not allow for calculation, or even a reasonable estimate, for this category. An evaluation of customer GHG reductions from use of sold products is being conducted. The primary products with GHG emission reductions are being 11 Use of sold products Not Evaluated Under Evaluation evaluated. Continuing work will be conducted on other products with both GHG reductions and GHG emissions during use. The GHG reductions and emissions from these other products are expected to be de minimus compared with the magnitude of primary product use reductions. With over 55,000 products and the diversity of products across many market sectors, this complexity and the unknown disposal (end of life treatment) of many 12 End of life treatment of sold products Not Evaluated products does not allow for calculation, or even a reasonable estimate, for this category. This is unknown as many products are part of our customers’ products. 13 Downstream leased assets Not Evaluated Included in scope 1 or scope 2 emissions reporting 3M Operational Control 14 Franchises Not Evaluated None 0 3M Financial Control No franchises under 3M financial control 15 Investments Not Evaluated None 0 3M Financial Control No investments under 3M financial control Total Downstream – 1,510,000 1,230,000 Net GHG emissions based on the categories evaluated Scope 3 Notes: 1. The data reported is in accordance to the World Resources Institute (WRI)/ World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard. 2. An input/output model calculation methodology based on spend by commodity was used in collaboration with Climate Earth for categories 1 and 2, and based on employee headcount by country for category 7. 3. A third party audit of the input/output model data in accordance to the WRI/WBCSD Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) standard was conducted in 2013 to determine the quality of the data reported and the reliability of the calculation method. 4. Estimated Scope 3 data uncertainty is ±50% (WRI/WBCSD, GHG Protocol Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard, 2011) 3M 2014 Sustainability Report | 107 108 | 3M 2014 Sustainability Report 3M Italy: Sustainable Building Design Total Energy Use Total Energy Use MMBTUs 3M’s commitment to improving energy efficiency is evident in the figures and From the Ground Up goals summary that follows. From 2000 through 2013, 3M reduced energy 2010 2011 3M Italy’s newest headquarters building was built usage by 49 percent indexed to net sales. Having exceeded its energy-reduction 2012 in 2010 in Pioltello, Italy, and is a best-in-class goal ahead of schedule, 3M set an internal target to improve energy use per unit 2013 sustainable facility for the Company. Designed to of product an additional 3 percent annually (2010–2015). Achieving these goals 25,500,000 26,000,000 26,500,000 27,000,000 27,500,000 28,000,000 28,500,000 enhance the use of renewable energy, create a would help prevent 1.3 million metric tons of related CO2 emissions. 2010 2011 2012 2013 motivating office environment and a sense of wellTotal Energy 26,917,031 26,703,396 27,838,414 28,714,940 All manufacturing locations and other locations greater than 30,000 square feet being for employees, and reduce energy and resource (2787 square meters) report energy use and energy costs into an electronic needs, the building earned an Italian CENED Class reporting system monthly. Data is analyzed at the facility, division, business unit Total Energy Use A energy classification under the European Union’s and corporate levels quarterly for 3M’s major business as part of 3M’s EHS Gigajoules 2010 Energy Performance of Building Directive. Management System Scorecard previously described. 2011 The same technologies, solutions and products that Investing in Renewable Energy 2012 3M presents to markets have been used extensively in this building. The facility is a linear 11,300 m2 building, 3M continues to evaluate, invest in and incorporate on-site renewable energy 2013 27,000,000 27,500,000 28,000,000 28,500,000 29,000,000 29,500,000 30,000,000 105 m long and 21 m wide, with a terraced form stepping down from five to two stories. It’s also gas-free, sources within our own operations where feasible while continuing to expand with all cooling and heating capacity provided through a geothermal system where underground water is later 2010 2011 2012 2013 and collaborate with external partners. We estimate that approximately 1 percent Total Energy 28,419,705 28,192,667 29,378,687 30,295,005 released to the water ditches of Parco della Besozza to support its ecosystem. Thanks to its sustainable design, of 3M energy used today is from renewable sources generated on-site in our the building allows for 1,5000,000 kWh of energy savings annually. own operations. We also partner with utility providers that incorporate renewable energy into their own operations, thereby passing those benefits onto their Total Energy Use Sustainable highlights of the building include the following: Indexed: MMBTUs/Net Sales (MM $USD) customers, including 3M. 2010 • Effective control of solar light and protection from UV rays help reduce the demand for air conditioning in hot 2011 summer months. In the winter, 70 percent of the glass facade is exposed to direct sun, thanks to the correct Energy Highlights 2012 design of shading devices. • 3M received the 2014 Energy Star Sustained Excellence Award (10th 2013 consecutive year). 800 900 1,000 1,100 • Close proximity to public transportation stations, bicycle ways and shuttle buses enables many commuting 2010 2011 2012 2013 options. • We formed partnership to develop novel solutions for transportation, IT Indexed Energy 1,010 902 931 930 • The site offers outdoor activities for employees and on-site changing rooms for employees commuting by and electronics. bicycle. • We leveraged grants to advance CO2 recycling, fuel system, battery and Total Energy by Fuel Type MMBTUs • Photovoltaic panels (493 m2) supply 100,000 kWh of energy to the building annually. The photovoltaic solar technologies. 2010 system reduced the emissions of OIL (23.6 tons), CO2 (62 tons) and NOx (0.17 tons) in one year. 2011 • We formed Engineering Energy Steering Committee to support the policy • A geothermal system reduced the emissions of OIL (195 tons), CO2 (417 tons) and NOx (1.46 tons) in one 2012 of building energy efficiency into corporate engineering projects. year. 2013 0 10,000,000 20,000,000 30,000,000 • We launched the Global Energy Data Validation and Utility Review to The building won the MIPIM AWARD 2011 in the Green Buildings category (the world’s premier real estate event 2010 2011 2012 2013 identify savings within facilities, emphasizing the importance of engaging in Cannes for professionals), the U.S. Architectural Award in 2010, and Premio Innovazione Amica dell’Ambiente Natural Gas 15,277,671 15,127,844 14,885,922 15,505,194 with supporting utilities to understand and verify data accuracy. Electricity 9,573,615 9,675,104 10,098,298 10,316,441 2010 (main Italian green NPO for green building). Steam 807,211 832,820 839,832 901,783 • We achieved ISO 50001 certification at a fourth site, and more sites are Fuel Oil #1, #2, #6 686,393 549,059 1,485,352 1,495,673 pursuing certification. Gasoline & Diesel 233,461 202,293 225,343 191,715 Propane and Jet Fuel 338,680 316,276 295,203 281,177 Coal – – – – 3M 2014 Sustainability Report | 109 110 | 3M 2014 Sustainability Report Collaborating With The Nature Conservancy to Protect Waste from manufacturing sites accounts for the majority as a best practice throughout the organization for replication. Biodiversity While Improving Seed Yields of waste in 3M’s environmental footprint. We estimate an 3M continues to work with our customers and manufacturing additional 4 percent of the waste we generate comes from partners to manage or develop recycling programs to continue to In the Brazilian Amazon, indigenous territories occupy 22 percent of the Amazon and many nonmanufacturing sites, including laboratories, distribution support our community commitment to sustainability. of its best-preserved areas. But they suffer from illegal encroachment from loggers. Last centers and office facilities. 3M’s waste metrics include 3M year, Brazil adopted its National Indigenous Territories Environmental Management Policy manufacturing operations with total output greater than 4536 Air Quality Management to strengthen indigenous peoples’ control of their lands and direct millions of dollars to metric tons per year (10,000 pounds), which represents 97 An important component to 3M’s sustainability strategy is our needed sustainable development and conservation projects. 3M provided a $500,000 percent of SVOP. commitment to improving air quality globally. Air emissions gift to The Nature Conservancy to support implementation of the Indigenous Territories from 3M operations include volatile organics, particulates and Environmental Management Policy, which will help to Haroldo Palo, Jr. address indigenous peoples’ rights, as well as protect Approach substances listed on the U.S. EPA Toxic Release Inventory or Optimizing Efficiencies in Operational Waste & global equivalent. pristine habitat in the Brazilian Amazon. Recycling As a Company with many solvent-based products, 3M 3M’s Waste Management Standard applies to all 3M locations inherently generates volatile organic compounds (VOCs) in and provides a framework for managing all waste types from the many of our manufacturing processes. Emissions of VOCs time of generation until reused, recycled, treated or disposed. at many of our manufacturing facilities require permits with Raw Material product designs and manufacturing processes. We base it on a formula that quantifies product output versus all outputs from The Standard sets a baseline for several core waste program elements and encourages waste minimization and recycling rigorous tracking requirements. Even where tracking is not Scarcity the process and product and includes all by-products. whenever possible. Per the Standard, each location is to assign a required from a regulatory perspective, 3M’s manufacturing principles require accurate information on its major sources Overview Waste Management Coordinator who is responsible for ensuring The diversity of manufacturing technologies, processes and of emissions to understand the level of emissions and to Raw materials are used in the primary production of that personnel receive applicable waste training. Compliance products at 3M provides opportunities for creative waste identify opportunities for reductions. 3M has developed internal manufactured goods. They are also often altered to be used with all 3M and other regulated waste requirements is evaluated usage solutions for the Company. Accurate waste identification programs to minimize its emissions. For these reasons, 3M in a variety of processes and applications. Material diversity through the internal environmental auditing program. is a continuous education process and provides a foundational tracks and reports VOC emissions based on raw material and availability based on shifts in supply and demand impact opportunity to further advance waste minimization and 3M Corporate Environmental Operations identifies and measures usage and pollution control device utilization. technological, operational and geographic developments recycling at all our locations. One business’s by-product may efficiency improvement progress toward raw material usage 3M processes do not generate significant amounts of other across the global economy. Raw material scarcity implies that connect as another business’s raw material. As we continue and waste reduction for sites within our global manufacturing criteria pollutant emissions (i.e., NOx, CO, SO2 and PM) when long-term global demand will exceed world supply. to grow internationally, integrating consistent, yet resourceful, footprint. The results and raw data are used to identify, quantify compared with many other industrial sectors and utilities and to waste management practices in accordance to 3M standards and prioritize projects to improve utilizing Lean Six Sigma Efficiencies in product design, reconfiguration of new sources, 3M’s VOC emissions. For many 3M manufacturing processes, remains a key objective. Continuous Improvement methodology. Results are reviewed and consideration or recovery of alternative material streams NOx, SO2, CO and PM are created as an indirect by-product or are just a few potential solutions that we use to address quarterly and annually within regions, businesses and divisions As such, we continuously look for ways to recover, reuse and are generated by combustion. In many locations, emissions of material shortages impacting 3M’s global supply chains. Close against goals and tracking metrics. recycle by-products and other waste material when feasible. these pollutants have been determined to be below thresholds cross-functional collaboration is key to strategically unlocking And when it’s not usable, we responsibly dispose of waste Specialized teams within the organization work on a variety of that would require permitting, tracking and reporting. Therefore, new, improved and unique partnerships. materials. The concept of maximizing raw material usage is projects and programs, ranging from basic office recycling we have chosen to focus our air quality improvement efforts important both internally and externally to address the global to more complex projects such as developing and capturing around tracking and reducing our VOC emissions, for which we Maximizing Raw Material Usage challenge of resource efficiency and scarcity. Improving our intrinsic waste materials generated off a manufacturing line. have been very successful. Raw material usage is a measurement of overall product and raw material usage through product design and operational Through an evaluation process, all aspects of diversion benefits With the increasing complexity of air quality regulations process yield throughout our manufacturing process and a key considerations provides cost benefits throughout our supply or risk are reviewed. Some programs have initiated and globally, reductions in actual air emissions and a solid air metric for 3M. It’s indicative of operational excellence in our chain in material use, energy and transportation efficiency. implemented excellent reuse programs, which are then shared 3M 2014 Sustainability Report | 111 112 | 3M 2014 Sustainability Report 2013 Sustainable Supplier Expo permit and regulatory approach are increasingly important components of global business growth and long-term sustainability. Air emission reductions Recycling Plant in Bavaria Eliminates In November 2013, 3M hosted its first Sustainable are achieved through a variety of methods at 3M and include, but are not Waste, Conserves Resources Supplier Expo. We invited new and existing product and limited to, increasing the use of more sustainable raw materials, water-based In June 2013, 3M and its package suppliers, both local and globally based, to share coatings; improving process and equipment efficiency; upgrading equipment; subsidiary Dyneon GmbH sustainability solutions with 3M employees. The purpose of and implementing and maintaining pollution control technologies. All reduction broke ground on a new pilot the event was to: efforts are integral to the Company’s overall success and assist the Company plant for specialty plastics with the challenge of improving air quality in the areas in which we operate. • Educate 3M product and package commercialization team members on sustainability topics recycling in Bavaria, Germany. related to converted materials, raw materials, chemicals and emerging technologies. The facility is designed to Implementing & Maintaining Pollution Control • Obtain solutions to enhance the environmental attributes of 3M’s products and packages, recycle polytetrafluoroethylene Although 3M has made significant progress in reducing air emissions from enabling growth. (PTFE), a specialty plastic our operations through pollution prevention thinking (i.e., elimination at material that is indispensable • Enable new connections with sustainable suppliers. the source) and improving process efficiencies (e.g., Lean Six Sigma), 3M in the fields of automotive engineering, manufacturing and environmental Suppliers at the event represented a wide variety of materials and technologies, including implements and maintains pollution control equipment when necessary. A protection, where it’s used in high-tech applications. renewables, printing, bio materials, paperboard, thermoform, resins and more. The event was variety of pollution control technologies are evaluated and utilized to control well-received by both 3M employees and suppliers, with more than 50 percent of employees and reduce our air emissions. These include thermal oxidizers, baghouses, Supported by a nearly €1 million EUR ($1.4 million USD) grant from the who attended reporting that they planned to follow up with suppliers to explore ways to increase scrubbers and cyclones. 3M maintains rigorous preventative maintenance German Federal Environment Department, the new plant expects to begin 3M’s sustainable product and package offerings. Most suppliers indicated that they would be schedules to ensure proper operation and ongoing air pollution control operations by fall 2014. Once open, the pilot plant will recycle up to 500 interested in attending future 3M Supplier Expo events. effectiveness for VOCs, particulate matter and other air emissions. tons of PTFE production waste and “end of life plastics” (post-consumer PTFE) each year. “The sustainability expo was a great event and good opportunity to network with others relative In the future, 3M is looking to expand the use of alternative control technologies to sustainability. I am planning to follow up with some of the 3M Alliance partners, as well as see to reduce energy and natural resource usage of pollution control equipment, Until now, PTFE wastes had to either be incinerated for energy recovery or if more of our 3M labels can be produced with recyclable materials.” — Paul Amos, Building and while still providing required air pollution control efficiencies. Biological air required cost-intensive disposal in special landfills. With the new facility Commercial Services Division Marketing Manager pollution control systems are an innovative solution to control VOC emissions in Bavaria, however, they can be recycled for reuse in new manufacturing in certain 3M processes. In pilot and select full-scale installations, 3M has processes without any loss of quality. The Sustainable Supplier Expo served as a catalyst for sparking new sustainable material ideas that demonstrated its technology on appropriate air streams to reduce VOC will benefit 3M’s entire value chain. Experts estimate that during the processing of PTFE in Europe alone, up to emissions while significantly reducing operating costs, GHG emissions and 5,000 tons of PTFE waste are produced annually. The pilot plant in Bavaria eliminating natural gas usage. with its recycling capacity of 500 tons will save an estimated 2,500 tons of chlorine while eliminating 5,000 tons of CO2 emissions and 5,000 tons of Integrating Green Chemistry Initiatives waste acid. In addition to reducing environmental impacts, the plant will also To integrate more sustainable raw materials, select 3M divisions use the save valuable primary resources, such as fluorite. 12 Principles of Green Chemistry (developed by Paul Anastas, with the U.S. EPA, and John Warner, currently President of Warner Babcock Institute for All waste recycling, reuse, treatment and disposal practices are required to Green Chemistry), a holistic set of principles and framework for putting comply with applicable regulations and the 3M Disposal of Chemical Waste Green Chemistry into practice, as a tool for product development. Green Policy, including waste stream profiles, content identification and labeling. Chemistry is the design, development and implementation of chemical Waste management practices and technologies are required to be approved products and processes to reduce or eliminate the use and generation of where the emphasis is on using only the most environmentally safe and substances hazardous to human health and the environment. The products appropriate waste management practices available. and processes must be more environmentally benign, more economical and better performing than alternatives. 3M 2014 Sustainability Report | 113 114 | 3M 2014 Sustainability Report The principles can generally be grouped into four main categories: Hazard Reduction, Lower Impact Products & Processes, Resource Our Footprint Reduction & Conservation, and Use of Renewable Raw Materials. Operational Waste Impact 3M’s Material Resource Division, a major internal supplier for many materials within 3M, created a new product design tool that mandates in its division the evaluation of new chemistries and products against the 12 principles. These principles are as follows: Total Absolute Waste by Process Type Waste Recycling by Type (Nonhazardous and Hazardous-Metric Tons) (Metric Tons) 2010 2010 1. Prevent Waste Generation 7. Use of Renewable Feed Stocks 2011 2011 2. Atom Economy 8. Use of Most Direct Synthetic Route 2012 2012 3. Less Hazardous Chemical Syntheses 9. Catalysis 4. Designing Safer Chemicals 10. Design for Degradation 2013 2013 0 20,000 40,000 60,000 80,000 100,000 120,000 500,000 1,000,000 1,500,000 2,000,000 2,500,000 3,000,000 3,500,000 5. Safer Solvents and Auxiliaries 11. Real-Time Analysis for Pollution Prevention 6. Design for Energy Efficiency 12. Inherently Safer Chemistry for Accident Prevention 2010 2011 2012 2013 2010 2011 2012 2013 Treatment/Incineration 39,299 45,174 42,951 42,867 Onsite Recycle + Reuse* 850,133 766,118 728,035 719,637 Landfilled 96,478 92,832 93,648 100,997 Offsite Reuse* 1,972,152 1,868,424 1,423,300 1,788,981 Waste to Energy 40,486 40,781 42,098 45,185 Offsite Recycle 127,965 129,198 128,160 130,516 The Material Resource Division engages researchers and manufacturers at every stage of development to meet or exceed 3M’s * 98% of Off-site Reuse and 91% of Onsite Recycle+Reuse is from the production of roofing granules. 2015 Sustainability Goals waste reduction targets. Green Chemistry is now a formal part of all scale-up efforts, most notably in an assessment of new programs as they move through research to full-scale production. These assessments are documented to enable Total Waste Indexed to Net Sales Total WaSTe rapid implementation and broad application of Green Chemistry advancements, regardless of their origin. These efforts enable the (Metric Tons/Net Sales Million $USD) (Absolute Hazardous and Nonhazardous-Metric Tons) Material Resource Division to effectively introduce alternative sustainable options aligned with increasing regulatory trends and to 2010 2010 minimize costs as petroleum prices continue to rise, giving 3M a considerable advantage in raw materials pricing. 2011 2011 Goals & Results 2012 3M has been setting total waste reduction goals since 1990. Using 1990 as a base year, we’ve reduced our total waste by 68 percent 2012 (Indexed to Net Sales through 2013). A history of our waste reduction achievements are highlighted below. By continuing to improve 2013 our raw material usage globally, additional progress may be achieved despite continued growth. 2013 10,000 50,000 90,000 130,000 170,000 210,000 0 1.00 2.00 3.00 4.00 5.00 6.00 7.00 2010 2011 2012 2013 Total Hazardous Waste 42,316 41,253 39,663 38,865 Challenge ‘95 Program Year 2000 Goals Environmental Targets Environmental Targets Sustainability Goals 2010 2011 2012 2013 Waste Goal (ET’05) (ET’10) (Environmental Stewardship) Total Waste Indexed to Net Sales 6.60 6.04 5.98 6.12 Total Nonhazardous Waste 133,977 137,564 139,065 150,216 35% Reduction in 50% Reduction in 25% Reduction in 20% Reduction in 10% Reduction in Waste Waste Waste Waste Waste (Indexed to Net Sales) (Indexed to Net Sales) (Indexed to Net Sales) (Indexed to Net Sales) The increase in the total amount of waste in 2013 is due future direction for significant improvements in waste in large part to additional waste generation at two facilities; reduction are driven by product and process technology Total Waste 1990 1995 2000 2005 2010 2015 30% Reduction however, there are some general trends that are also impacting redesigns. These efforts require priority, resources and 36% Reduction 25% Reduction 19% Reduction 7% Reduction Indexed to Total Indexed to Net Sales Indexed to Net Sales Indexed to Net Sales Indexed to Net Sales the ability to meet our waste goal. Our current waste processing collaboration within our business, sales, marketing, Reduction Results Product Produced (through 2013) challenges include the following: engineering and laboratory groups, in addition to our supply chain and manufacturing functions. Total Reduction 1990-2013: 68% • Although we continue to gain benefit by continuous improvement at our manufacturing facilities through • 3M’s increase in the production of composite materials such incremental process improvements, our current and as multilayered films — which provide significant advantages 3M 2014 Sustainability Report | 115 116 | 3M 2014 Sustainability Report for our customers — pose a challenge in the ability to A Focus on Packaging U.S. Existing Package Design Waste Reductions sustainability reporting tool, and packaging improvement recycle the material using current technologies. 3M (Metric Tons) data on all items is tracked for 12 months. 3M has expanded Identifying solutions to minimize product packaging impacts 1,200 continues to explore options for recyclability. the process and tool set globally, and it will be able to track continues to be a raw material focus for 3M. 3M is committed 1,134 1,000 sustainability improvements worldwide starting in 2014. • The Green Fence Initiative in China enforces limitations to enabling 100 percent of its packaging to be environmentally 953 953 800 907 on materials imported and accepted for recycling in that sensible, responsibly sourced, and preferred by our internal and The chart below (U.S. only) provides packaging waste reduction country. This is resulting in more material, particularly external customers, while providing added value and an economic 600 volumes based on optimization improvement. The total recyclable plastics that must be processed domestically. advantage for 3M. 400 packaging waste savings is dependent on how many packaging Limited U.S. infrastructure has caused a reduced designs were optimized, the extent of the optimization and Our efforts are guided by key product packaging objectives: 200 demand for material recycling and a lower price for the volume of sales associated with the products. The annual material that could be recycled, making it a less viable • Cost-effective, practical, innovative material solutions 0 reduction targets are set and based on a realistic stretch for 2010 2011 2012 2013 option. through research, development, validation and sharing continuous improvement. They are projected and estimated Package Design Waste Reduction 981 848 1,126 1,187 based on relative known opportunity for optimization. VOC Emissions • Responsible design and sourcing, while maintaining in Metric Tons 3M’s commitment to managing and minimizing its VOC emissions performance Target 907 953 953 1,134 For additional information, including 3M’s Waste Management is demonstrated with continued results. 3M has had an external • Clear and scientifically based substantiated benefits Standard, view our sustainability policies and standards at VOC emission reduction goal since 1995, resulting in 98 percent www.3M.com/Sustainability. reduction in VOCs emitted indexed to net sales. 3M’s results • Regulatory compliance by 3M and suppliers • Diverse packaging requirements from marketing, have been driven by plant activities, control device installation manufacturing, supply chain, customers and and lab reformulations. 3M has a 15 percent reduction goal in • Continued leadership and collaboration internally and externally merchandising Water Quality place for 2015 and is on track to meet this goal. • Global materials and substantiation & Availability Improving Our Packaging Footprint • Different regulatory and industry requirements Overview Total Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs) The commitment to drive innovative, sustainable packaging Absolute: Thousand Metric Tons solutions occurs globally across all levels of packaging from • Waste stream and recycling infrastructure Water is the most valuable natural resource for life and thriving 2010 ecosystems; therefore, our planet’s consumption must be primary to intermediate, as well as shipper and transport levels. • Cost-effective and bio-material solutions 2011 The 3M global packaging team inspires and implements creative nurtured and thoughtfully managed. We recognize that reducing 2012 packaging designs that will function throughout the distribution • Infrastructure and administration of reusable packaging water consumption in our operations and improving water 2013 environment and enable products to arrive safely to the customer. quality are important elements of optimizing our environmental 4.8 5.0 5.2 5.4 5.6 5.8 6.0 6.2 Continuous Improvement for Existing Packaging stewardship. Quantitatively, the availability of water must 2010 2011 2012 2013 The global packaging team works with business partners to define One of 3M’s current primary packaging reduction metrics is meet the needs of current and future consumer demands. In Total VOCs 6.1 6.0 6.0 5.4 packaging strategies, ensure effectiveness and optimization for to reduce the weight of packaging, enabling waste reduction addition, water quality must comply with local regulations and use, and search for ways to continuously improve packaging in existing products. The weight savings data and sales be reliable in the long term. Total Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs) as business requirements or emerging technologies change or Indexed: Metrics Tons/ Net Sales (MM $USD) volume are compiled monthly to calculate actual metric tons improve. Packaging improvements may involve increasing the Water is an important component to the manufacturing and 2010 of material prevented from entering waste streams due to recycled content of the material, changing to a package that support systems of several of our products. Because of this, package structural design changes. 2011 users can recycle, integrating a renewable material or creating a 3M continues to actively understand, manage and work toward 2012 package that is reusable. Before a new package is implemented, it In addition to waste reduction, packaging metrics are recorded reducing our corporate water footprint while providing innovative 2013 receives a technical review and/or package ship test to ensure the for other types of improvements such as increasing the solutions to our customers. We respect our ecological and 0.00 0.05 0.10 0.15 0.20 0.25 new design will function throughout the supply chain. number of recycled and/or renewable package materials ethical responsibility and have a vested interest in preserving and implementing reusable packaging. The package design and improving water availability and quality relative to our 2010 2011 2012 2013 3M’s diversity of products and packaging in a variety of global improvements are entered into a 3M-developed packaging operations and the communities we serve. Indexed VOCs 0.23 0.20 0.20 0.17 markets offer both key challenges and opportunities that include: 3M 2014 Sustainability Report | 117 118 | 3M 2014 Sustainability Report Our Approach Each 3M site located in a water-stressed area is requested Total Water Use (Absolute) Total Water Use (indexed) to understand its water use, associated business risks and Million Cubic Meters Million Cubic Meters/ Net Sales (MM $USD) 3M’s Water Management Standard provides a company-wide impacts and to work with local water resources to understand 2010 2010 framework, including both general and specific elements for potential impacts on the surrounding area. Identified sites are water management. The standard requires 3M operations 2011 2011 also requested to develop a water conservation plan outlining to manage their water resources through understanding the 2012 2012 current and future water conservation efforts. Annual stressbalance of water use, compliance with regulatory requirements, level screening evaluations are conducted for global operations 2013 2013 systematic and prioritized conservation practices, and reporting using available updates from the WBCSD Global Water Tool, 40 41 42 43 44 usage. Water resources include water intake, effluent water 0.0013 0.0014 0.0015 0.0016 0.0017 an analysis of site operations and water usage and local discharge and rainwater. 2010 2011 2012 2013 2010 2011 2012 2013 conditions. Total Water Use 42.98 41.13 43.51 43.18 Indexed Water Use 0.0016 0.0014 0.0015 0.0014 To inventory, track and understand water use in our operations Water conservation planning is a continuous improvement for improved efficiency, 3M sites are required to report water process. In 2013, a majority of the identified sites have water data quarterly into a corporate tracking system. Additional Further understanding of where water is originally sourced for our operations; therefore, we continue to improve our data conservation plans in place and water efficiency improvement water source, use and discharge information is collected and use in our operations provides insight into our potential impacts accuracy through monitoring and measurement. projects in progress. We continue to work with remaining sites provided through an annual assessment and survey process. within local watersheds. In 2013, based on 3M’s detailed to develop plans and understand potential local impacts. Water conservation efforts have been achieved through Aggregated data is evaluated to determine our progress and water assessment and survey across sites, results indicate identify opportunities for increased efficiency in higher-use recycling, reuse, and improvements to our buildings and Future Water Goals that 63 percent of water is sourced from groundwater sources, focus areas. manufacturing processes. A majority of our water-intense With an eye on our footprint and the strength of our technologies 35 percent is sourced from surface water sources, and the manufacturing operations are located in the U.S. and Europe, and collaboration, we acknowledge we can continue to make remaining is from surface water and externally recycled sources. Goals & Results Results also indicate a majority of 3M water use in operations in areas that are not water-stressed or water-scarce. However, a difference in water availability and quality around the world. they also contribute significantly to our conservation efforts. Understanding Local Water Use & Stress 3M is in the process of evaluating future water goals relative is for processing products in manufacturing and heating or To further mitigate water risks and focus where water is As the Company continues to grow globally, thoughtful to our operations, our products, and our collaboration with our cooling of those processes and associated operations. We scarce and/or stressed, 3M’s Corporate Operating Committee consideration is placed on the type of operations and availability communities and other stakeholders. estimate that approximately 37 percent of the total water used endorsed a water conservation goal as part of the Company’s of water sources. is also recycled or reused for secondary use within operations 2015 Sustainability Goals. The goal is focused on water Our Footprint in 2013. We believe this data is extremely conservative given For more information about 3M’s Water Management Standard, conservation planning, as well as reduction efforts where water visit www.3M.com/Sustainability. Understanding our full supply chain water footprint is important. scarcity and stress exists for 3M operations. We know that today, 3M manufacturing sites account for 2013 Water Source 2013 Water by Use Type 3M uses the definitions and tools established by the World a majority of 3M’s Environmental Operational Footprint. Absolute: (Million Cubic Meters) Absolute: (Million Cubic Meters) Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) to 3M estimates an additional 4 percent of water use from 0.2% screen the Company’s various site locations and their affiliated nonmanufacturing sites, including laboratories, distribution 34.7% 1.2% water use with validated WBCSD water availability, population centers and office facilities. The water data provided below 6.7% and biodiversity information both on a country and watershed includes manufacturing sites that produce more than 4.50 basis. 3M has identified 24 sites located in water-stressed metric tons (10,000 lbs) of product (97 percent of SVOP). 63.2% 62.3% areas as defined by the Mean Annual Relative Water Stress Although 3M does not currently have a quantitative water Index (WBCSD-Global Water Tool). The identified sites have 0.7% goal, as our business continues to grow, conservation efforts potential medium to high local water risks, and they use water 1.4% 29.6% indicate an 11.9 percent decrease in absolute water use and for sanitary and process operations that is equal to or greater a 39.6 percent decrease in water use globally from 2005 to than 1,000 cubic meters annually. % Groundwater (27.3) % Stormwater (0.3) Heating/Cooling (26.9) Remediation (0.1) Other (0.5) 2013 (indexed to net sales). % Recycled/Reclaimed from External Sources (0.6) % Surface Water (15) Sanitary (2.9) Process Water (12.8) 3M 2014 Sustainability Report | 119 120 | 3M 2014 Sustainability Report Responsible We also selectively review supplier performance relative to these policies. When noncompliance is detected, 3M will 3M has implemented many compliance programs related to material composition and origin. The latest programs address needed. The assessment program has independent oversight from the 3M EHS Advisory Committee. Customer or general Sourcing attempt to work with the supplier to correct the situation. legally harvested plant materials and U.S. SEC disclosure public concerns can be brought to 3M’s attention via phone or We expect the supplier to develop a corrective action plan to rules regarding the mineral origin of tin, tantalum, tungsten website, with contact information available online. Overview bring its operations into compliance, and if a supplier does not or gold (3TG) in our products (see the Ensuring Supply Chain As part of 3M’s Sourcing Sustainability Standard, we set develop such a plan or fails to implement it, 3M will move to Compliance section of this document for additional information). Goals & Progress expectations for suppliers through our Supply Chain Policies. terminate the business relationship. More than 3,200 self-assessments or on-site audits of suppliers These policies apply to the selection and retention of all suppliers that provide goods and services to 3M worldwide, Approach Assessing Supplier have been conducted in prioritized countries, including China, India, Korea, Malaysia, Taiwan, Thailand, Brazil, Mexico, Russia and pertain to the areas of environmental, health and safety (EHS); transportation; labor and human resources; and supplied 3M communicates its sustainability expectations to suppliers Performance and Turkey over the past seven years. Suppliers reviewed in the through contract clauses, specifications and links to 3M’s last three years represent 80 percent of 3M’s 2013 spend in materials. website, and in direct business meetings. Improving energy Overview & Approach the listed countries. All 3M suppliers are expected to comply with applicable laws, efficiency and reducing waste are common supplier meeting 3M periodically monitors supplier performance against its and those expectations are embedded in 3M contract and agenda items. policy expectations. Assessing that performance is challenging Supplier Reviews purchase order terms. In addition, our supply chain policies because of 3M’s many thousands of suppliers and complex In addition, 3M employees who have responsibility for sourcing establish a framework that 3M considers important for: global supply chains. 3M has implemented a risk-based 3000 suppliers and managing supplier relationships receive supplier assessment process to help assure that its suppliers • Safe and healthy workplaces training on all aspects of supply chain sustainability, including 2000 meet expectations: slavery and human trafficking prohibitions. Most recently • Maintenance of fair and reasonable labor and human 1000 3M has provided training on understanding and managing • Suppliers are ranked using a prioritization matrix tool. resource practices, including the prohibition of slavery environmental preference factors in supplier selection. 0 and human trafficking • The matrix takes into account country, type of operations 2010 2011 2012 2013 We use product responsibility databases and tools to better and annual 3M purchases. Cumulative number of supplier reviews • Management of manufacturing and distribution manage environmental and health and safety information operations to minimize adverse environmental impact • Prioritized suppliers may be asked to complete a selfrelated to 3M products. We’ve undertaken extensive efforts Most suppliers met 3M’s expectations, and those requiring and compliance with material content and origin laws assessment survey (SAS). with 3M suppliers to gather product composition and origin improvement were given specific corrective action in order 3M expects suppliers to establish programs that are consistent information and other EHS data to ensure compliance with • The SAS is used to understand supplier programs and to retain 3M business. Suppliers with corrective action must with those policies. applicable laws wherever 3M does business. whether they meet the intent of 3M policies. pass a 3M requalification assessment after completing the necessary steps. • An on-site audit may be conducted. The most common audit findings pertain to machine guarding, • If any deficiencies are identified during an on-site visit, a human resource documentation and pay controls. Most Engaging correction plan is developed. suppliers work very quickly to address any 3M findings. Those • 3M conducts follow-up audits or other communications suppliers unwilling or unable to take the necessary corrective to assure that deficiencies are corrected. action in a timely manner have been terminated by 3M. The supplier audit process covers EHS practices and training, In addition to existing suppliers, many potential suppliers Our general working conditions, emergency response procedures, have been evaluated using the assessment tools. Several and hazardous materials management, including transportation 3M businesses have incorporated supplier EHS and labor protocols and employment practices. 3M staff typically conduct considerations into life-cycle management reviews and have Suppliers on-site audits, but 3M may use third-party audit firms as independently performed assessments of key suppliers. 122 | 3M 2014 Sustainability Report Ensuring Supply-Chain Embracing Supplier Diversity “On the basis of the • For existing relevant suppliers, we have implemented a Compliance prioritized supplier inquiry and verification process. in Germany methodology described and For more than 30 years, the review performed, we are Overview • Requirements are embedded in our supply chain policy 3M has partnered with and expectations for new and existing suppliers. In August 2012, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Werkstatt für Menschen satisfied that the 3M Supplier Commission (SEC) adopted a rule mandated by mit Behinderung (WfB), • We establish compliance language in supplier contracts, Sustainability Standard Audit the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer purchase orders and material specifications as a sheltered workshop, Protection Act to require companies, beginning in 2014, as a service provider Program verified is robust and appropriate. for 3M’s European to publicly disclose their use of conflict minerals (tin, effective for the evaluation of tantalum, tungsten and gold, commonly referred to as • We develop our own policies to address the challenge Distribution Center in Jüchen, Germany. About 30 represented by the compliance initiatives. For example, people with disabilities from WfB work as fully integrated the supply chain sustainability 3TG) originating in the Democratic Republic of Congo in 2013, 3M adopted a paper sourcing policy that members of the team at 3M’s Jüchen warehouse. or a neighboring country. 3TGs are necessary to the risk.” functionality or production of some of the products that defines 3M’s commitment to the responsible sourcing With the support of two group leaders, the team is of paper. 3M manufactures or contracts to manufacture. For engaged in customization and packaging activities, and is – SGS North America Inc., more information, including a link to our SEC Form SD committed to having fun in the workplace, which enriches May 15, 2013 filing, see 3M’s Working with Suppliers webpage. Supplier Initiatives & Partnerships the work atmosphere for all employees at the warehouse. 3M strives to engage in a variety of initiatives that aim for a Due to the high quality and reliability of the WfB teams, Over the past several years, regulations addressing positive impact for our company, our supply chain and the 3M has awarded them several 3M Supplier Awards over the harvesting of timber and other plant materials communities where we live and work. Some examples of the years. In May 2013, 3M arranged for an independent assurance of have been established in a variety of countries. Among supplier initiatives and partnerships with organizations to our supplier audit process. SGS North America, an industrythese are the Lacey Act in the U.S., the European Union influence supply chain-related issues are provided here. leading program verification service validated the effectiveness Timber Regulation and the Australia Illegal Logging of the process methodology through a review of key documents, Prohibition Act. Although the specific compliance Supporting Conflict-Free Sourcing Initiatives interviews with relevant employees and validation with an requirements vary, in general, companies like 3M that 3M is a member of the Conflict-Free Sourcing Initiative external supplier. use paper or other plant-based materials in products or (CFSI), an organization established by the Electronic Industry Driving Supply-Chain Sustainability Although SGS validated that our program for evaluating manufacturing must demonstrate “due care” that these Citizenship Coalition and Global e-Sustainability Initiative (EICCIn 2013, 3M co-led the Global Environmental Management supply chain sustainability risk is robust and effective, we are materials were obtained in a legal manner. GeSI), which develops tools and guidance for companies on Initiative (GEMI) Supply Chain Work Group, which began always looking for ways to advance this work and extend 3M’s conflict minerals. In 2013, 3M was active in CFSI development development of a new Supply Chain Sustainability (SCS) Tool. sustainability initiatives within our sphere of influence. The UN Approach of the industry white paper titled Reasonable Practices to The GEMI SCS Tool will provide much-needed insight and Global Compact Principles will serve as a common framework In order to comply with supply chain requirements like Identify Sources of Conflict Minerals: A Practical Guide for support for both sustainability and purchasing professionals by to guide our sustainability efforts with suppliers. those described above, 3M engages in many initiatives: Downstream Companies. linking market-oriented sustainability claims, economic inputoutput and life-cycle assessment (LCA) results, and supply CFSI also develops standards for assessing smelters and chain sustainability performance metrics. The tool will take refiners to determine if processed materials originated from 3M Health & Safety Family Alliance conflict-free sources. During the past year, 3M contributed advantage of a top-down “hotspot” approach and bottom-up “attributional LCA” approach to prioritize environmental aspects 3M Taiwan established the 3M Health & Safety Family alliance in 2013. This alliance brings together local suppliers, to the CFSI audit. The fund supports responsible minerals within a firm’s supply chain while assessing the most relevant vendors and contractors to advance Environmental, Health and Safety knowledge and performance for all participants. sourcing and conflict-free compliance by providing financial improvement opportunities for commonly purchased products. 3M hosted over 50 attendees from 16 firms at our Yangmei facility. This effort was recognized by the Taoyuan County assistance to smelters for first-year independent audits under government with a ceremony of certification as a Core Health and Safety Family, and 3M Yangmei was recognized as one the Conflict Free Smelter (CFS) Assessment Program, in order For additional information about 3M suppliers, please visit of the Outstanding Health and Safety Organizations in Taiwan by the Taiwan Council of Labor Affairs. to certify conflict-free status. www.3M.com/Suppliers. 3M 2014 Sustainability Report | 123 124 | 3M 2014 Sustainability Report Collaborating With Our of investments), Community (40 percent of investments) and Environment (15 percent of investments). corporate giving programs that benefit education, social services or the environment. • Advance teaching and learning in science, Engineering and business. Communities 3Mgives has enhanced partnerships with 3M businesses 3M is not only a company that creates; it is a company that • Build connections with K–12 education to help Overview to create shared value for the Company and community. cares, improving lives each day. In 2013, 3M awarded more students prepare for college and to provide professional than $60 million to nonprofit organizations. These global development for teachers. 3M works hard to create a better world for everyone, and our We increased communication about the program’s donations were bolstered by many thousands of employee and sustainability approach revolves around philanthropy within results, sharing best practices across 3M and with other Youth Development Focus: retiree volunteers serving hundreds of thousands of hours. global communities. We team with a variety of organizations to companies. gain diverse viewpoints on sustainability, a better understanding • Lower the high school dropout rate by preparing kids for of our stakeholders’ positions and a mechanism to learn from We established the Global 3M Women’s Leadership Quality Education For Every Child from kindergarten, supporting quality out-of-school programs Forum to drive global initiatives impacting the inclusion Cradle to Career and engaging students in STEM disciplines. the successes and failures of our peers. and advancement of women around the world. For 60 years, 3Mgiving has furthered STEM (Science, Impacting Lives Through 3Mgives Technology, Engineering and Math) and Economics education by • Promote youth development through preventive In June 2013, the 3M Foundation Board approved a new We integrated 3M Employee Resource Networks into making investments in nonprofit, school and district initiatives. programs and quality out-of-school programs. strategic plan for global philanthropy to support educational, 3Mgives to advance diversity, inclusion and business Success in these disciplines opens doors to higher education • Advance school readiness in early childhood programs. community and environmental giving while aligning with 3M growth opportunities across internal and external and future careers in current and emerging industries. 3M also business drivers, such as innovation, portfolio management activities. invests in quality programs for youths ages 0–21 that lead to Engaging Locally and business transformation. A Global Advisory Committee personal responsibility, school success, high school graduation, The collaboration, discussions and interactions 3M has with was formed to inform and influence the strategy, drive internal Approach college readiness, post-secondary education and employment. its corporate, regional and local stakeholders strengthen the coordination and collaboration, as well as to leverage cash, 3M decentralizes global community giving and involvement so The education programs we support reach over 7.6 million kids company’s connection to the community, help address local product and volunteer time giving. our subsidiaries in each country can develop and administer each year. challenges and build on relevant capabilities. programs consistent with both the 3Mgives strategy and local Key accomplishments include the following: To advance education, 3M supports teachers and students As part of 3M’s 2015 Sustainability Goal to develop stakeholder cultures. For example, in the United States, 17 Community through grants and volunteerism, helping them understand engagement plans, we began work in 2013 to enhance the We rebranded the program as 3Mgives to make it more Relations Councils develop regional strategies and direct local their roles in the global economy and the implications of local and regional stakeholder engagement process to further contemporary and engaging for stakeholders. charitable giving. personal and public policy decisions. align with corporate strategic focus areas. Approximately We refocused giving priorities from five areas to three, Since 1953, 3M and the 3M Foundation have invested over 115 prioritized manufacturing facilities around the world have 3M K–12 Focus: with the objective of making larger strategic investments $1.3 billion in cash and product in 3M communities around completed a stakeholder engagement plan. A framework that producing measureable outcomes. the world. Significant international contributions add to this • Spark student achievement in STEM and economics. enables continuous progress and prioritization was developed total. Today, Belgium, Spain, Italy and Brazil maintain their own with these key features: Our giving targets now focus on Education (45 percent • Increase student readiness and access to postfoundations, and all other international subsidiaries manage secondary education. • Local Stakeholder Identification and Mapping Collaborating • Make learning relevant by making connections with • Local Sustainability Materiality Assessment and Alignment everyday life and future careers. Prioritization • Engage employees and retirees as volunteers. • Partnerships and Planning With Our 3M Higher Education Focus: • Impact Measurement for Engagement Effectiveness • Retain and graduate students pursuing careers • Reporting and Communications in science, engineering and business, especially Communities underrepresented groups. 3M is piloting this new framework and will implement it globally in the near future. 126 | 3M 2014 Sustainability Report Our Employees Care TECH (Technical Teams Encouraging Career Horizons) 18 years in 2013 with a total 64 homes built and Our employees have created many volunteer programs still going motivate students with classroom science experiments, STEM career days and student mentoring. substantial work on 92 more homes. 2013 United Way Spirit of strong since 1973. We encourage volunteerism to enhance the quality of life in our communities, to share information • Board service. More than 200 employees and retirees • 3M Sales Force for the Kids. A clever sales force program for volunteering at local Boys & Girls America Award about community needs and volunteer opportunities, and to serve on nonprofit boards to share leadership, financial, Clubs provides a way for 3M sales employees, For its philanthropy, volunteer recognize the sharing of time and talents to make a difference. marketing, technical and legal skills. who typically work from home and find it harder engagement and community impact, Employees can participate in a variety of ways: to participate in corporate volunteer programs, to 3M earned the 2013 United Way • Child and student law. 3M Legal pro bono work includes give back. Spirit of America Award, United Way • Volunteer service on nonprofit boards or community partnerships with the Children’s Law Center of Minnesota Worldwide’s highest national honor. projects and Southern Minnesota Regional Legal Services. Work • Science encouragement. With engaging science We were recognized for setting the has led to clarification on all Minnesota students’ rights. experiments, 3M Visiting Wizards spark kids’ standard for improving educational • Service on 3M advisory committees that shape funding excitement about how science affects their lives. outcomes and creating more priorities and assist with grant reviews • Computer experts. 3M’s social media, marketing and sustainable communities. e-Transformation experts help with projects such as • Science training. 3M Science Training • 3Mgives Volunteer Match, which contributes to nonprofit inner-city school websites. Encouragement Program (STEP) mentors coach • 3M raised $8.5 million for 109 communities organizations where employees volunteer at least 20 students in science fields and offer summer jobs nationwide through its 3Mgives Campaign in hours per year and retirees volunteer at least 25 hours Senior Leadership Involvement: Executives at for real-life experience. partnership with United Way. In addition, employees per year all Levels Lead With Personal Commitment volunteered approximately 200,000 total hours. • 3Mgives College and University Match throughout the • Side by side. Senior leaders volunteer alongside other Goals & Results Globally, 33 3M employees serve on United Way year, with special matches for hunger relief and the employees at sponsor events during the United Way Contributions from 3M and 3M Foundation support boards in the U.S., as well as in Brazil, Chile, environment campaign. education, community and environmental organizations Argentina, Colombia and China • Leading by example. Many Vice Presidents, General that meet the following requirements: • 3Mgives Volunteer Award for outstanding volunteer • Education programs that 3M supports reach more service Managers and Operating Committee members lead by • Are established, well-managed nonprofit groups than 7.6 million young people each year. Programs example, volunteering year-round. classified as charitable organizations for tax include sponsorship of FIRST Lego and Robotics Skills-Based Volunteering: Technical & Business • Championing causes. Senior leaders serve as champions purposes and are located in, or within programs teams; Sparticl, a science-learning site for teens; Assistance for Collaborative Solutions for volunteer programs. that serve, 3M communities science fairs; and support of Generation Next, • Finance workshops. Workshops by Finance volunteers a community collaboration in our headquarters help nonprofits with budgeting, ROI, cash flow and long• Rallying the troops. Our CEO and Senior Vice President • Provide broad-based community support with a to help close the achievement gap among lowterm financial metrics. rally volunteers and present annual 3Mgives Volunteer reputation for high-quality service delivery and income students. Thousands of 3M employees, Awards. measurable results including 1500 through the 3M/St. Paul Public • Optimized production. 3M engineering experts use • Develop close relationships with community School Partnership, volunteer nationwide to support optimized lean production and warehouse layouts to • Board visibility. 3M leaders serve on nonprofit boards members to identify changing needs education. help Food Banks operate more efficiently and collect, and committees. warehouse and distribute food. • Maintain strategic partnerships with 3M Innovative Practices: Tapping Into 3M businesses that advance corporate and • Loving math. 3Mers across the country coach Innovation for Community Solutions MathCounts and FIRST® Robotics teams at local community interests, such as investing in the • 3Mgvies Alumni Volunteer new Store-to-Door program schools. future workforce helps seniors remain independent by taking grocery • Science encouragement. 3M Visiting Wizards, 3M STEP store phone orders shopping for groceries and clipping • Build the 3M brand and provide opportunities for (Science Training Encouragement Program) and 3M coupons. 3Mgives Alumni Habitat for Humanity marked employee engagement 3M 2014 Sustainability Report | 127 128 | 3M 2014 Sustainability Report 2013 Giving Results Our Collaboration Impact 2013 Total Global Giving by Focus Area Volunteer Giving Area Cash In-Kind Total % Hours Sparticl: Making Science Education $14,194,008 $12,148,628 $26,342,636 43% 46,978 Fun for Teens Community $14,098,422 $18,514,456 $32,612,878 53% 202,388 What makes science fun and relevant to teens, parents and teachers? That was the question 3M and Twin Cities Public Television answered with the launch of Sparticl, a science website for Environment $1,994,809 $656,758 $2,651,567 4% 4,746 teens that meets them where they are: online. Sparticl provides homework help and answers everyday science questions, engaging students through videos, games and sharing. Parents and teachers appreciate Sparticl’s thoughtful design, and quality content that is safe and easy Total Giving $30,287,239 $31,319,842 $61,607,081 100% 254,112 to access. Developed by Twin Cities Public Television and sponsored by 3M, Sparticl is free to viewers of all ages and brings together the best science content, video and games online, framing them by 3M’s decentralized community giving information outside of the US is collected through a manual, self-reporting process rather than topic areas that align with teen interests. Sparticl is accessible by computer or mobile device. through traditional accounting systems due to the complex nature of giving. An internal reporting database accessible to all countries Here’s what one teen has to say: has been developed for 3Mgives data reporting. As of year-end 2013, 27 countries with charitable investment giving programs reported their data highlighting the additional giving in 2013 globally. “From now on, I’ll definitely go on there and look for anything I need to research because it’s harder to go out on like Google, for instance, and choose. You have all these options and thousands and thousands of hits for each category, but it is hard 2013 Total Global Giving by Region to determine which ones are good. And so Sparticl has simplified the process and it says, okay, here are 10 articles on dog comprehension or something like that, and Charitable Charitable In-Kind Product Total Donations they have 10 articles on that specific category and you can choose from those 10 Region Corporate Cash Foundation Cash Donations ($USD ($USD) and you know all of them are reliable, and they provide really detailed and specific Donations ($USD) Donations ($USD) Fair Market Value) information and they are useful. They are not just any old site, they have selected United States $6,200,000 $21,204,597 $30,643,803 $58,048,400 really high-quality ones.” Asia Pacific $188,759 $602 $196,394 $385,756 Sparticl launched October 1, 2014, and six Europe $407,387 $158 $217,166 $624,711 months later there were over 250,000 visitors from 90 countries around the world using the Latin America $828,257 $333,485 $42,679 $1,204,421 site with new visitors each day. Super users can join Sparticl and access other features Middle East / Africa $6,300 – $4,800 $11,100 including avatars and sharing with friends. Canada $1,117,693 – $215,000 $1,332,693 Total Global $8,748,396 $21,538,843 $21,538,842.52 $61,607,081 Giving 3M 2014 Sustainability Report | 129 130 | 3M 2014 Sustainability Report 3M Brazil Institute: Formare Providing Healthy Smiles for School Collaborates With Children in Argentina Iochpe Foundation to Foster Healthy The Sonríe program was developed by 3M Argentina in 2012 to facilitate oral care and Safe Communities Through Youth access to children ages 3–10. Oral diseases are the main cause of school absences Development among low-resources populations in Argentina, so 3M established the program with support from Fundación Caminando Juntos (United Way Argentina) and in collaboration The 3M Brazil Institute and Iochpe Foundation-Formare Professional with Buenos Aires University’s (UBA) Odontology School and Tigre’s municipality, Education Program partnered to develop a program for young students targeting two schools in neighborhoods where visits to the dentist are infrequent. seeking vocational training to join the workforce in their communities. Students and teachers from UBA’s Odontology School developed a system that allows The Formare project began in August 2013 to offer professional oral care inside the school through 3M’s PRAT technique, a noninvasive technology for education courses for youths ages 17–18 from low-income families. treating and healing cavities. Different from conventional treatment, PRAT is not painful, 3M Institute administers classes and coordinates the program, which does not need local anesthesia nor expensive electrical equipment, and reduces treatment time and costs. is hosted at the 3M Sumaré and Manaus sites. The courses, which last approximately seven months, help youths develop careers and prepare In addition to providing medical care and treatment, the Sonríe program includes special classes to instill positive oral care behavior, such as the importance of themselves for the job market. The production assistance coursework, brushing teeth, flossing and visiting the dentist regularly. which is certified by the Ministry of Education, includes 600 hours of In 2013, more than 150 children benefited directly from oral care thanks to Sonríe, and for many children it was their first visit with a dentist. 3M Argentina is theoretical and practical classes and is divided into basic, intermediate currently looking to scale the program to additional schools. and advanced modules. In the advanced session, students participate in professional practice, where they take what they’ve learned outside the walls of a classroom. This unique partnership enables and prepares underprivileged youths with an opportunity to advance their skills and contribute to healthier, safer communities. In 2013, 15 3M volunteers contributed their time and talent to help 20 students complete the coursework and advance their skills. Improving Water Quality & Wildlife Habitat Through Education and Research In late 2013, 3M provided a $49,996 grant to the Catawba Science Center in Hickory, North Carolina, for the organization to establish an ecological study of the upper section of the Catawba River basin. The project, which launched in January 2014, will engage local teachers and students in studying the stressors of water quality and ecosystems. As part of the study, the Catawba Science Center will outfit six great blue herons with special, solar-powered Global Positioning Systems (GPS). Students from local schools will adopt the birds and monitor each heron and its habitat, and they’ll learn about a variety of subjects along the way, including renewable energy, satellite tracking, geo-location, and mapping and triangulation as they follow the journey of their heron. Additional technology will be used for water quality sampling, data analysis, recording of water quality and invertebrate studies as they map their heron’s habitat. 3M 2014 Sustainability Report | 131 132 | 3M 2014 Sustainability Report Partnering to Conserve Natural Resources, Create Partnering to Drive Improved Workplace Safety and Skills Jobs, and Reduce Greenhouse Gas Emissions WorldSkills International is a nonprofit membership association open to companies and organizations that promote vocational education and training in their respective countries or regions. It is dedicated to achieving higher standards The 3M Foundation is helping and status for vocational education and training on a worldwide basis. The Nature Conservancy take on conservation priorities 3M’s Global involvement with WorldSkills began in 2011, when the Company became a global industry partner in Northern Australia by benefitting from a unique opportunity to work alongside 50-plus member countries committed to sustainable growth. It supporting its work on the provides a forum for 3M to engage and influence workforce safety, best practices and 457,000 acre Fish River skills enhancements within a multitude of vocational skills areas — from welding to Station. This property, which floristry to automotive repair to catering. contains rare mammals, also 3M has a strong sponsorship presence at WorldSkills local, regional and global events encompasses the important through in-kind donations such as welding shields, respirator marks, hearing protectors floodplains of the Daly River, and more. The Company will support the next Global Competition in Sao Paulo in 2015. species and resources we must nurture to maintain biodiversity. Since 2010, the Conservancy has worked with indigenous rangers and other partners to remove more than 2,500 feral animals from the property, reduce wildfires and abate more than 40,000 tons of potential greenhouse gas emissions through the overall project management. The Fish River Station program serves as a model for other indigenous-run conservation programs across Northern Australia. Providing Safe, Renewable Energy Sources in Kenya The 3M Foundation and The Nature Conservancy also launched a program so indigenous people in For children around the world living in extreme poverty, the day ends when the sun sets. And with it, a chance for education. In the Kibera Australia can earn carbon credits by reducing greenhouse gas emissions on their land. The community section of Nairobi, Kenya, every daylight hour is spent fighting for survival and collecting firewood, drinkable water and food. Education can then sell earned credits to people and businesses wishing to offset their emissions. provides a way out, but with no access to electricity, studying after sundown is impossible. Ruston Seaman, President and Tangible Impact: The Indigenous Land Corporation sold the first indigenous-produced Australian Carbon CEO of New Vision Renewable Energy, had a plan to permanently Credit Units last year and earned $517,000 for ongoing conservation management. The carbon credits improve the lives of people living off the grid. He used his will finance ongoing conservation work on their lands, helping to simultaneously stop deadly wildfires, renewable energy expertise to design a lamp that would be solarreduce greenhouse gas emissions and provide jobs for indigenous people. powered, easily assembled and cheaply made. There was only one problem: It wasn’t bright enough. Seaman collaborated with 3M’s renewable energy division to identify a 3M reflective film that would improve the lamp’s performance. 3Mgives donated enough Solar Mirror Film for 44,000 lamps, giving Seaman the power to help 44,000 families living in darkness. The solarpowered lamps created a lasting sustainable change in people’s lives, freeing families from the hazards and costs of using kerosene fuel. Parents feel safer at night, and children can finally pursue their studies. It’s light that will last for lifetimes. 3M 2014 Sustainability Report | 133 134 | 3M 2014 Sustainability Report Featured Awards for 2013 including the Sustained Excellence Award from the EPA. To make the list, companies must perform well in both sustainability performance and perception. • For an industry-leading tenth consecutive year, 3M earned the U.S. • 3M was recognized as one of Environmental Protection Agency’s America’s most communityENERGY STAR® Partner of the minded companies in “The Civic • 3M ranked No. 5 on Booz & Year-Sustained Excellence Award 50,” an annual survey that identifies Company’s Global Innovation 1000 for its comprehensive worldwide and recognizes companies for their study’s survey ranking of the 10 energy conservation efforts. No other commitment to improve the quality most innovative companies. Booz company has achieved this distinction of life in the communities where they & Company, a global management for that many consecutive years or as do business. 3M ranked fourth in the consulting firm, surveyed nearly 400 many as ten times. “materials” category. Developed by the innovation leaders from companies National Conference on Citizenship, worldwide to determine which Points of Light and Bloomberg, the companies are seen as the most survey measures civic engagement innovative. The study again found programs of S&P 500 companies that higher R&D spending doesn’t based on five factors: organizational guarantee better payoffs. The 10 most • 3M has been included in the Dow innovative companies identified by the commitment; strategic investment; Jones Sustainability Index every 2013 study financially outperformed business integration; fostering civic year since the inception of the Index the world’s top 10 spenders, despite culture; and measuring impact in 1999 (14 years). We have achieved actually spending less on R&D. 3M’s continued focus on innovation combined with enthusiasm, creativity, passion and hard work is creating a stronger this by consistently being one of the company. These qualities are continually validated in the external recognition that 3M receives. This reinforces 3M’s leading companies in the Industrial reputation as a diversified technology company that continually strives to provide innovative and practical solutions while Conglomerates sector. The Dow Jones maintaining a commitment to sustainability. For a complete list of 3M awards, visit our website. Sustainability Index (DJSI) family is derived from and fully integrated with the Dow Jones Global Total Stock Market Index (DJGI). The top 10% of the • 3M ranked No. 24 on Interbrand’s • Top Companies for Leaders They share the same methodology for Sustainability 2013 Best Global Green Brands list sponsored by the Hay Group, Best calculating, reviewing and publishing of companies. Brand consultancy Companies for Leaders led by the indexes. Members included in the firm Interbrand commended 3M for its Hewitt and Associates, and 3M index represent the 10 percent of the sustainability goals and performance, ranked in the top 10 on the 2013 Best leading sustainability companies of the for making sustainability central to Companies for Leaders, conducted by Awards largest 2,500 companies in the DJGI all its business activities, and for the the Chally Group for CEO Magazine. across multiple industry groups and numerous awards it garnered in 2013, geographies. 136 | 3M 2014 Sustainability Report Report Scope & Data Collection, • Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS) Data: The EHS data in this report is related to release to the environmental progress we report publically is not unduly influenced by changes to our organizational structure. However, Boundaries Adjustments & the environment, safety performance, management in the case of our greenhouse gas emissions data, 3M follows systems implementation and regulatory compliance. the World Resource Institute and World Business Council for Report Schedule & Period Verification Data collection systems are in place at applicable sites to Sustainable Development GHG Protocol. Consequently, we Current Issue: May 23, 2014 The data provided in this report through facts and figures track and collect environmental, health and safety data readjust our greenhouse gas emissions base-year data in the Next Issue: Scheduled for May 2015 is based on activities during 3M’s fiscal year 2013. For through the corporate-wide EHS reporting systems (e.g., case of business acquisitions and divestitures. some performance indicators, previous year’s data is Environmental Targets Database, Worldwide Incident Previous Issue: May 31, 2013 In every case, 3M adjusts base-year and other years’ data if provided to allow for annual comparisons. Management System). * Prior to 2010, 3M’s Sustainability Report was a fully data collection methods change or data errors are identified. integrated website. Therefore, copies prior to 2009 are not • Social Data: The data related to employee metrics , Any significant changes in the measurement methods and/or Report Data Collection social practices, and community programs has been data values applied to key environmental metrics from previous available. Due to the size and geographical extent of our operations, derived from various databases from within the Human years are documented within the report. Significant changes This report provides a summary of the activities in fiscal it is at times difficult to obtain all data points. Therefore, to Resources and 3Mgives organizations. This data are defined by 3M’s Sustainability Report as changes greater year 2013 (January 1, 2013, to December 31, 2013). the extent possible, limitations and assumptions are stated has been reviewed and verified by the departments than 5 percent of the original data point. as information in the report. The data reported in this responsible for maintaining the internal reporting Organizational Boundaries report has been reviewed for accuracy and completeness, systems. In 2013, 3M identified and corrected data entry errors This report covers 3M’s owned manufacturing facilities including the reliability of the systems used to obtain the regarding our detailed water source and recycling metrics. Water and leased facilities worldwide, including joint ventures (if data. Corporate staff have also verified the implementation Sites acquired by 3M are integrated into 3M programs and percentages were reversed for water sourced from surface greater than 50 percent 3M ownership) and partially owned of policies and management systems through audits and reporting systems via a prioritized functional integration water and recycled external sources. Total water recycled was subsidiaries (if greater than 50 percent 3M ownership) where self-reporting systems. schedule. Timeframe for integration varies depending on also entered incorrectly. The correct percentages in 2012 were 3M has full operational control. Acquisitions are included in subject matter reporting requirements and site systems prior as follows: Total water recycled (36.6%), Water sourced from • Financial Data: Financial information referenced in data sets once legally owned and fully integrated onto 3M to being acquired; however, on average integration ranges surface water (0.1%) and Water sourced from recycled external this report is collected and reported in accordance systems. All data included in the report is global data unless between one to three years. sources (1.3%). with the United States Securities and Exchange otherwise specified. Any significant organization changes In 2011, 3M returned to a more conventional definition of Commission through the 2014 Annual Report. Base Year & Other Adjustments are identified in 3M’s Proxy Statement. waste that considered recycling as neutral (contributing neither 3M’s Annual Report (10K) and Investor Relations website toward total waste nor toward good output). Between 2005 and document any changes to financial data. Several of 3M’s 2010, 3M adopted a different definition of waste to drive the environmental goals are normalized per net sales. 3M does not company’s waste reduction efforts toward more sustainable adjust sales data for inflation. solutions, such as pollution prevention. 3M’s waste reduction About 3M generally does not adjust its base-year environmental goal and progress during this period included recycling. Waste metrics data to reflect changes in 3M’s organizational structure. data is reported in this report using both definitions. When total As a result, 3M sets environmental targets that are normalized waste is discussed in general, a conventional neutral definition or indexed to production (tons emitted or net sales) to ensure of recycling is used. This Report 138 | 3M 2014 Sustainability Report Global Principles & Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Content Index & Guidelines UN Global Compact Report on Progress Global Reporting Initiative Global Reporting Initiative Reporting Guidelines The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) is a network3M has developed this report using the Global Reporting Initiatives’ G3.1 Guidelines. The following table outlines where specific GRI based organization that includes representatives from reporting elements and indicators are addressed in the report or other reporting sources including 3M’s 2013 Annual Report (10K) business, government, labor, third-party advocacy groups (AR), 2014 3M Proxy Statement (PR) or other noted sources. Disclosure level are also provided: Full, Partial, or Not Reported. and academia. The GRI organization has developed a framework for sustainability reporting. Following the GRI Sustainability framework advances two important UN Global Compact Principles objectives: transparency and the ability to compare results 3M committed to the UN Global Compact principles in February 2014. Below is an index cross-linking progress from one organization to another. 3M has developed this elements related to the 10 principles within the content of this 2014 Sustainability Report. report using GRI G3.1 Guidelines. The following table outlines where specific GRI reporting elements and Human Rights indicators are addressed in the report or other reporting • Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and sources including 3M’s Annual Report (10K) (AR), 2014 • Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 3M Proxy Statement (PR) or other noted sources. Labour Our disclosure levels are noted in the GRI Index of this • Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective Data Verification report (e.g., Full, Partial, Not Reported). 3M self-declares bargaining; Internal Verification: 3M has conducted an internal verification the 2014 report as a “B+” level report. 3M plans to align of the information provided in this report. The objectives for our its 2015 Sustainability Report with the GRI G4 Guidelines. • Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; assurance process included: • Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and United Nations Global Compact • Accuracy and completeness of data Communication on Progress • Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. • Reliability of systems used to measure and record data The UN Global Compact is a strategic policy initiative for Environment businesses that are committed to aligning their operations • Reliability of ratios compiled from underlying data • Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; and strategies with 10 universally accepted principles in • Adherence to the GRI G3.1 Reporting Guidelines the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti• Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and corruption. 3M committed to the UN Global Compact • Implementation of internal policies and related management • Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. principles in early 2014. This report includes an index systems as reported of our Communication on Progress implementing the 10 Anti-Corruption • Presentation of a complete and fair picture in the report as principles within the content of this 2014 Sustainability • Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. a whole Report. Third-Party Verification: ISOS Group [“Assurance Provider”] Index provided independent third-party assurance for this report Contact 3M covering activities January 1, 2013, to December 31, 2013. ISOS Further information regarding this sustainability report group verified environmental and social metrics. See Appendix A can be obtained by contacting 3M Sustainability at of this report for its assurance statement. Sustainability@mmm.com. 3M 2014 Sustainability Report | 139 Full Partial Not Reported UN Global GRI Profile Cross-Reference (Hyperlinks) GRI Disclosure Compact Principles Description Page(s) Disclosure OR Direct Answer Level (Cross-Reference) Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization. CEO Letter 5-6 CEO Letter 5-6 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities. Our Strategy 9-16 Sustainability Materiality 17-22 Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization. About 3M 23 Our Products 24 2.2 Primary brands, products and/or services. 3M Website-Our Products Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, About 3M 23-24 2.3 operating companies, subsidiaries and joint ventures. 2013 Annual Report AR: 3-5 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters. About 3M 23 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of 2.5 countries with either major operations or that are specifically relevant About 3M 23 to the sustainability issues. About 3M 23 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. 2013 Annual Report AR: 1 About 3M 23-24 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served and 2.7 Our Products 24 types of customers/beneficiaries). 2013 Annual Report AR: 3-5 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. About 3M 23-24 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, 2014 Proxy Statement PR: 41-73 2.9 structure or ownership. 2013 Annual Report (Acquisitions/Divestitures) AR: 59-61 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. Sustainability Awards 135-136 3M 2014 Sustainability Report | 141 142 | 3M 2014 Sustainability Report Full Partial Not Reported UN Global GRI Profile Cross-Reference (Hyperlinks) GRI Disclosure Compact Principles Description Page(s) Disclosure OR Direct Answer Level (Cross-Reference) Reporting Parameters 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided. Report Schedule and Period 137 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). Report Schedule and Period 137 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) Report Schedule and Period 137 About This Report 3.4 Contact point for questions. 139 (Contact 3M) 3.5 Process for defining report content. Stakeholders and Sustainability Materiality 17-22 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased 3.6 Organizational Boundaries 137 facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report. Organizational Boundaries 137 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, 3.8 outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect Organizational Boundaries 137 comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including 3.9 assumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied to the Data Collection, Adjustments, and Verification 137-139 compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. Explanation of the effect of any restatements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement (e.g., mergers/ 3.10 Data Collection, Adjustments, and Verification 137-139 acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods). Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, 3.11 Data Collection, Adjustments, and Verification 137-139 boundary or measurement methods applied in the report. 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. GRI Content Index 140-164 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance Data Collection, Adjustments, and Verification 137-139 3.13 for the report. Independent Assurance Report Appendix A 3M 2014 Sustainability Report | 143 144 | 3M 2014 Sustainability Report Full Partial Not Reported UN Global GRI Profile Cross-Reference (Hyperlinks) GRI Disclosure Compact Principles Description Page(s) Disclosure OR Direct Answer Level (Cross-Reference) Governance, Commitments and Engagement Governance structure of the organization, including committees under Corporate Governance 25-34 4.1 the highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as 2014 Proxy Statement PR: 9-18 setting strategy or organizational oversight. Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an Corporate Governance 25-34 4.2 executive officer. 2014 Proxy Statement PR: 10-11 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number Corporate Governance 25-34 4.3 and gender of members of the highest governance body that are 2014 Proxy Statement PR: 19 independent and/or nonexecutive members. Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide Shareholder and Stakeholder Input 31 4.4 recommendations or direction to the highest governance body. 2014 Proxy Statement (Annual Meeting of Stockholders) PR: iii-8 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest 4.5 2014 Proxy Statement PR: 41-73 governance body, senior managers and executives. Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts Corporate Governance 25-34 4.6 of interest are avoided. 2014 Proxy Statement PR: 9-18 Process for determining the composition, qualifications and expertise Corporate Governance 25-34 4.7 of the members of the highest governance body and its committees, 2014 Proxy Statement PR: 9-18 including any consideration of gender and other indicators of diversity. Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of 4.8 conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental and social Governance, Values and Ethics 25-42 performance, and the status of their implementation. Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s identification and management of economic, Managing Enterprise Risks and Opportunities 34-35 4.9 environmental and social performance, including relevant risks and 2014 Proxy Statement (Board’s Role in Risk Oversight) PR:15 opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed 2013 Annual Report AR: 9-11 standards, codes of conduct and principles. Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own 4.10 performance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental and 2014 Proxy Statement (Compensation Committee) PR: 23, 41-73 social performance. 3M 2014 Sustainability Report | 145 146 | 3M 2014 Sustainability Report Full Partial Not Reported UN Global GRI Profile Cross-Reference (Hyperlinks) GRI Disclosure Compact Principles Description Page(s) Disclosure OR Direct Answer Level (Cross-Reference) 3M Environmental Policy (www.3M.com/Sustainability)Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or Policies and Reports 4.11 principle is addressed by the organization. Optimizing Our Environmental Footprint 91-120 Driving Growth through Sustainable Product Stewardship 59-63 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, Human Rights 39-42 4.12 principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or Code of Conduct 35-39 endorses. Engaging Our Stakeholders 17-20 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or 4.13 Engaging Our Stakeholders 17-20 national/international advocacy organizations. 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. Engaging Our Stakeholders 17-20 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to 4.15 Engaging Our Stakeholders 17-20 engage. Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of Engaging Our Stakeholders 4.16 Frequency and level of stakeholder engagement is 17-20 engagement by type and by stakeholder group. considered Business Confidential. Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder 4.17 engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key Sustainability Materiality Process and Outcomes 20-22 topics and concerns, including through its reporting. Performance Indicators Economic Financial Summary 55-57 2013 Annual Report Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, Revenues AR:19 operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other Operating Costs AR:20 EC1 community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital Employee Compensation AR:48 providers and governments. Community Investments AR:46-51 Payments to Capital Providers and Governments AR:46-51 Financial/Summary 3M 2014 Sustainability Report | 147 148 | 3M 2014 Sustainability Report Full Partial Not Reported UN Global GRI Profile Cross-Reference (Hyperlinks) GRI Disclosure Compact Principles Description Page(s) Disclosure OR Direct Answer Level (Cross-Reference) Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the Energy & Climate 97-110 EC2 Principle 7 organization’s activities due to climate change. Managing Enterprise Risk and Opportunities 34-35 Financial Summary 55-57 EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations. 2013 Annual Report AR: 76-88, 111-114 3M does not receive significant financial assistance from the government. For some information about tax holidays and EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. AR: 68-73 the U.S. research and development credit, refer to Note 8 (Income Taxes) in 3M’s 2013 Annual Report on Form 10-K. The differences in compensation by country/region Range of ratios of standard entry-level wage by gender compared with EC5 Principle 6 contribute to global ranges that are not representative of local minimum wage at significant locations of operation. compensation structures within the company. The proportion of spending on locally based suppliers is Policy, practices and proportion of spending on locally based suppliers EC6 considered Business Confidential. at significant locations of operation. 121-124 Engaging Our Suppliers Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired Globally Diverse Workforce Details of hiring procedures / EC7 Principle 6 65-70 from the local community at significant locations of operation. selection criteria are considered Business Confidential. Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services Strategy for Community Involvement EC8 provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind or pro 125-128 Global Contributions bono engagement. Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, EC9 Sustainability Materiality Process and Outcomes 20-22 including the extent of impacts. Environmental Due to the diversity and complexity of manufacturing of 3M’s products and associated materials portfolio, this data is not EN1 Principle 7, 8 Materials used by weight or volume. collected (by weight/volume) and aggregated to the extent it would indicate relevance at a corporate level. Due to the diversity and complexity of manufacturing of 3M’s products and associated materials portfolio, this data is not collected (percent of recycled materials) and aggregated to EN2 Principle 8 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. the extent it would indicate relevance at a corporate level. Please refer to Environmental Solutions Catalog for several examples of utilizing recycled content. Environmental Solutions Catalog 3M 2014 Sustainability Report | 149 150 | 3M 2014 Sustainability Report Full Partial Not Reported UN Global GRI Profile Cross-Reference (Hyperlinks) GRI Disclosure Compact Principles Description Page(s) Disclosure OR Direct Answer Level (Cross-Reference) EN3 Principle 7, 8 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. Energy Usage 110 Energy Usage The costs for collecting additional detailed EN4 Principle 8 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. 110 information is disproportionate to the results. EN5 Principle 8 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. Energy 110 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy-based Climate and Energy 97-110 EN6 Principle 8, 9 products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a Lifecycle Management and Analysis 59-63 result of these initiatives. Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions EN7 Principle 8, 9 Climate and Energy 97-110 achieved. EN8 Principle 7, 8 Total water withdrawal by source. Water Quality and Availability 118-120 EN9 Principle 8 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. Water Quality and Availability 118-120 EN10 Principle 8 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. Water Quality and Availability 118-120 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in or adjacent to EN11 Principle 8 protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. Description of significant impacts of activities, products and services Due to the size and complexity of 3M, the costs for EN12 Principle 8 on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value collecting impacts of activities, products and services is outside protected areas. disproportionate to the results. EN13 Principle 8 Habitats protected or restored. Collaborating With Our Communities 125-134 Strategies, current actions and future plans for managing impacts on EN14 Principle 8 biodiversity. Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list EN15 Principle 8 species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. EN16 Principle 7, 8 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. Greenhouse Gas Emissions 102-108 3M 2014 Sustainability Report | 151 152 | 3M 2014 Sustainability Report Full Partial Not Reported UN Global GRI Profile Cross-Reference (Hyperlinks) GRI Disclosure Compact Principles Description Page(s) Disclosure OR Direct Answer Level (Cross-Reference) EN17 Principle 8 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. Greenhouse Gas Emissions 102-108 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions EN18 Principle 8, 9 Greenhouse Gas Emissions 97-110 achieved. 3M has an Ozone Depleting Chemical policy (applicable to all 3M operations), which prohibits the use of highly EN19 Principle 7, 8 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. ozone-depleting chemicals from all products, manufacturing processes and new equipment worldwide. HCFCs are being phased out by 2015. EN20 Principle 7, 8 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight. Air Quality 112-117 EN21 Principle 8 Total water discharge by quality and destination. EN22 Principle 8 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. Waste and Recycling 115-116 3M did not have any significant spills in 2013 that met the EN23 Principle 8 Total number and volume of significant spills. GRI definition of reportable in the organizations financial report 95-96 (due to resulting liabilities). Tracking Environmental Incidents Weight of transported, imported, exported or treated waste deemed EN24 Principle 8 hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. Identity, size, protected status and biodiversity value of water EN25 Principle 8 bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the reporting organization’s discharges of water and runoff. Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, Driving Growth through Sustainable Product Stewardship EN26 Principle 7, 8, 9 59-63 and extent of impact mitigation. Environmental Solutions Catalog Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are EN27 Principle 8 Focus on Packaging 117-118 reclaimed by category. Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary Tracking Environmental Incidents 95-96 EN28 Principle 8 sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. 2013 Annual Report AR: 6,11,105-109 3M 2014 Sustainability Report | 153 154 | 3M 2014 Sustainability Report Full Partial Not Reported UN Global GRI Profile Cross-Reference (Hyperlinks) GRI Disclosure Compact Principles Description Page(s) Disclosure OR Direct Answer Level (Cross-Reference) Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other EN29 Principle 8 goods and materials used for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce. EN30 Principle 7, 8, 9 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. This is considered Business Confidential. Human Rights Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements and Investment agreements are subject to 3M Business Conduct HR1 Principle 2 contracts that include human rights clauses or that have undergone 35-39 Policies and Guidelines. Code of Conduct human rights screening. Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors and other business HR2 Principle 2 partners that have undergone human rights screening and actions Engaging Our Suppliers 121-124 taken. Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures The 3M Human Rights Policy Statement was adopted in HR3 Principle 1 concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, 2013. Training is being developed as part of 3M’s training on including the percentage of employees trained. Respectful Workplace Principles. It will be launched in 2014. Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions HR4 Principle 6 This is considered Business Confidential. taken. Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to Engaging Our Suppliers 121-124 HR5 Principle 3 exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at Human Rights (Freedom of Association) 41-42 significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk Engaging Our Suppliers 121-124 HR6 Principle 5 for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the Human Rights (Child Labor) 41-42 elimination of child labor. Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk Engaging Our Suppliers 121-124 HR7 Principle 4 for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute Human Rights (Forced and Compulsory Labor) 41-42 to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. 3M 2014 Sustainability Report | 155 156 | 3M 2014 Sustainability Report Full Partial Not Reported UN Global GRI Profile Cross-Reference (Hyperlinks) GRI Disclosure Compact Principles Description Page(s) Disclosure OR Direct Answer Level (Cross-Reference) All 3M-employed Corporate Security staff members are trained on 3M policies, which will include the Respectful Workplace Policy (including Human Rights policy elements) Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s policies when that training content is offered in 2014. HR8 Principle 1 or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to 3M plant locations also hire third-party and external security operations. personnel to restrict public access to our facilities. They are contractually expected to comply with 3M policies when assigned to work at a 3M site . Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous To the best of our knowledge, there were no incidents HR9 Principle 1 people and actions taken. related to the rights of indigenous people in 2013. Employee Relation assessments have been implemented Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to in 3M’s U.S., Canada, Asia and Western Europe operations. HR10 Principle 1 human rights reviews and/or impact assessments. 3M is working to implement these self-assessments in its Eastern Europe, Middle East and Latin America regions. Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed and HR11 Principle 1 This is considered Business Confidential. resolved through formal grievance mechanisms. Labor Proactice and Decent Work Total workforce by employment type, employment contract and region LA1 Principle 6 Globally Diverse Workforce 65-70 broken down by gender. Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover Globally Diverse Workforce LA2 Principle 6 65-70 by age group, gender and region. Turnover is considered Business Confidential Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to LA3 temporary or Globally Diverse Workforce 65-70 part-time employees, by major operations. Approximately 29 percent of 3M’s global workforce is LA4 Principle 3 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. unionized. 3M follows all applicable local laws and regulations Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes, LA5 Principle 3 regarding notice periods in the event of business operations including whether it is specified in collective agreements. changes. 3M 2014 Sustainability Report | 157 158 | 3M 2014 Sustainability Report Full Partial Not Reported UN Global GRI Profile Cross-Reference (Hyperlinks) GRI Disclosure Compact Principles Description Page(s) Disclosure OR Direct Answer Level (Cross-Reference) Approximately 75 percent of 3M employees are represented in formal joint management worker health and safety Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint committees. This includes 3M employees working in LA6 management-worker health and safety committees that help monitor manufacturing, laboratories and distribution centers. Some, and advise on occupational health and safety programs. but not all, administrative employees are covered by health and safety committees. Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days and absenteeism, and LA7 Global Health and Safety 81-96 number of work-related fatalities by region and gender. Education, training, counseling, prevention and risk-control programs LA8 in place to assist workforce members, their families or community Health and Wellness 76-77 members regarding serious diseases. Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade LA9 unions. Although 3M tracks some training hours, it is not consistent globally. 3M believes indicators that align with results of Average hours of training per year per employee by gender and by the people to success of the Company are direct indicators LA10 Principle 6 employee category. of successful development programs (e.g. Leadership & Employee engagement, Retention, Brand Recognition, New Product Vitality Index) Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the LA11 continued employability of employees and assist them in managing Investing in Our People 71-80 career endings. Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career LA12 Principle 6 Investing in Our People 71-80 development reviews by gender. Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per Corporate Governance 25-34 LA13 Principle 6 employee category according to gender, age group, minority group Globally Diverse Workforce 65-70 membership and other indicators of diversity. 3M administers performance-related compensation LA14 Principle 6 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category. regardless of gender. 3M 2014 Sustainability Report | 159 160 | 3M 2014 Sustainability Report Full Partial Not Reported UN Global GRI Profile Cross-Reference (Hyperlinks) GRI Disclosure Compact Principles Description Page(s) Disclosure OR Direct Answer Level (Cross-Reference) LA15 Principle 6 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender. Society Percentage of operations with implemented local community Sustainability Performance Summary 51-52 SO1 Principle 1 engagement, impact assessments and development programs. Collaborating With Our Communities 126 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks SO2 Principle 10 Code of Conduct 35-39 related to corruption. Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption SO3 Principle 10 Code of Conduct 35-39 policies and procedures. Responding to Concerns (www.3M.Com/Business Conduct) SO4 Principle 10 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. Investigations and Findings (www.3M.com/Business Conduct-Additional info) Public policy positions and participation in public policy development SO5 Principle 10 Public Policy and Engagement 43-44 and lobbying. 3M Political Activities Principle Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, 3M PAC Contributions (www.fec.gov) SO6 politicians and related institutions by country. Any political activities outside the United States require approval by the Executive Vice President of International Operations. Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust SO7 and monopoly practices, and their outcomes. Monetary value of significant fines and total number of nonmonetary SO8 2013 Annual Report AR:102-110 sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulations. Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on SO9 Principle 1 local communities. Environmental Management System and Compliance 93-96 Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with Safety and Health Management 81-90 SO10 Principle 1 significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities. Code of Conduct 35-39 Collaborating With Our Communities 125-134 3M 2014 Sustainability Report | 161 162 | 3M 2014 Sustainability Report Full Partial Not Reported UN Global GRI Profile Cross-Reference (Hyperlinks) GRI Disclosure Compact Principles Description Page(s) Disclosure OR Direct Answer Level (Cross-Reference) Product Responsibility Life-cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and PR1 services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant Life-Cycle Management and Analysis 59-63 products and services categories subject to such procedures. Total number of incidents of noncompliance with regulations and PR2 voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. Type of product and service information required by procedures PR3 and percentage of significant products and services subject to such Life-Cycle Management and Analysis 59-63 information requirements. Total number of incidents of noncompliance with regulations and 3M is not aware of any significant fines for noncompliance PR4 voluntary codes concerning product and service information and with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use labeling, by type of outcomes. of products and services. Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys PR5 This information is considered Business Confidential. measuring customer satisfaction. 3M is not aware of any significant fines for noncompliance Programs for adherence to laws, standards and voluntary codes with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use PR6 related to marketing communications, including advertising, promotion of products and services. and sponsorship. See 3M’s Business Conducts Policy: Advertising and Product Representation Policy. Total number of incidents of noncompliance with regulations and PR7 voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion and sponsorship by type of outcomes. Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of PR8 customer privacy and losses of customer data. 3M is not aware of any significant fines for noncompliance Monetary value of significant fines for noncompliance with laws and PR9 with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services. of products and services. 3M 2014 Sustainability Report | 163 164 | 3M 2014 Sustainability Report Thank you. 3M 2014 Sustainability Report | 165 External Assurance defined within scope, validate claims, and analyze the final presentation of disclosures in accordance with the Global and controls relating to the collection, aggregation STATEMENT OF INDEPENDENCE Statement Reporting Initiative’s G3.1 Guidelines. and reporting processes of the selected Performance ISOS Group is an independent professional services firm Indicators; that specializes in sustainability reporting under the Global GRI Application Level: B+ Reporting Initiative (GRI) and providing external assurance Executive Summary CRITERIA FOR ASSURANCE AND LEVEL OF • Conducted investigations of publically available services. The Assurance Provider’s team members have not ASSURANCE records and databases to determine the legitimacy been involved in the development of the Report nor have Procedures selected were based on the Assurance Provider’s of 3M’s assertions in the Sustainability Report; they been associated with 3M’s sustainability program, Scope of Assurance judgment and experience. The focus of all work performed • Reviewed several drafts of the Sustainability Report data collection, or processes. We conducted this assurance ISOS Group [“Assurance Provider”] has been commissioned was whether any matters have come to our attention along with supporting data and, as necessary, engagement independently and, to our knowledge, there has by the management of 3M, Co. [“3M”, “Company”] to conduct causing us to believe that the material data found in provided recommendations on discrepancies that might been no conflict of interest. a limited assurance engagement on its 2014 Sustainability 3M’s 2014 Sustainability Report has not been prepared affect communication to stakeholders; Report [“Report”] for the period of January 1, 2013 to in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative’s G3.1 ISOS Group ensures that the assurance team possesses the Guidelines, GHG Protocol (WBCSD/WRI, 2004), SA8000 • Prepared an outcomes log which documented the December 31, 2013. The scope of our assurance covered required competencies, maintained neutrality, and performed (for issues of labor and human rights) and in adherence following categories of findings: discrepancies and/ the GRI Standard Disclosures: Profile [“Subject Matter”], and ethically throughout the engagement. Further information, to the AA 1000AS Principles of Inclusivity, Materiality and or gaps for data reported; inconsistencies in the use a selection of the GRI Standard Disclosures: Performance including a statement of competencies can be found at: Responsiveness (for underlying reporting processes). A and/or interpretation of data contained in the data Indicators [“Subject Matter”]: www.isosgroup.com. materiality threshold of 5% of the quantitative assertions management systems; identification of statements was used for this review. Comparisons to previous years’ in 3M’s 2014 Sustainability Report which did not • Environmental, Health & Safety (EHS): volatile organic Signed on behalf of ISOS Group data were reviewed, but the data from baseline years did match the supporting that was data provided; and, compounds [“VOCs”]; water consumption, wastewater not undergo verification. nonconformities of reported data for the selected and water conservation efforts; waste levels, waste San Diego | May 19, 2014 Performance Indicators to the definitions established management practices and waste reduction efforts; reported spills, fines and corrective measures; and METHODOLOGY by GRI. Nancy Mancilla Alexandru Georgescu health and safety data (recordable incidents, lost In order to form our conclusions, the assurance was CONCLUSION Project Lead Quantitative Analysis Lead time injury and/or illness cases); undertaken as a sampling exercise and covered the following Based on the process and procedures conducted, there • Social: employee metrics, labor and human rights activities: is no evidence that the assertions included in 3M’s 2014 practices (in/outside operational control), and Sustainability Report are not materially correct and is a • Performed process interviews with 3M’s reporting fair representation of the data and information for the community engagement programs. team and subject matter experts to verify consistency stated period and boundaries. Therefore, we confirm that ISOS assessed data related to all manufacturing and leased in the management approach for collecting, aggregating the GRI requirements for Application Level B+ have been met. facilities worldwide including joint ventures (greater than 50% and reporting data and implementing internal quality Christina Schwerdtfeger ownership) and partially owned subsidiaries (greater control procedures; 3M took immediate corrective action to address each Environmental Analyst than 50% ownership) where 3M maintains operational issue identified by ISOS. Integrity through leadership • Reviewed original sources of data for the indicators control. Financial and greenhouse gas information, and executed at all levels of the organization enables in scope for three representative facilities (Hutchinson, already externally verified, has been excluded from the Company’s to move beyond compliance and set the USA; Tuas, Singapore; and Itapetininga, Brazil) to the scope of this engagement. tone for its value chain. The Company’s commitment to determine whether the data for these indicators, quality management can only be enhanced by infusing an Objectives disclosed through the Sustainability Report is accurate additional layer of internal review at the facility level on data and reliable; The objective of the assurance engagement was to and at the corporate level on assertions made within the independently express conclusions on the Subject Matter as • Reviewed key data management systems, procedures Report. 3M 2014 Sustainability Report | 167 168 | 3M 2014 Sustainability Report
