Shangri-La Hotels and Resorts 2013 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Executive Statement of Continued Support Shangri-La Hotels and Resorts became a member of the United Nations Global Compact in 2011 with the desire of integrating its 10 Principles as a reference framework for sustainable operations across the group. This is our second Communication on Progress (COP) Report, which aims to show how we continuously strengthen our policies and structures in line with the principles of human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. The group released its 2012 Sustainability Report in late April 2013, which includes direct responses to the principles and references to the GRI indicators for increased transparency. Please visit http://www.shangri-la.com/corporate/about-us/corporate-socialresponsibility/ sustainability/ for the full 2012 Sustainability Report. This COP covers 1 January to 31 December 2013 and refers to the data of 81 operating hotels and one marina club with corporate social responsibility (CSR) and sustainability operations managed by the corporate office, Shangri-La International Hotel Management Limited (SLIM). This entity is the signatory to the UN Global Compact. The report covers all the hotels within the group, including those that opened in 2013. Figures pertaining to water and energy consumption and carbon emissions are adjusted according to the hotels’ individual year-to-date performance. New hotels in the planning and development stages and Shangri-La’s business in property rentals are outside the scope of this report. Shangri-La remains dedicated to both its social responsibility and overall ethical practice. It aims to ensure the highest level of integrity in all its operations. We see our commitment and participation in the United Nations Global Compact as a key driver for this goal. We will demonstrate our continued support and commitment through our annual COP. GREG DOGAN President and CEO Shangri-La International Hotel Management Limited Shangri-La Hotels and Resorts Hong Kong-based Shangri-La Hotels and Resorts (www.shangri-la.com), one of the world's premier hotel companies, currently owns and/or manages more than 80 hotels under the Shangri-La, Kerry and Traders brands, with a room inventory of over 34,000. Over four decades, the group has established its brand hallmark of “hospitality from the heart.” The group has a substantial development pipeline with upcoming projects in mainland China, India, Malaysia, Mongolia, Myanmar, the Philippines, Qatar, Sri Lanka and the United Kingdom. Our Core Values and CSR Mission Statement best understanding, training programmes have Human Rights been put in place and are made compulsory for all Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect permanent colleagues to complete upon the protection of internationally proclaimed human employment. Regular refresher training is also rights; and conducted during employment. Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. At every location, Shangri-La ensures that its properties extend the value of human rights and Shangri-La Hotels and Resorts remains committed respect the rights of the communities that surround to observing the highest standards of human rights us. Through programmes within our social and aims to uphold its principles in the workplace responsibility campaign, our hotels seek to respond and amongst relationships with various to some of the most urgent human rights challenges stakeholders. in a consultative manner that is appropriate and respectful of local traditions and regulations. This commitment is underscored best in our Company values of humility, courtesy, respect, Our business partners in particular share the helpfulness, sincerity and selflessness. Shangrijourney by demonstrating compliance with our La’s sense of hospitality comes from a caring Shangri-La Supplier Code of Conduct. This company and it aims to deliver engaging requires suppliers to provide safe and healthy experiences that come straight from the heart. working conditions, use fair hiring practices, treat This genuine sense of service governs the way their workers with dignity and respect, and adhere Shangri-La runs its business and is strongly rooted to environmentally responsible practices in in upholding human rights. manufacturing. To that end, the code includes In living out our values of respect and courtesy, standards in the areas of labour and human rights, Shangri-La aims to keep a fair workplace that is health and safety, environmental impact, ethics and governed by our Code of Conduct. This management commitment. framework guides our various relationships, including issues regarding human rights, diversity, We award business based on quality and price equality and equal opportunities. It is our policy to without personal favouritism. We endeavour to abide by the labour codes of and national laws in all create long-term win-win relationships with quality countries in which we operate and to comply in suppliers that enable us to enjoy excellent quality general with the Fundamental Conventions of the and prices and supplier involvement in continuously International Labour Organization (ILO). improving our products, services and profitability. Any Shangri-La colleague that commences work, Neither we nor our immediate family will own, have whether at the corporate or hotel level, is oriented a vested interest in or be a director of any supplier on the articles of the Code of Conduct. It is of goods or services to Shangri-La, except by way imperative that every colleague has a perfect of shares in a public company. understanding of our expectations of behaviour, not just of our policies and manuals. To ensure the Shangri-La has only recently started aligning these considerations that should be taken when managing policies directly under the UN Global Compact incidents in line with Shangri-La’s commitment to Principles, but we have long been monitoring integrity, anti-corruption and the protection of compliance across our hotels through our Human human rights. The policies and procedures cover Resources Department. Furthermore, there are the handling of attempted bribery, conflicts of many avenues in place for feedback, such as the interest and soliciting of advantages, among others. Employee Engagement Survey (formerly known as All hotel security personnel have received training in the Staff Opinion Survey), which has been in place the organisation’s policies or procedures concerning since 1996. The 2011 and 2012 surveys garnered aspects of human rights that are relevant to a participation rate of over 98% and remained just operations. as successful in 2013 with a 98.8% response rate. The survey serves as an honest barometer of the Corporate Purchasing Policy drivers for satisfaction for our biggest asset – our People. SLIM’s Group Purchasing Division is responsible for the procurement of products supplied, such as food Engagement of Colleagues and beverage products, cleaning supplies, bedding and room furnishing. In accordance with the Shangri-La fosters an atmosphere of camaraderie Corporate Purchasing Policy, suppliers complete a and engagement through a system of open questionnaire on the communication. Every hotel maintains a Supplier Code of Conduct. This code is included colleagues’ notice board and conducts weekly as an appendix to every supplier contract and SLIM meetings to keep colleagues abreast of hotel-level conducts regular reviews to ensure compliance. and other developments within the company. The The Supplier Code of Conduct is available on our senior management of each hotel engages all website www.shangri-la.com/corporate/aboutcolleagues on matters of interest or concern via the us/supplier-code-of-conduct/. State of Hotel Address and Executive Committee Dialogue. To complement these initiatives The revised code came into effect at the end of implemented by the hotels, SLIM operates an online 2012 and incorporates new criteria that align closely system called E-Voice and a programme called with Shangri-La’s Core Values and commitment to Speak Up to facilitate structured feedback from the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact. hotel colleagues to SLIM about internal processes Suppliers are required to provide safe and healthy and business concerns. Shangri-La also utilises working conditions, use fair hiring practices, treat the yearly Employee Engagement Survey as a their workers and colleagues with dignity and voluntary anonymous online survey of all Shangrirespect and adhere to environmentally responsible La colleagues; an independent organisation practices in manufacturing. To that end, the code conducts the survey in at least 11 languages. incorporates recognised international best practices in the areas of labour and human rights, health and Security Operations safety, environmental impact, ethics and management commitment. SLIM’s Security Division oversees implementation of and operational compliance with the Security In 2011, SLIM Purchasing engaged an independent Operations, Crisis Management and Loss firm to commence the first comprehensive Prevention manuals. These manuals provide evaluation of compliance with the Code. Out of 44 guidelines and procedures on the primary suppliers, 17 were received a passing grade in the initial assessments (passing rate of 39%). In 2012, designed specifically to drive operational 4 out of 11 suppliers passed the initial assessments efficiencies with more hands-on training, leading to (passing rate of 36%). the reduction and proper application of chemicals. Significant cost savings have also been achieved, The initial assessments revealed that a majority of as expected. suppliers could not demonstrate full compliance with the code, often due to insufficient record Responsible Procurement Programme keeping. Sixteen suppliers took corrective action to receive a passing grade following their Towards the end of 2012, the Responsible reassessment before the end of 2012. This lifted Purchasing Programme was rolled out to encourage the overall passing rate of suppliers to 37 out of 55 purchasing decision makers in all divisions of every (67%). hotel to consider the impact of their selection on the environment and people. SLIM provides From August to 31 December 2013, 4 out of 31 information to the hotels about environmentally completed initial audits failed (passing rate of 86%). friendly selection criteria and provides From January 2014 until the writing of this report, recommendations about what hotels should be two audits have been completed and both passed looking for when procuring paper and card products, (passing rate of 100%). Therefore, the passing IT equipment, chemicals and pesticides. rate from August 2013 to February 2014 increased to 87%. The hotels are also encouraged to evaluate local options to minimise the transportation distance for Twenty-seven suppliers passed the audit (score of raw materials and final products to minimise landfill50%-85%), but 16 needed reassessment to meet bound waste. In light of Shangri-La’s expansion our compliance standards (score of 85% or above). and increasing hotel footprint, efforts are being Their follow-up audits are being scheduled. The made to increase local and regional sourcing, for initial assessment revealed that a majority of the example, in Europe, the Middle East and South suppliers could not demonstrate full compliance Asia. with the code due to insufficient record keeping. Currently, 23 other supplier audits have been Due to our decentralised management approach, postponed due to ongoing negotiations on their SLIM does not have oversight of all contracts expiring contracts. No suppliers with a significant entered into by Shangri-La subsidiaries and risk or evidence of child labour or forced or affiliates at the hotel level. SLIM does not currently compulsory labour have been identified. have a policy or mechanism for checking all contracts for human rights issues. In 2013, we started distributing our corporate code of conduct declaration to the hotels’ top 100 Shangri-La recognises the need: suppliers (80,000+ suppliers). Results will be tabulated and reviewed once the exercise is to strengthen overall corporate governance, complete. including training on human rights, overall ethics and anti-corruption. Notably, Shangri-La’s chemicals contract has now to address indigenous rights and negative adopted a “pay as you go system”, lifting the ceiling impacts on communities. cap once in place and now monitoring through actual consumption per hotel site. This was Any person who believes he or she may have been Labour Principles discriminated against in violation of these principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom or observes any discrimination in violation of these of association and the effective recognition of the principles should discuss the matter with the Human right to collective bargaining; Resources Department. If for any reason the Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and colleague does not want to discuss the matter with compulsory labour; individuals in the Human Resources Department, Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; he or she may discuss the matter with the Group and Director of Human Resources, who has overall Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in responsibility for the group’s Equal Employment respect of employment and occupation. Opportunity policy. Shangri-La is an equal-opportunity employer. All Furthermore, the company ensures that all of our colleagues are made familiar with the group’s personnel actions, including compensation, benefits, commitment to non-discrimination on the grounds of transfer, lay-off, return from lay-off, companygender, marital status, pregnancy, race, religion or sponsored training, education, tuition assistance, disability. Colleagues also understand that equal and social and recreation programmes, are employment opportunities are made available to all administered without regard to race, colour, religion, colleagues, irrespective of their gender, marital natural origin, age, disability or history of disability status, pregnancy or disability. No colleague is to (except where physical or mental abilities are a be treated less favourably than any other in bona fide occupational requirement and the comparable circumstances and all are entitled to individual is not able to perform the essential enjoy good working relationships with one another functions of the position even with reasonable in an environment free from harassment. accommodation), sex (unless gender is a bona fide occupational qualification) or other protected We respect and support the protection of our characteristic. colleagues’ human rights, and our employment policies are designed to comply with all local labour laws. This includes our firm stance against human Responsible Procurement Programme trafficking, sexual harassment and the exploitation of children. In cases where young adults are in Under the Responsible Procurement Programme, hotel traineeship or internship programmes, we Shangri-La respects freedom of association and ensure that they are protected by contracts signed collective bargaining in accordance with national either by the institutions they represent or by their laws in every country of operation. Under the parents/ guardians. Responsible Procurement Policy, all group supplier contracts include the Supplier Code of Conduct and As mentioned earlier in this report, suppliers and SLIM-initiated audits on compliance in 2011. No business partners are encouraged to operate suppliers with which freedom of association and sustainably and are audited based on the Shangricollective bargaining may be significantly at risk La Supplier Code of Conduct. The document have been identified. No suppliers with a enforces strict regulations and zero tolerance on significant risk of incident of child labour or forced or indentured labour, trafficking, slavery or child labour. compulsory labour have been identified. The Highest Ethical Standards of operation. If local law permits it, hotels may employ young people below the age of 18 in The Code of Ethics outlines the common traineeship or internship programmes. understanding of Shangri-La’s expectations of behaviour for all colleagues. As Shangri-La Shangri-La strives to eliminate discrimination in continues to grow, it is imperative that our Core respect of employment and occupation. The Values are understood and practiced by all. SLIM Group Director of Human Resources at SLIM has oversees a system of practical training to put our overall responsibility for the Equal Employment Core Values into daily practice. “Shang Care” is Opportunity policy in recruiting, hiring, training and mandatory for all colleagues and consists of four promoting without regard to race, colour, religion, modules called Shangri-La Hospitality from a Caring national origin, age, disability or sex. As part of the Family, Delighting and Engaging with Guests, routine Human Resource divisional audit of the Taking Ownership and Recovering to Gain Loyalty. hotels, SLIM monitors implementation of this policy to ensure that compensation, benefits, transfers, Colleagues are expected to behave towards each layoffs, trainings and social recreation programmes other, guests, suppliers, hotel owners and the are administered without discrimination. community at large with high integrity, in the spirit as well as the letter of the code. Failure to comply Occupational Health and Safety may result in disciplinary action, which may include termination. In 2012, SLIM introduced the Shangri-La continues to be committed to ensuring a Whistleblowing Policy, which states that every healthy and safe workplace for its colleagues. Shangri-La colleague has the right and It is estimated that 58% of colleagues in China responsibility to act upon any incidence of hotels and 50% of colleagues in hotels located behaviour running counter to the Code of Ethics by outside of China work in OHSAS 18001-certified making a report directly to SLIM. hotels. As of end 2013, 42 hotels have been certified. All hotels with OHSAS 18001 certification Shangri-La upholds the freedom of association and have a formal Health and Safety committee with the right to collective bargaining for all colleagues. joint worker-management representatives. Within our hotels, the organisation of these activities take various forms, such as colleague unions, Training and Development colleague councils and colleague welfare groups, depending on local legislation, culture and Shangri-La aims to support its colleague in workplace norms. According to the information achieving their full potential. SLIM’s guideline is supplied by each hotel, from 2012 to 2013, that all permanent colleagues in every Shangri-La approximately 13% of permanent colleagues in hotel, irrespective of service level, age or gender, China and 17% of permanent colleagues outside of will complete four hours of training per month. China participated in some form of collective Compliance with this guideline is monitored by the bargaining agreement between workers and hotel hotels and reported back to SLIM on a quarterly management. basis. All colleagues receive regular performance reviews. Shangri-La does not participate in forced and compulsory labour or child labour of any kind. Our policy on the age of employment is to strictly observe local laws and regulations in every country water intensity decreased. Further analysis into Environmental Principles the footprint composition and intensity shows that Principle 7: Businesses should support a emissions from electricity consumption contributed precautionary approach to environmental to over three quarters of the group’s total carbon challenges; footprint. Shangri-La resorts have the lowest Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater carbon intensity, while Shangri-La hotels in China environmental responsibility; and have the highest carbon intensity, among other Principle 9: encourage the development and types of hotels in SLIM. diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. The results of the RESET Carbon 2013 Report are Shangri-La mitigates impacts on the environment by as follows: ensuring that our day-to-day operations promote and implement responsible environmental practices Carbon and continual improvement. The SLIM Engineering Division primarily leads the CSR Focus The total GHG emissions from 81 hotels are Area Environment by conducting regular 889,263 tonnes CO2e in 2013. This is 2.3% environment audits as part of the overall higher than the total emissions of 869,672 tonnes Engineering audits to ensure compliance with CO2e in 2012 (72 properties and one marina club environment policies and procedures. analysed at the time). The 2013 emissions for the ISO 14001 is the predominant, internationally same 72 properties (taking part in the 2012 Carbon recognised standard for the management of Footprint programme, with the exception of the environmental impacts of businesses. marina club) is 840,706 tonnes CO2e, which is It prescribes the procedures for measuring, 2.0% lower than 2012’s emissions from the same monitoring and managing activities that affect the 72 properties (857,813 tonnes CO2e). environment. At the end of 2013, 48 hotels have received ISO 14001 certification. Energy In 2013, Shangri-La commenced working with The total energy consumption from 81 hotels is RESET Carbon, a Hong Kong-based carbon and 6,397,740 GJ in 2013. This is 1.9% higher than energy management specialist. The rationale for the total consumption of 6,280,752 GJ in 2012 (72 engaging RESET Carbon reflects Shangri-La’s properties and one marina club analysed at the continued journey towards ensuring that the highest time). The 2013 energy use for the same 72 standards of data collection, verification and properties (taking part in the 2012 Carbon Footprint analysis are utilised to effectively minimise and programme) is 6,027,347 GJ, which is 2.6% lower manage our environmental impacts. Through than 2012’s consumption from the same 72 RESET Carbon, Shangri-La will achieve compliance properties (6,190,720 GJ). with International Standards ISO 14064 and Green House Gas (GHG) Protocol. For more information Water on RESET Carbon, please visit http://resetcarbon.com The total water consumption from 81 hotels is 14,780,925 KL in 2013. This is 1.4% lower than Shangri-La’s total carbon, water and energy the total consumption of 14,988,586 KL in 2012 (73 footprint increased in the past year as new hotels properties). The 2013 water use for the same 72 were added to its portfolio. Although its 2013 properties (taking part in the 2012 Carbon Footprint group carbon intensity increased since 2012, its programme) is 14,173,243 KL, which is 4.1% lower • Shangri-La’s Care for Panda Project than 2012’s consumption from the same 72 o Shangri-La Hotel, Chengdu properties (14,771,693 KL). • Shangri-La’s Reef Care Project Waste Management o Shangri-La’s Mactan Resort & Spa, Cebu, Philippines The hotels have implemented a number of o Shangri-La’s Fijian Resort &Spa, Yanuca Island, programmes that are specific to local circumstances Fiji for water management, including waste segregation o Shangri-La’s Tanjung Aru Resort & Spa, Kota and recycling. In line with our approach to Kinabalu encouraging colleagues to participate actively in CSR campaigns, the hotels invite colleagues to • Shangri-La’s Care for Nature Project recycle used hotel items and unwanted personal o Shangri-La Rasa Sentosa Resort & Spa, items that would otherwise be discarded. Singapore o Shangri-La’s Boracay Resort & Spa, Philippines Shangri-La continues to monitor and manage property-specific reduction targets and support the • Shangri-La’s Turtle Care Project hotels that perform well. Notably, while only 49 o Shangri-La’s Villingili Resort & Spa, Maldives hotels have completed ISO 14001 certification, all o Shangri-La’s Rasa Sayang Resort & Spa, Penang other hotels continue to strengthen initiatives in / Golden Sands Resort, Penang environmental management systems. Shangri-La hotels have shown improvements in • Shangri-La’s Orang-Utan Care Project resource management, especially after introducing o Shangri-La’s Rasa Ria Resort & Spa, Kota technologies that enhance efficiencies. Kinabalu “Sanctuary, Shangri-La’s Care for Nature Eco centres in four resorts enhance the experience Programme” was introduced in 2009. It aims to of learning about the natural environment. make a concerted effort to ensure that biodiversity conservation and habitat protection is consistent Shangri-La’s Fijian Resort & Spa, Yanuca Island, across all locations exceptionally rich in biodiversity. Fiji maintains a Marine Education Centre that Properties with “Sanctuary” projects work on an serves not only as an exhibit area of underwater individualised project that is further developed, species, but also as an assembly point for guest tracked and monitored to engage stakeholders activities, such as mangrove planting, fish house better. Yearly goals are defined by the individual building and coral tray planting. hotel’s CSR Committee. Each hotel is required to make a yearly budget for its SANCTUARY projects. Shangri-La’s Rasa Sayang Resort & Spa, Penang’s . Eco Centre sits in a breezy hut of information We currently have 12 “Sanctuary” projects: exhibit showcasing the value of turtles in the ecosystem and the rest of Penang’s natural • Shangri-La’s Living Waters Project environment. o Shangri-La Hotel, Qingdao o Shangri-La Hotel, Beihai At Shangri-La’s Boracay Resort & Spa, Philippines, o Traders Hotel, Shenyang the modestly sized Eco Centre offers a wealth of learning materials, from multimedia entertainment to concerted efforts were made to strengthen replicas of various island species that need biodiversity data collection by using internationally protection. recognised methodologies and survey standards, such as Reef Check; partnering with NGOs; and The Eco Centre at Shangri-La’s Villingili Resort & hiring two dedicated marine biologists to spearhead Spa, Maldives is strategically located to entice our marine conservation projects in Sabah and every guest to learn about the underwater bounty Cebu. Data collected include the IUCN Red List of surrounding the island. More importantly, it Endangered Species and are expected to enable teaches about all the environmental conditions that the hotels to more effectively manage projects and make the Maldives a pristine, yet delicate demonstrate measurable results in terms of ecotourism destination. biodiversity conservation. In 2012, “Sanctuary, Shangri-La’s Care for Nature of turtles in the ecosystem and the rest of the Project” was launched in various city hotels in China natural environment in Penang. At Shangri La’s to encourage the protection of habitats. ShangriBoracay Resort and Spa, Philippines, the Eco La Hotel, Chengdu launched “Shangri La’s Care for Centre may be modest in size, but it offers a wealth Panda Project”, which is set to officially begin in of learning material, from multimedia entertainment mid-2014. This flagship project supports the new to replicas of various island species that need Dujiangyan Panda Centre through the development protection. Lastly, at Shangri-La’s Villingili Resort of bamboo plantations and panda feeding facilities. and Spa, Maldives, the Eco Centre is strategically located to entice every guest to learn not only about In 2013, Shangri-La Hotel, Beihai launched the the underwater bounty surrounding the island, but, “Sanctuary, Shangri-La’s Living Waters Project.” more importantly, also about all the environmental Beihai is one of the most important migratory routes conditions that make the Maldives a pristine yet for birds in China and unfortunately under threat by delicate ecotourism destination. human impact. In response, the hotel has conducted a series of awareness-raising activities In 2012, “Sanctuary, Shangri-La’s Care for Nature to educate local communities, colleagues and Project” was launched in various city hotels in China suppliers on how to conserve these unique bird to encourage the protection of habitats. Shangrispecies, rather than hunt them. Hand-in-hand with La Hotel, Xian and Golden Flower Hotel, Xian have this, the hotel has been focused on protecting the launched “Sanctuary, Shangri-La’s Care for Nature migratory birds’ habitat – the mangrove wetland Project” to work with the Zhouzhi Nature Reserve areas that attract and serve as a stop-over point for located in the Qinling Mountains. The Qinling the birds during migration. region is one of the areas with the richest biodiversity in China, and is home to the most wellInformation on all “Sanctuary, Shangri-La’s Care for known species of the giant panda and the golden Nature” projects are available at: monkey. The hotels have invested in the muchhttp://www.shangri-la.com/corporate/aboutneeded upgrading of the patrolling facilities to us/corporate-social-responsibility/csrenable the nature reserve staff to better monitor projects/sanctuary/ and on the individual hotel species count and security. The project will also websites. support alternative livelihood opportunities in the surrounding communities, including beekeeping and Shangri-La recognises the need to enhance the Ayurvedic herb farming. reporting of environmental data. In 2013, Shangri-La Hotel, Qingdao and Traders Hotel, and a movement to revise and reissue policies in Shenyang have launched “Sanctuary, Shangri-La’s compliance with international standards, such as Living Waters Project.” Both hotels have the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. committed to raising awareness on water issues, as the surrounding communities face a looming water Shangri-La has not made any systematic review of crisis. Using best practices in water management, risks related to corruption. However, it recognises Shangri-La Hotel, Qingdao has commenced the need to strengthen corporate governance, working with a rural community in order to secure a including training on human rights, overall ethics safe and reliable potable water supply. Traders and anti-corruption. Hotel, Shenyang has invested in an educational programme developed with the local environmental protection agency to target schoolchildren in particular to raise awareness of water issues. By the end of 2012, the “Sanctuary, Shangri-La’s Summary Care for Panda Project” was launched at ShangriLa Hotel, Chengdu. This flagship project supports Shangri-La has pledged its commitment to conform, the brand-new Du Jiangyan Panda Centre due to promote and integrate the Global Compact into its open in mid 2013. Shangri-La will support the management strategy and day-to-day operations. development of bamboo plantations and panda This is our second COP Report. Shangri-La feeding facilities. Information on all “Sanctuary, ensures that it will continue to meet its yearly COP Shangri-La’s Care for Nature” projects can be found and report its progress in implementing the 10 at http://www.shangri-la.com/corporate/aboutprinciples into its overall functions and performance. us/corporate-social-responsibility/csrprojects/sanctuary/ and on the individual hotel websites. Anti-Corruption Principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Shangri-La maintains a steadfast commitment to ethical and governance standards. As the Code of Conduct governs the behaviour of all our colleagues, the Shangri-La Supplier Code of Conduct echoes the same principles and ensures responsible practices, including a zero tolerance policy on such practices as bribery and corruption. Shangri-La is still working on strengthening its overall Ethics and Governance Campaign, which will include a review of its policies and standards, a gap analysis in training and enforcement measures
