SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Summary Report 2014 Improving livelihoods SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Summary Report 2014 About SABMiller We are in the beer and soft drinks business. We bring refreshment and sociability to millions of people all over the world who enjoy our drinks. We do business in a way that improves livelihoods and builds communities. We are passionate about brewing and have a long tradition of craftsmanship in making superb beer from high quality natural ingredients. We are local beer experts, producing more than 200 local beers as well as global flagship brands. Every minute of every day, more than 140,000 bottles of SABMiller beer are enjoyed by consumers around the world. Latin America Europe North America 33% Contribution to group EBITA1 11% Contribution to group EBITA1 12% Contribution to group EBITA1 Understanding local issues Understanding local issues Understanding local issues Small and medium-sized enterprises make According to the World Health Organization, According to the US Environmental Protection up more than 95% of firms in Latin America, its European region sees the highest levels of Agency, in 2012 Americans generated about providing employment for more than 60% alcohol consumption and alcohol-related harm. 251 million tons of trash and recycled and of the population. Levels of harm vary and are higher in the east composted almost 87 million tons of this Our response of the region than in the west. material. This is equivalent to a recycling In partnership with the Inter-American Our response rate of 35%. Development Bank, we aim to improve the Since 2007, we have worked with the EU Our response livelihoods of 40,000 small-scale shopkeepers Alcohol and Health Forum to remind people of In the USA, six of MillerCoors’ eight major – tenderos – across six countries in the dangers of drink-driving, underage drinking breweries now send zero waste to landfill. Latin America. and drinking during pregnancy. Countries covered in this report Countries covered in this report Countries covered in this report USA (MillerCoors is a joint venture with Colombia, Ecuador, El Salvador, Honduras, Czech Republic, Hungary, Italy, Poland, Molson Coors Brewing Company). Panama, Peru. Romania, Slovakia, Spain (Canary Islands), the Netherlands. Find out more on page 07 Find out more on page 09 Find out more on page 13 Africa Asia Pacific South Africa 14% Contribution to group EBITA1 13% Contribution to group EBITA1 17% Contribution to group EBITA1 Understanding local issues Understanding local issues Understanding local issues Across Africa, 65% of the population depend India is predicted to overtake China as the In South Africa there are 27.5 road fatalities on smallholder agriculture for their livelihood. world’s most populated country by 2030, per 100,000 population; more than twice the Our response putting increased pressure on already scarce rate of the USA and more than seven times We work to maximise use of local, smallholderwater resources; government census figures that in the UK. grown crops such as sorghum in Uganda, indicate that annual water availability fell by Our response where we are working with 20,000 farmers, 15% in the decade to 2011. This year in South Africa we launched a new giving them a new source of income which Our response fleet safety initiative that aims to train all of our has the potential to lift them out of poverty. Through our Water Futures Partnership in drivers in road safety and to reduce accidents Countries covered in this report India, we are working with local communities by up to 60%. Botswana, Ghana, Lesotho, Malawi, and partners to tackle the root causes of Countries covered in this report Mozambique, Swaziland, Tanzania, Uganda, water shortages. South Africa. Zambia, Zimbabwe. Countries covered in this report Australia, India, Vietnam. Find out more on page 15 Find out more on page 10 Find out more on page 17 1 Excluding corporate costs. Boundary and scope of this report Front cover images This report covers the financial year ended 31 March 2014. We aim to include new acquisitions or market entries within Our returnable bottles, Lech Shandy, tendera in two years. A full list of the operations covered in this report Panama, barley crop, SABMiller animation Sustaining Operations are included in this report on the basis of management control by SABMiller entities. Our US joint is available on page 19. small and micro businesses. venture, MillerCoors LLC, is also included. Our economic Where we hold a minority share in an alliance or partnership, interest in MillerCoors is reflected when reporting we engage with our partners on sustainable development quantitative key environmental performance indicators. issues. Information on business partners can be found at www.sabmiller.com/sd. SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Summary Report 2014 01 Performance highlights Contents Strong results across the group 02 Joint statement by the chairman of CARAC and the Chief Executive 70,000 04 A more focused and ambitious approach to sustainable development Our five shared imperatives Employees 06 Accelerate growth and social development in our value chains US$26,719 m 08 Make beer the natural choice for the moderate and responsible drinker 10 Secure shared water resources for our Group net producer revenue2 business and local communities 12 Create value through reducing waste and 245 m carbon emissions 14 Support responsible, sustainable use of land for brewing crops Hectolitre lager volume3 16 Valuing and empowering our people 18 Expert views US$6,453 m 19 A deeper look at the issues 20 Building sustainable development within our business EBITA 21 Independent limited assurance report to the directors of SABMiller plc 3.5 hl water/hl lager 4 Key to further reading: Read more on page referenced 10.3 Read more online Read more in our annual report kgCO2 e/hl lager 4 A resilient world Page 10 n A clea world 12 Page A thrivin world g ab le o c i A s ld A productive wor Page 0 6 e0 8 world Pag Page 14 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) This report has been produced in accordance with the FTSE4Good and Johannesburg Stock Exchange Socially Responsible Investment GRI G3 guidelines and meets the requirements of the B+ application. Our GRI content index Index SABMiller is a member of the FTSE4Good and the Johannesburg Stock Exchange can be found at www.sabmiller.com/sdreporting. Socially Responsible Investment Index (reflecting the listing of shares in both the UK and United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) This document forms our progress report South Africa), as well as other relevant indices used by the investment community. against the 10 principles of the UNGC and the UNGC CEO Water Mandate. Further CDP SABMiller participates in the CDP Carbon, Water and Supply Chain Disclosure Projects, information is available at www.sabmiller.com/sdreporting. which provide insight into the risks companies face in these areas. UN Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) SABMiller supports the MDGs and seeks to 2 Group net producer revenue (NPR) includes the attributable shares of associates’ and joint make a meaningful contribution to their achievement in the communities in which it operates. ventures’ net producer revenue of US$10,015 million (2013: US$9,547 million). 3 Lager sales volumes includes our equity accounting share of associates’ and joint ventures’ lager volumes. The lager production volume in the year for the operations included in this report is 178 m hectolitres. 4 Information for the year ended 31 March 2014 has been subject to limited assurance by PricewaterhouseCoopers. For further details of the assurance provided see the independent assurance report on page 21. 02 SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Summary Report 2014 Joint statement by the chairman of CARAC and the Chief Executive Our progress and performance are overseen by the corporate accountability and risk assurance committee of the board (CARAC). yo isa Mo Damb n of CAR AC a Chairm Upholding – and building on – that legacy “Graham Mackay of SABMiller is essential as business and wider society confront the huge challenges we jointly was one of the first senior face. The world’s population is expected to business leaders who believed reach 8.75 billion by 2030, against 7.15 billion today5, with much of that growth concentrated in – and acted on – the fact A lan Clark Chief Execut in developing countries. A middle class some ive that profitable and responsible five billion strong6 will be the largest group in this expanded population, bringing with commercial business is it a range of raised expectations in terms of inextricably linked with positive lifestyle and consumption. This brings great At SABMiller, we produce high quality beers opportunity, illustrated by the fact that 72% development impact. He quietly, and soft drinks that are enjoyed by millions of of our EBITA comes from developing markets, but very passionately, cared people. Our businesses throughout the world but will also place increasing pressure on the provide direct and indirect employment, world’s finite natural resources. about his company and growing pay taxes, and help to sustain and develop At SABMiller, we believe in inclusive growth; profit and global reach, but local economies. Last year we generated we know that by helping the businesses in US$24,254 million of economic value through cared equally passionately about our business activities, most of which was our value chains – and their local communities – to grow, our business will grow too. promoting prosperity and distributed to employees, shareholders, Business can play a leading role in tackling governments and local communities. opportunity in Africa and other society’s future challenges, and therefore Our global presence and the value we we welcome the emphasis being placed emerging markets; and in growing generate is a fitting tribute to our company’s on economic growth, trade, investment, potential and possibility for the inspiration and driving force, our late entrepreneurship and sustainable job chairman, Graham Mackay, who sadly died creation, as well as social development and enterprises in SABMiller’s value in December 2013. Graham’s vast legacy to environmental stability, as the United Nations chain and communities. He has SABMiller can be measured not just in the seeks new development priorities post-2015. left an incredible legacy and is a growth of our company under his leadership, but also in his passionate belief that what is It is for this reason that we are taking the next reminder to all of us that, despite good for society is also good for business. step in our sustainable development (SD) strategy, building from our 10 SD priorities to the messy and complicated and He instinctively knew that a business that behaves responsibly and is willing to work sharpen our focus on tackling the sustainable difficult world we live in, individuals collaboratively with its stakeholders can development challenges we jointly face with our value chain partners and communities. really do make a difference.” be a positive force in the world. Jane Nelson Director of Harvard Kennedy School’s 5 Source: United Nations World Population Prospects and United States Census Bureau. Corporate Social Responsibility Initiative 6 As defined by having daily per capita spending of US$10 to US$100, Source: OECD Development Centre, Working Paper No. 285, January 2010. SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Summary Report 2014 03 The 10 sustainable development priorities: a firm foundation Launched in 2007, our 10 sustainable development priorities have This year the average score achieved by SABMiller across all priorities provided each of our local operations with a consistent and transparent was 3.5 – the seventh year of continual improvement and a 51% SD framework. This is the last year we will report against our 10 improvement since the first group average SAM score of 1.7. Group priorities; from 2015 we will report against the new five shared average scores increased across all 10 SD priorities, with significant imperatives with existing KPIs captured under the new framework. improvements made in enterprise development and transparency and ethics. Stairway level assessment criteria Group average level assessment scores 5 Leading edge: performance that represents genuine global leadership on an issue. 4 Best practice: achieving what is currently considered to be global best practice in a particular field. 2014 average 2013 average 2012 average 3 Developing leadership: applying a comprehensive approach including innovative tools and widespread engagement. 2 Progressing: ensuring consistent performance is achieved in a particular field. 2007 average 1 Minimum standard: all operations must achieve level one, or have a plan in place to do so, as it represents management of our key sustainable development risks. Discouraging Making more beer Reducing our energy Packaging, reuse Working towards Encouraging enterprise Benefiting Contributing to the Respecting Transparency 2014 2013 Discover more about the 2012 communities human rights and ethics Sustainability Assessment Matrix (SAM) development in our 2007 using less water and recycling including country progress against a irresponsible drinking and carbon footprint reduction of HIV/Aids zero-waste operations range of key performance indicators at www.sabmiller.com/sam value chains Sharpening our focus: We do not face these issues in isolation, the five shared imperatives which is why we refer to them as shared Since 2007 our 10 SD priorities have driven imperatives. By sharing our local knowledge Our bespoke management responsible and sustainable growth and and collaborating with our stakeholders, we system, the Sustainability grown capability across our business, are confident that we can continue to find helping each of our operations to address innovative local solutions to shared Assessment Matrix (SAM), local sustainable development challenges. challenges. enables us to monitor Our minimum standards, which were a stretch for several of our businesses in 2007, The five shared imperatives are: performance consistently are now well established across the group. • a  ccelerate growth and social development year-on-year. Every country in our value chains; From this position of strength, we have • make beer the natural choice for the is assessed against five levels evolved our SD framework. The substance of our 10 sustainable development priorities moderate and responsible drinker; of performance, from a secure shared water resources for our remains, and is integrated into the day-to-day • business and local communities; minimum standard (level one) management and reporting of our business, underpinned by demanding core standards • create value through reducing waste to leading edge (level five). and carbon emissions; and on issues such as human rights. In the future • support responsible, sustainable use we will focus on five shared imperatives that of land for brewing crops. will enable our businesses to benefit as local communities prosper. Through the shared This report sets out our approach to tackling imperatives we aim to tackle the five issues each of these shared imperatives. It also which are most material for our business at illustrates how sustainable development local and international level. is integrated into SABMiller’s business strategies at a global, regional and in-country level. 04 SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Summary Report 2014 A more focused and ambitious approach to sustainable development Our five shared imperatives tackle the five most material issues for our business. This approach to sustainable development gives us global focus and alignment, while allowing local markets to respond to local needs. These imperatives are ‘shared’ because we can tackle joint risks only in partnership with those A thriving world A sociable world who also face them. By Shared opportunity Shared opportunity working together with local We want a thriving world We want a sociable world where our communities, suppliers, where incomes and quality beers are developed, marketed, sold governments, consumers of life are growing. and consumed with high regard for Through our value chains and in individual and community wellbeing. and beyond, we can develop the communities we are part of, Our beers add to the enjoyment of life shared opportunities to the people – especially women – face for the overwhelming majority of our the challenges of unemployment, lack consumers. Beer has a long history benefit of all. of access to markets, the need for at the heart of social occasions and skills, and sometimes basic services. celebrations. The harm from its abuse The decisions we make can help shape however, can be serious for individuals, their opportunities and enable their communities and society. We must growth and development. boldly do our part to help tackle the problems caused by the harmful use of alcohol. Shared imperative Shared imperative We will accelerate growth and We will make beer the natural social development through our choice for the moderate and value chains. responsible drinker. We are building global programmes Our comprehensive policies help our to promote entrepreneurship within employees and partners to meet our and beyond our value chain. We will demanding standards on producing focus our efforts to target women, our products to encourage responsible those with the lowest income and consumption. Our sound principles are disadvantaged groups. backed by programmes to reduce the harmful use of alcohol. Progress to date Progress to date We already support thousands of micro, We have more than 110 locally tailored small and medium enterprises and programmes to tackle alcohol-related entrepreneurs. harm across the world, and are working with governments, NGOs, civil society We are expanding our programmes groups and public bodies to strengthen to improve livelihoods across our value our work. chain: we currently engage 50,000 smallholder farmers and 68,000 This year we measured our progress micro-retailers and entrepreneurs against a five-year global action plan worldwide through programmes such with other leading beer, wines and spirits as Go Farming in Africa and 4e, working companies, to help reduce the harmful with small-scale shopkeepers in use of alcohol, which will form part of Latin America. an industry report. Read more on page 06 Read more on page 08 SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Summary Report 2014 05 A resilient world A clean world A productive world Shared opportunity Shared opportunity Shared opportunity We want a resilient world where our We want a clean world where nothing We want a productive world where business, local communities and goes to waste and emissions are land is used responsibly, food supply ecosystems share uninterrupted dramatically lower. is secure, biodiversity is protected access to safe, clean water. Reducing waste and preventing and brewing crops can be accessed Growing water scarcity, driven by the climate change are key priorities for at reasonable prices. growing middle class, climate change governments, consumers and SABMiller. Demand for food is growing, and and population growth means that we resources are scarce. Our brewing raw need to play our part to ensure a reliable, materials are dependent on the same clean supply of water that is managed land and water as food crops. Farmers and used as efficiently as possible. have other choices, and many farmers are struggling to earn a viable livelihood. Shared imperative Shared imperative Shared imperative We will secure shared water We will create value through reducing We will support responsible, resources for our business and waste and carbon emissions. sustainable use of land for local communities. We will work with suppliers, distributors, brewing crops. Brewery by brewery, we are building a retailers, municipalities and consumers We are creating secure, sustainable detailed understanding of water risks. to reduce emissions and waste across supply chains both for malting barley We create partnerships to tackle these our value chain, and reuse and recycle (our biggest brewing crop) and local risks with those that share them. waste and packaging. brewing crops such as sorghum and cassava. We are helping farmers increase profitability, productivity and social development while reducing environmental impact. Progress to date Progress to date Progress to date Through our Water Futures Partnership More than 95% of waste from our We work directly with barley farmers we are tackling shared water risks across breweries is reused or recycled to improve the profitability and 12 projects in nine countries. and around half our beer is sold in environmental and social impact of returnable bottles. their farms through programmes such During the year we used an average as Better Barley, Better Beer, run in of 3.5 hl water to produce 1 hl beer, In absolute terms we have reduced association with WWF in South Africa achieving our target to improve our on-site carbon emissions by 29% where we hope to source 90% of brewery water efficiency by 25% between 2008 and 2014. barley locally. (against a 2008 base) a year early. We have pioneered the use of undercommercialised crops in our beer, providing new markets for farmers without affecting food availability. Read more on page 10 Read more on page 12 Read more on page 14 06 SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Summary Report 2014 Accelerate growth and social development in our value chains Building a thriving world where incomes and quality of life are growing. Beer is a local product, typically brewed, sold focused in five key areas: commercial skills, two suppliers are invited each year to and consumed within the same community. account prospecting, general management, attend an intensive, week-long programme At SABMiller, we believe that growth and job financial planning and change management. entitled Growing the Minority Business to creation are key to reducing poverty in Scale at Dartmouth College’s Tuck School We are now using this knowledge to greater communities around the world. When a of Business. effect and have embarked on a major project country’s GDP grows, and especially when to collect all the best practice from our In Zambia, we provide employment at incomes improve, so too does our business businesses. With this information to guide our Lusaka and Ndola bottling plants for performance, at the same time creating us, we aim to build a world-class set of tools 145 previously vulnerable and unemployed wealth and improving livelihoods for the and training materials which will enable us women, working in partnership with a local countries and communities in which to increase the reach and scale of our co-operative. Through a monthly wage paid we work. engagements around the world. to their co-operative, the women are able The multiplier effect – the jobs and Our work in the area of enterprise development to assist vulnerable members of their employment created through our investments was the subject of a study by Harvard Kennedy community, such as children orphaned and operations – can be a powerful force for School, whose subsequent report, Sustaining by HIV/Aids and elderly widows. local development. In Africa and South Africa and Scaling the Impact of Enterprise Investing beyond our value chain we employ more than 24,000 people and Development Programmes, was published in January 2014. We are backing entrepreneurs with bright support more than a million livelihoods ideas in South Africa through the annual SAB indirectly through our supply chain and the Download the report at Foundation Social Innovation Awards. This distribution and retail of our beers7. In Europe, www.sabmiller.com/reports year, 40 innovators received a total of ZAR10.3 for every person SABMiller Europe employs, million (US$1 million) for social innovations that a further 17 jobs are supported in other Promoting diversity across each address a pressing daily challenge faced sectors, mainly in the hospitality industry – our supply chain by those on low incomes, specifically women, which plays a critical role in fighting youth By stimulating the creation of better jobs, young people, people with disabilities and unemployment. Research from the Brewers particularly those that promote gender individuals living in rural areas. The ZAR1 million of Europe found that the hospitality sector diversity and improve incomes for winner this year was the Vula Eye Health supports around one in every 13 jobs in disadvantaged groups, we can help ensure Mobile Phone App, which aims to improve Europe (some 16.6 million jobs). more people are able to share in their eye care in South Africa’s low-income Thinking small, but acting big country’s economic success. Economically communities by educating people about We work with thousands of micro, small empowering women is particularly important different eye conditions, providing access and medium enterprises – many of them run to us, as it boosts GDP, enhances productivity to eye sight tests and connecting them by women – within our value chains and local and feeds other development outcomes to eye care professionals. communities. Over time, we have amassed including those for children. Levelling the We have also further extended the reach a huge bank of experience and best practice gender playing field can, in time, also lead of our KickStart programme that supports in supporting these businesses and the to a fairer and more inclusive society8. enterprises owned by black and young entrepreneurs behind them, from the farmers In the USA, supplier diversity is a cornerstone people (see case study below). who grow our brewing crops to the retailers of MillerCoors’ business. Last year, the who sell our beers. company spent US$493 million with diverse For example, in Romania our multi-year suppliers – 9.2% of total supplier spend. MillerCoors actively engages with businesses Read Our Approach Evolutio programme, launched in 2011, has organised training sessions for sole traders owned by women and people from minority to Tax report at or staff working for small firms within Ursus groups, helping them to identify ways to Breweries’ distribution network. Training is develop and grow. As part of this initiative, www.sabmiller.com/reports Extending the reach of KickStart Our KickStart youth entrepreneurship programme supports the development of sustainable enterprises, owned by black and young people, which have high potential to generate jobs. Since its launch in 1995 it has supported 3,200 new businesses that give employment to 21,000 people in South Africa. The programme was rolled out to Botswana in 2004, Swaziland in 2010 and, during the year, KickStart was launched in Lesotho. SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Summary Report 2014 07 Nurturing the business ecosystem for micro entrepreneurs In Latin America, there are 780,000 small retailers who operate very small stores or kiosks, selling our products among a wide range of other goods. Of these retailers, close to 50% live in poverty and 60% are run by women who are heads of households. They face huge challenges, not least access to finance and the ability to secure all the necessary permits to operate. That is why we are joining forces with the Inter-American Development Bank’s Multilateral Investment Fund (MIF) to roll out 4e, Camino al Progreso, a programme to improve the livelihoods of 40,000 ‘tenderos’ in six countries. “In Latin America, these small-scale “As a multilateral bank, the IDB plays shopkeepers – tenderos – account a leading role in backing private sector for 40% of our sales volumes. Our 4e projects that contribute to sustainable programme takes a holistic approach growth and social inclusion. Through to training. It includes financial literacy the MIF, the IDB is joining forces with and business skills training, access to SABMiller to improve the economic and professional credit and financial services, social impact of the small-scale retail and assistance in meeting regulatory sector. This initiative aims to improve and other requirements, as well as the standard of living of thousands responsible retailing, with training on the of people in low income communities importance of requesting identification across six countries in Latin America.” when selling alcohol and not to sell alcohol to those under the legal drinking Luis Alberto Moreno age. Helping the tenderos supports a President, Inter-American critical sales channel, plus it enables Development Bank them to use their central position in their communities to become catalysts for development. It is a model example of how we can use our value chain to improve the welfare and development of communities.” Karl Lippert President, SABMiller Latin America Our approach to taxation In 2013 we published our first report on the taxes, and taxes borne by employees. Of this total, 67% was paid in developing countries. The big question role of tax in economic development, Our The corporate tax charge for the year was Approach to Tax 2013, offering a new level US$1,173 million (2013: US$1,192 million Small business owners face similar of disclosure and sharing information on (restated)), giving us an effective tax rate challenges, regardless of the business our tax principles. Our second report is of 26.0% (2013: 27.0%). they run or where it is located. How published alongside this report. can we scale up our enterprise 7 Source: SABMiller: Our economic impact in Africa animation, and Working for South Africa: the contribution development partnerships to help The total taxes borne and collected by of SAB to the South African Economy, available at these entrepreneurs grow their SABMiller plc and its subsidiaries and our www.sabmiller.com. businesses and contribute to a thriving share of taxes paid by our US joint venture 8 Source: The World Bank, World Development Report 2012 – Gender Equality and Development. world where incomes and quality of life during the year amounted to US$10,750 are growing? million (2013: US$9,900 million). These include: excise, corporate and transactional Join the conversation at www.sabmiller.com/bigquestions Direct economic Economic value Economic value value generateda distributed retained Revenue plus interest and Operating Employee Payments to Payments Community Value retained for corporate dividend receipts, royalty costs remunerationb providers of to tax investmentsd and operational purposes, income and proceeds of capital authoritiesc including funding future sales of assets capital expenditure and Cost of Cost of All financial Tax paid, Voluntary acquisitions materials, employees’ payments including contributions services and salaries and made to the remittance and investment facilities benefits providers of taxes and of funds in the company’s excise taxes the broader capital economy US$ US$ US$ US$ US$ US$ US$ 24,254 m 9,052 m 2,337 m 2,942 m 7,203 m 32 m 2,688 m This table is constructed based on data contained in the SABMiller 2014 Annual Report and follows guidance recommended by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI EC1). a  Excludes share option charges, includes employer taxes and social security contributions. b  Excludes VAT, indirect taxes and taxes borne by employees. c  Includes cash donations, value of gifts in kind and time donated, and management costs of CSI activity. d  08 SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Summary Report 2014 Make beer the natural choice for the moderate and responsible drinker Fostering a sociable world where our beers are developed, marketed, sold and consumed with high regard for individual and community wellbeing. Beer is a low-alcohol beverage, created to All our companies have a sales and Our TalkingAlcohol.com website features be savoured. It has a long history at the heart marketing compliance committee (SMCC)9, ingredient and nutrition information for each of social occasions and celebrations, and which ensures that any proposed marketing of our brands along with videos, webinars, of adding to the enjoyment of life. materials comply with the POCC as well as interviews and fact sheets on the risks with local laws and national self-regulatory and benefits of alcohol consumption, all Each day our beers are enjoyed by millions requirements. The SMCC has the power to containing the latest news and views from of consumers, the majority of whom drink reject outright, or demand modifications to, alcohol experts. In the past year, the website in moderation. However a minority of any materials that fail to comply. As at has received more than 500,000 unique consumers drink alcohol irresponsibly, 31 March 2014 the SMCCs of 68% of our visitors, generating 1.7 million page views. increasing the risks of doing damage to businesses involved non-industry themselves, those around them and the A public commitment to reduce participation, including independent chairs or communities they live in. There is no simple harmful drinking independent audits on how the SMCC works. solution to addressing alcohol-related harm, In October 2012 SABMiller joined with nor can the issues be resolved by a single Our product portfolio policy sets out the 12 other leading beer, wines and spirits company acting alone. But there are ways minimum standards that all our products, companies in signing up to a five-year global for the industry and key stakeholders to including acquired and new products, must action plan to help reduce the harmful use make a difference; these include ensuring meet. It includes requirements to ensure our of alcohol. The commitments fall under that information about alcohol is accurate beverages are safe to drink, and serves to the following five action areas: and balanced, that laws against drinking demonstrate our desire to lead the industry • Reducing underage drinking; and driving, underage drinking and disorderly on responsible product innovation by • Strengthening and expanding marketing conduct are enforced, and that help is forbidding the addition of stimulants such as codes of practice; offered to people who are most at risk. caffeine to any alcoholic beverages and • Providing consumer information and prohibiting products that mix beer with spirits. A robust system of governance responsible product innovation; Our comprehensive policies, which are Tackling alcohol-related harm • Reducing drinking and driving; and publicly available, help our employees and in all our markets • Enlisting the support of retailers to reduce partners to meet our demanding standards We believe that sound principles for alcohol harmful drinking. on producing and marketing our products to responsibility must also be backed by action During the year we reported our progress encourage responsible consumption. 67%9 on the ground, so throughout the year we in several areas. For example, we engaged of employees received alcohol responsibility have been running more than 110 locally with more than 17,000 stakeholders including training in the past three years (2013: 76%), tailored programmes across the world (see retailers, parents, teachers and police officers a reported decrease on 201310. illustration below for examples) dedicated across 24 countries to seek enforcement to reducing the harmful use of alcohol. The policy on commercial communication of government regulations on underage (POCC) governs how and where our brands In almost every case we collaborated with drinking. In the field of marketing selfare marketed. It states that we will not market local partners, including governments, regulation, 56% of our marketing contracts directly to those under the legal drinking age, non-governmental organisations, civil society now include a requirement to comply with nor will we employ models under the age groups, and public bodies such as the police. our global POCC. Next year all 18 key of 25 in any commercial communication. We believe that by working in partnership performance indicators will be integrated We also ensure our standards for digital with other organisations our approach and into our updated Sustainability Assessment communication are as exacting as those programmes are more robust and credible, Matrix (SAM) system, enabling us to extend for traditional media. can engage more people, and are more our reporting capacity and to analyse likely to achieve change. the data more effectively in future. Read more at www.sabmiller.com/alcohol Highlights from more than 110 alcohol responsibility Poland Not drinking while pregnant programmes around messaging on packaging and the world. marketing materials achieves highest spontaneous recognition in the region India USA Multimedia Respect the Road MillerCoors’ TIPS® programme trained campaign reaches hundreds 3,300+ retail servers last year to Respect 21® of thousands of consumers, in collaboration with distributor partners encouraging them not to drink Latin America and drive Responsible retailing is a key part of our 4e Australia programme which aims to improve the livelihoods Hard-hitting How to drink of 40,000 shop owners in six countries properly campaign speaks directly to 18-24 age group Peru Botswana via social media The Súmate, Solo +18 campaign works with The Ikgalemele responsible retailer programme national celebrities who act as ambassadors includes a ‘Responsible Trader of the Year’ competition to discourage underage drinking open to every subscriber to its code of conduct 9 Information for the year ended 31 March 2014 has been subject to limited assurance by PricewaterhouseCoopers. For further details of the assurance provided see the independent assurance report on page 21. 10 In 2015 we will strengthen our training records. SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Summary Report 2014 09 A partnership approach to addressing harmful drinking What we believ The EU Alcohol and Health Forum (EUAHF) is an important medium through which all the relevant stakeholders in the alcohol industry can increase action SABMiller has si e through shared initiatives to tackle alcohol abuse. Since 2007 SABMiller has x co worked with the EUAHF to continue to remind people of the dangers of alcohol which he re principles about lp to guide ever drink-driving, underage drinking and drinking during pregnancy. This is one we make. They y decision of a number of national and international collaborations we undertake with are: key stakeholders in government and civil society. “We feel the partnership approach “The EU Alcohol and Health Forum 1 Our beer adds to for the overwhe the enjoyment lming majority of life encouraged by organisations such as is among the core implementing consumers of our EUAHF provides an effective framework for action and has helped to yield tangible results. At SABMiller, we have instruments of the EU Alcohol Strategy adopted in 2006, and the Forum members’ commitments will be vital 2 We care about of irresponsible the harmful effe alcohol consum s ct 3 made numerous commitments to the for success of the action plan on youth pt EUAHF, which have included ensuring and binge drinking as prepared by the We engage stak ion eh that 100% of our labels and packaging Committee for national alcohol policy collectively with olders and work in Europe contains a responsible and action.” them to addres irresponsible co s drinking message (RDM) and moving nsumption to an adult audience threshold of 75/25 for all media placements. This year we surpassed our 98% target for John Ryan European Commission Directorate General for Health & Consumers (SANCO) 4 We believe that alco for adults and is hol consumption is a matter of indi commercial communications to meet judgement and vidual accountability 5 guidelines regarding RDM content and Read more about our contribution placement and passed the 75% adult Information prov id alcohol consum ed to consumers about to the EU Alcohol and Health Forum audience threshold.” at www.sabmiller.com/alcohol ption should be and balanced accurate Sue Clark Managing Director, SABMiller Europe 6 We expect our ow to high levels of n employees to as conduct in rela pire alcohol consum tion to ption The big question ‘You Decide’ hits In Africa and Latin America illicit alcohol makes up a significant the airwaves proportion of the total alcohol market. Five ordinary teenagers from different We know that reducing the price of walks of life, each of whom has previously beer can attract consumers away experimented with alcohol, are the stars of from illicit alcohol products. In a new reality television series Future Leaders, Africa, affordable beers like Uganda’s broadcast on South Africa’s SABC 1 TV sorghum beer, Eagle, also create channel. The series is helping to build a a new income stream for previously national profile for its creator and sponsor, You Decide. Launched two years ago, subsistence farmers as well as You Decide aims to encourage young South revenues for governments. How Africans to turn away from the dangers of can we use informed, targeted and underage drinking. It has already reached collaborative actions with governments almost 500,000 students in 877 schools, and other stakeholders to reduce gathered just under 22,000 ‘likes’ for its illicit alcohol and build a sociable Facebook page and was the number one world where our beers are developed, topic on the South African messaging app marketed, sold and consumed with Mxit during December 2013. You Decide is run high regard for individual and by SAB (Pty) Ltd in co-ordination with South Africa’s Department of Trade and Industry community wellbeing? and the National Youth Development Agency. Join the conversation at Follow You Decide on Facebook at www.sabmiller.com/bigquestions www.facebook.com/YouDecideZA 10 SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Summary Report 2014 Secure shared water resources for our business and local communities Working towards a resilient world where everyone has uninterrupted, long-term access to safe, clean water. Water is fundamental not only to SABMiller’s The WRG is one of a number of partnerships in nine countries across Africa, Asia Pacific, value chain but also to the health and committed to alleviating shared water risks Latin America and North America. This success of the markets and communities across the world. The group provides year the partnership entered its second in which we operate and sell our products. an innovative platform that allows for phase, where we will be joined by new The supply of readily available freshwater is collaboration between public-private actors, global partners. finite however, and in many countries both drawing in a diverse group of stakeholders The expanded partnership will benefit from a the quantity and quality of water is in decline from the private sector to civil society to dedicated support unit that provides member as populations – and associated demand public authorities. organisations with the tools, resources, from agriculture, energy generation, industry For example, SABMiller has been one shared knowledge and fund matchmaking and households – grow. Agriculture, in of the lead contributors to the Strategic required to implement effective partnerships particular, is a notably water-intensive activity, Water Partners Network in South Africa. on the ground. We will be actively looking accounting for approximately 70% The partnership is tackling three key focus for new opportunities to expand both the of the world’s freshwater use. areas: effluent and waste water treatment; number of countries covered by the Water risks are felt by many and rarely impact industrial water efficiency and municipal partnership and the projects undertaken. one company in isolation; the private sector leakage reduction; and agriculture and must consequently take a collaborative supply-chain water efficiency. Find out more at www.water-futures.org approach to mitigating shared water risks, Building on the success of this partnership, Using value chain water resource seeking a broad-based consensus with a we have become the founding partner assessments to understand risks willingness by all stakeholders to participate. of a WRG partnership in Tanzania and, SABMiller was a pioneer in the use of water Without concerted action, what is a risk more recently, a new partnership in footprints to better understand ecological today could become a crisis tomorrow; the Maharashtra, India. and business risks around water. We Water Resources Group (WRG), of which published our first water footprint report Since 2009 our Water Futures Partnership SABMiller is a member, estimates that the (covering the Czech Republic and South with WWF and the German development shortfall between accessible freshwater Africa) in 2009. The report looked at water agency GIZ has been working to address supply and global demand could reach use throughout our value chain, from crop some of the most pressing shared water 40% by 2030, an average that conceals growing, to brewing, to cleaning reusable risks facing both our operations and the even more acute shortfalls in certain bottles. Since then we have generated communities and ecosystems surrounding water stressed countries. reports in Peru, Tanzania and Ukraine. them. The partnership now has 12 projects Protecting vital water resources for our Indian breweries Three projects, all of them involving external partners, are helping us to manage the challenge of operating in water stressed areas of India. In Neemrana, Hyderabad and Sonepat we have worked closely with partners such as the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) to encourage more water efficient farming practices. “All of our breweries in India are located “Water is a scarce and vital resource. in water scarce areas, so we regard Shared by all, it is a collective mitigating water risk as critical responsibility of the community. to business continuity. With the SABMiller India is empowering and programmes we have undertaken we enabling small farmers to adopt have been able to reduce water risk. rainwater conservation, harvesting For example, over the past three years and its efficient use for food production our project with the CII in Neemrana, through Community Watershed Rajasthan, has helped farmers increase Management efforts with technical their productivity per hectare by support from ICRISAT. It is also between 17% and 34%, raised their developing treatment for safe use disposable incomes by 18%, and of waste water in agriculture and reduced their water use by 13%. We thereby contributing towards must address water risks proactively, sustainable development.” because waiting for crises to occur is simply not an option. At the same time, Suhas P Wani we recognise that these are shared Acting Director: Resilient Dryland Systems water resources and therefore we International Crops Research Institute for have a role in catalysing collective the Semi-Arid Tropics (ICRISAT) action as well as engaging fully with our neighbouring communities.” Read more about our Indian water projects at www.sabmiller.com/water Ari Mervis Managing Director, SABMiller Asia Pacific SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Summary Report 2014 11 The water risk assessment rollout is well An in -depth, advanced, with the process now complete in 29 facilities across 14 countries, including bespoke water risk all of our Latin American operations. In the forthcoming financial year, we will focus assessment process on Africa. Using less water in our breweries In 2008 we set our breweries a target of 1 Watershed assessment 25% water use reduction by 2015. In the year Baseline • detailed hydrologic mapping ended 31 March 2014 an average water • overview of key stakeholders efficiency ratio of 3.5hl/hl11 (2013: 3.7 hl/hl) means we hit this target one year early, a ‘Best of breed’ credit to the efforts of our breweries to drive improvements throughout our manufacturing 2 Water risk assessment processes. In absolute terms, this year we solution to • bespoke tool to analyse the used 621 million hl11 of water to produce probability and severity of: our beer (2013: 667 million hl). –– physical water risks protecting th e –– quality risks We now have 14 breweries across Europe, –– reputation risks relating Latin America and Asia Pacific that use to water resources 3.0 hl or less to produce a hl of beer. loc al watersh ed –– regulatory risks relating Together, these operations account for to water resources 18% of group volumes. Carlton & United in Colombia Breweries’ Yatala facility in Australia remains Reviewed annually the most water-efficient in the group, with an 3 Stakeholder analysis average water efficiency of just 2.45 hl/hl. • identification and prioritisation of key stakeholders in the Water-efficient agriculture Faced with declining water standards watershed to aid targeted While brewing efficiency is important, the in the local watershed, and bigger water engagement in mitigation water savings made are dwarfed by those charges as a result of the extra treatment action plan development that could potentially be achieved by more needed, we discovered that upstream efficient agricultural methods. For example, farming and cattle ranching were damaging the Páramo, the unique in South Africa it takes 155 litres of water to mountainous ecosystem that feeds the 4 Mitigation action plan produce a litre of beer, with 95% of that figure covering agricultural inputs including local river system. In conjunction with • developed for each The Nature Conservancy and Bogotá prioritised risk freshwater irrigation and rainfall12. Water Company we supported local • signed off and resourced farmers to adopt more sustainable by facility management We are working to ensure that our brewing agricultural practices, jointly underwriting crops use precious water resources as the cost of introducing more appropriate sparingly as possible. We recently brought cattle breeds to live within the ecosystem. together key stakeholders in the George area Investment in watershed protection of South Africa, the only part of the country reduced water treatment costs for the where hops are grown commercially and city by US$4 million per year, arresting a region exposed to water scarcity. A full water price increases at our brewery while The detailed water footprint analyses water risk assessment concluded that alien also helping the farmers to benefit from conducted to date have helped inform the vegetation posed the greatest threat to water greater efficiencies. development of our overall group water security, with flows potentially reduced by strategy, allowing us to focus on areas where 40% if left unchecked. Now a joint project we can target our interventions and resources involving SAB (Pty) Ltd and other to have the greatest potential impact. stakeholders aims to clear an initial 3,000 An in-depth, bespoke water risk hectares of land affected by alien vegetation, assessment process with subsequent phases of follow-up clearing. The initial clearing is expected To help us better understand the nature and extent of local water risk, during the year we to provide some 30,000 person days of The big question launched a bespoke water risk assessment employment, together with 16,000 days process, which builds on earlier analysis but for the follow-up clearing.  ater, food and energy are inextricably W allows us to investigate risks more deeply. linked; a connectedness often referred The new assessment enables us to build to as the water-food-energy nexus. up a detailed, watershed-level, site-by-site We need water to grow food and to picture of our water exposure. Using this generate energy; we need energy data our breweries are able to identify and to grow food and to treat and move prioritise risks and develop and implement water; and we need land (and in the mitigation action plans. It also gives us a case of biofuels, crops) for energy Water to lager ratio¹¹ production. We cannot manage stronger platform for further developing hl water/hl lager our successful partnerships with key local these three resources in isolation stakeholders; we plan to share more of 4.6 as the availability of each affects the 4.5 our collected data with local authorities 4.3 4.2 availability of the others. To build a 4.0 and partners to assist their water 3.7 resilient world where our businesses, 3.5 resource planning. local communities and ecosystems share uninterrupted access to safe, The process (illustrated above) begins with clean water, we need to apply nexus a one-off mapping of the watershed and the thinking. How can a more integrated identification of key policies, regulations and approach be achieved? stakeholders. On an annual basis we assess water risks, work that informs specific action Join the conversation at plans for each prioritised risk and guides the 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 www.sabmiller.com/bigquestions way we engage with different stakeholders. Information for the year ended 31 March 2014 has been subject to limited assurance by PricewaterhouseCoopers. 11 For further details of the assurance provided see the independent assurance report on page 21. Source: SABMiller and WWF, Water footprinting: Identifying & addressing water risks in the value chain. 12 12 SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Summary Report 2014 Create value through reducing waste and carbon emissions Striving for a clean world where nothing goes to waste and emissions are dramatically lower. At SABMiller, we recognise the need to Eliminating waste from the Reducing supply chain emissions move global business practice and local brewing process Last year 50 key suppliers shared CO2 economies from one way consumption, About 99% of spent grains from our emission related data with us, including where waste is commonplace, towards a breweries are sold and reused as nutrientreduction targets, progress towards those more circular economic model based on rich inputs to the agricultural sector or to targets and detailed analysis of the projects reusing, recycling and eliminating waste. make animal feed. This creates value from contributing to reductions through CDP. Brewing is a natural champion of this waste as well as preventing it from being SABMiller Procurement continues to work approach. Such an approach does not just diverted to landfill. During the year our collaboratively with our suppliers to build a make sense for the environment; it is also breweries reused or recycled 95.6% of their detailed understanding of CO2 emissions fundamental if we want to grow sustainably general waste (2013: 94.4%). across the supply chain, from which in the years ahead. We are on track to substantial emission reductions can be Returnable bottles: embedding achieve a 50% reduction in on-site achieved through mutually beneficial the culture of reuse greenhouse gas emissions from projects. We are also increasing our Continuing the use of returnable glass bottles our breweries by 2020. participation in the supply chain element of is a trusted and effective way to reduce the CDP, by inviting 100 key packaging suppliers environmental impact of our packaging. It is to join in 2014. In addition, all new supplier good for our business, our consumers and contracts will require supplier disclosure for the environment, because returnable on scope 1 and 2 carbon emissions either bottles are much more resource efficient through CDP or an internal CO2 score card. throughout their lifecycle than cans, PET bottles or non-returnable bottles. Driving efficiency today and tomorrow Cooling without Around half of our beer is sold in returnable packaging. For example, the super-returnable We aim to halve the CO2 emissions per hectolitre of beer brewed by 2020 (against compromise in a 2008 base), with savings primarily coming bottles used by Bavaria in Colombia are from more efficient use of energy, including refilled an average of 44 times. Now we are using energy from renewable rather than targeting improvements in Europe, where Poland we already have 700 million returnable glass bottles in circulation but where there are large differences between markets in fossil fuel sources where feasible. These savings give us more resources to invest in driving further efficiencies, as well as Our consumers enjoy the refreshment returnable bottle penetration and supporting our business growth objectives. of a cold beer and we are partnering with consumer behaviour. During the year we used 118 MJ/hl our retail customers, where possible, to enhance this experience. But refrigeration (Megajoules of energy per hectolitre of beer There are tensions. A recent internal study can have harmful impacts on the produced) – a reduction of 7% compared in Europe examined the potential barriers to environment, with the bulk of greenhouse with the prior year – and our CO2e emissions bottles being returned; some consumers are gas emissions arising from energy use. fell by 7% to 10.3 kgCO2e per hl13 (2013: 11.1). very loyal and committed to using returnable In many markets we are investing in In absolute terms, our carbon emissions bottles, while others find it inconvenient to energy-saving devices and LED lighting, were 1.8 million tonnes13 (2013: 2.0 million return empty bottles to the retailer. The reducing the energy consumption of older tonnes), of which 1.0 million tonnes were extended lifecycle of a returnable bottle can fridges by up to 40%. generated from our direct use of fuels such also potentially stifle innovation in packaging. Last year, we purchased some 8,000 as natural gas, coal and oil (scope 1) and Our goal is to learn from markets where the new fridges for our Polish retail network, 0.8 million tonnes were generated indirectly returnable culture is strong and to promote all of them equipped with propane gas from the production of electricity we increased innovation in this space. Poland refrigerant. This innovation reduces the cost purchase (scope 2). will take the lead as we move from research of cooling beer while removing the harmful global warming impact of hydrofluorocarbons to action to make the returnable system These efforts are driven at a brewery (HFCs), and could underpin a future scaling work better. level, where water and energy efficiency up of this strategy. is a key element of the technical excellence and sustainability agenda. Breweries have clear and stretching targets, which are “In absolute terms we benchmarked globally each month, with water and energy performance now forming have reduced on site part of the key performance indicators for employees responsible for each stage of carbon emissions the brewing process. by 29% between 2008 and 2014.” 13 Information for the year ended 31 March 2014 has been subject to limited assurance by PricewaterhouseCoopers. For further details of the assurance provided see the independent assurance report on page 21. SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Summary Report 2014 13 49% of our beer is sold in returnable Nothing wasted: Golden and packaging, which is much more carbon efficient throughout its Albany become landfill-free lifecycle than cans, PET bottles or non-returnable bottles. In the USA, Trenton brewery became our first landfill-free facility in 2009. Since then, our breweries have been working to achieve landfill-free status. Environmental co-ordinators at all of our US breweries now work together to share best practice. The experience of Trenton helped Golden brewery eliminate more than 135 tons of waste each month. By making small Average greenhouse gas emissions changes to everyday activities and through modest investments in by packaging type infrastructure and equipment, MillerCoors has been able to cut waste kgCO2e/hl per SKU to landfill across its eight major breweries by 80% since 2008. 54.23 “Bill Coors famously said, ‘Waste “We are pleased to recognise is a resource out of place’ when MillerCoors for their leadership position 35.18 he supported efforts that led to the in environmental stewardship through invention of the recyclable aluminium a strong commitment to reduction in can more than 50 years ago. Bill’s push waste disposal to landfills. Recognising for continuous improvement lives on the positive impact that can be realised 18.43 at MillerCoors today as we constantly in reducing waste, recycling, and 8.60 push our company to use less and reusing, six of eight major MillerCoors 6.25 recycle more, from office paper to scrap breweries now claim the achievement of aluminium. As a result, we are brewing being fully landfill-free. With increasing Keg Returnable PET Can Non-returnable bottle our beers even more responsibly with awareness for our limited raw material industry-leading quality. We are proud resources and the need for improved bottle bottle that six of our eight major breweries are waste management in manufacturing, now landfill-free and we won’t ever stop more companies are following this lead Source: SABMiller our commitment to sustainability.” toward landfill-free facilities. NSF International works with various product Tom Long manufacturing companies to certify Chief Executive Officer, MillerCoors such claims against rigorous third-party criteria and assessments that include in-facility audits.” Total energy consumption PJ Tom Bruursema 26.2 General Manager, Environmental and 23.7 24.0 24.4 23.1 22.9 Sustainability Services, NSF International 21.0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Total CO2e emissions from fossil fuel energy used on site¹³ Million tonnes 2.6 2.5 2.4 2.4 2.2 2.0 1.8 The big question Around half our beer is sold in returnable bottles and kegs, which have a lower environmental impact 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 than one way packaging. But returnable packaging is in decline in some markets, under threat from CO2e emissions from fossil fuel energy logistical challenges coupled with used on site¹³ consumer perceptions of the kgCO2e/hl lager inconvenience of returning packs 14.9 and the premium value of a single-use 14.3 14.2 13.8 bottle. Protecting returnable packaging 12.4 is an important step towards building 11.1 10.3 a clean world where nothing goes to waste and emissions are dramatically lower. How can we make returnable packaging easier to use and challenge consumer perceptions? Join the conversation at 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 www.sabmiller.com/bigquestions 14 SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Summary Report 2014 Support responsible, sustainable use of land for brewing crops A productive world where land is used responsibly, food supply is secure, biodiversity is protected and brewing crops can be accessed at reasonable prices. With more than seven billion human mouths freshwater withdrawals; a third of the Earth’s Improving productivity and for farmers to feed, the issue of food security land surface supports crop production for resource efficiency is one of paramount importance to everyone food, feed or biofuels. In a number of countries we work directly involved in the agricultural supply chain. with barley farmers to improve the profitability Naturally, we place a major focus on malting Today around a billion people go to bed and environmental and social impact of their barley, our key brewing crop. We source both hungry, a situation that will only become farms. In South Africa, our Better Barley, from long established barley-growing more acute given the projected need for Better Beer programme, run in association regions, and from newer growing areas in 70% more food production by 205014. with WWF, provides a resilient, sustainable which we have supported the introduction framework for farmers to use, covering Food security is of particular importance of malting barley as a new source of income. areas such as water usage, minimising across Africa, where 65% of the population Wherever we source from, we aim to support environmental impact and managing labour. depend on smallholder agriculture for their productivity, resource efficiency, and the livelihood. However, for these farmers to profitability of malting barley so that it plays During the year SAB (Pty) Ltd began develop the skills and accrue the financial a core role in farmers’ crop rotations and in construction of a new malting plant in Alrode, wherewithal to increase production they local economies. a ZAR700 million (US$69 million) investment must be able to find suitable markets for their which will allow SAB (Pty) Ltd to reduce the Sourcing malting barley and other brewing crops. Our aim is to provide new markets for amount of malted barley it imports and to crops locally is an important part of our their crops, giving them incentives to increase further its programme of developing the local business model, in both developed and production and therefore support both agricultural sector by supporting black farmers. developing countries. However, this is not increased income and food security. We SAB (Pty) Ltd currently sources around 65% the only route to resource efficient and have developed under-commercialised of its barley locally, a figure that should sustainable sourcing. Where local production crops, such as cassava and sorghum, potentially increase to between 90% and is not viable or competitive, we will import creating secure, sustainable supply chains 95% when the plant becomes operational. crops to use in making our beers. With every that improve the livelihoods of smallholders crop procurement decision we consider In Zambia, farmers have developed a malting and drive economic growth. the trade-offs that exist between cost, barley sector from scratch, making a The availability of natural resources and productivity, the use of resources and significant contribution to the economy and resilience to climate change are also critical our contribution to local growth. ensuring we are now locally self-sufficient for to agriculture, which accounts for 70% of this crop. As a next phase we are working with our partner barley farmers to optimise yields and efficiency. In Rajasthan, India, we have been working with independent, small scale farmers to increase barley yields through better crop management and the adoption of new varieties more suited to the brewing process than those previously grown in the area. Bonsucro: These and other efforts have led to improved incomes for farmers, along with reductions in environmental impact. good sugar, See case study on page 10 best practice The Bonsucro standard is the first global metric standard for sugarcane. Bonsucro is a global, multi-stakeholder, non-profit organisation dedicated to reducing the environmental and social impacts of sugarcane production, while “Wherever we source also recognising the need for economic viability. from, we aim to support SABMiller joined Bonsucro in 2013 and within the next year we intend to achieve certification for Azunosa, our sugarcane farm and mill in productivity, resource Honduras, which we hope will be the first in Central America with this accreditation. efficiency, and At the same time, we are working closely profitability.” with other sugarcane suppliers to share best practice from Azunosa. While Bonsucro has provided a valuable framework for Azunosa, we recognise that it is not the only approach to achieving sustainable sugarcane production. In other regions we are working closely with suppliers and other stakeholders to develop appropriate approaches to improving the social and environmental impacts of sugarcane. 14 Source: FAO, How to feed the world 2050: Global agriculture towards 2050, October 2009. SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Summary Report 2014 15 Tailoring our local sourcing to local produce In Uganda, Nile Breweries pioneered using local sorghum to brew beer. In 2002 it became the first brewery to launch a sorghum lager, Eagle, with a broad-based Local Enterprise Agriculture Programme (LEAP) to help build a supply of sorghum to meet growing demand. Today, the Eagle family of brands accounts for around 50% of Nile’s volumes. During the year, the farmers’ gross direct income amounted to US$4 million for sorghum crops. The brewery buys from and supports some 20,000 sorghum farmers. We have since replicated the success of Eagle lager in other African markets; for example, in Mozambique Impala is made from the smallholder-farmed crop cassava. “Our African breweries have shown “The logic of a modern brewery is that real innovation in developing beers that since you have decided to drink, drink make use of indigenous, smallholderalcohol that is industrially produced, grown crops like sorghum and cassava. tested and safe. Nile Breweries have Localisation of sourcing is a major brought a reform: they were initially priority for us; it is our objective to using imported cereal to make beer. establish local supply chains to They have now decided to use more sustainably supply our needs, improve locally sourced cereal. By so doing livelihoods for smallholders and drive they have created jobs and improved economic growth. Capturing the huge forward and backward linkages in value opportunity will take commitment this economy.” and investment, and we must align with the right partners and stakeholders to succeed, but it is critical if we are to be President Yoweri Kaguta Museveni judged by the positive contribution we President of Uganda make to society.” Mark Bowman Managing Director, SABMiller Africa In the USA, MillerCoors is demonstrating best Given our large business footprint in the practice in water conservation at the 5,000 acre Showcase Barley Farm in Silver Creek developing world, we are acutely aware of issues around secure access to land. In The big question Valley, Idaho. The water management sub-Saharan Africa, as much as 90% of land In order to secure our future brewing techniques and technologies developed at is untitled15. When smallholder farmers do not materials supply, we must ensure the farm have cumulatively saved more than have title to the land they farm, their ability to brewing crops are productive and 400 million gallons since 2011, and are now invest is reduced. We have added our voice profitable for farmers, improve local being shared with all agricultural partners to those campaigning to improve land rights, economies and communities, and are via the MillerCoors Barley Farming citing the examples of Botswana and Ghana, not threatened by natural resource Sustainability Guide. where laws have already been improved so scarcity. But our brewing crops are that lands held by long custom are given the part of a much bigger farming and food A responsible approach to livelihoods, same legal status as formally documented security picture. How can we ensure land and labour private property. our initiatives are fully integrated with In many countries, the income earned from brewing crops provides a route out of poverty Azunosa, our sugarcane farm and mill in the global effort to meet the world’s and food insecurity, giving farmers the Honduras, is working with the government future food needs, and contribute to financial resources to invest in better, more and Honduran financial institutions on the building a productive world where land sustainable production methods. Improving Rural Development Programme. This initiative is used responsibly, food supply is conditions and livelihoods for has so far provided land to 17 small farmer secure, biodiversity is protected the farming community is at the core of co-operatives, together with financial, and brewing crops can be accessed our sourcing strategy. We strive to ensure technical and administrative assistance at reasonable prices? that women are economically rewarded plus forward contracts for the purchase for agricultural work, that incomes for the of sugarcane by Azunosa at a fair price Join the conversation at agricultural labour force improve, and that (see case study left). www.sabmiller.com/bigquestions farms become safer places to work. 15 Source: UN Development Programme, Land rights reform and governance in Africa – how to make it work in the 21st century? 16 SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Summary Report 2014 Valuing and empowering our people Being an employer of choice around the world. Our success is driven by each of the 70,000 It is with regret that we report 15 employee dependants. In countries where prevalence people we employ worldwide. We believe and contractor fatalities this year. Five of is above 1%, we provide access to voluntary that better business decisions – and stronger these were the result of accidents involving counselling and testing as well as managed business performance – are driven by groups maintenance or repairs, seven resulted from healthcare programmes for employees and of competent, high-calibre individuals motor vehicle accidents, and three resulted immediate dependants as required. operating in a diverse environment with from robberies or assaults inflicted on our Specific country-level public health and the right skills, experience and motivation. staff while on sales or trade visits. In each wellbeing initiatives have included SAB (Pty) case we have undertaken an investigation We seek to treat all our employees and Ltd distributing free condoms to local taverns and, where applicable, implemented contractors equitably and with respect, across South Africa. Over three years we measures to minimise the likelihood of such while providing them with a safe working distributed 16 million condoms to almost an incident recurring. During the year we environment. We reward them fairly by 12,000 taverns, averting more than 32,00016 recorded 12,395 days lost through injury providing a range of benefits, together with new HIV infections. – a 21% decrease on 2013 (2013: 15,695) opportunities to reach their potential and – and 1,642 industrial injuries (2013: 1,788). In Ghana, Accra Brewery and its project enjoy long, fulfilling careers with us. partner, Graphic Communications Group, Promoting our employees’ wellbeing Taking action on health and safety organised free medical screening for people We aim to create a healthy and positive Our first priority is to ensure the safety of our in the local Adabraka community. The event work environment for all our employees, employees, contractors, and visitors to our was attended by hundreds of residents, who acknowledging the benefits this provides breweries, bottling plants and offices. In 2013 were able to access free dental and general in terms of productivity. We have now we reviewed our health and safety practices; medical treatment, while those with serious implemented our Wellness Development during 2014 we launched a new system of conditions were referred to hospitals. Programme in Africa, which focuses on HIV/ governance for group-wide health and safety, Aids, malaria, sexually transmitted infections, Delivering business success through based on 10 global minimum standards for hepatitis B and C, and tuberculosis; it trains high performance managing specific risk areas such as road our employees to become peer educators We recognise and reward strong transport, security, occupational health, and both internally and within their home performance. Each year, all employees set health and safety management processes. communities, promoting prevention, themselves stretching individual objectives This will standardise reporting, help us with testing and treatment. in conjunction with their managers. These sharing best practice and allow targeted goals are linked to local company objectives, Where HIV/Aids has high prevalence (defined improvements. It draws on the best practice ensuring that each individual has clear as affecting more than 5% of the population), and expertise developed by our regional accountability for delivering against the our peer educators – numbering 1,752 at health and safety specialists, in particular business strategy. 31 March 2014 (2013: 1,733), equivalent to those in Australia and South Africa. one for every 12 employees – work to reduce Bonus payments and salary increases the stigma attached to the disease, leading are linked to performance against these to greater appetite for voluntary counselling individual goals. They are calculated against and testing among employees and their a combination of both individual achievement and overall company performance. Attracting and retaining talent We aim to offer appropriate and continuous career development opportunities to all our Promoting employees, whether in their current role or to prepare them for a new one. Each individual is encouraged to take ownership of their own gender diversity development, supported by their manager. During the year, we focused on embedding our new career framework, introduced in The beer industry is traditionally perceived to be 2013, across a selection of functions. The male-dominated. We remain keen to tackle this framework identifies the skills, experience issue and to promote gender diversity at all and competencies required to perform levels of our business. various roles, allowing close alignment At present, gender diversity varies from region between employees’ needs and to region, with South Africa having the highest business needs. representation of women in leadership roles. During the year we took an in-depth, regionThrough our global learning curricula we offer by-region look at the factors that contribute more than 200 courses. These use a variety to lower proportions of female leadership. Our of techniques, from e-learning to sessions aim is to understand the underlying causes, facilitated by leading educational institutions. recognising that these may differ across our In the year ended 31 March 2014 we regions, so we can then identify solutions. provided an average of 3.9 training days In support of this regional work, in Australia, for every employee (2013: 3.7 days). Europe, India and the USA we have signed up as a global supporter of Catalyst, a not-for-profit organisation that seeks to expand opportunities for women in business. 16 Assumes that for every 500 condoms distributed one new HIV infection is averted, John Stower, 2004, published by the South African National Department of Health. SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Summary Report 2014 17 During the year, we launched new functional academies to help employees develop the specialist skills they need to do their job. Our Key Account Management Academy Fleet safety initiative under way is a good example of this approach. It has enabled regions to develop their account managers across a range of key topics, from winning with customers to effective negotiation skills dependent on individual need and market maturity. To support the in South Africa design and continuing governance of our In South Africa, driving is hazardous; there are 27.5 fatalities per 100,000 people, more than global academies we have created twice the rate of the USA and more than seven times that of the UK. With a fleet of more than communities of practice that draw upon 5,000 vehicles in primary and secondary distribution, and almost 1,700 used by our sales force, representatives from across the business. many of our employees are on the road. We have also introduced a new framework In September we launched a ZAR5.8 million (US$0.6 million) driver safety programme to equip that focuses on developing leaders across our drivers with improved skills in defensive, safe and economical driving. the leadership pipeline and across regions, Drivers spend a day on the road with a specialist assessor – who analyses their strengths seeking to ensure that the talent we need to and weaknesses and provides on-the-spot coaching as required – and attend two days of provide tomorrow’s leaders is identified early classroom-based activities, learning safe driving techniques and working through real-life and properly nurtured. We have identified the traffic scenarios, including hazards such as driving in the wet or on rural roads. roles most critical to delivering our business The programme aims to reach every driver within two years, with ongoing refreshers provided strategy, and have a global succession pool to maintain the new standards. Over the next five years our aim is to reduce accidents per – monitored by the group’s executive million kilometres driven by 60%. We also expect to see a full return on investment in the form of committee – in place for these roles, with reduced accident damage to vehicles, fewer insurance claims and less maintenance downtime. candidates from all regions. In the past year Most importantly, by equipping our drivers to deal with the daily hazards encountered behind we have made 41 key appointments from this the wheel, we will keep our employees safer and contribute to overall road safety. pool to fill senior posts group wide. More broadly, 67% of senior appointments have been made internally. Valuing diversity and equality economy by including and empowering They cover the protection of human rights We have clear policies and processes in previously disadvantaged citizens. More and labour standards, transparency and place to ensure that we recruit and treat than three-quarters of SAB (Pty) Ltd’s business ethics, and environmental impacts. people fairly and on merit, regardless of age, workforce is drawn from previously We are members of SEDEX, the Supplier gender, sexual orientation, religion, disability disadvantaged groups and 77% of its Ethical Data Exchange, and AIMor ethnic origin. employees are black. SAB (Pty) Ltd achieved PROGRESS, a forum of leading FMCG 75.25 (2013: 73.11) in the last annual BBBEE SABMiller is a signatory of the UN Global companies that aims to enable and promote verification, making it a Level 3 contributor Compact and has an established approach responsible sourcing practices and to BBBEE. to managing human rights risks, taking sustainable supply chains. A total of 655 account of the UN’s Universal Declaration Labour relations suppliers are now registered with SEDEX, of Human Rights and Guiding Principles on Our employees play a crucial role in our representing a 36% year-on-year increase. Business and Human Rights. This approach success. We regularly solicit their views and During the year, we took the lead of the helps our local businesses to identify and listen to their ideas and opinions through AIM-PROGRESS Mutual Recognition work mitigate any significant risks within their employee engagement surveys, which are stream, which seeks to reduce duplication operations and value chains. conducted by almost all of our local in supplier assessments. Through this work operations. We also respect the right to union stream we collected 164 ethical audits on As at 31 March 2014 19.7% of our workforce representation and 40.9% of employees are our key suppliers and directly commissioned was female (2013: 18.8%) and 28.4% of our union members (2013: 37.8%). Many of our 35 audits. By working with our suppliers on executives and managers were women businesses have developed productive closing areas of non-compliance, we have (2013: 28.1%). Two of the 12 members of partnerships with trade unions on collective helped 42 suppliers improve working the group’s executive committee are female, bargaining and other issues. conditions on their sites and meet the 20% of SABMiller’s plc board are women, standards of our supplier code of conduct. which is at the FTSE100 average of 20.4%17, Responsible procurement and three of our seven independent During the year, SABMiller Procurement In addition, under our supplier accreditation non-executive directors are female. further strengthened its responsible sourcing programme, key global suppliers have signed programme. The Supplier Code of Conduct up to our anti bribery policy and provided We continue to support South Africa’s and Sustainable Development Standards, insights into their efforts to stamp out bribery Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment which were launched in 2012, are now and corruption within their supply chains. (BBBEE) initiatives aimed at growing the applicable to all our suppliers globally. 17 Source: Professional Boards Forum BoardWatch. Training days per employee Employees trained in ethics Female executives and managers Trade union membership Number of days within the last three years % of total executive and % of employees who are Thousand employees manager workforce members of a trade union 4.4 47 47 28 28 28 42 41 4.2 27 39 4.0 42 26 26 25 38 38 38 3.9 3.8 3.9 36 3.7 36 33 29 23 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 18 SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Summary Report 2014 Expert views We work in partnership with a wide range of stakeholders worldwide to drive progress on our shared imperatives. We asked some of our key partners to share their views on our new SD framework. “The challenges of delivering increased prosperity and opportunity for poor people in developing countries, coupled with the need for stewardship of the environment and natural resources, cannot A thriving world be delivered by one actor alone. Accountable, transparent and fair partnerships between the public and private sectors with communities and civil society are essential if we are to eliminate poverty, tackle climate change and support economic development. We encourage the efforts of companies like SABMiller to establish such partnerships where they are designed to deliver equitable and sustainable growth.” Lynne Featherstone MP Parliamentary Under Secretary of State for International Development The SABMiller Scholar’s Programme started in 2009 and relies on a long-term partnership with the British Institute of Innkeeping. To date the programme has provided opportunities for 4,000 staff A sociable world working at UK licensed premises to earn qualifications in responsible retailing. “I agreed to be patron of this scheme because it’s a really good example of how Government and industry can work together to tackle alcohol misuse. The Scholars’ Programme is a fantastic way of working toward a more responsible drinking society and I’m delighted to give it my full support.” Sally Keeble Former UK Government Minister and patron of the SABMiller Scholars’ Programme “WWF and SABMiller share a strategic interest in the future of natural resource management, in particular relating to food, water and energy. In the last 12 months we have combined to explore A resilient world how economic decision makers in government and business can put in place plans which facilitate resilient development of these resources, combining robust infrastructure, flexible institutions and functioning natural capital. This has been a fascinating project. We intend that the insights which we have obtained will help us influence policy in several countries. That SABMiller has been willing to invest in this kind of pathfinder project signals an engagement in 21st century social and economic challenges which is unusual among corporates. We are also working closely to further develop and build on our experience over the last few years working on freshwater conservation projects that address water related risks in SABMiller’s supply chains through the Water Futures Partnership.” Dr David Tickner Chief Adviser, Freshwater WWF-UK “ The partnerships of the Ellen MacArthur Foundation with companies are central to achieving our vision. We were pleased this year to welcome SABMiller to our Circular Economy 100 group – a A clean world global platform bringing together leading companies, emerging innovators and regions to accelerate the transition to a circular economy. SABMiller is working towards this goal through turning the by-products of the brewing process into valuable inputs for other manufacturing operations, and reusing packaging such as returnable glass bottles. We hope to make great strides together in accelerating the transition to a truly circular economy.” Jamie Butterworth CEO Ellen MacArthur Foundation “Agriculture has the potential to become the engine of growth that can provide income and food security, whilst ensuring responsible management of our natural resources. Tanzania adopted a A productive world unique public-private approach towards agriculture transformation in which the private sector plays an important role. As a founding partner of SAGCOT, SABMiller has championed the regionalisation of this approach through Grow Africa, facilitated the establishment of the Water Resources Group and is also making a real practical difference on the ground, through Tanzania Breweries Ltd’s local sourcing programmes that help farmers improve their yields.” Geoffrey Kirenga CEO, SAGCOT Centre Ltd. (Southern Agricultural Growth Corridor of Tanzania) SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Summary Report 2014 19 A deeper look at the issues Throughout the year we work with our partners to publish research and further information on the issues most material to our business. 3 1 6 2 Reports You can download these 7 reports, along with country 4 sustainable development reports, at www.sabmiller.com/ reports. 1. Sustaining and Scaling the Impact of Enterprise Development Programmes 2. The Water-Food-Energy 5 Nexus: Insights into resilient development 3. The Contribution made by SABMiller to the European Economy 4. Our Approach to Tax, 2013 5. A Constructive Approach: Beer, responsible drinking and economic growth in 8 the UK Animations You can watch the animations featured in this report, along 9 with videos of executive committee members talking about sustainable development at www.sabmiller.com/films. 6. Entrepreneurship world map 7. The Future of Farming: Food Security 8. Irrigation – more or less? 9. Sustaining small and micro businesses Operating companies included in this report Many of our local operations publicly report their own sustainable development information: Australia Carlton & United Breweries Peru Unión de Cervecerías Peruanas Backus y Botswana Kgalagadi Breweries (Pty) Ltd Johnston SAA Canary Islands Compañia Cervecera de Canarias SA Poland Kompania Piwowarska SA Colombia Bavaria SA Romania Ursus Breweries SA Czech Republic Plzeňský Prazdroj as Slovakia Pivovary Topvar as Ecuador Cervecería Nacional (CN) SA South Africa The South African Breweries (Pty) Ltd El Salvador Industrias La Constancia, SA de CV Swaziland Swaziland Beverages Ltd Ghana Accra Brewery Ltd Tanzania Tanzania Breweries Ltd Honduras Cervecería Hondureña, SA de CV The Netherlands Grolsche Bierbrouwerij Nederland BV Hungary Dreher Sörgyárak Zrt Uganda Nile Breweries Ltd India SABMiller India Ltd USA MillerCoors LLC Italy Birra Peroni Srl Vietnam SABMiller Vietnam Company Ltd Lesotho Maluti Mountain Brewery (Pty) Ltd Zambia Zambian Breweries plc Malawi Chibuku Products Ltd Zimbabwe Delta Corporation Ltd Mozambique Cervejas de Moçambique SA Panama Cervecería Nacional SA Regular sustainable development report Information provided online First sustainable development Detailed SD information published in report published this year annual report for the first time 20 SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Summary Report 2014 Building sustainable development within our business By focusing on what matters locally we are integrating sustainable development further into our strategic thinking and business planning. Robust and transparent governance us to collect examples of best practice to Our SD performance is overseen by the share across the group, while also building group corporate accountability and risk capability with new teams (in the case of assurance committee (CARAC), a subHungary) and helping local teams to develop committee of the SABMiller plc board. cross-functional SD strategies, owned The CARAC is chaired by Dr Dambisa Moyo, collectively by all members of their local a non-executive director of SABMiller plc. executive committees. In three of these markets (Ecuador, India and Zambia) support For a full list of CARAC members see pages was provided by the local internal audit team, 46 and 47 of our 2014 annual report which co-ordinated the gathering and assessment of documentation underlying Each region also has its own CARAC, key sustainable development indicators. which meets twice a year to review local SD performance and discuss emerging issues. In 2013 we established an SD expert group, A typical agenda includes an update on bringing together experts from each of our performance measured through SAM, regions to share insights and best practice, a spotlight on a particular market and and to discuss emerging issues and discussion around topical issues. Regional priorities. During the year the SD expert CARACs are chaired by the regional group has continued to meet both face-tomanaging director and attended by the face and virtually, and has been instrumental The Sustainable Development Way is at regional corporate affairs director, as well as in developing our new SD framework and the heart of our approach to sustainable representatives from SABMiller plc including SAM system. development (SD), providing a consistent the Corporate Affairs Director, the General Transparency and ethics framework for managing SD and focusing Counsel, the SVP Sustainable Development As a signatory to the UN Global Compact, all of our operations’ efforts and resource and the Director of Policy, Public and Industry we have committed to its Ten Principles, priorities. The SD Way is supported by a suite Affairs. The group CARAC is regularly including that ‘business should work of policies and position papers, as well as updated on each region’s progress. against corruption in all its forms, including guidelines, training, and tools for building extortion and bribery’. Our starting point in The corporate affairs leadership council capability and sharing best practice globally. implementing this commitment is our code of (CALC) meets three times a year to share Individual operations are ultimately held best practice around the world, and to business conduct and ethics, which requires accountable for their own performance, ensure a consistent approach is taken to compliance with all applicable laws, including which often forms part of our senior emerging issues and strategy development. anti-corruption laws. Our Code and managers’ performance objectives This is chaired by the Corporate Affairs anti-bribery policy both apply group-wide, and remuneration. Director and includes all the regional to all the entities we control, and to all corporate affairs directors. employees, directors and other persons Our businesses assess their own SD acting on our behalf. performance using a bespoke monitoring Encouraging a culture system, the Sustainability Assessment Matrix of continual improvement SABMiller has implemented a comprehensive (SAM). Since the launch of our 10 SD Most of our local businesses have been anti-corruption programme to underpin its priorities in 2007 SAM has provided us with using SAM for several years and have high anti-bribery policy. This includes training and relevant data on how we are performing in levels of expertise in collecting and analysing communication, vetting our suppliers on a each priority area, enabling us to track SD data. Regular SAM reviews, or ‘deep risk based approach and communicating our improvements as well as identify and resolve dives’, help us to assess the local SD strategy ethical standards to them, and approval any issues that are holding us back. and quality of data provided, ensuring that procedures in areas such as gifts and our reporting and monitoring practices are entertainment, donations and sponsorships. In 2015 the SD Way and SAM system will be consistent and reliable. This year we We also take steps to promote our relaunched to reflect our five new shared conducted deep dives in Ecuador, Hungary, independently-managed, anonymous imperatives. All SD key performance India, Tanzania and Zambia. These enabled whistleblowing hotlines. indicators will be based on measurable outputs for each imperative – such as water efficiency, carbon emissions or employee diversity. This will give our local operations the data they need to inform their strategic conversations and the reassurance that they are tackling their most material SD issues. Visit our SAM portal Core standards provide a consistent framework for more detailed As part of the relaunch of the SAM system, we have introduced global core standards information on our against each of our five shared SD scores by country at imperatives. In certain areas new core standards represent a recalibration of our www.sabmiller.com/sam expectations in terms of overall SD performance. All our businesses will be required to meet these standards, which, in many countries, far exceed local regulations. SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Summary Report 2014 21 Independent limited assurance report to the directors of SABMiller plc The Directors of SABMiller plc engaged us to provide limited assurance on the information described below and set out in SABMiller’s Sustainable Development Summary Report 2014 for the year ended 31 March 2014. What we are assuring Work done Our responsibilities (“Selected Information”) Considering the risk of material misstatement We are responsible for: The selected Sustainable Development (SD) of the Selected Information, we: • planning and performing the engagement data for the year ended 31 March 2014 • made enquiries of SABMiller’s to obtain limited assurance about whether presented in the Sustainable Development management, including the SD team the Selected Information is free from Summary Report 2014 (marked with4, 9, 11, 13) and those with responsibility for SD material misstatement, whether due to consists of: management and group SD reporting; fraud or error; Selected Information • evaluated the design of the key structures, • forming an independent conclusion, based • Total water consumption in lager systems, processes and controls for on the procedures we have performed and production (million hl) managing, recording and reporting the the evidence we have obtained; and • Water use to lager ratio (hl/hl lager) Selected Information. This included visiting • reporting our conclusion to the Directors • Total CO2e emissions from fossil fuel 4 operating companies out of 29 to of SABMiller. energy used on site for the production perform walkthroughs on the indicators Our conclusions of lager (million tonnes) and obtaining supporting information. Based on the procedures we have performed • CO2e emissions from fossil energy used For a further 3 operating companies we and the evidence we have obtained, nothing on site for the production of lager ratio reviewed the assessments completed by has come to our attention that causes us (kgCO2e/hl lager) SABMiller selected on the basis of their to believe the Selected Information for the • Percentage of employees trained in inherent risk and materiality to the group. year ended 31 March 2014 has not been alcohol responsibility Interviews were held and supporting prepared in all material respects with the • Sales and Marketing Compliance evidence was obtained to understand the Reporting Criteria. Committees (SMCC) had been established key processes and controls for reporting in accordance with SABMiller’s Policy on operating company performance data to This report, including our conclusions, has Commercial Communication (POCC). the group SD team; been prepared solely for the Directors of • performed analytical reviews over all 29 SABMiller as a body in accordance with The scope of our work is summarised below operating companies in scope; he agreement between us, to assist the and does not extend to information in respect • performed limited substantive testing on a Directors in reporting SABMiller’s Sustainable of earlier periods or to any other information selective basis of the Selected Information Development performance and activities. in the Sustainable Development Summary at corporate head office and at operating We permit this report to be disclosed in the Report 2014. company level in relation to 5 of the Sustainable Development Summary Report How the information is assessed operating companies mentioned above to 2014 for the year ended 31 March 2014, (“Reporting Criteria”) assure that data had been appropriately to enable the Directors to show they have We assessed the Selected Information measured, recorded, collated and addressed their governance responsibilities using SABMiller’s SD Reporting Principles reported; and by obtaining an independent assurance (“Reporting Criteria”) dated June 2014 as set • assessed the disclosure and presentation report in connection with the Selected out at www.sabmiller.com/sdassurancea. of the Selected Information. Information. To the fullest extent permitted Professional Standards by law, we do not accept or assume SABMiller’s responsibilities and Independence responsibility to anyone other than the SABMiller management are responsible for: We have performed a limited assurance Directors as a body and SABMiller for our engagementb in accordance with ISAE 3000 • designing, implementing and maintaining work or this report except where terms are – ‘Assurance Engagements other than Audits internal controls over information relevant expressly agreed between us in writing. and Reviews of Historical Financial Information’ to the preparation of the Selected and, in respect of the CO2 emissions, ISAE Information that is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, 3410 – ‘Assurance Engagements on or error; Chartered Accountants, London Greenhouse Gas Emissions Statements’ issued by the IAASB and ICAEW Code • establishing objective Reporting Criteria 11 June 2014 of Ethicsc. for preparing the Selected Information; • measuring SABMiller’s performance based Understanding the Criteria on the Reporting Criteria; and a The maintenance and integrity of SABMiller’s website is The Selected Information needs to be read • the content of the Sustainable the responsibility of the SABMiller management; the work carried out by us does not involve consideration of these and understood together with the Reporting Development Summary Report 2014. matters and, accordingly, we accept no responsibility Criteria described above. The absence of for any changes that may have occurred to the reported a significant body of established practice The corporate accountability and risk Selected Information or Reporting Criteria when on which to draw to evaluate and measure assurance committee of the board (CARAC) presented on SABMiller’s website. non-financial information allows for different, have reviewed the procedures established b A limited assurance engagement is substantially less in scope than a reasonable assurance engagement in but acceptable, measurement techniques. by management to prepare the Sustainable relation to the risk assessment procedures, including The nature, methods and precision used Development Summary Report 2014, and an understanding of internal control, and the procedures to determine non-financial information can the Chairman of the CARAC has reviewed performed in response to the assessed risks. result in materially different measurements, that report on behalf of the board of directors c Our work is in accordance with the ICAEW Code of Ethics, which includes independence and other affecting comparability between entities of SABMiller. requirements founded on fundamental principles of and over time. integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, confidentiality and professional behaviour. Further reports and contacts The full online SABMiller sustainable development report includes additional information, performance data and case studies against each of our five shared imperatives, and reports on specific issues. 2 SABMiller plc Tax and Develop ment 2014 1 Annual report For an overview of our markets and operations, please refer to 1 our annual report. c www.sabmiller.com/annualreport iller pl SABM t 2014 Repor Annual 2 Tax and development report For an overview of our approach to tax, please refer to our tax and development report. www.sabmiller.com/taxreport SABM 3 Online iller pl The full sustainable development c Annu report, this summary and more al Repo information about our rt 2014 performance through the Sustainability Assessment Matrix (SAM) scorecards for our operations can be found online. www.sabmiller.com/sd 3 Our approach to tax ildin g brands, Bu value brewin g Please note This report contains certain forward-looking statements The paper used in the report contains 75% recycled Registered office including those that relate to investments in sociocontent, all of which is sourced from de-inked SABMiller House economic programmes, water management, the post-consumer waste. All of the pulp is bleached using Church Street West implementation of certain reuse and recycling measures, an elemental chlorine free process (ECF). Printed in the Woking, Surrey, England GU21 6HS local sourcing of agricultural raw materials and UK by CPI Colour, a CarbonNeutral® company. Both Telephone +44 1483 264000 expenditure at operational level. Such statements involve manufacturing mill and the printer are registered to the Head office a number of uncertainties because they relate to events Environmental Management System ISO14001 and One Stanhope Gate and depend on circumstances that will or may occur in are Forest Stewardship Council® (FSC®) chain-ofLondon, England W1K 1AF the future. As a result, actual results may differ from custody certified. Telephone +44 20 7659 0100 those anticipated in this report depending on a wide range of factors, including, for example, crop yields, Investor relations consumer demand, excise duties and taxation policies, Telephone +44 20 7659 0100 worldwide as well as local economic conditions, changes investor.relations@sabmiller.com in laws and regulations and the development of new Sustainable development technology. This report deals with activities of group Telephone +44 1483 264134 companies around the world. References in this report to sustainable.development@sabmiller.com ‘SABMiller’, ‘we’, ‘us’ and ‘our’ refer collectively to the SABMiller plc group of operating companies. (Registration No. 3528416)
