SLi LIMITED UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT CODE OF PRACTICE 2014 Statement of Continued Support by the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) I am pleased to confirm that Systematic Logistics International Limited (SLi Limited) reaffirms its support to the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact with respect to Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-corruption. This is our first annual Communication on Progress and we provide information on our actions to integrate the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We are also committed to share this information with others through publication on our website and other channels of communication. Yours sincerely, Richard Triolo Managing Director Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. SLi wishes to recognise, support and comply with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and other relevant international human rights legislation. SLi are against discrimination and differential treatment in employment and working conditions. As an equal opportunities employer, we do not discriminate on the grounds of gender, sexual orientation, marital or civil partner status, gender reassignment, race, colour, nationality, ethnic or national origin, religion or belief, disability or age. The principles of non-discrimination and equality of opportunity also apply to the way in which staff treat visitors, clients, customers, suppliers and former staff members. All staff have a duty to act in accordance with this policy and treat colleagues with dignity at all times, and not to discriminate against or harass other members of staff, regardless of their status. SLi are committed to promoting equality of opportunity for all staff and job applicants. We aim to create a working environment in which all individuals are able to make best use of their skills, free from discrimination or harassment, and in which all decisions are based on merit. SLi supports a constructive dialogue between employer and employee. Implementation All of the above is included in our Company Handbook which is signed and agreed to as part of an employee Contract of Employment and Employment Terms. This will also be published on our website. This policy will be reviewed annually and updated as necessary. Staff awareness training is provided as and when required. SLi supports and encourages an open dialogue between all members of staff. In addition, we have also implemented a Non Conformance Report (NCR) procedure whereby staff are able to communicate any areas of non-conformance, complaint or issues they may have with regard to any process, policy or procedure. These NCR Reports are then discussed with management and acted on and resolved accordingly. The health, safety and general wellbeing of all staff and visitors is paramount and risk assessments are carried out on an annual basis. Written Health & Safety policies and procedures are agreed to and communicated to all staff. All company policies and procedures are assessed at least annually to ensure continuing compliance to respective legislation and improvements identified within the business. To comply with our legal obligations under the current Health, Safety and Welfare Act. To promote health, safety and environmental awareness throughout the organisation and to maintain a safe and healthy working environment for our employees. Labour Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. SLi continue to support the four core Labour Principles as stated in the United Nations Global Compact. Employment of children is strictly forbidden at SLi and we recognise the international standards of minimum age for children. • SLi are against any forms of forced and compulsory labour. • SLi are committed to promoting equality of opportunity for all staff and job applicants. We aim to create a working environment in which all individuals are able to make best use of their skills, free from discrimination or harassment, and in which all decisions are based on merit. • The remuneration of SLi employees meets or exceeds statutory or agreed national industry minimum standards. • SLi complies with current national legislation and agreed standards relating to employee working hours, conditions, pay and health and safety. Pay and benefits are reviewed annually. Implementation All of the above is included in our Company Handbook which is signed and agreed to as part of an employee Contract of Employment and Employment Terms. This will also be published on our website. This policy will be reviewed and updated as necessary. Staff awareness training is provided as and when required. SLi supports and encourages an open dialogue between all members of staff. In addition, we have also implemented a Non Conformance Report (NCR) procedure whereby staff are able to communicate any areas of non-conformance, complaint or issues they may have with regard to any process, policy or procedure. These NCR Reports are then discussed with management and acted on and resolved accordingly. The health, safety and general wellbeing of all staff and visitors is paramount and risk assessments are carried out on an annual basis. Written Health & Safety policies and procedures are agreed to and communicated to all staff. SLi will continue to comply with our legal obligations under the current Health, Safety and Welfare Act in order to promote health, safety and environmental awareness throughout the organisation and to maintain a safe and healthy working environment for our employees. SLi comply with the EU Rules (Regulation EC) 561/2006) and the Road Transport (Working Time) Regulations 2005 in respect of drivers hours. Environmental Principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. SLi Limited is committed to the identification and constant reduction of CO2 emissions. SLi supports and wishes to comply with all relevant directives, legislation, conventions, regulations and agreements in relation to the protection of the environment. We are committed to minimising the amount of disposal by increasing recycling and our use of recyclable products or energy from renewable sources, where economically viable. We will continue to support and provide training where relevant to all employees, customers, suppliers, partners and associates together with encouraging them to adopt the Company’s policies for the benefit of all those associated to our global trading activities. Our contribution to industry supports the future progress of integration, safety, compliance and paperless systems with solid support for local communities and the global environment. Our Corporate Social Responsibility Policy is published on our website. Implementation Business in general must play its part in environmental issues and road transport, because of its high public profile, has a particular need to ensure that all possible steps are taken to reduce any adverse effects which its operations may be seen to have. SLi will continue to monitor fuel consumption and fuel efficiency of vehicles and drivers. We will continue to maintain a culture of safe and fuel efficient driving on the road, at loading and unloading premises, minimise fuel use and therefore environmental pollution and to maximise safety and consideration for others. We do this through training, monitoring and re-training of drivers as necessary. SLi’s Environmental Code of Practice is based around the following: To make a positive and commercially realistic contribution to improving the environment in which we operate. To ensure that the threat of pollution in any form is identified, eliminated or controlled. To minimise consumption of materials, fuel energy and water and to recycle as much as is economically feasible. To eliminate or minimise any potentially harmful effects of our activities on employees and the public. Below are some examples of the processes in place to help reduce the environmental effects of our business: When planning truck movements use local knowledge and other sources of information to optimize efficiency of the vehicle and to avoid congesting roads. Load our vehicles to the maximum permitted by weight/volume as much as possible by, for example, flexible scheduling, load consolidation and back-loading where this is compatible with the service requirements of the customers. Ensure that the vehicles are maintained to a high standard. Ensure that noise from our operations is keep to a minimum in noise-sensitive areas and times. Engage with our employees, welcoming their ideas and commitment and regularly review our operations, drawing on sources including the Road Haulage Association and the Freight Best Practice program. Control and manage activities to ensure risks to the health. Ensure the safety and welfare of our employees, customers and the general public are identified and to take action to minimise or eliminate their effects. To comply with our legal obligations under the current Health, Safety and Welfare Act and the Environmental Protection Act, together with all other applicable statutory provisions and relevant codes of practice. To promote health, safety and environmental awareness throughout the organisation. To maintain a safe and healthy working environment for its employees, with adequate facilities appropriate to the nature of the business activities. To minimise the social impact of the company activities and avoid damage to the environment through regular reviews of the business from environmental and Management audits and risk assessments. Anti-Corruption Principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. SLi Limited conducts a zero tolerance approach to bribery and corruption. SLi Limited is committed to compliance with all applicable anti-bribery and corruption laws and regulations, including the UK Bribery Act, promulgated in April 2010. Additionally, in 2012, SLi Limited committed to adhere to the 10 core principles of the United Nations Global Compact, where the tenth principle specifically commits us to impeding all forms of corruption including extortion and bribery. However, it has always been SLI’s policy not to tolerate any dishonest behavior, since it is against the core values of the company. SLi Group and SLi employees will:  will not make bribes, nor will we condone the offering of bribes on our behalf, in an attempt to try and gain business or personal benefit, or in an attempt to motivate another to act improperly;  will not accept bribes, nor will we agree to them being accepted on our behalf;  will avoid doing business with others who may harm our reputation by not respecting these values;  will set out our processes for avoiding bribery, directly or indirectly;  will recognise that certain donations, hospitality and gifts, either given or received, may be considered inappropriate in certain instances and we will all apply our minds to ensure that our motives remain to carry out our business, fairly, honestly and transparently;  will make sure that everyone in our business, including our business partners and major suppliers know about our principles and we will require all relevant staff to commit to this Code of Conduct and the related;  will regularly review this Code of Conduct and related Policies, followed by further communication to all relevant staff, suppliers and partners;  will ensure that there are communication channels for all employees, partners and major suppliers through which they will be able to report instances of suspected dishonest behaviour;  will maintain clear and accurate records of all reports and investigations regarding suspected dishonest behaviour; and  will deal appropriately with potential and actual conflicts of interest when they arise. Implementation The above Anti-Bribery and Corruption Code of Practice together with a Whistle Blowing Policy is included in our Company Handbook which is signed and agreed to and forms part of an employee Contract of Employment and Employment Terms. Staff awareness training is undertaken as and when required. The Anti-Bribery and Corruption Code of Practice is also published on our website. This policy will be reviewed and updated as necessary.
