2014 Yuhan-Kimberly Sustainability Report 9th Report 2014 Yuhan-Kimberly Sustainability Report: Summary People are our Source of Hope 2014 About this Report Yuhan-Kimberly Standards and Criteria GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) G4 Guidelines, BEST Guidelines 2.0*, and ISO26000 Sustainability Report: Reporting Scope Major supply chain* and all operating sites in Korea Summary Reporting Period January 2013 to December 2013 (including part of the performance for 2014) Reporting Base Based on fiscal year. At least 3 year time series (for economic and environmental performance data, 5 year and 15 year time series, respectively) (Unless otherwise stated, the currency used in this report is Korean won, KRW) Reporting Assurance Independent assurance statement Reporting Cycle Annually Organization of Report Report completed according to the GRI G4 Guidelines, with reinforced credibility centered on material issues Disclosure Principle The report available on the website www.yuhan-kimberly.co.kr. People are our Source of Hope Further Information Please contact Yuhan-Kimberly Sustainable Management Division +82-2-528-1351 *  BEST (Business Ethics is the Source of Top performance) Guideline 2.0: The guideline for sustainability reporting was developed by the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy in association with the Korea Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KCCI) and Institute for Industrial Policy Studies (IPS). The guideline incorporated indexes considered in the Mirae Forum in 2008 and its current release is version 2.0. * Supply  Chain: 2014 Yuhan-Kimberly Sustainability Report complies with GRI G4 Guidelines on the reporting of its supply chain and the contents herein. 1. Materiality test reflects opinions from our upstream and downstream partners and stakeholders. COntents 1 2. The life-cycle assessment (LCA) of products includes assessment of the environmental impact of the supply chain. 3. The environmental performance section includes the status of GHG emissions in the distribution phase. 4. The environmental performance section includes the status of environmental training for partners. What is New in 2014 Yuhan-Kimberly Sustainability Report? : 2 This report has the following differences from the last year’s report in terms of its structure and content. Overall Sustainability Report 1. Redistribution of values – includes economic, social and environmental performances 04 Yuhan-Kimberly at a glance 2. Introduction of a mark to improve credibility 06 CEO Message 3. Independent assurance of the materiality test process and results 08 Vision and Core Values 4. Expansion of case report (special pages and stories) 08 Organization and Business of 5. Introduction of Yuhan-Kimberly’s challenges for its four agenda points Social Responsibility Management Four Agenda Points of 09 Corporate Governance Social Responsibility Management 09 Ethical Management 12 Agenda 01 Sustainable Products Company Overview 10 Open communication with stakeholders 14 Agenda 02 Keep Korea Green Company name Yuhan-Kimberly Date of establishment March 30, 1970 11 2014 Materiality Issues 16 Agenda 03 Response to Climate Change 3 Type of business Manufacturing President & CEO KyooBok Choe 18 Agenda 04 Win-win Growth Number of employees 1,722 (as of 2013) Sales 1,366 billion won (as of 2013) Sales composition Domestic 83%, Export 17% (as of 2013) 4 Major brands Huggies, My Bidet, Double Heart, White, Good Feel, Kleenex, Popee, Scott, Green Finger, tn, Depend, Poise Business areas Hygienic consumer goods, industrial and medical supplies Work sites Seoul (Headquarters), Kimcheon, Daejeon, Chungju Target markets Individuals, corporations, laboratories, public buildings, restaurants, hospitals, schools, etc. Report on Performance of Main products Consumer supplies such as baby diapers, childcare supplies, feminine sanitary napkins, facial tissues, toilet paper, Social Responsibility Management paper towels, napkins, wet wipess, skincare products, Unilever products, senior pants and suppliers, industrial 20 Economic Performance report Appendix products (industrial wipers and protective gear), bathroom supplies (liquid soap, large scale tissue, hand towel, air freshener), medical supplies (gowns, accessories, surgical drapes), nonwoven fabric, thermal and 22 Social Performance report 27 Independent assurance statement shading material for agriculture, etc. 25 Environmental Performance report 1 2 3 4 2014 Yuhan-Kimberly Sustainability Report: Summary Four Agenda Points of Social Report on performance of social People are Overall Sustainability Report Responsibility Management responsibility management Appendix our Source of Hope Yuhan-Kimberly at a glance | CEO Message | Vision and Core Values | Organization and Business of Social Responsibility Management | Corporate Governance | Open communication with stakeholders | 2014 Materiality Issues Social impact Yuhan-Kimberly at a glance • Practice of sustainable life through consumption What is the social impact of Yuhan-Kimberly? • Change in the way of thinking through consumer training Environmental impact Yuhan-Kimberly’s sustainability management is designed to pursue sustainable development by integrating and implementing Customers Use •U  tilization of packaging film all business processes for greater economic profitability, social responsibility and environmental soundness. Accordingly, we film-type packaging 60.3% redistribute the value added through its business activities to the value chain, including its supply chain and the environment and container 80.6% surrounding it, to create both direct and indirect riffle effects. Partners (Downstream) Redistribution of Values by Yuhan-Kimberly Economic, Social and Environmental Impacts Sales 1,366 Disuse Environmental impact Social impact Waste disposal and • Participated in the Green Purchase Agreement • Introduction and practice of billion won recycling cost social responsibility management 8.2 for 3 consecutive times (since 2005-) • E stablishment of (100%) • Green purchase 79 billion won win-win growth culture • Ratio of recycled material over main raw material 28.7% • S pread of customer satisfaction billion won management In (0.6%) Total purchase of goods and services • S upport for reinforcing customer im dir pa ect 919 relationship ct s Social impact 7.2 Raw • C reation of local jobs material billion won Environmental impact • T aking the initiative in family-friendly (67.3%) • Reduced GHG emissions CSR cost billion won (0.5%) Local management 1,303.36tCO2e communities • S pread of smart work • Changing awareness on seniors Environmental impact • F ostering environmental activists 57.9 Partners • GHG emissions 166,177tCO2e Corporate tax and (Upstream) Valu (Reduced 1.7% from a year earlier) other taxes and utility charges (4.2%) Social impact • Water consumption 2,865,000m3 Distribution billion won Government Social impact (Reduced 0.3% from a year earlier) • Practice of CSR e Ch • Introduction and practice of • Waste generation 47,157 tons Sales promotion cost, social responsibility management (Reduced 2.2% from a year earlier) transportation cost, etc. 73.7 100 • E stablishment of win-win growth culture ai n • Environmental protection cost 7.5 billion won • Improvement of product billion won Dividends billion won (7.3%) quality and safety Stockholders • P rovision of start-up opportunities (5.4%) (identifying and fostering SMEs) Manufacturing Employees an -K r ly be im Direct impacts Interest cost, rent, etc. 1.9 billion won (0.1%) Other Social impact uh Y • Pursuit of work-life balance Wage, training cost, • A cquisition of lifelong learning R&D cost, etc. 198.1 culture 2014 Report Introduces a Mark to Enhance Credibility • P romotion of challenging and creative leaders 2014 Yuhan-Kimberly Sustainability Report has undergone independent assurance of the main areas of billion won • A cquisition of a culture of social corporate performance, as well as a materiality test in an effort to improve report’s credibility. A mark responsibility and contribution (14.5%) has been affixed to the performance sections that have undergone intensive assurance process for assured transparent reporting. * Economic impact is expressed based on the ratio of the values distributed to stakeholders over the sales according to the Annual report. (Sales = 100%) * Further information not included in this report can be found at the Yuhan-Kimberly website (www.yuhan-kimberly.co.kr). 4 Company history, etc. 5 1 2 3 4 2014 Yuhan-Kimberly Sustainability Report: Summary Four Agenda Points of Social Report on performance of social People are Overall Sustainability Report Responsibility Management responsibility management Appendix our Source of Hope Yuhan-Kimberly at a glance | CEO Message | Vision and Core Values | Organization and Business of Social Responsibility Management | Corporate Governance | Open communication with stakeholders | 2014 Materiality Issues CEO MESSAGE Yuhan-Kimberly’s commitment to the 10 UN Global Compact Principles for 2013 Since signing up to the UN Global Compact in 2007, Yuhan-Kimberly has complied with the ten UN Global Compact Principles Our belief for a better life on human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption and publishes an annual Communication on Progress (COP) report. Yuhan-Kimberly We will continue to fulfill our social responsibilities by adhering to such principles. We pursue Human Rights Labor Environment Anti-corruption future-oriented responsible 01 We support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. 06 We eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. management. YuhanKimberly Protection of Human Rights YuhanKimberly Prohibition of Discrimination • Management Policies [Respect of People] •Article 89, Chapter 9, Rules of Employment RegulaRegula• Article 35, Personnel Rules and Regulations [Prohibition of Gender Discrimination] tions tions [Status Guarantee] • Article 45, Chapter 5, CBA [Wage] Offer equal pay • Code of Conduct [Considerations for Employees] for work of equal value • Article 27, Chapter 2, CBA [Relief of Unfair Disciplinary Action] •Chapter 2, Code of Conduct [Considerations for employees] 2013 • Enterprise-wide training on the Code of Conduct 2013 • The equal principle applied to the starting wage for male Perfor(once a year, in May) Perforand female college graduates mance mance • Training on how to identify, prevent and • Female workforce ratio (office workers 35.6%, executives 17.6%) report sexual harassment 02 We make sure that we are not complicit in human rights abuses. 07 We support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. YuhanPrevention of Human Rights YuhanEnvironmental Precaution Kimberly •Guidelines to Selecting Business Partners Kimberly •Procurement Philosophies RegulaRegula[Ethical Soundness of Organization] [Support for Procurement of Eco-Friendly Raw Materials and tions tions •Items for Evaluation of Business Partners Production of Eco-Friendly Products] [Wage and Employment] •Environmental Management Policies [Minimizing Environmental Load] 2013 • Stakeholders survey Assessment of ethical management Perfor• Environmental Management Policies • Introduction of Compliance Program mance [Prevention of Environmental Accidents] • Regular evaluation of partners regarding human rightshuman rights 2013 • Annual green purchasing of 79 billion won Perfor• Environmental management training held for employees mance and partners (1,644 persons) 03 We uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. 08 we undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Dear stakeholders, YuhanFreedom of Association YuhanEnvironmental Responsibility Kimberly • Article 10, Chapter 2, CBA [Guaantee of Union Activities] Kimberly •Core Value [Social Contribution] In 2014, Yuhan-Kimberly was selected the Most Admired In 2014, we are focusing on three key tasks. First, we are Regula• Article 11, Chapter 2, CBA [Prohibition of Unfair Labor Practices] RegulaSpearhead environmental preservation campaigns tions tions Company in Korea for the 11th year running. Last year, we striving to diversify our business structure. We will increase • Article 66, Chapter 7, CBA [Labor Management • Chapter 2, Code of Conduct [Environmental Protection] Committee, Grievance Committee members and •Procurement Philosophies [Realizing Mutual Benefits won the top spot in the Korean Sustainability Index (KSI) and the ratio of growth and new business areas, while building Grievance Committee] through Collaborative Partnership] • Article 75, Chapter 9, CBA [Bargaining Principles] •Environmental Management Policies were awarded the Presidential Citation of the Most Loved an e-commerce platform to respond to the rapidly chang[Leadership in Environmental Protection Campaigns] 2013 • Labor union membership 99.8% Company in Korea. Yuhan-Kimberly continues to grow ing market, develop new export markets, and attract new Performance • Labor management committee on a quarterly basis 2013 •Forest protection campaign ‘Keep Korea Clean’ • Grievance committee on a quarterly basis Perfor•Management of 15-year environmental management through the love and support it has received from our many investors. Second, we will reinforce our core capabilities. • Yearly wage negotiations mance performance trend • Partner win-win cooperation program stakeholders. We sincerely appreciate the love and support We believe that all the answers we need can be found by Daejeon and Chungju mills acquired Grade A that all our stakeholders have given us. For your reference, listening to consumers and the markets. We will therefore the following shows a summary of our performance in 2013. accelerate our innovations in our existing systems and prod04 We eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labor. 09 We encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. ucts, production and business models, by focusing on our YuhanProhibition of Compulsory Labor YuhanEnvironmentally-friendly Development Kimberly •Article 21, Chapter 3, Rules of Employment Kimberly • Procurement Philosophies [Support for Production of Superior Economy l Total sales 1,366 billion won, decreased 3.3% consumers and markets. Third, we will further reinforce our Regula[Overtime, Night Work and Holiday Work] RegulaProducts through Technological Innovation] tions tions •Article 35, Chapter 4 CBA •Environmental Management Policies from a year earlier, Investment of 89 billion won for future corporate culture, which is our strength. While reinforcing [Extended Hours, Night Work, Holiday Work] [Continuous Environmental Improvement]-Reduction, growth, Continued product innovation. the principles and practice of ethical management, compli2013 •Extended time, holiday or night work are conducted Reuse and Recycling Efforts Perforunder labor-management agreement 2013 • Release of sustainable products (45% of the sales) ance management and safety fist management, we will acmance PerforSociety l Announcement of the vision of ‘Keep Korea Green’ • Prohibition of harmful and risky work and night duty mance • Release of innovative products celerate our implementation of cooperative management. for pregnant workers campaign, celebrating its 30th anniversary, and an effort • Reflection to the items for evaluation of business partners We believe these tasks give us the direction we need for our (wage and employment) to create shared values. Fostering global leaders, Renewal of Family-Friendly Company certification, Renewal of Consurvival and growth. 05 We effectively abolish child labor. 10 We work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. sumer Centered Management certification, Installation of YuhanProhibition of Child Labor YuhanAnti-Corruption 2014 is the year Yuhan-Kimberly puts its future-oriented reKimberly • Article 18, Chapter 3, Rules of Employment [Labor Time] Kimberly • Chapter 2, Code of Conduct [Scope of Gift and Entertainment] WinWinGrowth Work Group and signing of win-win growth RegulaRegulasponsible management into practice. We appreciate your • Article 34, Chapter 4, CBA [Labor time] • Chapter 2, Code of Conduct [Prohibition Against Giving Gifts tions tions agreement. to Public Officials] interest, support and any feedback. Thank you. 2013 Perfor•No employees of under 18 • Article 11, Rules of Employment [Prohibition] Against AcceptEnvironment l Reduction of GHG emissions by 1.6% from mance •Reflection to the items for evaluation of business partners (wage and employment) ing Rewards, Gifts, or Entertainment from Business Partners • Section 2, Compliance Program Manual [Things to Consider by a year earlier, Reduction of GHG emissions from production • Selected the Child-Friendly Business Business Type] and Section 4 [Practical Checklist] July 2014 2013 •Enterprise-wide training on the Code of Conduct (per ton) by 11.9% over 2007. KyooBok Choe Performance • Anti-corruption training (online training separately provided • Vitalization of Compliance Program training President & CEO of Yuhan-Kimberly 6 Online: http: // www.yuhan-kimberly.co.kr 7 1 2 3 4 2014 Yuhan-Kimberly Sustainability Report: Summary Four Agenda Points of Social Report on performance of social People are Overall Sustainability Report Responsibility Management responsibility management Appendix our Source of Hope Yuhan-Kimberly at a glance | CEO Message | Vision and Core Values | Organization and Business of Social Responsibility Management | Corporate Governance | Open communication with stakeholders | 2014 Materiality Issues Vision and Core Values Corporate Governance Yuhan-Kimberly’s mission and vision Yuhan-Kimberly’s mission and vision is ‘Our Belief for a Better Life Yuhan Kimberly’. In October 2010, we announced our Vision 2020, and set our business objective of becoming a ‘Great life-innovating company’. In 2013, we carried out a project to establish 2 companies Yuhan-Kimberly is a joint company comprising Yuhan Corporation and Kimberly Clark. the vision of each Business & Funcion linked with the company’s vision. In an effort to attain our Vision 2020, we introduced a Governance overview collaboration reinforcement organization program* in 2013 and has improved the flexibility and efficiency of our organization. Yuhan-Kimberly is a joint company comprising Yuhan Corporation and Kimberly Clark, who hold a 30% and 70% stake, respec* Collaboration reinforcement organization program Yuhan-Kimberly’s ‘teamless’ organization system designed to reinforce cooperation between tively. As of the end of 2013, the company’s total number of stocks issued stands at 40 million, and paid-in capital is 200 billion won. members of a team, teams and divisions. There was no change in the governance structure in 2013. The Board of Directors discusses various matters related to stockholder Yuhan-Kimberly’s Vision 2020 relations and the CEO who is empowered by the board convenes meetings of separate committees, to listen to the opinions of the company’s stakeholders in order to identify sustainability agenda points related to the economy, society and environment. Our belief for a better life – Yuhan-Kimberly Mission/Vision Constitution and reward of the Board of Directors General Board of Meeting of CEO The Board of Directors makes decisions on the matters stipulated in Directors Business Objective Great life-innovating company Stockholders laws or articles of association as well as important matters related to Stakeholders Committee business management. The constitution of the board is determined Strategic Direction people & Social Responsibility & market new growth operation Value sharing through the general meeting of stockholders. The board consists of organization Chairman Comtribution Committe oriented platforms excellence culture excellence total eight members (7 directors and 1 auditor) and, in 2013, the first Internal Comtrol Committee female director was appointed. As to reward, directors and auditors are Auditor Fair Trading Compliance Core Values Challenge and Accountability and Trust and Care paid a sum of their basic annual salary and a bonus calculated on the Committee Creativity Contribution basis of financial and non-financial management performance of the Disciplinary Committee With passion and confidence in sucRespect and embrace diversity, show sinMake a sincere contribution to society Internal Non-execuceeding, set challenging goals and cere care, establish trust with open mind, through ethical management, fair trade, organization within the annual remuneration cap of 3.5 billion won. Director tive Director Women’s Committee continue to make a progress with improve safety and the quality of life, and faithful payment of tax, practicing creative methods. and make efforts for open management, respect for life, environmental managelifelong learning, talent training, win-win ment, and family-friendly management. growth and customer satisfaction. The top decision-making organization in social responsibility management – Vision Leadership Team Vision Leadership Team is the company’s top decision-making organization in social responsibility management. It consists Organization and Business of of the CEO and heads of business and function, and convenes a monthly meeting for risk management and performance evaluation regarding economic, social and environmental issues. In 2013, a total of one grievance case was reported. Social Responsibility Management Social Responsibility Management Organization (As of May 2014) Yuhan-Kimberly runs a dedicated Sustainable Management Division, an organization responsible for overseeing social responEthical Management sibility management. The Sustainable Management Division consists of the CSR Work Group, Environmental Management Work Group, Family-friendly Management Work Group, Communications Work Group and Smart Work Service Work Group. By appointing a chief officer in charge of diversity and engagement, Yuhan-Kimberly has clearly signaled its commitment to social responsibility management. 10 years The CEO of Yuhan-Kimberly has pledged to continue to strengthen corporate social responsibility and ethical management for the past 10 years. General principles of ethics and training on the code of conduct Social Responsibility Management Organization (As of MAY. 2014) To reinforce awareness of ethical management within the company, Yuhan-Kimberly shares a code of conduct based on ethieconomy society Supplier Relations Work Group cal management, and conducts training on the code. Our employees are encouraged to act with a yardstick for judgment Supplier Relations Division Technical Service Work Group regarding bribes, anti-corruption, information protection, faithful tax payment, fair trading compliance, sexual harassment Procurement Division CP/WinWinGrowth Work Group prevention, and respect for human rights and diversity. Legal & Compliance Supply Chain anagement HR Business Strategy Division ER Division Division Business & Function & Function R&E (Employee Relations) Baby & Child Care Feminine Care Business & Function Business & Function (Research & Engineering) Business Enablement Installation and operation of hot line Finance Business Family Care & Function Business & Function In May 2013, we installed a dedicated hot line regarding the code of conduct to receive and resolve grievances quickly. When Senior Care Business & Function Business & Function Business & Function CEO Consumer Services Division a report on an issue related to ethics is received a disciplinary committee is convened after a review of the report. New B2B PR Division (Public Relations) CSR Work Group Manufacturing Operations * The hot line is run by Kimberly Clark, and any grievance report can be submitted to the hot line around the clock. (Contact: 00798-1-1-008-3594) Business & Function Business & Function Business & Function Sustainable Management Family-Friendly Management Division Work Group Customer Online Business & Function Business & Function Communications Work Group Introduction and training of Compliance Program Logistics Division Smart Work Service Work Group Yuhan-Kimberly introduced a compliance program (CP) in January 2012 to promote transparent and ethical trading. This Social Responsibility & Committee Comtribution Committe Stakeholders Committee Maintenance Work Group program aims to encourage the company itself to comply with fair trade best practice so that the company and all its Environmental Management Fair Trading Compliance SHE Work Group Work Group employees can be protected from violating laws and to prevent any possible collusion or instance of unfair trading. 8 Committee Internal Comtrol Committee environment 9 Disciplinary Committee Women’s Committee 1 2 3 4 2014 Yuhan-Kimberly Sustainability Report: Summary Four Agenda Points of Social Report on performance of social People are Overall Sustainability Report Responsibility Management responsibility management Appendix our Source of Hope Yuhan-Kimberly at a glance | CEO Message | Vision and Core Values | Organization and Business of Social Responsibility Management | Corporate Governance | Open communication with stakeholders | 2014 Materiality Issues 2014 Material Issues 38 channels Yuhan-Kimberly communicates with its stakeholders through 38 channels. 26 material issues Sustainable products and brands is the issue with the highest significance of economic, social, and environmental impact and the highest influence on stakeholder assessment and decisions. Stakeholder communication channels Yuhan-Kimberly’s stakeholders include: stockholders, employees, partners (upstream/downstream), customers and local Yuhan-Kimberly conducts a Materiality TestTM by collecting the opinions of internal and external stakeholders, and publishes communities. We have established communication channels that take into account the characteristics of each stakeholder a report that focuses on material issues that have been selected based on the results of the test. The material issues for 2014 group and faithfully collect their opinions. Since 2006, we have conducted a stakeholder survey of our employees, partners, have been selected based on the comprehensive results of the Materiality TestTM and the stakeholder survey. In addition customers and local communities, and utilized the results to select material issues. to addressing issues that have been found to be of high significance, this report also presents other issues that need to be managed. These issues to be managed are selected based on two criteria. The issues to be managed are: first, five issues of Stakeholder communication channels in 2013 medium significance which are placed above (6, 3)*, the thresholds* for 2014, and second, six material issues by stakeholders not included in the issues of high significance. Employees Main activities in 2013 • Open director meeting 10 7 • Presentation on business status • Occupational Safety and • CEO talk concert, Wise Answers Health Committee 6 Agenda 01 to Silly Questions • F amily newsletter 9 Sustainable Products • Joint labor-management conferences • Intranet 22 In 2013, the directors’ meeting was 21 20 Agenda 02 Influence on stakeholder Assessment and Decisions and meetings • Hot line for the code of conduct held in an open place capable of Keep Korea Green • L abor-management workshop • S urvey 8 s accommodating all our employees in 23 ward • Corporate social media (Yammer) an effort to reinforce transparent and or open communication. 9 ir re d lab 7 24 1 d fa e an 25 Agenda 03 t an Response to Climate change ledg d •Fair trading and win-win 6 18 17 men an Agenda 04 now i t ies / growth agreement t iron tun n •Seminar with CEOs of partners 26 11 Win-win Growth or me es 5 env ty, k o pp r pay issu Partners for win-win growth 19 5 3 s i 8 ctivi es Fa ility wor sin s / ab •Win-win growth website k Prod r bu enes tain s/ In 2013, Yuhan-Kimberly signed 10 2, 12 o v s ce •Supplier Management Advisor 4 4 Safe u o rt f etiti of su e rvi ents a fair trade and win-win growth pp p g ds m (SMA) system agreement with 80 partners to lay 16 15 Su com arin an uire 13 Sh r i als req •Supplier portal (linked with SMA) the foundation for fair trade and te ng promote win-win growth. 3 Ma eeti •Reporting and suggestion M by partners •Newsletter 2 14 High Issues Products and services / Medium Issues YK’s Customer service center •Establishment of total 1 Low Issues customer counseling center CommuniThreshold (6,3) Feedback for better quality •Consumer complaint cation improvement TFT 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Customers Channel •Survey on new product satisfaction Yuhan-Kimberly established an significance of Economic, Environmental, and Social Impacts •Consumer training program Integrated customer service center Inv in 2012 and has improved customer Cap estm •Consumer group ent counseling productivity and i tal retu factory tour program General Employees 11. Family-friendly management Customers inve rns service quality. 1. Management leadership 20. Responsibility for products, stm 2. Stakeholder communication 12. Smart Work security and product safety ent •Consumer group for 3. Long-lived company 13. Cementing the foundation 21. Customer satisfaction nd infra mill tour program CS R sa stru ctu 4. Ethical management and legal for challenging and creative management job th re ng / eal ac compliance organization culture •Town hall meeting ati lity h 5. Risk management 14. Internal communication Local 22. Keep Korea Green cre ibi nd •General meeting y ( ons e a 15. Personal performance improvement communi23. General CSR activities om sp ien of stockholders Economy 6. Sustainable products and brands and ability development ties 24. Community-based management on re yg ec ial o h s Stockholders •Board of Directors 7. Development of innovative products 16. Fair reward system al oc n t ite loc / S tio ss 8. Senior care business to es) ibu es •Annual report In April 2013, management from Partners on tax tr sin Kimberly Clark, a major stockholder of 9. Financial performance 17. W  in-win growth activities Environ25. Response to climate change uti g on Bu 10. New market development for partners ment s/ 26. Efficient use of resources rib yin / C Yuhan-Kimberly, visited Korea and held nt pa ies rce a town hall meeting. 18. Support for partners Co vit ou ti es 19. Selection of fair trading partners nr ma Hu •Newlyweds’ planting program * Yuhan-Kimberly set the threshold for stakeholder issues below that for internal issues to reflect a wider spectrum of opinions from its stakeholders •School forest, urban forest •Hope to Our Daughters and broadened the range of issues by adopting the threshold (6, 3) below that (8, 4) for the last year. and town forest campaign •Stakeholder Committee * Threshold This report, in accordance with GRI G4 Guidelines, sets a threshold for the significance of economic, environmental and social impact •Summer school in forests •Engagement and for female high school students and the influence on stakeholder assessment and decisions, and reports any issue above the threshold as the issues to be managed, regardless of cooperation with Yuhan-Kimberly has carried out the Local •‘Love for life’ newlywed school government policy newlywed planting campaign every the result of Materiality Test. communities •Employee voluntary service •Media response year since 1985. 10 •Hope Bank 11 1 2 3 4 2014 Yuhan-Kimberly Sustainability Report: Summary Four Agenda Points of Social Report on performance of social People are Overall Sustainability Report Responsibility Management responsibility management Appendix our Source of Hope Agenda 01 Sustainable Products | Agenda 02 Keep Korea Green | Agenda 03 Response to Climate Change | Agenda 04 Win-win Growth 2 Four Agenda Points of Social Responsibility Management | Sustainable products managed in five stages 45% Agenda 01 How is The ratio of sustainable products in terms of sales In 2013, Yuhan-Kimberly ran a total of 304 sustainable products of 26 brands under 6 product categories. They represent 33% of the entire products, and 45% of the sales is created from these sustainable products. Yuhan-Kimberly making 1 3 5 2 4 sustainable products? Raw material Product performance Product certification DMA I Disclosures on management approach Manufacturing Packaging How does Yuhan-Kimberly define sustainable products? I Yuhan-Kimberly divides production into five stages: raw material, manufacturing, product performance, packaging and product certification, and defines and manages sustainable products accordingly. How is Yuhan-Kimberly approaching the sustainable product issue? I Yuhan-Kimberly considers the • Reduced in raw • Domestic • Improved product • Reduced • Korea Eco-labeling impact of products on the environment and society from the initial product development stage. Sustainable prodmaterial usage production performance packaging certification • Improved • Redesigned • Decreased material usage • Carbon footprint ucts are selected based on the result of sustainability evaluation by stage, ranging from raw material to product environmental production process consumer • Reduced certification certification. Yuhan-Kimberly runs guidelines for the development, production and management of sustainable performance (Improved efficiency complaints packaging space • ECO-CERT certification products, and manages sustainable products by referring to the ratio of the number and sales of sustainable prod• Use of domestic raw and environmental (over 10%) • Life Cycle Assessment ucts over those of the entire products. material impacts) (LCA) • Use of recycled Key performance in 2013 I Yuhan-Kimberly set a quantitative target for sustainable products as a proportion material of all products, and has managed sustainable products by establishing and running guidelines for the development • Use of certified raw material (FSC, organic, and management of sustainable products. non-additive, edible, etc.) Sustainable raw Sustainable Sustainable product Sustainable Sustainable product materials manufacturing performance packaging certification • Ratio of recycled material • Improvement of • Improvement of • Reduced packaging • Carbon footprint usage: 28.7% the production product performance space: tn certification: Huggies Good Feel | Huggies | Scott & Kleenex | Green Finger | Bebe de Foret | process of all Huggies through new Nature Made Reduced raw Redesigned Improved absorption Reduced packaging ECO-CERT certification • E xpansion of sustainable • New packaging material material usage (organic products: Zero water methods: Scott Hand material: Good Feel • ECO-CERT product: material usage and production process Improved wet strength material, edible material consumption and Towel (improved Bebe deForet use domestic raw Reduced • Reduced packaging material and nonadditive waste reduction absorption and wet environmental mpact material: Green Finger • Korea Eco-labeling material) strength) Use organic (zero water certification: 17 products raw materials consumption) Improved quality of green products Yuhan-Kimberly has conducted research on alternatives to raw materials such as pulp and it has developed environmentally-friendly (recycled) materials to expand the development of sustainable products. In many Pure Tree | tn | Huggies Nature Made | cases, recycled materials remain simply unfeasible in terms of economic and environmental concerns caused by Non-preservative Reduced packaging Carbon footprint Challenge their relatively high usage of materials and low efficiency. However, they are expected to become a reasonable space certification of YK alternative in the near future. Accordingly, Yuhan-Kimberly plans to conduct environmental assessment for the whole process, and continue its efforts, including improving the quality of raw materials. HyungBeom Kim, Head of Innovation Center, R&E Division * In counting sustainable products, Yuhan-Kimberly regarded the same product in different packaging units as one product. 12 13 1 2 3 4 2014 Yuhan-Kimberly Sustainability Report: Summary Four Agenda Points of Social Report on performance of social People are Overall Sustainability Report Responsibility Management responsibility management Appendix our Source of Hope Agenda 01 Sustainable Products | Agenda 02 Keep Korea Green | Agenda 03 Response to Climate Change | Agenda 04 Win-win Growth Agenda 02 Since 1984 Is the ‘Keep Korea Green’ campaign Performance of ‘Keep Korea Green’ in numbers 97.9% Yuhan-Kimberly began the ‘Keep Korea Green’ campaign, its foremost CSR program, in 1984 to restore forests in Korea that were continuously evolving for greater Progress of the campaign of planting then decimated. As the campaign has contributed to society through the planting and managing of trees over the past 30 years, it is now one of the best-known environmental campaigns in Korea. 50 million trees social responsibility (As of the end of December 2013) ‘Keep Korea Green’ in numbers and contribution? Goal 50,000,000 trees (1984~) Yuhan-Kimberly has practiced its vision of planting 50 million trees, a number similar to the entire population of Korea. (Progress 97.9% as of 2013) DMA I Disclosures on management approach 43,311 trees (2003~) Most Koreans live in cities. As part of our Why ‘Keep Korea Green’? I Having started in 1984, the ‘Keep Korea Green’ campaign is the most widely known 184,100 trees commitment to making forests in urban areas, we created the ‘Keep Korea Green’ forest (13,223m2) and celebrated CSR program and environmental management program run by Yuhan-Kimberly. 30 years from its (1985~) We plant trees together with newlyweds, our major customer group. In this campaign, within the Seoul Forest (1,157,024m2), the Korean launch, the campaign has becoming so much more than a corporate social responsibility activity: it is evolving into 18,778 newlywed people planted a total of 184,100 trees. capital’s iconic urban park. We have also planted a national campaign open to all. 43,311 trees in town forests and the forests along the Han River. How is Yuhan-Kimberly approaching the ‘Keep Korea Green’ campaign? I For the 30th anniversary of the campaign, Yuhan-Kimberly set out new vision and goals. The campaign’s new vision is the co-existence of forests 1985 and people and we will realize our belief for a better life through this vision. In line with our existing campaigns, such as our school forest and urban forest campaigns, we will extend the scope of forests and expand green spaces through working with local volunteers. We will train female environmental leaders who will lead the next genera3,924 people (1988~) We have produced 3,924 tion, and we will strive to promote the value of Korea’s forests through online platforms and the media. female environmental leaders through our Green Camp program, 1998 a forest program for young people. Key performance in 2013 I The ‘Keep Korea Green’ campaign is typically evaluated based on various quantitative performance indicators. This year marks the 30th anniversary of the campaign and, to celebrate, we conducted a survey of our stakeholders in an effort to collect their opinions, and the stakeholder survey conducted in 2014 1988 9,107,600 trees includes a measure of influence. 871,782 m 2 1995 (1988~) Yuhan-Kimberly has planted 9,107,600 trees in Mongolia in New vision Goal progress Stakeholder assessment Main programs (1995~) In association with the Korea Forest Service and the civic association with Northeast Asian group Forest for Life, Yuhan-Kimberly created forests covering an Forest Forum, a civic organization, • Co-existence • T he campaign • Survey on the awareness of the • Planting Tree Campaigns area of approximately 871,782m2 across 735 schools as part of our to contribute to the prevention of of forests and to plant ‘Keep Korea Green’ campaign Management of forests in government-owned land commitment to creating school forests and spreading a forest desertification and yellow dust. people 50 million 2,074 external stakeholders School forests, urban forests and town forests culture that the Korean youth can treasure. Growing trees Campaign preference: Forestation in Mongolia forests -P rogress rate Positive respond 72.3% • Meeting between forests and people Dreaming 97.9% with Awareness of its main programs: Planting trees with newlyweds forests 489.5 million 31.4% Youth green camp Main activities of the ‘Keep Korea Green’ campaign trees planted Intention to participate in its • Employee participation and promotion nationwide Sharing as of 2013 programs: 58.9% Employee voluntary service Meeting between Employee participation and forests Planting trees forests and people promotion nationwide Advertisement on ‘Keep Korea Green’ • Planting trees in government-owned • Planting trees with newlyweds • Employee voluntary service (1984~) land (1984~) (1985~) • Partnership with NGOs (1984~) • Restoration of devastated land • Youth green camp (1988~) • Advertisement on ‘Keep Korea Green’ in North Korea (1988~) • Publication of environment series (1984~) 30 years old campaign and new attempts The ‘Keep Korea Green’ campaign has been implemented over the last 30 years, and now it is one of the best • Creation of school forests (1999~) (2000~) examples of CSR activity in Korea. Despite being widely recognized for its authenticity and excellence, the • Forestation in Mongolia to prevent • Discovery and preservation of Challenge campaign in fact has a somewhat old-fashioned image. Yuhan-Kimberly will work hard to refresh the campaign’s desertification (2000~) beautiful forests (2000~) of YK 14 image while maintaining its proud tradition of excellence. CSR Work Leader, ChanSoon Choi • Creation of urban forests and town 15 forests (2003~) 1 2 3 4 2014 Yuhan-Kimberly Sustainability Report: Summary Four Agenda Points of Social Report on performance of social People are Overall Sustainability Report Responsibility Management responsibility management Appendix our Source of Hope Agenda 01 Sustainable Products | Agenda 02 Keep Korea Green | Agenda 03 Response to Climate Change | Agenda 04 Win-win Growth Agenda 03 Formulating a coordinated climate change response through low carbon vision and road map Yuhan-Kimberly established its low carbon vision and road map in 2010 to respond to climate change, and has since launched How is Yuhan-Kimberly responding GHG reduction programs. To attain the goal of reducing GHG emissions by 30% and of increasing sales of green products by 39,642.6 30% over BAU* by 2020, Yuhan-Kimberly has declared its core values to be low carbon operations, low carbon products, low to climate change? carbon society and low carbon supply chain. We have worked to improve processes and engage in various environmental projects, including an early GHG reduction project, pilot emission trading project, and target management scheme for distribution energy. * BAU (Business As Usual) The projected emissions if no action is taken. Yuhan-Kimberly’s low carbon vision and road map Early GHG reduction tco2e Vision 2020 Creating Sustainable Future Vision DMA I Disclosures on management approach Mission Reduce GHG emissions by 30% and increase green products sales by 30% over BAU. Why is climate change response so important to Yuhan-Kimberly? I With a global consensus on the Core values Green operation Green Product Green society Green SCM impending crisis of global warming, responding to the threat posed by climate change has become a global challenge. The Kyoto Protocol, which includes specific targets for GHG reduction, came into effect in 2005 specifically as Programs • Low carbon • Development of • Voluntary carbon credits • Quantification of GHG a way to formulate a global response to climate change worldwide, and Korea has also introduced various programs management system low carbon products • Support for emissions from SCM to reduce GHG emissions. Indeed, Korea has implemented a target management scheme for GHG and energy in • Carbon performance • Carbon labeling development of • Optimization of management system • Use of local resources government policy SCM base an aim to reduce GHG emissions by 30% over the projected BAU (Business As Usual) GHG emissions by 2020. In line •Web-based carbon • Green partnership • E xpansion of • Keep Korea Green with this effort, companies need to invest more in systematic GHG management and analysis of carbon reduction emission management green marketing • Engagement in CDP* • Vitalization of primary potential. • Renewable energy use • Use of environmentally • Climate change distribution* and back • Energy optimization friendly materials communication hauling* How is Yuhan-Kimberly approaching the climate change issue? I Yuhan-Kimberly declared environ* CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project) CDP is an international, not-for-profit organization providing the only global system for companies and cities mental management in 1996 and installed an exclusive environment team to formulate its response to climate to measure, disclose, manage and share vital environmental information. They hold the largest collection globally of self reported climate change, change. For the integrated control of sustainable management, we incorporated the Environmental Management water and forest-risk data. Work Group into the Sustainable Management Division, and we have also actively engaged in domestic and over* Primary Distribution The distribution method in which large distributors transport manufacturers’ products to reduce the operation of empty seas initiatives and groups. In particular, following the low carbon vision unveiled in 2010, we have set out and trucks, as well as environmental impact and cost. *B  ack Hauling A trucking method to reduce GHG emissions and costs by returning to the originating point with the truck fully loaded, rather than implemented the main business objectives for 2020 in terms of climate change, products and establishments. driving empty. Key performance in 2013 I Yuhan-Kimberly has observed the GHG emission allowances for 2013 as allocated by the government based on the guidelines to the target management for GHG and energy. For this, the enviEfforts to reduce GHG emissions ronmental management organization reported the monthly performance over the target for each establishment Yuhan-Kimberly was designated as a company that falls within the new emissions regulations unveiled in the Framework Act to management including the President and CEO, and attained effective reductions of GHG emissions totaling on Low Carbon and Green Growth in 2010. For this reason, every year since 2010, we have been allocated emission allow4,942tCO2e through the concerted development and implementation of reduction programs. ances from the government and have fulfilled our obligation. Our three mills subject to the project Kimcheon, Daejeon and Chungju mills exceeded their GHG emissions target for 2013 by 0.1%, posting GHG emissions of 164,156tCO2e. Low carbon operation Low carbon product Low carbon society Low carbon supply chain Status of GHG emissions The total GHG emissions of Yuhan-Kimberly for 2013 were 166,177tCO2e (direct emission: 45,919tCO2e, indirect emission: • Monthly monitoring and • Acquisition of Korea Eco• Carbon credit by • Introduction of cross reporting of emissions by labeling certification for reducing GHG emissions: docking and automatic 120,258tCO2e), reduced 1.7% from a year earlier. In addition, our energy consumption increased by 2.9% from a year earlier to workplace toilet paper and hand towel 39,642.6tCO2e vehicle allocation system 3,379TJ (direct consumption: 902TJ and indirect consumption: 2,477TJ). Other indirect GHG emissions derived from transpor• Steam energy reduction products • R&D on diaper recycling • Support for establishing tation by directly-run or outsourced distribution centers were 6,966tCO2e, reduced 1.0% from a year earlier. diagnosis project • Life Cycle Assessment(LCA) technology GHG inventory* for partners * Increasing energy consumption Korea’s emission factor of energy and power rose by 6.7% from 9.0GJ/MWh in 2012 to 9.6GJ/MWh in 2013. In fact, • Energy saving project of Huggies Premier the energy usage in 2013 decreased approximately 2.0%p from a year earlier. * Inventory The list of GHG emissions prepared by identifying and estimating direct and indirect GHG emission sources within the scope R&D on diaper recycling technology of corporate activities In 2014, Yuhan-Kimberly conducted the nation’s first pilot project for collecting used diapers in cooperation with Nowon-gu, Seoul. The project is still in the pilot stage, and the ultimate scale of recycling will be determined based on the efficiency of the Internal GHG reduction and external purchase according to the carbon emissions trading scheme separation and collection of diapers, as well as due to recycling technology, equipment investment size, and economic feaYuhan-Kimberly implemented environmental management in 1996, and has made efforts to reduce its environmental impact, including in terms of GHG and energy, through continuous improvement. We view it to sibility. This research project on diaper recycling is, in part, supported by government-run research institutes, universities Challenge be more economical to buy emission credits in the carbon market than to undergo internal efforts to reduce and recycling companies. Yuhan-Kimberly plans to suggest efficient separation and collection systems to improve recycling of YK emissions when the carbon emissions trading scheme comes into effect in 2015. However, Yuhan-Kimberly technology based on the results of the pilot project. For reference, Yuhan-Kimberly launched its research on diaper recycling will continue to strive to identify areas of improvement in a bid to reduce emissions to fulfill its duty as an technology in 2011 to reduce environmental impact by recycling used diapers. 16 environmentally friendly corporation. Environmental Management Work Leader SeungPhil Lee 17 1 2 3 4 2014 Yuhan-Kimberly Sustainability Report: Summary Four Agenda Points of Social Report on performance of social People are Overall Sustainability Report Responsibility Management responsibility management Appendix our Source of Hope Agenda 01 Sustainable Products | Agenda 02 Keep Korea Green | Agenda 03 Response to Climate Change | Agenda 04 Win-win Growth 17 Agenda 04 Is Yuhan-Kimberly striving to spread win-win growth? How is Yuhan-Kimberly IN 2002 Yuhan-Kimberly introduced win-win growth management in 2002 and has fulfilled its social responsibility together with its partners. practicing win-win growth? Vision and goal of win-win growth Yuhan-Kimberly was already practicing win-win growth management with its partners in a variety of ways long before the concept of win-win growth first appeared. Over time, win-win growth management has evolved to include not only financial The win-win cooperation fund created to support partners billion won and technical support, but also social responsibilities that are shared with partners. In addition, we have also introduced the concept of ‘Creating Shared Value (CSV)*’ to our senior care business, since it is impossible to secure global competitiveness without first making progress in the industrial ecosystem. This step has enabled us to establish a network by identifying and DMA I Disclosures on management approach fostering promising small senior care companies to create a new win-win growth model. * Creating Shared Value A new management flow through which new business opportunities can be created in the course of resolving social issues Why is win-win growth so important to Yuhan-Kimberly? I We live in an age of global competition. To thrive, we need to focus on win-win growth, as it is one of the main indicators to determine competitive edge. YuHistory of Yuhan-Kimberly’s commitment to win-win growth han-Kimberly strives to realize real win-win growth by monitoring and practicing fair trade rules, including through Stage of practicing •R einforced win-win growth management (Organized giving opportunities equitably to partners, competing fairly, sharing results created through efforts, and distributing win-win growth technical support and CP/WinWinGrowth Work Group) 2013~ profits gained from cooperation. • Concluded fair trading and win-win growth agreement • Supported  continuous improvement of partners and introduced performance sharing system How is Yuhan-Kimberly approaching win-win growth? I Underlying the win-win growth of Yuhan-Kim• Innovated retail store transaction system • Established the ‘Voice of partner’ berly is its long corporate culture of pursuing win-win relationship. The company’s ‘Keep Korea Green’ campaign, Stage of spreading • Established and spread win-win growth culture which this year marks its 30th anniversary, seeks win-win growth with local communities, and the active senior win-win cooperation 2008~2012 campaign that has recently been launched aims to promote win-win growth with all ages of society. The corpo• Started the Supplier Management Advisor (SMA) system • Conducted cooperation project rate culture of win-win growth has also been applied to the company’s relationship with its partners. Through ac• Conducted technical support project tive communication and various win-win growth programs, Yuhan-Kimberly has improved mutual understanding • Compliance/UN Global Compact Stage of laying the foundation and trust with its partners, and has also actively supported its partners to reinforce their competitiveness. We have for win-win cooperation worked hard to achieve win-win growth in a systematic manner. In January 2012, we introduced the compliance 2002~2007 • Established a win-win cooperation organization (2002) program for fair trade, and in 2013, formed an organization exclusively in charge of win-win growth. We also signed • Conducted evaluation of partners • Opened Win-Win Academy a win-win growth agreement and prepared related programs. • Conducted a project for partner quality and safety Key performance in 2013 I We strive to improve our win-win growth performance by including a win-win growth index and the results of evaluation of the agreement for fair trade and win-win growth in the items for Win-win Growth Organization Installation and operation of an exclusive win-win growth organization performance evaluation of CP/WinWinGrowth Work Group. In addition, we utilize the results of our partners in the Yuhan-Kimberly launched CP/WinWinGrowth Work Group, an organization tasked exSupply Chain Management Business & stakeholder survey held in 2014 to reflect their opinions in our management activities. clusively with promoting win-win growth, in May 2013. We have focused on achieving Function win-win growth in a systematic manner and, for reference, we formed the Supplier ReSupplier Relations Division lations Division in charge of win-win growth in 2002. For more than a decade, we have Win-win growth system Win-win growth program Win-win growth culture Win-win growth evaluation made concerted efforts for win-win growth, including offering systematic technical CP/WinWin Supplier Technical • Operation of compliance •P  urchase support: Payment • Designation of Win-win • Opening of a website for support to our partners, helping to develop win-win growth strategies, and operating Growth Relations Service Work Group Work Group Work Group program (CP) conditions, improved period, growth Day handling grievances of cooperation programs. In January 2012, we introduced a compliance program. • Signing of a fair trade and and sales expansion • Seminar with CEOs of partners Acquisition of ‘Excellent’ grade in Win-win Growth Index win-win growth agreement • F inancial support: Win-win partners for win-win growth • Stakeholder Survey 2014: Yuhan-Kimberly began to announce Win-win Growth Index in 2013. The Win-win growth Committee announced the result of • Incorporation of win-win cooperation fund • Presentation on vision for Awareness of win-win growth in 2013: 71.2 points evaluation of win-win growth index for 2013 in June 2014 and, in this index, we were awarded the Excellent grade. For refergrowth index in the evaluation •H  uman resource and training retail stores support Win-Win Academy, (Increased 8.1 points from ence, in Korea, 56 large companies were subject to the evaluation of win-win growth index in 2011, and this number increased • Promotion of performance technical expert support a year earlier) to 109 in 2013. Yuhan-Kimberly joined this group in 2013. sharing system Opening Joint Distribution Center for win-win growth with retail stores Limited partner support costs and demand for more support In May 2014, Yuhan-Kimberly opened a Joint Distribution Center in Byeolnae-dong, Namyangju, Gyeonggi-do that aims to Yuhan-Kimberly has made efforts for win-win cooperation with its partners since 2002. Our win-win cooperation achieve win-win growth with retail stores. The new joint distribution center has been designed to optimize operating stock program has primarily focused on support for only a section of partners, such as material suppliers and toll processing companies. To expand this support program to an enterprise-wide win-win growth program, it is and distribution costs. This center is the first example in the industry of a joint distribution center model between manufacChallenge of YK necessary to expand the program to all partners, including retail stores. To realize this requires extra financial and turer and retail stores. This provides opportunities to vitalize cooperation between the company and retail stores, including human resource support. For this reason, Yuhan-Kimberly strives to develop programs to support its partners by through joint stock operation and joint shipping. 18 utilizing internal resources as much as possible. WinwinGrowth Work Leader HaEun Myung 19 1 2 3 4 2014 Yuhan-Kimberly Sustainability Report: Summary Four Agenda Points of Social Report on performance of social People are Overall Sustainability Report Responsibility Management responsibility management Appendix our Source of Hope Economic Performance Report | Social Performance Report | Environmental Performance Report 3 Report on performance of social responsibility management | Economic Management Index by Numbers 89 performance Report Balance Sheets and Income Statements (Unit: 100 Million won) Category 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Balance Sheet Current Assets 4,965 4,337 4,805 5,246 4,723 Non-current Assets 3,613 3,933 4,210 4,534 4,889 Total Assets 8,579 8,270 9,015 9,780 9,612 Investment in the future in 2013 billion won Current Liabilities Non-current Liabilities 1,561 166 1,776 0.49 2,052 151 2,334 362 2,079 92 Total Liabilities 1,727 1,777 2,203 2,696 2,172 Capital 2,000 2,000 2,000 2,000 2,000 DMA I Disclosures on management approach Capital Surplus 625 625 625 625 625 Retained Earnings 4,227 3,868 4,187 4,460 4,815 Material issues on economy Total Stockholder’s Equity 6,852 6,494 6,812 7,085 7,440 According to the result of Yuhan-Kimberly’s Materiality Test 2014, materiality issues in the field of economy included Total Liabilities and Stockholder’s Equity 8,579 8,270 9,015 9,780 9,612 ‘sustainable products’, ‘innovative products’, and ‘senior care business’. For more details, see ‘Sustainable Products’ Sales 11,341 12,094 13,041 14,128 13,660 Income (p.12-13). Statement Cost of Goods Sold 7,102 7,839 8,713 9,093 8,834 Gross Profit 4,238 4,255 4,328 5,035 4,827 Yuhan-Kimberly’s approach Selling and G/A Expenses 2,552 2,760 2,975 3,378 3,192 Yuhan-Kimberly set its management goal as ‘Great life-innovating company’ to attain its Vision 2020. As the financial Operating Profit 1,686 1,495 1,353 1,657 1,634 goal is the core performance of the company, all its organizations are directly engaged in the goal, and cooperate Non-operating Profit 457 307 238 232 209 organically with one another to attain it. Non-operating Charges 211 490 163 161 145 Income Before Income Taxes 1,932 1,312 1,427 1,728 1,698 Key performance in 2013 Income Tax Provision 442 370 309 355 342 Due to the internal and external challenges that the company faced in 2013, its financial performance declined from Net Income 1,491 942 1,119 1,372 1,356 a year earlier. In 2014, Yuhan-Kimberly will attain its goals with the spirit of challenge and creativity. Financial Index Category Index Yuhan-Kimberly Same line companies Manufacturing (large companies) average* (large companies) average* 2010 2011 2012 2013 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Increase rate of sales (%) 6.64 7.83 8.33 -3.31 12.47 5.53 -0.20 19.12 14.33 4.09 2013 Targets and Performance (Unit: 100 million won) Core strategies and objectives for 2014 Increase rate of Tangible 8.26 -5.42 8.71 7.74 8.33 2.62 0.92 11.65 9.45 5.32 Growth assets (%) Attraction and • Extension for a paper towel Increase (Decrease) rate of execution of manufacturing process and Net income (%) -36.84 18.79 22.69 -1.21 long-term goal 2020 investment commencement of the operation of Ratio of operating Attaining the sales of 5trillion won automated storage in Kimcheon Mill • Investment improvements to pants Profitprofit to net sales (%) Ratio of net profit to net 12.36 10.37 11.73 11.96 5.51 3.57 6.07 7.67 6.13 5.43 7.79 8.58 9.71 9.92 3.60 0.72 3.65 7.12 4.74 4.71 Reinforcement • Growth by 3.6% from a year earlier ability sales (%) of capabilities • The market share of diaper and Return on Assets (ROA, %) 11.39 12.41 14.03 14.10 3.25 0.66 3.31 7.91 5.41 5.20 15,207 for existing core pants 65% 14,128 14,071 business Return on Equity (ROE, %) 14.11 16.81 19.75 18.67 6.14 1.30 6.50 15.48 10.38 9.84 13,660 • Bathroom tissue 31% and Current ratio (%) 244.20 234.22 224.78 227.13 119.19 104.58 102.25 117.59 118.41 127.71 facial tissue 37% Quick ratio (%) 165.39 174.19 168.79 175.06 79.23 70.69 71.45 88.11 86.86 95.52 10.09% • The market share of feminine sanitary Safety Debt ratio (%) 27.36 32.33 38.05 29.19 92.82 102.08 91.21 91.26 92.60 85.54 napkins 57% 9.71% 9.92% Fixed assets to long-term 60.57 60.46 60.89 64.91 93.36 98.05 99.03 91.17 90.55 87.63 Net Acceleration of • Growth by 11% from a year earlier capital ratio (%) income the vitalization (including new businesses) Total asset turnover ratio 1.34 1.44 1.51 1.50 1.41 0.91 0.91 1.11 1.14 1.10 of growing • Senior pants 27% ratio (times) business areas • Wet wipes for kids13% Receivables turnover 9.66 9.95 10.37 10.63 9.76 6.49 6.36 7.60 7.31 6.99 and new market ratio (times) • Wet wipes for toilet (My Bidet) 54% Activity development Inventories turnover • Kitchen towel 9% 10.29 9.94 9.91 11.13 11.43 8.91 9.44 11.75 11.04 10.67 ratio (times) 2012 2013 2013 2014 Diversification • The ratio of exports to Tangible assets turnover perfortarget perfortarget 3.44 3.47 3.70 3.95 3.53 1.70 1.72 3.09 3.21 3.08 of the items and total sales 15% ratio (times) mance mance destinations of • Entrance into Japanese market and * There have been some changes in figures while adjusting figures based on 1 million Korean won and rounding them off. exports expansion of its export ratio * Standard of Comparison As a healthcare and sanitary product company, Yuhan-Kimberly uses the average ratios of manufacturers (large companies) • Sales declined by 3.3% from a year earlier, and the net income ratio • Preparation for the export of paper for more effective comparison. The above average ratios of same line companies and manufacturers are the ones of the ’C17. Pulp, paper and paper increased by 0.21%p from a year earlier towel products in 2015 product’ industry (large companies) and the manufacturing (large companies) specified in Financial Statement Analysis (FSA) published annually by • Faced with sluggish demand in the domestic market, the company the Bank of Korea. 20 minimized the decline in sales through maintaining market dominance Cost and expense reduction -25 billion won * Standard of Amount Each index has been calculated based on the amounts specified in Yuhan-Kimberly’s annual report. 21 * From 2011, according to the change in formation method of Bank of Korea, 2009 and 2010 numerical values are applied differently than the previous report. 1 2 3 4 2014 Yuhan-Kimberly Sustainability Report: Summary Four Agenda Points of Social Report on performance of social People are Overall Sustainability Report Responsibility Management responsibility management Appendix our Source of Hope Economic Performance Report | Social Performance Report | Environmental Performance Report Social Reinforcing of competitiveness through communication and training 123 As of December 31, 2013, Yuhan-Kimberly has a total of 1,722 employees, increased 1.9% from a year earlier. By occupation, Performance Report production employees represent 58.0%, while office job employees 42.0%. The average years of continuous service is 16.8. In 2013, the company hired a total of 55 new employees, with the ratio of new female employees accounting for 42.4%. Thanks to our continued efforts to increase the number of female employees, the proportion of female employees as a share of total employees has continuously increased over the last 5 years. Average training hours per person hours Employment Status by Numbers Classification 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 DMA I Disclosures on management approach Employment Employees (person) 1,706 1,695 1,689 1,688 1,663 1,656 1,690 1,722 Employment of the disabled (%) 1) 2.0 2.1 2.2 2.2 2.3 2.3 2.5 2.5 Material issues on society Contract employees (person) 24 19 9 2 1 1 6 4 Yuhan-Kimberly manages its social performance by categorizing stakeholders as employees, partners, customers Job creation rate (%) 2) 1.5 -0.6 -0.4 -0.24 -1.48 -0.42 2.11 1.89 and local communities. The Materiality Test we conducted has shown that the material issues facing stakeholders Average continuous service year (year) 12.6 13.3 14.0 13.9 15.9 15.7 16.3 16.8 include family-friendly management, smart work, cementing the foundation for challenging and creative organizaAverage working hours per month (hour) 182 183 184 181 180 179 180 171 tion culture, personal performance improvement and ability development, win-win activities for partners, responsibility for products, security and product safety, customer satisfaction management, ‘Keep Korea Green’ campaign, Average number of days absent 11 5 1 0 0 6 0 0 and general CSR activities. Loss days 3) 130 329 190 0 163 479 244 500 New New employees (person) 69 25 44 13 12 51 55 55 Employment Yuhan-Kimberly’s approach Retirement Retirement rate (%) 2.3 1.5 1.98 1.21 1.18 1.92 Yuhan Kimberly manages social performance indicators through focusing on material issues by stakeholder. The Female Number of female employees (person) 268 266 270 263 263 273 283 298 relevant organizations include Sustainable Management Division, Supplier Relations Division, Customer Services Employment Division, and HR Business & Function. Yuhan-Kimberly runs the core programs required to improve stakeholder Percentage of females in total workforce (%) 15.7 15.7 16.0 15.6 15.8 16.5 16.7 17.3 satisfaction and support better performance for each stakeholder. We carry out various activities, including familyPercentage of females at senior management level (%) 3.4 15.7 17.1 17.1 17.6 17.7 18.8 17.6 friendly management, win-win growth programs, customer satisfaction management, and CSR programs. Percentage of females in total office employees (%) 39.4 39.9 40.1 33.7 33.9 35.3 35.1 35.6 Percentage of females in new recruit (%) 29.4 48.0 31.0 20.0 55.6 52.0 36.4 42.4 Key performance in 2013 Maternity/ Maternity leave usage rate (%) 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 Yuhan-Kimberly complies with laws and regulations. We conduct comprehensive surveys of stakeholders and reflect Childbirth Maternity leave users (person) 21 25 33 31 29 24 25 23 their opinions in our social programs to improve program quality. Return-to-work rate after maternity leave (%) 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 Baby care leave users (person) * 1 5 15 17 20 22 23 16 Female employees baby care leave usage rate (%) 4.8 20.0 45.5 51.6 68.9 91.7 88.0 83.0 Employees • Job creation rate: 1.89% Partners • Local purchase: 36.2% of the total Return-to-work rate after baby wcare leave (%) 100 100 92.3 100 100 100 100 100 • Ratio of office job women 35.6% purchase amount Labor Number of employees joining the labor union (person) 961 953 945 939 935 903 887 899 • Industrial disaster rate: 0.29% • E valuation of partners: Rate of employees joining the labor union (%) 4) 80.5 80.0 83.4 83.7 88.0 88.0 99.0 99.8 The evaluation includes items • Talent training: Work safety Industrial disaster rate (%) 5) 0.12 0.06 0.06 0.0 0.18 0.06 0.06 0.29 for social responsibility. Average 123 hours per person • Win-Win Academy: • Global leaders: 49 persons 6 times with total 152 companies * No male employees used baby care (paternity) leave in 2013. •F amily-friendly management: 1) Employment of the disabled Monthly average number of employees x 12, subject to the estimation criteria by Korea Employment Agency for •A  project for continuous Renewal of family-friendly company the Disabled. In reporting to the government, an employee with severe disabilities is counted as two persons, and Yuhan-Kimberly’s employment improvement of partners: 4 partners certification Fathers School and quotas for the disabled is 2.5%. conference for pregnant women •D  evelopment of a performance 2) Job creation rate (number of employees this year – number of employees last year)/ number of employees last year x 100 sharing system model 3) Loss days Counted based on the absent days of workers injured due to accidents in a mill. Local 4) Rate of employees joining the labor union (enrolled workers/eligible workers) x 100. Employees in charge of managerial and supervisory work Customers •P roduct safety: Pre-inspection of • Employment of local talent: 9 persons communities new products and control over (above section chief level), HR, labor, planning, marketing, general administration, bookkeeping, accounting, cashier work, funds, secretary work, • Fostering female leaders: 71 persons harmful material driving, and security are not included in eligible workers. From 2012, the company began to include non-annual salary workers in eligible workers, • F amily-friendly activities: and will continue to include them. • Compliance with Bioethics and Safety Act 100 couples for the Newlywed School •C  onsumer complaint improvement TFT 5) Ground for calculation of industry disaster rate (number of accidents/ number of full-time workers) x 100 • Solving polarization: Hope Bank divided into 5 product categories •S pontaneous CSR activities: •C  unsumer Centered management: Total 331 cases with 4,907 participants Supporting 2 partners to obtain certification •C  onsumer training: 22 Online platform-based training 23 1 2 3 4 2014 Yuhan-Kimberly Sustainability Report: Summary Four Agenda Points of Social Report on performance of social People are Overall Sustainability Report Responsibility Management responsibility management Appendix our Source of Hope Economic Performance Report | Social Performance Report | Environmental Performance Report Smart work Environmental Yuhan-Kimberly strives to establish a more innovative and creative corporate culture. We introduced ‘Smart Work’ in 2011 in an effort to enable our employees to work in a more efficient and creative manner through providing a more autonomous Performance Report 17 environment. Furthermore, we established the Smart Office in the Main Office and the Jukjeon Office, and opened the Smart Work Center in Gunpo and Jukjeon. Our Main Office is specially designed to improve spatial efficiency and boost open communication and collocation through an open seat system. In addition, we have also introduced a telecommuting system and flexible lunchtime system. Such efforts show out commitment to putting a greater emphasis on autonomy and expanding our network. For reference, Yuhan-Kimberly has implemented several flexible working systems, including the four crews two years The duration of shifts system for production employees and the staggered office hour system for managerial positions, and the field commutenvironmental ing system for sales position. We are proud to have won the K-GWPI (Korea Great Work Place Index) for some years running. management Smart work system DMA I Disclosures on management approach Yuhan-Kimberly has established and gradually introduced three phases of a smart work system in order to run an enterprise-wide smart work system. In 2013, to secure resource flexibility, we introduced a collaboration reinforcement organization program by Material issues on environment reorganizing Work groups as basic units. Moreover, to create working environments amenable to flexible time and space conThe Materiality Test we conducted has shown that the material issues on the environment were a ‘response to clistraints, we solidified trust between superiors and staff, published manuals to clarify our business goals and apply performance mate change’ and ‘efficient resource use’. We have selected the response to climate change as one of the four agenda assessment, and have improved the attainment of our business objectives by function and our performance measurement. points. For more details, see ‘Response to climate change’ (p.16-17). 3rd Yuhan-Kimberly’s approach Generation Since declaring environmental management in 1996, Yuhan-Kimberly has continued to practice it through active (2013~) engagement in domestic and global initiatives and groups. We continue to set ourselves challenging environmental goals and work hard to attain them in an effort to respond to various environmental issues, including UNFCCC (Unit2nd Flexible Organization ed Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change), governmental Greenhouse Gas and Energy Target ManGeneration Resources • Evaluation based on performance rather than agement System, identification of cost reduction tasks for production processes and a reduction in GHG emissions. (2011~) •H  R and organization working hours Key performance in 2013 • Virtual work • Democratic and horizontal culture 1st Flexible Space space • Challenging and creative culture Yuhan-Kimberly strictly manages its environmental performance based on quantitative targets. To respond to climate change, we not only strive to reduce GHG emissions and energy usage, but we also make efforts to reduce Generation • Smart Office Society water consumption, waste and harmful material. (1990~) (variable seat system) and • Decreased traffic and telecommuting environmental impact Flexible Time • Smart Work Center • Work-life balance • Production, sales (Jukjeon, Gunpo) • Contribution to demographic issues and office positions including the low birth rate and an Resource • Reduction in the usage of raw Waste • Waste recycling: 45,704 tons • Flexible working saving reduction aging population materials: Reduction in imported • Waste recycling ratio: 96.9% and lunch time recycled paper by 49.6% • Water recycling: 1,892,000m3 • Reduction in fuel usage • Water recycling ratio: 39.8% Contribution to local communities Gasoline 27.9% Steam 39.9% Training and employment of local talent • Reduction in water usage by 0.32% Yuhan-Kimberly is eager to employ local workers for its mills in order to develop local talent. Of the 9 new recruits employed in 2013, 7 employees (78%) are local residents. Kimcheon mill maintains a high ratio of local employees: over 70% of all employees and 75% of superiors are from Daegu and Gyeongsangbuk-do. Control over Environmental harmful materials • Harmful material control: 3 kinds training • Environment training by mill: Voluntary CSR engagement by employees Total 1,664 participants • Risk assessment and monitoring Yuhan-Kimberly actively encourages its employees to participate in voluntary service activities. In 2013, a total of 4,907 em•For new recruits, environment and • Installation of oil-retaining walls ployees participated in 331 voluntary service activities, donating 253 million won. In 2013, Yuhan-Kimberly launched a volunsafety managers and partners • Scenario-making and training for spills tary service page in its intranet and, in 2014, it introduced a voluntary service target management system. This enables us to •Training content: Environmental • Harmful material spills in 2013: Zero manage the voluntary service index in a transparent manner on our system every year. Management System (EMS) and environmental impact assessment, field safety, environmental job, Donation and voluntary service with family and harmful material handling etc. Yuhan-Kimberly holds a Family Voluntary Service Day on the third Saturday of March every year to allow its employees to conduct voluntary service activities with their family. In 2014, we conducted a tree-planting program in three of our mills and adjacent areas. We have also renewed the record of the number of participants in a donation relay through an enterprise24 wide donation campaign (Korea Foundation for Women) by participating in the campaign together with employee families. 25 1 2 3 4 2014 Yuhan-Kimberly Sustainability Report: Summary Four Agenda Points of Social Report on performance of social People are Overall Sustainability Report Responsibility Management responsibility management Appendix our Source of Hope Independent Assurance Statement 4 Appendix | Material Flow Independent Assurance Statement We were engaged by Yuhan-Kimberly Co., Ltd. (‘YK’) to provide independent •We confirmed that YK recognizes sustainability comprehensively and apassurance on the information presented in 2014 Yuhan-Kimberly Sustainplies it into management and stakeholder communication. Main Raw Material INPUT Green House Gas (GHG) OUTPUT ability Report (‘the Report’). YK is responsible for preparing the Report, which -In the relation to the principle of Materiality: Imported Recycled material 3,779 ton 79 GHG 166,177 tCO2e includes economic, social, and environmental aspects of financial and nonfinancial performance information. It is our responsibility to provide assur•YK has strengthened materiality assessment process to determine the core issues to report, and has included the results of the related information in Domestic Recycled material 46,443 ton billion won ance opinion on the Report. this year’s report. Tra Waste •We did not find any important Corporate Social Responsibility information Pulp 99,857 ton p or t n ns Green sp Waste 47,157 ton Context and scope | that had been exlcuded during the materiality assessment process. Super Absorbent Polymer 25,138 ton T ra Purchase or Our engagement was designed to provide limited assurance on whether: -In relation to the principle of Completeness: (SAP) t 1. YK has properly applied the “GRI Principles for Defining Report Content”; •YK applies reporting scope, boundary and temporal criteria. Air Pollutants 2. The information in the Report is fairly stated in terms of materiality aspects, •In terms of criteria mentioned above, we confirmed the Report is suitable Fuel Dust 1,966.1 kg based on the reporting criteria set out in ‘About This Report’. for stakeholders to assess the sustainability performance. 20.652 3. The information contained in this Report is accurate and complete LNG Research & Production/ million m3 SOx 0 kg On the content of the report Development Manufacture Gasoline 35.9 ㎘ The scope of our engagement is to provide assurance of non-financial inforIn order to provide our limited assurance statement of the Report, we reNOx 0 kg mation following the KPMG Sustainability Assurance Manual™ (KSAM™) , and viewed the following 2013 non-financial information. Propane gas 5.3 kg confirm accuracy of the financial data included in page 21 of this Report. To CO 0 kg Diesel 50.5 ㎘ obtain a thorough understanding of YK’s financial results and position, the Overall Sustainability Report audited financial statements of YK for the fiscal year ended 10 March 2014 • Business Outcome and Mid-long term as• CSR Chief Executive Structure and the Roles 257.065 Water Pollutants signments • Ethical Management and Anti-Corruption Training Electricity which was confirmed by external auditor. million kwh • Vision and Core Value Implementation • Hotline Suspended Solids (SS) 5,295.8 kg Guidelines • Risk Management System Steam (external purchase) 13,268 GJ Disuse Use In preparing the report, YK used the Comprehensive Option of Sustainability • New Organization System • Stakeholder Communication Biochemical Oxygen • Characteristics of Governance 1,803.5 kg Reporting Guidelines (G4) of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) for the out• Materiality Test Water Demand (BOD) line and referred to BEST Guideline and ISO26000. (Assurance on 2013 GHG • Board of Directors and Compensation • Product Safety • BOD Performances Water 2,865,243 m3 Chemical Oxygen emission and energy use data were performed separately) 34,149.0 kg Four Agenda Points of Social Responsibility Management Demand (COD) • Sustainable Products Wet wipes, diapers Water supply 169,311 m3 Recycling We conducted our engagement in accordance with the ISAE3000, which • “Keep Korean Green” Campaign Forestation project in Mongolia Stream water 2,634,040 m3 Recycled water 1,891,593 m3 Discharge includes independence and competency of the assurance team in the re• Response to Climate Change Reduction of GHG emission, Resource circulation, green logistics quirement. • Win-win growth Win-win growth program, Integrated assessment system for supply chain Industrial water 61,892 m3 Recycled waste 45,704 ton Waste water 2,458,414 m3 Report on Performance of Social Responsibility Management We conducted our engagement in compliance with the requirements of the • Financial statement, distribution of economic values, Exports, IFAC (International Federation of Accountants) Code of Ethics for Professional Economy Investment in R&D, Senior care business Accountants, which includes requirement of excluding any information and Society • Employees Safety and health policy, retirement pension plan, HRD, Trends in Environmental Performance opinion that can influence the writing of the Report. The Code also includes detailed requirements for practitioners regarding integrity, objectivity, profes• Partners Family-Friendly Management Supporting programs for partners over 15 years (1999~2013) • Consumers Control over harmful materials, Product safety, Compliance with sional competence, due care, confidentiality and professional behavior. KPMG bioethics and safety act, Customer satisfaction survey has systems and processes in place to monitor compliance with the Code • Community Community development & recruitment and to prevent conflicts regarding independence. Environment • Material flow, compliance with environmental law, Environmental performance data Category 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 We conducted our engagement with a multidisciplinary team including speReporting Information cialists in stakeholder engagement, auditing, environmental, social and finanBased on the above work, we conclude that the information in the Report EnvironTotal Cost 57.3 65.2 88.1 91.6 83.6 84.5 94.2 90.5 86.9 90.8 125.8 125.1 124.7 147.0 157.1 cial aspects, and professionals with years of experience in Corporate Social does not appear to be unfairly included. mental (100 Mil. won) Responsibility assurance services. Protection Percentage to Net Sales (%) 1.1 1.1 1.3 1.3 1.2 1.2 1.2 1.1 1.0 0.9 1.1 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.2 Recommendations | Cost Our work includes the following procedures: Below recommendations have not influenced the conclusions of our Water usage (m3/product ton) 24.5 18.7 14.1 11.5 10.0 8.9 9.7 9.9 10.0 11.7 13.8 14.4 15.0 12.3 12.5 •A review of YK’s stakeholder engagement process assurance, however, we believe the following matters can be considered in •A review of YK’s selection methodology for material issues and materiality the future for improved sustainability reporting: Ratio of Domestic Recycled Fiber (%) 18.9 37.3 57.7 74.2 70.8 76.0 74.8 76.8 81.7 85.8 89.9 91.8 86.5 86.1 92.5 assessment process •YK developed <IPS Materiality Ratings Scheme> on the basis of GRI G4 Recycle •Conducted media analysis and internet search for references during the Guidelines to strengthen its materiality assessment process. <IPS Materiality Ratio of Recycled Water Usage (%) 41.0 34.9 46.1 55.5 61.8 59.2 57.3 57.3 56.3 50.8 43.1 43.4 42.1 39.5 39.8 reporting period Ratings Scheme> is to be continuously developed and applied to enhance •Interviews with selected managers in headquarter and Chungju mill to the materiality assessment in the future. Treated Water Discharge verify financial and non-financial data •YK explains its effort to reduce environmental impact of supply chain in this 13.5 13.0 11.2 8.2 7.5 6.3 6.4 6.4 7.4 8.6 11.1 11.6 12.9 10.6 10.7 (m3/product ton) •Confirmed the source of non-financial information including database and report. Including social impact as well would cover all of the set reporting Water internal documents boundary. Water Total Suspended Solids 0.17 0.11 0.05 0.02 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.02 0.03 0.03 0.027 0.025 0.020 0.023 Purity •With regards to the financial data included, verified that they were correctly •YK implements comprehensive social assessment of suppliers for purpose Pollution Control Biochemical Oxygen derived from YK’s audited financial statements on page 21 of win-win growth and risk management. We recommend to do such Emission 0.09 0.05 0.03 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.02 0.01 0.02 0.015 0.012 0.012 0.008 Demand •Confirmed whether appropriate and comprehensive content is included, assessment online for it will enhance efficiency to manage objectivity and (kg/ in accordance with G4 guideline results. product Chemical Oxygen 0.43 0.29 0.18 0.14 0.12 0.09 0.09 0.09 0.11 0.11 0.14 0.155 0.161 0.153 0.149 We have discussed the reporting process and observations with YK. They were ton) Demand During our engagement, we discussed the necessary changes to the Report receptive to our comments. Solid Waste Generation (ton/product ton) 0.47 0.38 0.38 0.44 0.45 0.37 0.34 0.28 0.26 0.25 0.23 0.22 0.23 0.21 0.21 with YK and reviewed that these changes were adequately incorporated into the final version. Seoul, June 2014 Total Emission of CO2 KPMG SAMJONG Accounting Corp. 151 139 160 175 170 163 168 156 155 161 164 179 171 169 166 Green (1,000 tCO2e/year) Opinions and conclusions | CEO Kim, Kyo Tai house On the GRI Principles for Defining Report Content: Unit Emission of CO 2 gas 0.909 0.875 0.863 0.867 0.879 0.800 0.834 0.806 0.793 0.748 0.792 0.736 0.735 -In relation to the principle of Stakeholder Inclusiveness: (tCO2e/product ton) reduction •YK operates key stakeholder group which includes customers, employees, Chlorofluorocarbon (CFC) (kg) 47.5 19.7 24.3 63.4 51.0 35.3 22.2 17.1 26.7 4.8 19.6 8.2 8.2 suppliers, shareholders, local communities and implements stakeholder engagement process. NOx (kg/product ton) 0.851 0.577 0.506 0.467 0.506 0.449 0.409 0.152 0.066 0.053 0.028 0.070 0 0 0 •We are not aware of any key stakeholder group that has been excluded 6 To improve assurance quality of Sustainability report, KPMG developed standard methAir from stakeholder engagement in the Report. odology in accordance with ISAE3000, on the basis of the expertise of accounting firm Purity SOx (kg/product ton) 0.581 0.341 0.154 0.058 0.067 0.060 0.070 0.020 0.004 0.005 0.001 0.0001 0 0 0 -In relation to the principle of Sustainability Context: 7 International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 : Assurance Engagements other •YK explains its effort to consider economic, social and environmental as26 Control Dust (kg/product ton) 0.173 0.119 0.077 0.058 0.042 0.021 0.016 0.008 0.004 0.003 0.006 0.006 0.011 0.012 0.013 pects of management process in business planning and performance rethan Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information, issued by International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board view process. 27 Cover story Fathers School was established to reinforce the family-caring ability of men. The role of fathers is changing in Korea. It is vital for men today to improve their ability to take care of their children to manage both their job and family at the same time. That’s why Yuhan-Kimberly runs ‘Fathers School’, an idea first suggested in a survey of stakeholders on family relationships conducted under the theme, ‘Happy fathers make a happy workplace’. We will continue to hold the ‘Fathers School’ program and share the results with others in order to reinforce men’s ability to take care of their children. The history of Yuhan-Kimberly Sustainability Report 2006 • Awarded the Grand Prix at the first Sustainability Management Awards (Seoul School of Integrated Sciences & Technologies) 2007 • Awarded the Grand Prix at the second Sustainability Management Awards for 2 consecutive years (Ministry of Commerce, Industry and Energy) • Ranked first in the Sustainability Report Evaluation (Hankyoreh Shinmun) 2008 • Awarded the Prime Minister Prize at the third Sustainability Management Awards (Ministry of Knowledge Economy) 2009 • Awarded the Grand Prix at the Sustainability Management Awards for 3 consecutive years • Awarded the Sustainability Report Prize at the Korean Sustainability Conference (Korea Standards Association)  • Selected UNGC Notable COP (UNGC) 2010 • Awarded the Grand Prix at the Global Green Management Excellence Awards (Korea Management Association Registration)  • Ranked first in the Korean Sustainability Index (KSI) (Korea Standards Association) 2011 • Awarded the Sustainability Report Prize at the Global Standard Management Awards (Korea Management Association Registration) • Awarded the Sustainability Report Prize at the Korean Sustainability Conference (Korea Standards Association) 2012 • The President and CEO was awarded the Order of Civil Merit, Camellia Medal for his contribution to working to solve the issues of a low birth rate and the need for family-friendliness  • Awarded the Best Prize at the Seoul Environment Awards • Awarded the Minister of Environment Citation for excellent Korea Eco-labeling certification • Awarded the Sustainability Report Prize at the Korean Sustainability Conference (Korea Standards Association) 2013 • Awarded the Presidential Citation of the Most Lovend Company in Korea (Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy) • Awarded the Sustainability Report Prize at the Korean Sustainability Conference (Korea Standards Association) • Awarded the Golden Prize in the Radio Category at the Korea Advertising Awards 2013 (Korea Federation of Advertising Associations) • Awarded the Ministry of Health and Welfare Appreciation Plaque at the Senior Employment Conference 2013 (Ministry of Health and Welfare) Month of publication Jul. 2014 | Publisher KyooBok Choe | Editor CheonHeon Song | Planner HeaSook Kim | Coordinator SeungPhil Lee | Material coverage Chung Jae Lee | Publishing organization Environmental Management Work Group, Sustainable Management Division, Yuhan-Kimberly(chungjae.lee@y-k.co.kr) | Address 504 Teheran Rd. Gangnam-gu, Seoul, Korea | Telephone +82-2-528-1351 | Fax+82-2-528-1063 | External assurance KPMG | Designed by IntoGraphic +82-2-583-7688 | Website www.yuhankimberly.co.kr
