GRI G3 Certified Application Level 'A' Sustainable Development Performance Report 2011-12 Contents Sustaining Actions Improving Lives Chairman's Message 3 Business Profile 5 Products and its Applications 7 Report Profile 9 Reporting Standards 10 Awards and Accolades 11 Business Risks and Strategies 13 Corporate Governance 15 Stakeholder Engagement 19 Sustainability Management 25 Ethics and Transparency 29 Partnerships, Associations and Memberships 31 Economic Performance 33 Environmental Performance 37 Social Performance 49 Product Responsibility 69 GRI Content Index 71 1 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT POLICY SAIL recognizes that its business activities have direct and indirect impact on the environment and society. SAIL is committed to continuously promote Sustainable Development encompassing environmental, societal and economic aspects related to its business activities. Guiding Principles :  Affirm its commitment to contributing towards a clean and sustainable environment and continually enhancing its environment related performance as an integral part of its business philosophy and values  Strive to integrate its business values in an ethical and transparent manner to demonstrate its commitment to sustainable development and to meet the interests of its stakeholders  Create a positive footprint within the society to make a meaningful difference in the lives of people by continually aligning its initiatives to the goals for sustainable development  Regularly interact with stakeholders to assess and achieve sustainability goals associated with its business activities, through constructive dialogue  Maintain commitment to business and people for quality, health and safety in every aspect (CS Verma) Chairman January 2012 2 Sustaining Actions Improving Lives Chairman’s Sustainable Development Performance Report 2011-12 Message Sustaining Actions Improving Lives Never before in history has there been a greater need for sustainability…..... Initiatives for attaining higher sustainability be it economic, environmental or social is indeed the most important investment for future.…... Dear Stakeholders, SAIL, since its inception has been a front-runner in sustainability initiatives. SAIL was awarded an ‘A’ level GRI Check recognition for our first Corporate Sustainability Report last year, which is certainly encouraging. This year as we release our second Sustainability Report, the subject continues to be a high priority area for our Company with an enhanced strategic relevance. As we move into the volatile business realities of tomorrow, with economic upheavals and environmental & social concerns, we have been constantly working towards a comprehensive sustainability strategy which is relevant to all stakeholders. This strategy strengthens our credo of 'Making a meaningful difference in people's lives'. Our Modernization & Expansion Programme has started yielding results with additional capacity coming on-stream across the plants/units. The adoption of state of the art technologies would help us to improve our productivity and cost effectiveness and also help us to make our processes more environment friendly. Our investment outlay for the 12th 5-year plan is also substantive and is geared towards realizing our 2020 vision of sustainable growth to a capacity of 45 MTPA. We continue to enhance our focus on Research and Development for improving sustainability. Our R&D Master Plan comprises High Impact Projects & Technology Mission Projects including initiatives addressing eco-issues, development/acquisition of break-through technologies etc. Our R&D investments are helping us on several fronts such as, towards cost reduction, productivity improvements, optimum utilisation of raw materials, energy reduction and product improvement. 3 Sustainable Development Performance Report 2011-12 We strongly believe that employees are our pillar of strength. We are continuously inculcating an organisational culture that supports flexibility, learning and is proactive to change. We chart a challenging career for employees with opportunities for advancement and rewards. In addition to our internal efforts, we are also open to strategic alliances to enhance our value for all stakeholders and the society at large. A few strategic interventions in this regard were conceptualized during the course of the year which should help us to unleash our potential in the coming years. SAIL has always been a key player in the infrastructural development and societal care in its operating regions. We continue to make meaningful contributions towards healthcare, education, vocational training etc. These initiatives are directed not only towards the employees but are available for the non-employees as well with an added focus on the underprivileged sections of the society which form a substantial proportion of the populace in the localities around the plant and mines. In keeping with our thrust on dealing with ecological contours, our key operational interventions have reduced particulate matter emission, specific water consumption and effluent discharge. There has been a reduction of 56%, 15% and 9% in these parameters respectively over the past 6 years. We continue our perseverance on reducing specific energy consumption and optimizing consumption of virgin raw materials. This is being done through a judicious combination of imbibing technological advancement & improved process discipline across the steel manufacturing value chain right from the mines to the consumption points. Sustainability is and will continue to be our prime focus as we work towards our long term vision & strategy. The attached report details our various measures, thrust areas, initiatives & achievements over the past year towards our sustainability endeavour. As we navigate our way to future, we would welcome inputs & suggestions from you, our valuable stakeholders, towards creating a sustainable and rewarding tomorrow. This report has been prepared in accordance with the 'G3' guidelines of GRI Sustainability Reporting and intended to communicate our sustainability initiatives and achievements to our stakeholders. It represents a balanced presentation of our organization's economic, environmental and social performance. To conclude, I affirm our commitment towards sustainability aptly described through the quote by Theodore Roosevelt: The nation behaves well if it treats the natural resources as assets which it must turn over to the next generation increased, and not impaired in value. With best compliments (C S Verma) Chairman 4 Sustaining Actions Improving Lives Business Sustainable Development Performance Report 2011-12 Profile Sustaining Actions Improving Lives Steel Authority of India Limited (SAIL), a Government of India undertaking is one of the largest state-owned steelmaking companies and one of the largest steelmakers in the World with a production of 12.96 million tonnes of crude steel during 2011-12. With a turnover of INR 503.48 billion (US$9.42 billion), the Company is among the top five profit earning corporates of the country. Headquartered at New Delhi, SAIL is also among the five Maharatnas of the country's Central Public Sector Enterprises (CPSE). Offering vast range with 50 mild, special and alloy steel products in 1000 qualities and 5000 dimensions, the Company not only straddles the domestic steel industry but also commands a market share of 18%. It has a considerable international presence with SAIL steel institutions, banks, mutual funds, Foreign Institutional finding ready acceptance in over 30 countries worldwide. Investors and the general public. This vital responsibility SAIL manufactures and sells a broad range of steel of carrying out the marketing activity is carried out by products, including hot and cold rolled sheets and coils, SAIL's own Central Marketing Organisation (CMO) that galvanised sheets, electrical sheets, structurals, railway transacts business through its network of 37 Branch Sales products, plates, bars & rods, stainless steel and other Offices spread across the four regions, 25 Departmental alloy steels including branded products such as SAIL TMT Warehouses, 42 Consignment Agents and 27 Customer and SAIL JYOTI. SAIL is a fully integrated iron and steel Contact Offices. CMO's domestic marketing effort is maker, producing both basic and special steels for supplemented by its ever widening network of rural domestic construction, engineering, power, oil & gas, dealers who meet the demands of the smallest customers railway, automotive, defence and atomic energy in the remotest corners of the country. With a wide industries and for sale in export markets. marketing network having more than 3000 dealers, SAIL ensures presence of quality steel in every district of the The government holds the majority of shares (85.82%) country. with the remaining being held by different financial The various plants and units of SAIL which are considered in the scope of this report are as follows: Plants Units Bhilai Steel Plant Central Marketing Organisation Durgapur Steel Plant Research and Development Centre for Iron & Steel Rourkela Steel Plant Centre for Engineering and Technology Bokaro Steel Plant SAIL Safety Organisation IISCO Steel Plant SAIL Growth Works, Kulti Alloy Steels Plant SAIL Refractory Unit, Bhandaridah Salem Steel Plant SAIL Refractory Unit, Ranchi Road Visvesvaraya Iron and Steel Plant SAIL Refractory Unit, Bhilai Chandrapur Ferro Alloy Plant SAIL Refractory Unit, IFICO, Ramgarh 5 Sustainable Development Performance Report 2011-12 Production overview ('000 tonnes) Item 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 Hot Metal 14379 14757 13998 Crude Steel 13199 13453 12961 Pig Iron 319 258 97 Semi -Finished Steel 2392 2394 2527 Finished Steel 9736 9931 9328 Saleable Steel 12128 12325 11855 Special Steel Plants (Saleable Steel) 504 562 544 Total Saleable Steel 12632 12887 12400 Performance Highlights Financial Performance Financial Performance 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 Total Saleable Steel (‘000 tonnes) 12632 12887 12400 Turnover (billion INR) 439.35 470.41 503.48 Net Sales (billion INR) 405.51 427.19 456.54 Profit Before Tax (billion INR) 101.32 71.94 51.51 EBIDTA (billion INR) 118.71 90.30 76.58 Capital Expenditure (billion INR) 106.06 112.80 110.21 Total Assets (billion INR) 683.91 760.83 763.37 Sales Foreign Countries (billion INR) 7.83 9.81 12.30 Profit After Tax (billion INR) 67.54 49.05 35.43 Budget Allocation for CSR (million INR) 800 940 640 Non-Financial Performance Non -Financial Performance 2009-102010-11 2011-12 Number of Employees 116950 110794 106004 Female Employees (%) 5.56 5.70 6.00 Labour Productivity (tcs/man/year) 226 241 241 Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (for 2009, 2010 and 2011) 0.15 0.13 0.08 Specific Energy Consumption (GCal/tcs) 6.72 6.81 6.86 Coke Rate (kg/thm) 517 520 517 Specific CO2 Emission (T/tcs) 2.91 2.87 2.81 Specific Water Consumption (m3/tcs) 3.96 4.06 3.86 Solid Waste Utilisation (%) 80 84 86 Villages supported for Infrastructural Development 54 62 71 (Cumulative) 6 Sustaining Actions Improving Lives Products and Sustainable Development Performance Report 2011-12 Its Applications Sustaining Actions Improving Lives Long Products  Crane Rails  Z-Section Centre Sill  Z-Type Sheet-piling Section  M S Arch  Bars, Rods & Rebars: SAIL TMT  Wire Rods Applications Structural, Construction, Engineering, Electrodes Manufacture, Bridge Flat Products  HR Coils, Sheets & Skelp  CR Coils & Sheets  Plates  GP Sheets & Coils, GC Sheets: SAIL JYOTI  Tin Plates  Electrical Steel  Stainless Steel Applications: Boilers, Defence, Railways, Ship Building, LPG cylinders, Irrigation, Thermal/Hydro Power Projects, Merchant, Cargo Vessel, Rolling Shutters Stainless Steel: Utensils, Tableware, Automobile Trims, Conveyor Belts, Elevators, Chemical and Food Processing Equipment, Building and Interior Decoration and Pharmaceutical Equipment Pipes Applications: High Pressure Transportation of Oil & Water Sewage Disposal, Tube Wells, Transportation of Crude Oil Natural Gas and Slurry Transportation Railway Products  Rails  Wheels, Wheel Sets  Axles Applications: Indian Railways, Infrastructure projects Semis  Blooms  Billets  Slabs Applications: Re-rolling 7 Sustainable Development Performance Report 2011-12 SAIL Network SAIL organisational network in India 8 Sustaining Actions Improving Lives Report Sustainable Development Performance Report 2011-12 Profile Sustaining Actions Improving Lives SAIL aims to create value for its stakeholders, develop new opportunities to generate prosperity, enhance quality of life, and resolve risks and threats to sustainability in the context of social aspects, environment conservation and long-term economic growth. Our approach to sustainability is guided and supported by effective stakeholder engagement. This is the second Corporate Sustainability Report covering the fiscal year 2011-12. The first Sustainability Report for SAIL was prepared for the fiscal year 2010-11. The reporting has been done as per the GRI G3 sustainability reporting guidelines. Relevant aspects have been referred from Indicator Protocols, Sector Supplements and Technical Protocols and incorporated in the report. The reporting principles of materiality, was also transferred to SAIL Refractory Company Ltd. stakeholder inclusiveness, sustainability context and (SRCL), a wholly owned subsidiary of SAIL during the year. completeness have been applied in the report as per the Joint Venture Company “SAIL RITES Bengal Wagon AA1000 AccountAbility Principles Standard Industry Pvt. Ltd.” has been incorporated to manufacture (AA1000APS)-2008: the principles of Inclusivity, 1500 wagons per annum (manufacture of 1200 wagons Materiality and Responsiveness. The report represents and rehabilitation of 300 wagons) which will include the balanced and reasonable presentation of our BOXN-type wagons, specialized high-end wagons and contributions in the area of sustainability. modern stainless steel wagons at SAIL Growth Works The report has also considered the reporting guidance for Kulti, West Bengal. boundary setting. The boundary of the report is limited to SAIL signed an MOU with M/s Mishra Dhatu Nigam the product and services of SAIL. Efforts have been made Limited (MIDHANI) for exploring synergetic business to include all significant actions or events and reasonable opportunities in production of value-added products, estimates on the future impacts of past events. The report enhanced research & development activities, exchange of considers the principles of defining quality viz., balance, technical know-how and joint investment between the comparability, accuracy, timeliness, clarity and reliability. two companies. The reporting level of 'A' is being declared for GRI SAIL and Burn Standard Co. Ltd. (BSCL), a PSU under the Application Level Check as per GRI G3 guidelines. The GRI Ministry of Railways, entered into an MOU for setting up a check is aimed at enhancing the quality and credibility of Wagon Components Manufacturing Facility (WCMF) as a the report as well as for ensuring quest for improvement. 50:50 Joint Venture (JV), for the manufacturing of Cast The scope of report has been enhanced to cover more Steel Bogies, Couplers and related products for use on the units this year under the framework of sustainability Wagons running on Indian Railways. The project is reporting. No unit has been closed, divested or relocated planned to be set up on leasehold land under the during the year 2011-12. possession of M/s Burn Standard Co. Ltd. (BSCL) at Jellingham, West Bengal. During 2011-12, SAIL's subsidiary, Maharashtra Elektrosmelt Ltd. (MEL), was amalgamated with SAIL and renamed as Chandrapur Ferro Alloy Plant (CFP). Salem Refractory Unit of Burn Standard Company Ltd. (BSCL) 9 Sustainable Development Performance Report 2011-12 Reporting Standards Statutory audit of economic and financial systems are conducted by auditors. Internal audits are also carried out within the organization. Government auditors conduct verification and review. Quality, Environment, Health, Safety and Social audits are conducted by external auditors/internal auditors on a regular basis as per the requirement of ISO 9001:2008, ISO 14001:2004, OHSAS 18001:2008 and SA 8000:2008. Financial reports are prepared as per the guidelines provided by company law in India. Energy and carbon dioxide calculation are carried out as per World Steel Association (WSA) guidelines. Monitoring, measurement and calibration are carried out as per relevant Indian Standards. Documentation and communication are done as per the requirements of ISO 9001, ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 and SA 8000. Norms and procedures prescribed for the work place safety under the Ministry of Labour & Welfare (Factories Act) and the Ministry of Environment and Forests are followed. While applying the reporting principles approach, attempt has been made to address all the relevant and applicable core and additional indicators. The appropriate topics and indicators were selected based on its significance on economic, environmental and social performance of the organization and its substantial influence on the assessment and decision of stakeholders. SAIL shall continue to report on sustainability performance on a yearly basis. For additional information about SAIL efforts towards sustainable development, you are welcome to write to: sailsustainability@gmail.com 10 Sustaining Actions Improving Lives Awards & Sustainable Development Performance Report 2011-12 Accolades Sustaining Actions Improving Lives SAIL  “MoU Excellence Award” for the year 2010-11 for the 9th consecutive year, from GoI  Prime Minister's Shram Awards (11 out of 33 )  Vishwakarma Rashtriya Puraskar (14 out of total 28)  7 teams won “Excellent” and 3 won “Distinguished QC” award at The International Convention on Quality Circle 2011 held at Yokohama, Japan in September, 2011  33 teams won “Par Excellence”, 2 teams won “Excellent” and 3 teams won “Distinguished” Award at National Convention on Quality Concepts-2011 held at Hyderabad in December, 2011  SCOPE Meritorious Award 2010-11 for “Corporate Governance” and “Environment Excellence & BSP Sustainable Development” for 2009-10  “Performance Excellence Award” 2010-11 from  Prime Minister's Trophy for the Best Integrated Plant in India for the Year 2009-10 Indian Institute of Industrial Engineering  “Golden Peacock Eco Innovation Award 2011”  13 Awards (6 winners and 7 runner up) out of total from IOD 123 “National Safety Awards-2009”, from GoI  “Golden Peacock HR Excellence Award for the  “Golden Peacock Environment Management Year 2011” from IOD Award 2011” from IOD  “Greentech HR Excellence Award 2011” under the  Randstad Award 2011 under Manufacturing award category “Employee Services” from Industries category from Randstad Holdings, Greentech Foundation, New Delhi Netherlands DSP  Dainik Bhaskar India Pride Gold Award-2011” in the category of Metals & Minerals & Trade  “Golden Peacock National Quality Award-2011” including Mining, for Central PSUs from IOD  “IEI Industry Excellence Award 2011” from  “Indian Achiever's Award 2010” on Corporate Institute of Engineers, India Leadership from Indian Achievers Forum, New Delhi  Skoch Award for Financial inclusion under the category of Women Empowerment  “Greentech Environment Excellence Award (Gold) 2010” in Metals and Mining Category for  First prize at Town Level from Town Official environmental preservation from Greentech Language Implementation Committee (TOLIC), Foundation, New Delhi GoI  Greentech CSR Award (Gold)-2010” in Metals & Mining Category by Greentech Foundation, New Delhi  Golden Peacock National Quality Award-2011” by IOD RSP  “Rajbhasha Gaurav Samman” from the Bhartiya Rajbhasha Vikas Sansthaan, Dehradun  “Greentech Environment Excellence (Gold) Award” in Environment Management from Greentech Foundation, New Delhi 11 Sustainable Development Performance Report 2011-12 BSL  “Golden Peacock Award 2011” for Innovative Product/Services from IOD SSP  2nd Prize of National Sustainability Award in the Secondary Steel Plants / Alloy Steel Plant Category from Indian Institute of Metals, Kolkata for the year 2010-11 RDCIS  “Most Innovative Energy Saving Product” Award institutionalized by CII for Curtain Flame Ignition System  “NRDC Meritorious Invention Award-2010” for Curtain Flame Ignition Technology for Sinter Machine in Steel Plants from National Research Development Corporation, New Delhi 12 Sustaining Actions Improving Lives Business Risks Sustainable Development Performance Report 2011-12 and Strategies Sustaining Actions Improving Lives Risk assessment and strategy planning has assumed more importance than ever due to volatile market scenario and unpredictability. SAIL has always been alert of this and has been proactively trying to gauge the various risks faced by the organisation. Risk and Strategies for SAIL Indicators Risk Strategies Economics Intense competition amongst domestic To protect Market Share and grow by suppliers focusing on increasing share in growth Diminished rate of growth in infrastructure segments. Fluctuating international prices Product, process and application innovation Delayed Projects implementation Strategizing for raw material security Fast depleting captive mines Development of new mines Inadequate infrastructure for movement of Close monitoring of project activities imported inputs/distribution of output SAIL's ongoing expansion will be able to Dependence on imported coal bridge the gap between demand & supply Aim at excellence in quality across the value chain Focus on specific training and capacity Labour Skill depletion in the technical areas building at different levels Availability of skilled contractual workforce Emphasis on recruitment of skilled workforce Health and safety during project for manning of upcoming facilities & implementation recoupment against attrition and Talent retention and employee motivation superannuating manpower Inculcating excellent work culture with strong adaptability to change Adherence to ethical business practice standards Environment Stringent environmental norms may require Investment in environmental protection and investments for technological and process stewardship innovation Energy conservation Increased concern on global climate issues Enhancing material use efficiency may pose significant operational and Waste minimization and management financial risks to the industry, in the form of carbon taxes, emission caps etc. Complying with air emission norms Waste generation and disposal issues Improving water use efficiency and reducing Air and water quality management around effluent discharge production facilities and its regulatory implications Social Maintaining plant activities in harmony with Need assessment and community society engagement programme Maintaining ethical business practices Investing on community and its development across supply chain with focus on health, education, women Outreach of development programme in empowerment, access to improved water villages sources, ancillary and local industry, road connectivity, sports and culture Implementation of CPSE guidelines Strong partnership with community 13 Sustainable Development Performance Report 2011-12 SAIL being among the top steel producers of India and a respected steel supplier in the world, enjoys a vantage point when it comes to leveraging its position in the steel market. The unique position of having nationwide presence, dedicated workforce and highly stable captive mines operations provides SAIL several opportunities. Strength and Opportunities Strengths Opportunities Diversified product mix and multi location India's strong medium term demand encourages production units capacity expansion The largest captive iron ore operations in India Nationwide dealers' network is ideally placed to Skilled manpower base Labour Productivity of 241 tap the emerging demand of quality steel tonnes of crude steel per man per year during Quality production for Import substitution 2011-12 Augmentation of power plants capacities under 70% of its total power need is fulfilled by captive Joint Venture, to have security in this key input power plants Enhancing improvements in the areas of SAIL's RDCIS is one of the biggest in-house research Marketing, Human Resources, Infrastructure & and development centres in Asia. Utilities, Maintenance, Information Technology, Low overall borrowings Environment and Safety Management etc. Committed huge investment on modernisation Well established systems and procedures 14 Sustaining Actions Improving Lives Corporate Sustainable Development Performance Report 2011-12 Governance Sustaining Actions Improving Lives The philosophy of the Company in relation to corporate governance is to ensure transparency, disclosures and reporting that conforms fully to laws, regulations and guidelines, and to promote ethical conduct throughout the Organization, with the primary objective of enhancing shareholders value, while being a responsible corporate citizen. The Company is committed to conforming to the highest standards of corporate governance in the Country. It recognizes that the Board is accountable to all shareholders and that each member of the Board owes his/her first duty for protecting and furthering the interest of the Company. Corporate governance has been carried out in accordance with the clause 49 of the Listing Agreement. The Board of Directors are guided by the organisation's vision and credo. The composition of the Board of Directors is a mix The Balanced Scorecard initiative was launched in August, of full time executive and non-executive Directors. The 2010, and after deliberations by the top management in selection of the Directors is done following a well the Annual Business Plan meeting in March 2011, established process by Central Government through Enterprise Scorecard of the company has been framed. Public Enterprises Selection Board. The board members Based on the Enterprise Scorecard, exercise for regularly review the performance of the organisation on preparation of Unit Scorecard and Individual Scorecards economic, environmental and social issues. up to the rank of General Managers and Executive The Directors present the annual report of the Company Directors is being undertaken. together with audited accounts for each Financial Year Being a Public Sector Undertaking, the nomination and and the minutes are also prepared for the proceedings of fixation of terms and conditions for appointment as the Annual General Meeting. These minutes includes Director is made by Government of India. As such, the suggestions, comments and feedback from the Nomination and Compensation Committee has not been shareholders. The concern of the shareholders are constituted. However, the Board has constituted a discussed at the Board Meeting and after prioritisation of Remuneration Committee comprising of three these concerns, the management integrates the same in independent Directors for the purpose of finalization of its business decision. Performance Related Pay (PRP) for the executives of the The SAIL Board Committees are Audit Committee, Company in terms of Department of Public Enterprises Nomination and Compensation Committee, Guidelines on Corporate Governance for Central Public Shareholder/Investors Grievance Committee, and Sector Enterprises. The Non-Executive Directors (other Committee of the Board (COB) and Sustainable than Government Nominee Directors) are paid only Development Committee. sitting fee for each Board/ Board Sub-Committee Meeting attended by them. The salary of the Whole Time The Company has in place a Code of Conduct applicable Directors is governed by pay scales and Rules of the to the Board Members as well as the senior management Government. and the same has been posted on the Company's website. There were no instances of non-compliance by the The various issues pertaining to the management of Company, penalties, strictures imposed on the Company economic, environmental and social areas are collected, by the stock exchange or SEBI or any other matter related compiled and monitored through the various divisions of to the capital, during last three years. the SAIL Corporate Office. The agenda papers along with 15 Sustainable Development Performance Report 2011-12 Board of Directors As on 31st March, 2012, the Board of Directors comprised a full time Chairman, 6 whole time Directors (WTD) and 11 non-executive Directors (Non-ED) (including 9 independent Directors). During the year, 11 Board meetings and 1 Annual General Meeting were held. Number of shareholders complaints received during the period from 01.04.2011 to 31.03.2012 were 30. All of these complaints were resolved during the year and no complaint was pending for redressal as on 31.03.2012. Shri C.S. Verma Chairman Shri S. Mukherjee Shri Anil Kumar Chaudhary Shri S. S. Mohanty Shri H. S. Pati Director Director Director Director Commercial Finance Technical Personnel Shri T. S. Suresh Shri A. K. Pandey Shri E.K. Bharat Bhushan Shri Upendra Prasad Singh Director Director Additional Secretary & Joint Secretary Projects & Business Planning Raw Material & Logistics Financial Adviser, Ministry of Steel, GoI Ministry of Steel, GoI Independent Directors Prof. Deepak Nayyar Shri A. K. Goswami Dr. Jagdish Khattar Prof. Subrata Chaudhuri 16 Sustaining Actions Improving Lives Sustainable Development Performance Report 2011-12 Shri P. C. Jha Shri P. K. Sengupta Dr. Isher Judge Ahluwalia Shri Sujit Banerjee Shri Arun Kumar Srivastava Chief Executive Officers (Permanent Invitees) Shri Pankaj Gautam Shri N. K. Jha Shri G. S. Prasad Shri Anutosh Maitra CEO Bhilai Steel Plant CEO IISCO Steel Plant CEO Rourkela Steel Plant CEO Bokaro Steel Plant Shri P. K. Singh Shri Devinder Kumar CEO Durgapur Steel Plant Executive Director (F&A) & Secretary 17 Sustaining Actions Improving Lives Sustainable Development Performance Report 2011-12 the status report on the economic, environment and Iron & Steel making is a continuous process industry with social performances including legal compliance are made complex technology. To operate this industry, SAIL needs with the help of information provided by the various units highly skilled personnel and competent managers and in advance to all the Board Members before the meeting administrators. In order to meet the present and future for review, comments and suggestions during the manpower needs in diverse disciplines, multiple skills and meeting. The feedback from the board members is different work areas, SAIL is committed to a system of analyzed by the top management and considered for selection that ensures induction of the best and most business decision-making. Executive compensation is competent personnel to take up challenging assignments based on the achievements of individuals in the financial in the company. The selection system seeks to emphasise and non-financial areas. The financial benefits are based evaluation of individual capabilities in terms of their on the performance of the individual shops in the form of potential for fulfilment of Company's objectives. Few incentives, which are fixed on the basis of the executives, in due course of time, rise to the highest performance and quality targets finalized at the governance body, in which other members are also beginning of the year. Non-financial benefits include inducted as per recommendations & guidelines of various motivational schemes and awards. Government of India. Chairman and Full time Directors are appointed by Department of Public Enterprises There were no transactions by the Company of material through open advertisement. There is no bias against nature with Promoters, Directors or the Management, gender or other forms of diversity. their Subsidiaries, relatives etc. that may have potential conflict with the interests of Company at large. The The GoI owns about 86% of SAIL's equity and retains Non-Executive Directors had no pecuniary relationships voting control of the Company. However, SAIL, by virtue or transactions vis-a-vis the Company during the year of its 'Maharatna' status enjoys significant operational except receipt of sitting fee for attending the meetings of and financial autonomy. the Board/Board Sub-Committee. None of the NonExecutive Director held any Share/convertible instrument of the Company. 0.01% 3.48% 0.68% 2.28% 0.71% 4.47% 2.55% Government of India Financial Institutions/Banks Insurance Companies Mutual Funds Foreign Institutional Investors (FIIs) Global Depository Receipts (GDRs) Companies (including Trusts & Clearing Members) 85.82% Individuals (including Employees & NRIs) Shareholders breakup for SAIL for year 2011-12 18 Sustaining Actions Improving Lives Stakeholder Sustainable Development Performance Report 2011-12 Engagement Sustaining Actions Improving Lives Stakeholders are broadly defined as those groups or individuals who can be reasonably expected to be significantly affected by the organisation's activities, products and/or services and whose actions can reasonably be expected to affect the ability of the organisation to successfully implement its strategies and achieve its goals. Stakeholder Engagement is an essential element of SAIL business. It helps the company to learn from the stakeholders to identify and manage risks, to build trust and strong relationships and to identify ways to improve its performance. Stakeholder engagement aims for the following aspects: Completeness: Knowing and understanding stakeholders and providing complete and balanced reporting of practices and performances. Materiality: Assessing the significance to stakeholders is to meet the requirements of the AA1000 Stakeholder and to management and deciding what to report on. Engagement Standard (AA1000SES) for “Thinking and Responsiveness: Involving, responding, and providing Planning”, “Preparing and Engaging” and “Responding access to information on management decisions. The aim and Measuring”. Identify & Capture Assess & The identification of stakeholders originates from the Views Evaluate Issues vision of the Company. The vision indicates that all efforts shall be directed towards quality, productivity, profitability and customer satisfaction, whilst establishing Implement & Prioritizing Communicate Issues value partnership with suppliers and social development through contributing to the nation. Thus, the internal and Identify external stakeholder base of the company encompasses Prepare Sustainability the government, shareholders, employees, customers, Action Plan Indicators suppliers, community, NGOs, academics, consultants, Stakeholder Engagement Model competitors, financial institutions etc. 19 Sustainable Development Performance Report 2011-12 Stakeholder expectation and engagement benefits: Stakeholders Prioritised Stakeholder Concerns/Perception Benefits Shareholders Profitability of the company, creation of wealth, stock price, Wealth Creation for grievances and complaints Shareholders Employees Safe and healthy working conditions, good remuneration Motivated, satisfied and package and professional growth, quality of life and welfare enthused workforce measures, training and career development Suppliers Partnership with value creation, timely payment, engaging Satisfied suppliers and more local suppliers, supplier satisfaction lasting relationships Customers Partnership with value creation, product quality, delivery Lasting relationship, satisfied compliance and customer satisfaction, resolution of customer complaints Community Quality of life, job opportunities, education, welfare measures, Socio-economic medical facilities development of the region, partnership in progress Government Revenue and tax distribution, profitability, employment and Contribution to government contribution to GDP, safe working environment exchequer, employment opportunities, import independence Banks and Financial risks, debts and borrowing, potential liabilities, Safe investment, Insurers compliance to statutory requirement contribution to economy NGO's Environment quality, human rights issues, freedom of Safe and healthy workforce, association, compliance with regulations pertaining to child environment friendly and forced labour operations, ethical and transparent operations, compliance to standards Regulators Environmental compliance, human rights issues, safety, Legal compliance, beyond compliance to ILO conventions compliance Professionals / Partnership with value creation, employment and contribution Knowledge building, value Consultants to GDP, training and development, ethics violations creation, collaboration Competitors Knowledge sharing, partnership with value creation, anti Knowledge sharing, competitive behaviour, consumer privacy implementing best practices, ethical business Academic Knowledge management, R&D activities, partnership for value Knowledge sharing, new creation technology 20 Sustaining Actions Improving Lives Sustainable Development Performance Report 2011-12 Stakeholder engagement mechanism: Stakeholders Forum for assessing requirements and communicating directions Annual General Meetings , Quarterly and half-yearly reports to shareholders, Shareholders Shareholder relation meets, Investor surveys Customer meets, Director's conference with customer groups, Customers Sales visits to customers, Customer satisfaction surveys Suppliers Vendor meetings, meetings with suppliers External public/ Meetings with Central & State Government/Steel Ministry/Trade Bodies, Government/Regulators Industry Association, NGOs, Ministry of Environment & Forests etc. Community meetings, Interaction with doctors on health issues, Involvement of senior Community officials as chief guest at local society functions, Town administrative committee NGOs/ Professionals Visits to plants, seminars, conferences, interactions Use of information from stakeholder engagement The feedback received from shareholders at the SAIL level and Employee Satisfaction etc. The expectations of is often manifested in the market capitalization and share employees are also systematically captured and actions price performance of the Company. This feedback forms are initiated to align the goals of the Company with that of one of the significant inputs to the strategic plan the individual to ensure professional growth, retention development and the consequent strategic objective and motivation. The feedback received from the villagers setting. The inputs received from the customer form the and local people is used to plan for their development in basis of product improvement, products and services areas like roads, health and hygiene, sanitation, drinking development necessary for customer retention, market water, irrigation etc. Meetings with the Government, Steel penetration and development. The information Ministry, Environment Ministry and Trade Bodies are generated during supplier engagement essentially aimed at understanding the requirements under statutes focuses on identifying areas with conflicting goals such as related to steel and its allied business. The new payments, material rejection information etc. This has a legislations/ordinances are analysed and incorporated in bearing, primarily on the Working Capital Management the business decisions during the strategic planning. This and Inventory Management. The feedback is also used to also includes meeting with the Factory Inspectors, Labour fine-tune the vendor rating and evaluation procedure. Commissioners, Police, District Administration, State The feedback from these stakeholders is inherent in Pollution Control Boards, Electrical Inspectors, Boiler performance indicators like Customer Satisfaction Index Inspectors etc. Materiality Assessment Materiality is used for assessing the significance to and strategies. Effort was made to connect as accurately stakeholders and to management and deciding what to as possible with the stakeholders by organising report on, i.e., it is used to determine the threshold and interactive sessions wherein, questionnaires on depth of the topics to be addressed in the sustainability sustainability issues were prepared by experts and report. The assessment helps in identifying the impact on circulated amongst various stakeholders for identifying business and also stakeholders concern for various the issues and gauging their perceptions. While sustainability issues. A materiality assessment is a developing materiality mapping, it was ensured that there powerful tool to understand where business interests was inclusivity in the approach and due importance was overlap with the sustainability priorities of a Company's paid to the views of the stakeholders with regard to stakeholders. sustainability challenges faced by SAIL. Materiality assessment was performed by interacting with While engaging with the stakeholders, it was observed various stakeholders of SAIL and considering the that stakeholders echoed a strong sentiment towards alignment of the sustainability issues with SAIL's policies 21 Sustaining Actions Improving Lives Sustainable Development Performance Report 2011-12 reducing emissions and discharge in an effort to conserve the environment and local eco-system. In the current scenario where environmental regulations and various governmental bodies are emphasizing the need for cleaner development, the stakeholders have voiced their affirmation for investment in new processes and products. It is noteworthy that stakeholders are highly concerned about customer satisfaction. This validates the business strategy of SAIL which has customers at the heart of its business strategy. Also evident from this survey was that safety and health of employees assumed high value among the stakeholders. A significant majority of stakeholders also commended the efforts being put by SAIL for ensuring that sustainability practices always remain at the heart of its business strategy. Materiality Issues High Stakeholder Concern, High Stakeholder Concern, Low Business Impact High Business Impact High  Enhancing solid waste utilisation and  Reducing dust emissions, discharges and recycling noise  Conserving resources  Reducing green house gas emissions &  Ensuring proper hazardous waste carbon footprint management  Effective asset and capacity utilisation  Enhancing energy efficiency  Employee Satisfaction  Pollution prevention & clean technology  Supplier and contractors practices  Labour practices and decent work  Safety and health of employees  Conservation of bio-diversity  Reducing operating cost and cost savings  Increasing customer satisfaction Stakeholder concern  Investment on new process and products  Enhancing supplier satisfaction  Employee training and skill development  Overall peripheral development Low Stakeholder Concern, Low Stakeholder Concern, Low Business Impact High Business Impact  Reducing ozone depleting substances  Ensuring legal compliance  Green procurement and green marketing  Development of value added products  Reducing supply chain environmental  Initiatives for women empowerment impacts  Improving process management and  Enhancing labour productivity technological parameters  Professional growth  Practices for elimination of child and  Non-discrimination, diversity and forced labour opportunity  Elimination of bribery and corruption  Initiatives for better employment generation  Customer health and safety Low Business Impact High 22 Sustaining Actions Improving Lives Sustainable Development Performance Report 2011-12 Stakeholder engagement model in SAIL is governed through Citizen's Charter and Sevottam model. Citizen’s Charter Citizen's Charter is a document which represents a systematic effort to focus on the commitment of SAIL towards its Citizens in respects of Standard of Services, Information, Choice and Consultation, Non-discrimination and Accessibility, Grievance Redressal, Courtesy and Value for Money. This also includes expectations of the Organisation from the Citizen for fulfilling the commitment of the Organisation. The charter demonstrates SAIL's ability to consistently provide quality products and efficient and responsive services that meet requirements of the Citizens with applicable legal, statutory and regulatory requirements. It aims at enhancing Citizens' satisfaction and continually improve products and service delivery process. Commitment between two entities i.e. SAIL and Citizens requires mutual appreciation of objectives of Citizen's Charter, Management Commitment and obligation of Citizens to facilitate the process of service delivery. Objectives of Citizen's Charter The significant objectives of the Citizen's Charter of SAIL are summarised as given below:  Ensuring Citizen-centric focus across all its processes by adopting Excellence enabler for improvement of products and services  Ensuring effective Citizen Communications Channels  Demonstrating Transparency and Openness of its business operations by hosting the Citizen's Charter on the SAIL's web site i.e. www.sail.co.in  Working towards delight of Citizens by fail-safe processes and in case of exigencies leveraging its Service Recovery Processes like Grievance Redressal, Handling Complaints etc Four Step Sevottam Model Citizen Identification 1 Identification mechanism to lay down policies in order to serve Stakeholders and incorporate a feedback mechanism in order to increase customer satisfaction and improvement in service Developing Policy to meet stakeholder expectation 2 Based upon the identification and management of stakeholders, a comprehensive set of policies has been adopted by SAIL in order to meet their expectations Delivering Services and Products as per the stakeholder expectations 3 Ability to consistently provide quality products and efficient services to meet the requirements of the stakeholders Feedback Mechanism 4 SAIL issues prompt acknowledgements and redresses complaints of its Citizens through a formal procedure and robust feedback mechanism 23 Sustaining Actions Improving Lives Sustainable Development Performance Report 2011-12 Responsible Stewardship Policies Enterprise Risk Management Policy Interplant Standardisation in Steel Industry (IPSS) Corporate Environmental Policy Quality Policy Safety Policy Human Resource Policy Information Technology Security Policy Sustainable Development Policy Strengthening Relationships and Adding Values Policies Corporate Social Responsibility Policy HIV/AIDS Policy SAIL Mediclaim Scheme for Retired Employees Charter Citizens Charter 24 Sustaining Actions Improving Lives Sustainability Sustainable Development Performance Report 2011-12 Management Sustaining Actions Improving Lives Vision Strategy Current strategy of the Company is reflected in its major To be a respected world-class corporation and the leader objectives, as defined below: in Indian steel business in quality, productivity, profitability and customer satisfaction  To continue to be mainly in the business of Steel Credo and Steel related activities  To protect Market Share and grow by focusing on increasing share in growth segments  We build lasting relationships with customers  To aim at achieving international/national based on trust and mutual benefit benchmarks on product cost and consumption  We uphold highest ethical standards in conduct ratios especially in new units with due allowance for of our business prevailing conditions, technology, facilities, inputs  We create and nurture a culture that supports etc. flexibility, learning and is proactive to change  To aim at excellence in quality across the value  We chart a challenging career for employees chain with opportunities for advancement and  To build Customer Centric Processes, Systems, rewards Structure and Procedures  We value the opportunity and responsibility to  To maintain Financial Health with rational make a meaningful difference in people's lives investment and controlled borrowing  To carry out interventions to achieve all round functional improvements Marketing, Human Resources, Infrastructure & Utilities, Maintenance, Information Technology, Environment and Safety Management etc.  To remain socially responsible Company by committing certain amount of profit towards society in the areas of peripheral development, education, health, sports, family welfare etc. 25 Sustainable Development Performance Report 2011-12 Sustainability Model The leadership of the organisation at various levels lays emphasis on a balanced approach towards people, profit and planet. Assessment of impacts on the three pillars of sustainability provides direction towards the formulation of the Company's vision, goals, policies and strategies. These strategies are subsequently implemented across the various business processes of the organisation. The key performance results are monitored by the management at various levels through systematic identification of sustainability performance indicators. Indicators provide fuel to the employees for innovation and learning, which is again used as feedback for re-envisaging and updating strategies. Stakeholders of the Company play a predominant role in identification of key sustainability issues. Inputs of the stakeholders are used for preparation of the sustainability objectives and targets. After implementation of the objectives and targets, the value creation is evaluated and communicated. In Line with DPE Guidelines on Sustainability, SAIL released its Sustainability Development (SD) policy in January 2012. Sustainability Management Tools and Concepts  Quality Management Systems (ISO Sustainable Development People Profit Policy Planet 9001:2008)  Quality Circles  Six Sigma Leadership  Benchmarking  Enterprise Resource Planning Management System / Tools Key Performance Area  Environment Management Systems (ISO Innovation & Learning 14001:2004) Sustanability Indicators  Clean Development Mechanism  Clean Technology/Pollution Prevention  Sustainability Reporting Business Practices  Occupational Health and Safety (OHSAS 18001:2008) Vision, Mission, Policies & Strategies  Social Accountability (SA 8000:2008)  Enterprise Scorecard Internal & External Stakeholders 26 Sustaining Actions Improving Lives Sustainable Development Performance Report 2011-12 Management approach Economic SAIL holds a significant market share of domestic crude steel production. The diversified product mix and multi location production units are an area of strength for the Company. SAIL has a nationwide distribution network with a presence in every district in India. This makes quality steel available throughout the length and breadth of the country. The Company draws its strength from its talented, committed and passionate employees who are driven by their motivation to make a difference in lives of people and to contribute in their area of work. SAIL has been successful in leading the economic growth of the country through its world class products which not only provide strength to the nation but are also being appreciated by approach to safeguard the environment. This is evident by its customers across the world. This has been made environmental performance of SAIL in reducing possible through innovation and adoption of new particulate matter emission and effluent discharges, technologies. SAIL envisions further strengthening of the enhancing solid waste utilisation, improving energy role of nation building as well as showcasing the efficiency and afforestation. Charter on Corporate technological dexterity of India to the world on the back Responsibility for Environmental Protection (CREP) which of its strategy of ensuring that each of its business is is a voluntary commitment between SAIL and Ministry of world-class and internationally competitive. To enable Environment and Forests, Government of India helps steel this, SAIL aims to further streamline its operations to plants to reduce environmental footprint across their improve operational efficiencies and energy operations. effectiveness. Flexibility to suit market dynamics and customer needs has allowed SAIL to keep its bottom-line Funding green measures and initiatives continues to be a strong during market fluctuations. priority area of SAIL. Apart from substantial amount being Environment spent by the plants/units over the year, the company is The Corporate Environment Policy of SAIL affirms its spending around INR 50 billion on pollution control commitment to positive contribution towards a cleaner, schemes, out of the total outlay of about INR 720 billion greener and sustainable development and continuously for the ongoing expansion/modernisation programme. improving its environmental performance as an integral Social part of its business philosophy and values. SAIL pursues environmental excellence across their processes by SAIL's focus on social responsibility remains unwavering. adopting latest technologies, implementing Being a signatory to the UN Global Compact, SAIL is firmly environmental management system, creating awareness committed to advance the ten principles in areas of and training their employees on good environmental human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. management practices. The Company has adopted an By adopting OHSAS 18001:2008, SA 8000:2008 and ILO ISO 14001:2004 based Environment Management conventions, SAIL has shown its commitment to society. System to achieve excellence in environmental The pivotal role of education, health, income generation performance. In accordance with the National and sustainable development is the cornerstone of its Environmental Policy (NEP-2006), SAIL is building Corporate Social Responsibility. management systems at its different plants and units for . Labour Practices and Decent Work environment protection. Being a responsible corporate citizen, the Company has maintained a proactive SAIL nurtures a work culture which is proactive to change, 27 Sustaining Actions Improving Lives Sustainable Development Performance Report 2011-12 duly supporting flexibility and learning opportunities. This helps in charting out challenging career for employees and scaling up the professional ladder. SAIL's planned technological upgradation and expansion of its steel manufacturing capacity continued in 2011-12. In order to meet the growth in its manpower, SAIL has been continuously investing in its employees through systematic and well-planned training programmes to keep them updated with the latest knowledge/technology trends in the sector. Human Capital Management The employees of SAIL are the driving force for the organisation and SAIL prides itself for having human resource which has constantly challenged the limits and procedures to ensure compliance with requirements excelled in their area of work. Human Resource Policy of related to product labeling, marketing communications the Company ensures competent and committed team and customer privacy. CMO is primarily responsible for engaged in building a culture of learning to achieve marketing of steel products. All marketing excellence in performance and employee satisfaction communications are governed by the guidelines of the through innovation and continual improvement. SAIL Corporate Design Manual. recognizes the potential of human resources in providing competitive advantage and considers its employees as most valuable resource. Human Rights SAIL believes in pursuing efforts to maximize value for all its stakeholders with utmost consideration for Product Responsibility business ethics and rights of individuals. This helps The Indian steel industry has made rapid progress on manage risks, foster a positive business climate and strong fundamentals over the recent few years and is improve stakeholder relations. All SAIL's policies and expected to continue with further growth, given robust procedures abide by the statutory norms and ensure business investment, spending on infrastructure and that none of the practices overrides the basic human industrial activity. The product complies with the quality rights. There has been no case with regards to violation norms of the Bureau of Indian Standards or with the of human rights in 2011-12. SAIL forbids bribery and specific customer requirement depending upon the anti-competitive behaviour and commits to contribute application. SAIL has well-established systems and to sustainable development. SAIL does not and has never indulged in Anti-Competitive behaviour. Being a public sector enterprise the Company condemns child labour and any form of forced or compulsory labour. SAIL has evolved an effective grievance redressal mechanism to address concerns relating to service conditions, wage, work, welfare, etc. As a Public Sector Undertaking, SAIL in its contracts and agreements with suppliers and other business partners is governed by the standard Purchase/Contract Procedure 2009 (PCP09); Statutory laws and relevant acts that are mandated in India; and other standard norms of the Company, which also takes care of Human Rights issues. 28 Sustaining Actions Improving Lives Ethics and Sustainable Development Performance Report 2011-12 Transparency Sustaining Actions Improving Lives SAIL Corporate Vigilance lays emphasis on facilitating a conducive environment for enabling people to work with integrity, impartiality and efficiency. It further intends to ensure highest ethical standards to enhance reputation and create value for the organization. There are vigilance departments in all plants/units of SAIL. All complaints including those relating to corruption, received in the SAIL vigilance, are investigated as per the Central Vigilance Commission guidelines. As a part of preventive action, the Corporate Vigilance performs periodic/surprise checks, joint checks, scrutiny of contracts etc. All business units of SAIL are analyzed and checked for risks related to corruption. SAIL Vigilance has implemented Quality Management System (QMSISO9001:2008) in all the Vigilance Departments, with the objective of enhancing transparency, efficiency and E-Commerce Activities accountability. SAIL is the first PSU to introduce e-procurement Regular training programme covering contract through reverse auction and thus has reinforced procedures, conduct and discipline rules and other transparency in its procurement system. systems and procedures are being conducted at various Online Payment plants/units. A system for online transactions with vendors and suppliers has been introduced to improve During the year, few incidents of corruptions were transparency in payments. reported. While most of these were advised for disciplinary actions, 5 employees were dismissed from Labour Payment the service. Additionally, systemic improvements and A system to make payment to contract labour administrative actions were suggested in some cases to through banks has been implemented in some prevent recurrence of such incidents. plants, which have been highly appreciated by the beneficiaries and the labour unions. Integrity Pact External Audits Integrity Pact is a tool aimed at preventing corruption in The management has made available sufficient public contracting developed by Transparency resources for conducting external audits. International (TI), an international NGO. The pact is an Redressal System integral part of all its high value tenders, contracts and long term agreements valuing INR 200 million and above. SAIL has a complaint redressal system where In fact, the Integrity Pact of SAIL has been taken as a shareholder's complaints are received through model pact by Central Vigilance Commission and the Security Exchange Board of India, Stock same has been posted on CVC site for reference by Exchange, Department of Company Affairs, others. Registrar of Companies and Investor Forums either directly or through Registrar and Transfer SAIL is amongst the pioneer Public Sector Undertakings Agents. The Integrity Pact also acts as a redressal (PSUs) in the country to have adopted Integrity Pact with system for vendors through independent effect from 16th August 2007. Several initiatives have external monitors been taken by SAIL towards establishing high standards of Corporate Governance and Transparency. 29 Sustainable Development Performance Report 2011-12 To enhance awareness amongst employees, vigilance awareness sessions and workshops on systems and procedures are regularly held at various Plants and Units of SAIL. A total of 140 such workshops involving 2937 participants were held on Purchase/Contract procedures, Conduct & Discipline Rules, RTI Act, etc. A total of 3755 periodic checks, including surprise checks and the file scrutiny were conducted in the vulnerable areas/departments of different Plants & Units. The Company disposed off 2650 Staff Grievances during 201112. Various initiatives have been taken by SAIL Vigilance to increase leveraging of technology in vigilance function. These include provision for on-line submission of Property Returns, provision for generating on-line Vigilance Status, Vigilance Excellence Award 2011 by Vigilance Study Circle, augmentation of on-line submission of Management Hyderabad. Information System reports by vigilance departments of Plants & Units of SAIL, online File Tracking System, SAIL does not encourage any kind of political lobbying and Knowledge Portal, Vigilance Blog for discussions relating to political influence in its working pattern. However, SAIL gives vigilance related issues etc. For effective implementation of respect to all national and state level political the Integrity Pact, review meetings were conducted representatives. SAIL has not paid any money to any political periodically with the Independent External Monitors (IEMs). party during the reporting year. SAIL has not practised any To inculcate ethics amongst the Children at their formative anti competitive behaviour, antitrust and monopoly stage, an initiative has been taken by SAIL Vigilance for practices and has not initiated any case in this regard. nurturing ethics amongst the School Children. As a part of However, SAIL has successfully defended anti competition this initiative, Ethics Club has been launched in BSP, BSL and allegation before the competent authority and order so RSP. A case study forwarded by SAIL Vigilance on “Use of passed are in favour of SAIL. There were no fines and nonSub-Standard Grade Roofing Sheets in Construction of monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and Bloom Caster Shop” has been awarded the National regulations during the year 2011-12. 30 Sustaining Actions Improving Lives Partnerships, Associations Sustainable Development Performance Report 2011-12 and Memberships Sustaining Actions Improving Lives UN Global Compact The UN Global Compact is a strategic policy initiative for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. SAIL has adopted these principles and initiatives which are also a part of its business strategy. Pact with Kobe Steel SAIL and Kobe Steel have sealed a pact to bring environment-friendly steel making to India. The agreement entails setting up a 5 million tonne per annum iron nugget making plant using Kobe's patented ITmK3 technology at SAIL's Alloy Steels Plant in Durgapur, with an investment of INR 15 billion. Charter on Corporate Responsibility for Environmental percent of the equipment based on CFC · Induction of HFC refrigerant based equipment Protection SAIL has voluntarily extended commitment to Corporate · Replacement of outlived packaged air conditioners based on HCFC (R-22) refrigerant Responsibility for Environmental Protection (CREP), a · Adherence to standard maintenance practices charter, to steer improvement in environmental excellence in industries. SAIL has agreed to comply with Stockholm Convention on Persistent Organic Pollutants the action points suggested under the charter and has The Stockholm Convention (SC) on Persistent Organic developed strategies to improve the performance further Pollutants (POPs) recognizes that POPs including and beyond statutory compliance. polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) need to be disposed off in an environmentally sound manner. The MoEF, SAIL and World Steel Association UNIDO have joined hands to initiate and implement a PCB SAIL is a member of WSA and is committed to: management and disposal project at Bhilai Steel Plant of  Increase recycling  Use co-products to reduce CO2 emissions SAIL. Under this project, the PCB in transformers at Bhilai  Introduce best practices Steel Plant will be treated using appropriate technology  Use of better operational practices and new by setting up a static facility within BSP premises. technology for enhancing energy efficiency  Research on radical new technologies  Measure and report on GHG emissions Montreal Protocol SAIL along with UNDP implemented an umbrella project for replacement of Ozone Depleting Substance (ODS) Carbon Tetrachloride (CTC) used as cleaning solvent, has been replaced by tri-chloro ethylene at six steel plants at Bhilai, Durgapur, Rourkela, Bokaro, Burnpur and Salem. The project was developed in line with the objectives of Montreal Protocol. SAIL has stopped using CTC altogether. Following activities have also been initiated: · Elimination of equipment based on CFC refrigerants R-12 by HCFC system, thereby eliminating 66 31 Sustainable Development Performance Report 2011-12 Associations & Memberships Major facilities completed at SAIL during 2011-12  All India Management Association (AlMA)  At Bhilai Steel Plant, Up-gradation of facilities  All India Organisation of Employers (AlOE) under Plate Mill and the linked facilities like  Associated Chambers of Commerce and Compressed Air Station-4 and installation of CNC Industry of India (ASSOCHAM) Roll Grinding Machine have been completed.  Centre for Organisation Development (COD) Further, cold repair of Coke Oven Battery-6, Lime  Confederation of Indian Industry ( CII) Dosing System in Sinter Plant II, Online Eddy  Consultancy Development Centre (CDC) Current Testing M/c & Optico-Visual Inspection  Delhi Productivity Council (DPC) System in Rail & Structural Mill have been  Federation of Indian Chambers for completed during 2011-12. 700 TPD Air Commerce and Industry (FICCI)  Forum of Women in Public Sector (WIPS) Separation Unit has also been completed.  Global Institute For Flexible System  At Durgapur Steel Plant, Barrel Re-claimer for Raw Management (GIFT) Material Handling Plant has been commissioned  Indian Coal Forum (ICF) in Feb'12.  Indian Institute of Metals, Kolkata (IIM)  At Rourkela Steel Plant, the Sinter Plant-3 and the  Indian Institute of Plant Engineers (IIPE) linked facilities like Ore Bedding & Blending Plant  Indian Society for Trade and Development have been completed in Apr'12. 700 TPD Oxygen (ISTD) Plant and Simultaneous Blowing of Converters in  Indo USSR Chamber of Commerce and SMS-II have already been completed. Industries (IUCCI)  At Bokaro Steel Plant, under CRM-III Complex,  Institute of Public Enterprises (IPE) Manual Strip Threading has been done in Pickling  Institute of Rail Transport (IRT) Line Tandem Cold Mill. Also, the Coil Packaging  World Steel Association (WSA) Line-2 has been completed. For power supply  Project Management Associate (PMA) from MSDS-9, the Switchyard, Transformer &  The Energy and Research Institute (TERI) Control Room have been commissioned.  The Indian Iran Chamber of Commerce and  Re-building of Coke Oven Battery 1 & 2, Industry (IICCI) installation of new Turbo-blower-8 for BF-2 and  World Confederation of Productivity Science Blast Furnace-5 with up-graded two stoves has (WCPS) also been completed.  World Conference on Production Science  At IISCO Steel Plant, the facilities like Raw Material (WCPC) Handling System, Coke Oven Battery Complex, Sinter Plant complex and Oxygen Plant under the Modernisation & Expansion Programme expansion program are ready for commissioning. Over the past few years, SAIL has been giving The auxiliary and supporting infrastructure like importance to the need of modernising and 220 kV DVC Power Supply and Main Receiving streamlining its operations in order to maintain its Station for supply of power to the expansion competitive edge in wake of turbulent global units, Water Supply System, Upgraded West scenario. The current modernization & expansion Railway Yard for dispatch of finished steel, coke, programme of the Company is being implemented sinter and granulated slag from expansion project simultaneously in all Plants/Units, through various have been completed during 2011-12. schemes. These include new Raw Material Handling Plants, Sinter Plants, Coke Oven Batteries, Blast Furnaces, Steel Melting Shops and Finishing Mills, etc. All the Schemes are at various stages of implementation. 32 Sustaining Actions Improving Lives Economic Sustainable Development Performance Report 2011-12 Performance Sustaining Actions Improving Lives The Global Steel Industry is going through a rough phase with demand declining and the major steel economies like USA and Europe running into oversupply. The World crude steel production in 2011 stood at 1518 million tonnes, growing at 6.2% over 2010, with China contributing as high as 52% to the incremental production. The Global steel demand during 2012 is expected to grow by 3.6% to 1422 Million Tonnes, moderating slightly as compared to a 5.6% growth in 2011. India maintained its ranking as the 4th largest steel producer in the World with a production of 71.3 million tonnes in 2011, registering a growth rate of 4.4% over 2010, as per WSA. According to JPC estimates, domestic finished steel consumption posted a growth of 6.8% during 2011-12 to 70.92 Million Tonnes. The Company's main business arena continued to be the domestic market, which provided about 97% of its total A growth rate of 8-9% in the next few years is expected to sales turnover. Saleable steel export at 0.334 million tonne be sustained mainly by factors such as the 1 trillion USD during 2011-12, was higher by about 1%. Export investment envisaged for the infrastructure sector in the incentives of 0.34 billion were earned during the year. 12th Five Year Plan, greater emphasis on increasing growth rate of the manufacturing sector, higher rates of New Products Development urbanization, rising middle class population and tapping the potential of the rural market. Also, in terms of per Some of the new products developed by SAIL are: capita consumption of finished steel, India at 57 kg lags  SAIL Forming 350 / 450 HR Coil (BSL) for auto behind the world average of 214.7 kg, indicating a huge components which has resulted in weight potential for growth. reduction of the component to the tune of 13% SAIL caters to almost the entire gamut of the mild steel business Flat Products in the form of Plates, HR  Ultra high Strength MnB Steel (BSL) for auto sectors, with UTS > 1600 MPa achieved in the Coils/Sheet, CR Coils/Sheets, Galvanised Plain / formed component Corrugated Sheets and Long Products comprising Rails, Structurals, Wire-rods and Merchant Products. In  Z Ductility Guaranteed Special Plates (BSP) special quality plates equivalent to EN 10025 addition, Electric Resistance Welded Pipes, Spiral Welded S 355 grade and ASTM 537 Cl 1 Pipes, Electric Tin Plates and Silicon Steel Sheets form part of the Company's rich product-mix.  Micro Alloyed Al-Killed CC Blooms for rolling into thicker section (>20 mm) TLT members SAIL achieved the saleable steel production of 12.4 (DSP) Million tonne representing 112% of capacity utilisation.  Soft Iron Plates (BSP)development taken up SAIL achieved the turnover of INR 503.48 billion which in association with BARC for use in the was higher by 7% as compared to previous year, mainly country's first underground experimental due to increase in average net sales realisation of saleable laboratory to be setup at Pottipuram Village steel during 2011-12. The profit of the Company for the in Bodi West Hills for detection and study of year 2011-12 was affected, mainly due to adverse impact neutrinos, the smallest particles known to of higher prices of inputs. Another key factor affecting the humans profitability was the impact of foreign exchange variation.  High seismic resistant TMT Rebars (IISCO, Durgapur, Bhilai) with UTS/YS ratio of 1.25 33 Sustainable Development Performance Report 2011-12 Various Initiatives Undertaken Cost Control Measures  Emphasis on cost reduction and productivity improvement through application of new technology, process improvement, R&D efforts and strong awareness to control cost  Monitoring of procurement of high value items and maximising use of in-house engineering shops and optimization in procurement  Optimisation of coal blend, higher yield, higher Continuous Casting production  Aggressive modernisation and expansion plan, improved utilisation of existing capacities  Higher value-added steel production and strengthened-marketing initiatives Fund Management  SAIL earned interest of INR 13.05 billion through short-term deposits with scheduled banks  M/s FITCH and M/s CARE, RBI approved credit rating agencies, maintained “AAA” ratings indicating the highest safety, to SAIL's long term borrowing programme  Standard and Poor's, an International Rating Agency and M/s. FITCH have maintained rating of “BBB-” for SAIL, based on the sovereign rating of India Capital Investment  SAIL has undertaken modernization and expansion plan to increase capacity of Hot Metal production from 13.80 MTPA to 23.46 MTPA Marketing  Supplies of long rail to Indian Railways registered 24% growth  Number of SAIL dealers increased to 3138 including rural dealers Socio-economic performance Economic Value (in billion INR) 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 Economic Value generated 472.20 490.74 526.10 Operating Costs 248.54 295.56 336.84 Employee Wage & Benefits 54.16 76.23 79.32 Payments to providers of capital 20.92 20.73 23.72 Payment to Government/Exchequer 101.05 101.40 101.57 Community Investments 0.79 0.68 0.61 Total Expenditure 425.48 494.61 542.06 Economic Value retained 46.73 -3.87 -15.96 The operating costs for SAIL stood at INR 336.84 billion for support to its employees during their service as well as the year 2011-12 as compared to INR 295.56 billion for post-superannuation. The structure of retirement plans is 2010-11. There has been a steady increase in the wages based on both defined benefit plans and defined and benefits offered to SAIL employees and it has grown contribution plans. The retirement plan liabilities are met to INR 79.32 billion during the year 2011-12 from INR through mix of SAIL's general resources and through a 76.23 billion for 2010-11. The community investments Gratuity Trust. The liability towards Gratuity of employees made by SAIL as a part of its corporate social is fully covered by the assets of the Gratuity Trust. The responsibility has seen a decline for past few years due to gratuity liabilities of the employees are valued by a tough market situation resulting in lowered profits. SAIL professional Actuary at the end of each Financial Year and made community investments of INR 0.61 billion during based on the actuarial valuation, the contribution to the the year 2011-12. This investment was INR 0.68 billion for Gratuity Trust is made by SAIL. 2010-11 and INR 0.79 billion during 2009-10. SAIL Pension Scheme is currently being formulated. All SAIL has always been committed to provide thorough retirement plans currently followed are mandatory for all 34 Sustaining Actions Improving Lives Sustainable Development Performance Report 2011-12 regular employees. The structure of retirement plans is minimum inventory holding at various plants while also based on both defined benefit plans and defined ensuring steady order booking to the ancillary units. contribution plans. Plants have got different levels of committees in operation for implementation of policy decisions and to SAIL has been receiving subsidy from Government of interact with various ancillary units and Government India in form of reliefs and concessions. For the year 2011association. Preferential policy is formulated every year 12, this figure was INR 0.13 billion compared to INR 0.12 for development of ancillary units. Plant representative(s) billion for 2010-11 and INR 0.12 billion for 2009-10. also visit the works of ancillary units to assess their Entry level wage is uniform in SAIL across all categories, existing facilities and manufacturing activities. Meetings genders and locations. However, as minimum wage is are also held at regular intervals with these units. Vendor notified separately by each state govt., the ratio is development programme are also organized by various different for each steel plant. The ratio of entry level wage units on regular basis. The growth and development of to minimum wage for BSP is 5.42, for BSL the figure is 6.87, ancillary units has created employment opportunities for for RSP it is 7.6, for DSP the ratio is 4.83 and it is 4.83 for the local people, mobilizing local skills, which has, in turn, ISP. Minimum wage is applicable for the particular state in improved the quality of life of the people and lead to which it is notified. In the above case, minimum wage of overall development of the region. each state in which main (integrated) steel plants of SAIL are located, i.e. Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Odisha & West Bengal have been used. Vendor development is also important for import substitution, cost reduction and quality improvement. Benefits Derived as a result of R & D Efforts (2011-12) Vendor development needs are dependent on factors Cost Reduction such as make-or-buy decisions, amount of subcontracting, breakeven points at manufacturing and plant  Performance Improvement of Coal Crushing capacity. Ancillary units located in the vicinity of the SAIL System at DSP plants are considered as locally-based suppliers.  Improvement in overall coke quality of COB # 10 SAIL has taken a lead role in ancillary development for w.r.t. coke strength and moisture at ISP ensuring timely delivery, competitive pricing and  Enhancement of Coal Dust Injection rate in BF # 4 at DSP  Oxygen Enrichment in BF # 2 & 3 at RSP  Control of Steel Making & Casting Process Technology for Production of Non-oriented Silicon Steel in SMS-I at RSP  Modification of De-oxidation & Steel Refining Practice for Reduction in Ferro-alloy Input Cost at DSP  Enhancement of lining life of steel ladles in SMS-II at RSP  Improvement in performance of Reheating Furnace in HSM at BSL  Introduction of Superior Roll Cooling System in Reversing Mill and Strip Cooling System in Tandem Anneal Line of Silicon Steel Mill at RSP 35 Sustaining Actions Improving Lives Sustainable Development Performance Report 2011-12  Improvement in bath condition in PL#2 of CRM SAIL Into the Future at RSP Quality Improvement SAIL is in the process of modernising and expanding its production units, raw  Control of Rhomboidity in Bloom Caster at DSP material resources and other facilities to Energy Conservation maintain its dominant position in the market.  Modification of combustion system in RHF of Section Mill at DSP Objective of Expansion Plan:  Reduction of furnace oil consumption in Plate Mill at BSP  100% production of steel through BOF route Product Development & Application  100% processing of steel through Some of the other products which were developed continuous casting in-house:  Value addition by reduction of semifinished steel  High seismic resistant TMT Rebars (BSP, DSP and  Auxiliary fuel injection system in all ISP) with UTS/YS ratio of 1.25 the BFs  Development of HSFQ grade HR coil at RSP  State-of-art process control computerisation/automation  High seismic resistant TMT rebars and wire rods  State-of-art on line testing and (UTS/YS > 1.25) at BSP, DSP & ISP for Nuclear quality control Power Corporation of India limited (NPCIL)  Energy saving schemes  Special Quality Roll Threaded Bolts at DSP for  Adhering to environment norms Underground mines/ Construction  Spring Steel Billets at ISP for Automotive leaf spring / Elastic railway clip  IS 2062 (Al Killed) Structural at ISP for Angles/ Channels used in Construction Automation  Development of a display system for Horizontal Looper Storage in PL#1 of CRM at BSL  Automation of Charging & Furnace Area control drives and Industrial Process Controller for increasing equipment availability in Merchant Mill at DSP  Process monitoring, cobble detection and analysis system for Merchant Mill at DSP 36 Sustaining Actions Improving Lives Environmental Sustainable Development Performance Report 2011-12 Performance Sustaining Actions Improving Lives Environment Management has been an integral part of overall management system of SAIL with commitment to safeguard, maintain and improve the quality of environment and protect human health. SAIL is committed to evolve a pro-environment and socially responsible trajectory of growth. The Corporate Environment Policy reiterates the Company's view to conduct our operations in an environmentally responsible manner . The ongoing modernization/ expansion programme of SAIL, in addition to increasing the production, will also address the vital issues of elimination of technological obsolescence by phasing out old technologies and equipment, installation of efficient & environment friendly technologies and incorporation of the latest pollution control technologies and equipment. Out of the total outlay of about INR 720 billion for the on-going modernization/ expansion implementation of environmental protection measures programme, about INR 50 billion is being spent on and management. SAIL's commitment to conducting its pollution control schemes. The remaining schemes will operations in an environmentally responsible manner, also contribute towards improvement of environmental complying with applicable regulations and striving to go performance besides being more efficient and enhancing beyond , results from concerted efforts by the SAIL production. fraternity towards environmental stewardship for The environment management set-up in SAIL has a highly protection of the environment in and around its operating specialized and multi-layered infrastructure catering to units. the diverse environmental implications arising from its Materials multifarious operations ranging from mineral extraction to rolling out finished steel. Environment Management Conservation of raw materials is becoming increasingly Division (EMD) is a corporate unit monitoring and important for steel makers, to ensure their availability in facilitating the environment management and pollution the long term while sustaining useful natural resources. control activities in the SAIL plants and mines. Besides Optimal utilization of raw material is given major this, each plant has its own environment control attention. SAIL is constantly adopting technologies and department manned with highly qualified officers for practices to improve and optimize the specific material Raw Material Inputs for last three years Raw material consumption (MT) 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 Iron Ore 23.24 23.07 21.98 Coking Coal 13.60 13.94 12.63 Coke 0.08 0.23 0.71 Limestone 3.06 3.22 3.28 Dolomite 2.95 3.09 2.84 Ferro Manganese 0.07 0.07 0.07 Ferro Silicon 0.02 0.03 0.02 Silico Manganese 0.12 0.13 0.12 Hot Rolled Stainless Steel Coils 0.004 0.02 0.0002 Intermediary Products 0.07 0.00006 0.52 Zinc 0.01 0.01 0.01 Aluminium 0.02 0.02 0.02 Total 43.25 43.83 42.20 37 Sustainable Development Performance Report 2011-12 Research & Engineering Master Plan In order to maintain its competitive edge and stronghold in the changing global scenario, SAIL has envisaged several projects to modernise the operations at its various plants. These projects are aimed at further improving the operational efficiency of the plants and at same time, reducing the impacts on environment. High HighImpact ImpactProjects Projects Technology Mission Projects Objective Objective Developing capabilities for in-house process Development/Adaptation of radically new technologies development and design related to areas of common which are strategically important for performance (energy/environment) and product enhancement. interest to all Integrated Steel Plants (like coal, coke, beneficiation, burden preparation, sinter and pellet Project 1: To assess, select, acquire, adapt technology and preparation and environment) set up facility for thin slab casting with in-line hot rolling Project 1 Iron ore beneficiation and pelletisation Project 2: To assess, select, acquire, adapt and set up Project 2 Iron making, including coke, sinter and blast facility for the production of CRGO steels furnace Project 3 Environment and energy projects consumption per ton of steel produced. Increasing the recycling of wastes to reduce the consumption of coal, iron ore and flux materials like dolomite and limestone have resulted in lesser raw material consumption. Special attention is being given to optimally utilize the raw materials. Adding to the ever-rising demand of steel in numerous sector, it is essential to recycle the scrap steel. The scrap generated within the operational units is completely recycled, and some of the waste is reused in the sinter plants, blast furnace and steel melting shop. Scrap Utilisation Scrap etc. (T) 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 Scrap Used at BF 129573 130678 168418 Scrap Used at SMS 1661264 1638872 1441223 Other Recycled Inputs 8734344 8855682 6438042 Total Input Materials Used 36118503 37098711 36766261 Recycled Materials (%) 29.14 28.64 21.89 Energy and Climate Change The environmental footprint of the organization is shaped in part by its choice of energy sources. It is for this reason that SAIL has always made a sincere effort to focus on innovation and efficient consumption of fuel in order to contribute to a greener world. The energy consumption figures are given below: Energy Consumption Power & Fuel Consumtion 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 Quantity (TJ) Quantity (TJ) Quantity (TJ) Purchased Electricity (MkWh)* 6631 85253 6777 87132 6946 89303 Generated Electricity (MkWh)* 797 10246 724 9307 619 7957 Coking Coal (MT)# 13.6 383520 13.94 393108 12.63 356166 Non Coking Coal (MT)# 0.733 13927 0.7 13300 0.688 13072 Injection Coal (MT)# 0.25 7050 0.29 8178 2.79 59502 Furnace Oil (KL)# 37 1.541 36 1.499 2927 121.90 *Indirect Energy #Direct Energy 38 Sustaining Actions Improving Lives Sustainable Development Performance Report 2011-12 Systematic efforts coupled with general awareness of importance of energy conservation, and adherences to standard operational practices have begun to yield positive results. Energy Conservation Initiatives The following energy efficiency schemes were completed during the year: Bhilai Steel Plant  LD Gas Holder repair along with in-situ repair of the roof structure with in-house resources, resulting in increase in average LD gas recovery from 295,000 m3/day to 385,000 m3/day  Commissioning of VVVF Drives in Aluminium wire feeder of Argon Rinsing Unit2 Lift & Turn rotation mechanism of Slag Casting Machine 1 & 3, LT mechanism of Scarfing Crane 4 and Slag Breaker Temperature Lance and Hybrid Lance at SMS 2  Installation and Commissioning of 14 nos. VVVF drives in different areas of RSM  Commissioning of VVVF drives for energy conservation and reduction of Torque Jerks at 5 nos. Roller Table section and for Disc Rotation Motor and Tilting Motor in Merchant Mill  Optimum capacity utilisation of Compressed Air Station (CAS-4) by modification in IPPL network and redistribution of consumer load which helped in switching off 2 nos. Compressors at CAS-3, resulting in net power saving of 2.66 MWh/day  In-house development and installation of 1 no. of Metallic Recuperator in Furnace 1 of Rail & Structural Mill Durgapur Steel Plant  Modification of Combustion System of Reheating Furnaces No. 1 & 2 of Section Mill Rourkela Steel Plant  Thyristorization of CTS drive in Plate Mill & for RTS drive in Hot Strip Mill  Replacement of 2 nos. of Primary Gas Coolers in Coal Chemical Department  Introduction of mixed gas firing in MP Boiler#1 & 2 of CPP-I  Replacement of recuperator in Re-Heating Furnace No. 5 and 6 of Hot Strip Mill  Installation of Septum Valve in BF#3 for increasing high top pressure and thermal insulation of steam lines covering 1500 m2 Bokaro Steel Plant  Systematic repair of stoves to optimise stove heating, resulting in increase in Hot Blast Temperature from 917°C to 948°C  Replacement of GCM controller by Electro Hydraulic controller in Battery No.6  Revisioning of BF gas valves and BF gas firing system to maximise BF gas consumption in power plant to 174 tcm/hr from previous average of 158 tcm/hr  About 3600 m2 insulation of steam line replaced along with 22 nos. of new of steam traps 39 Sustaining Actions Improving Lives Sustainable Development Performance Report 2011-12 IISCO Steel Plant  Introduction of PLC System in Coal Handling Plant and Air Blaster in Coke Oven Battery#10  Introduction of BF Gas Firing System in Boiler Unit A Chandrapur Ferro Alloy Plant  Replacement of Reciprocating Compressor with energy efficient Screw Compressor at Sinter Plant The Government of India under the aegis of the Prime up by SAIL units, some of which are: Minister's National Action Plan for Climate Change  Use of agro based fuel at the boiler of SSP (NAPCC) envisages a sustainable future for the country  Use of coal bed methane in the re-heating furnace through multi-pronged actions ranging from energy of BSL efficiency to forest conservation to greater share of  Use of biodiesel in locomotives at BSL and BSP energy from renewable sources. One of the key actions  Electricity generation from municipal solid waste taken by the GoI and regulatory bodies has been to at BSP introduce Renewable Energy Purchase Obligation (REPO)  Solar power plant at BSP in India. REPO is one of the tools of implementing this SAIL encourages and promotes use of renewable energy ambitious goal. Under these rules, distribution in the form of solar electricity. Remote villages in the companies, open access consumers and captive vicinity of SAIL's operational activities have been consumers are obligated to buy a certain percentage of provided with solar street lights. The guest houses of SAIL their power from renewable sources of energy. use solar energy for heating of water for domestic use. Lanes and avenues in the township are also lit up through Several projects using renewable energy have been taken solar panels. 40 Sustaining Actions Improving Lives Sustainable Development Performance Report 2011-12 SAIL realises that the response to climate change will be a critical factor in the business performance. Climate change is an opportunity that will strengthen the organisation and position SAIL for future growth and success. The climate change regulations have the potential to affect the competitive sectors of any organisation impacting the trade flows and profit potential. Hence, it is necessary to have a structured approach to carbon management to mitigate the impact of climate regulations. Key drivers to the climate change strategy include regulation, stakeholder expectations, revenue generation and cost reduction. The combustion of fossil fuels like coal, furnace oils and other petroleum and coal based products at various process units results in emission of Green House Gases, mainly CO2. Various functional units of SAIL which contribute to the emission of CO2 are Coke Ovens, Sinter Plant, Blast Furnaces, Steel Melting Shop, Mills, Power Plant and other auxiliary shops. The other indirect relevant greenhouse gas emissions are:  Emissions during transportation of raw materials from captive mines and other sources  Emissions during transportation of products to customers  Emissions due to movement of employees by two wheelers and four wheelers SAIL is participating in the World Steel Association (WSA) new Climate Change Policy for CO2 reduction in steel companies through Global Steel Sector Approach. CO2 intensity data for SAIL for the last three financial years is given: CO2 emission CO2 Intensity (T/tcs) BSP DSP RSP BSL ISP SAIL 2009-10 2.70 2.63 3.02 3.21 4.02 2.91 2010-11 2.73 2.64 3.05 3.02 3.55 2.87 2011-12 2.71 2.63 3.07 2.86 3.20 2.81 The above mentioned specific CO2 emission figures include direct and indirect GHG emissions, calculated as per WSA methodology. SAIL has always given high priority to sustainable development and as a result of this, constant efforts are taken to ensure that emissions to the atmosphere can be minimised. Due to various steps taken by SAIL, the CO2 intensity for SAIL has been brought down to 2.81 t/tcs during the year 2011-12 from 2.91 t/tcs for 2009-10. As the figures testify, SAIL has been able to bring down CO2 emissions consistently over the years. CO2 Intensity for last three years (T/tcs) 2.91 2.87 2.81 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 41 Sustaining Actions Improving Lives Sustainable Development Performance Report 2011-12 Water Management With the inspiration to create a sustainable world, SAIL has recognized the importance of water resources. As a result, SAIL has established various water management strategies and has been practicing them to reduce the risk of disturbance in the water balance. SAIL has introduced assessment of the discharged water from various units by specialists to identify areas that need improvement to reduce consumption of fresh make-up water. Activities are planned to maximize the reuse of effluents. The bulk of water consumed at production sites is used in process cooling, scrubbing flue gases and downstream rolling mills. Water for industrial and domestic purposes at various location of integrated steel plant is mainly sourced from the regional rivers. To conserve the fresh water resource and reduce the water stress, rain water harvesting has been developed at various units of SAIL. Various initiatives taken to reduce fresh water consumption include: · At BSP 10.60 Mm3 Rain water is collected in Reservoirs (2 nos. of cooling ponds) which is used as industrial make-up and for drinking · Installation of new sewage treatment plant of 30Ml/day at BSP for treatment and utilisation of treated water for industrial purpose · Optimizing the water pressure at make-up water header at RSP · Treatment of waste water by reverse osmosis at SSP · At VISL 2.4 lakh m3 rain water was collected and utilised for industrial usage. · For minimizing discharge, treatment and recycling of waste water has been improved by efficient functioning of effluent treatment plants (ETP) of Coke Ovens, Blast Furnaces, Steel Melting Shop, Continuous Casting Plant and Rolling Mills at all plants · Regular monitoring and maintenance to stop leakages/ overflow from pipe joints, glands, valves, etc. · Providing arrangement for collection and channelling the storm water for recovery of water through the supply channel · Replacement of old corroded pipelines Water sources for various SAIL plants Name of Location Water Source BSP River Mahanadi DSP River Damodar RSP River Brahmni BSL River Damodar & Garga ISP River Damodar ASP River Damodar SSP River Kaveri VISL River Bhadra SGW River Barakar 42 Sustaining Actions Improving Lives Sustainable Development Performance Report 2011-12 The plants and units of SAIL are located strategically near to water resources. All the plants draw water from rivers Specific Water Consumption (m3/tcs) which are perennial in nature. 4.06 SAIL has been continuously striving for perfection which has enabled it to bring down the specific water 2.87 3.96 consumption to 3.86 m3/tcs though various water conservation measures. With several novel initiatives in pipeline, it is envisaged that water usage will be further 3.86 reduced in coming years. SAIL plants do not envisage any ground water withdrawal and hence no impact on ground water is 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 anticipated. Moreover, the water sources for the plants are rivers which are perennial in nature and withdrawal of water for industrial purposes by the plants will not affect the sources. Percentage & total volume of water re-cycled & re-used Industrial Makeup Industrial Water Total Industrial Makeup Water Recycled Water Year Water Mm3 Recycled Mm3 Water Mm3 % of Total % of Total 2009-10 183.65 1386.46 1570.11 11.70 88.30 2010-11 211.29 1610.23 1821.52 11.60 88.40 2011-12 216.41 1787.16 2003.58 10.80 89.20 De-Fluoridation Plant Salem Steel Plant has installed a De-fluoridation Plant at a cost of INR 136 million to reduce the fluoride and dissolved solid levels in neutralized effluent from the CRM of SSP. This is the first-of-its-kind plant in the stainless steel industry of the country wherein, effluent from the plant is fed through Flash Mixer and High Rate Solids Contact Clarifier (HRSCC), to reduce the hardness & suspended solids by lime soda process and poly electrolyte dosing. The sludge from HRSCC is pumped to the Filter Press and then disposed. The clarified water is taken through Dual Media Filter, UF Membrane System, Weak Acid Cation (WAC) and defluoridised in Fluoride Selective Ion Exchange Column. After reverse osmosis process the water is reused resulting in saving of precious water. 43 Sustaining Actions Improving Lives Sustainable Development Performance Report 2011-12 Environmental Excellence Particulate matter emissions from stacks of chimney have severe impact on the environment as well as the health and safety of employees and people of community. SAIL has taken several steps to bring down particulate matter emissions by installing bag filters, scrubbers and electrostatic precipitators. These proactive steps coupled with efforts to use the fuel efficiently by using energy efficient burners etc. have led to particulate matter being limited to 1.01 kg/tcs in the year 201112 from 1.55 kg/tcs during 2009-10, a reduction of almost 35% achieved in last three years. Emissions of SO2 are reduced by the use of low sulphur coal only, while for NOx control, special burners and process related changes are installed. Particulate Matter Emission for SAIL (kg/tcs) Particulate Matter Emission from Plants (kg/tcs) 1.55 Plants 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 BSP 0.8 0.72 0.72 1.11 DSP 0.9 0.93 0.82 1.01 RSP 3.45 1.27 1.12 BSL 1.9 1.58 1.41 ISP 1.2 2.19 1.07 SAIL 1.55 1.11 1.01 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 It has always been an endeavour for SAIL to contain pollution levels, ensuring safe working conditions for employees as well as providing clean and green living conditions for the local community. Several initiatives taken by SAIL have resulted in complying with stack emission norms set by Central/State Pollution Control Boards. In an effort to preserve the water quality, plants are meticulously maintaining effluent treatment plants, improving water re-circulation efficiency and quality of effluent discharged. BSP and BSL are provided with centralized water re-circulation systems while DSP and RSP are provided with localized water recirculation systems. Quality of recirculation water is maintained through dosing of conditioning chemicals for controlling corrosion, scale deposits and bacterial growth. No-Dig technology is adopted in some of the units to clear hard deposits in the underground return water trunk lines. Water discharged by plants during last three years Parameter 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 Volume of water discharged (Mm3) 34.91 34.93 30.86 Discharge water quality during the year 2011-12 Parameters (mg/l)* Norm BSP DSP RSP BSL ISP pH 5.5 9.0 7.2 8.5 7.3 8.5 7.2 8.1 6.5 8.5 6.8 7.9 SS 100 26 84 5 48 12 99 12 89 18 38 BOD 30 11 26 12 26 5 15 6 13 2 12 COD 250 45 158 121 157 9 91 32 102 16 39 Phenol 1.0 BDL 0.61 0.3 0.6 0.06 0.44 0.01 0.87 BDL 0.33 Cynaide 0.2 BDL 0.10 0.1 0.19 0.05 0.11 0.004 0.09 0.01 0.19 Oil & Grease 10 0.2 3.7 1.0 3.6 2.0 4.5 0.19-0.7 1.8 8.6 NH3-N 50 0.74 10.7 1243 5.5 10.9 0.094 5.1 3.0 29.7 *Except pH 44 Sustaining Actions Improving Lives Sustainable Development Performance Report 2011-12 Solid Waste Management SAIL has its focus firmly on continually increasing the efforts to reuse, reduce and recycle waste across all its plants and units. It is this philosophy of SAIL which motivates the organisation to come up with several initiatives to maximise the utilisation of solid waste generated at various operations. A few of these initiatives are listed below.  Sale of BF granulated slag  Sale and recycling of BF flue dust  Re-use of LD slag, lime and dolomite dust, mill scale and ETP sludge  Commissioning of slag based cement plant of capacity 2.2 MTPA at BSP and 2.0 MTPA at BSL With these persistent efforts, SAIL has been able to increase solid waste utilisation from 80% in 2009-10 to Solid Waste Utilisation (%) 86% during the year 2011-12. This has been made possible by the concerted efforts of management and 86 employees who implemented several schemes to make the best possible use of solid wastes. From a financial 84 1.11 perspective, the reduction of waste contributes directly to 1.01 lower costs for input materials, processing, and disposal. Utilization of LD slag has been a major challenge and many initiatives such as use in cement manufacturing, 80 construction materials, pavement block making, soil conditioner etc have been taken up by SAIL. SAIL has effectively adopted waste minimization strategies, including conservation at source, recovery and recycling. 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 This trend of improved solid waste utilisation can also be observed from the figures of 5 ISPs where solid waste utilization has been improved over past years. ISPs 2011-12 Solid Wastes Generation Utilisation (T) (%) BF Slags 5398272 90.94 BOF Slag 1380153 84.61 BF Flue Dust 170644 81.08 BOF Sludge 96957 38.93 Lime / Dolo Fines 172989 100 Mill Scale 280223 99.17 Refractory Wastes 58008 89.83 Acetylene Sludge 2404 95.67 45 Sustaining Actions Improving Lives Sustainable Development Performance Report 2011-12 ASP 2011-12 Solid By-Product Generation Utilisation (T) (%) EAF Slags 5339 0 Mill Scale 1982 28.51 Refractory Bricks 426 143.9 Grinding Dust 824 100 EAF Dust 371 0 SSP 2011-12 Solid By-Product Generation Utilisation (T) (%) Steel Shot Dust 495.09 112.42 SGL Swarf 25.12 111.11 Scale Pit Dust 3247.01 123.3 VISL 2011-12 Solid By-Product Generation Utilisation (T) (%) BF Slag 42351 100.92 BOF Slag 13762 0 Refractory Bricks 1027 95.03 BF Flue Dust 2774 0 BF Sludge 1375 0 BOF Sludge 1427 0 CFP 2011-12 Solid By-Product Generation Utilisation (T) (%) High MnO Slag 56631 46.86 Low MnO Slag 22162 28.2 Mn Ore Fines 27345 86.59 Coke Fines 8307 72.11 Flux Fines 2274 0 There have been no cases of significant fines and sanctions for non compliance with environmental laws and regulations against SAIL during the year 2011-12. During the year 2011-12, few SAIL plants submitted time-bound Action Plans along with Bank Guarantee in response to the directives issued by regulatory authorities for noncompliance with the applicable environmental laws. 46 Sustaining Actions Improving Lives Sustainable Development Performance Report 2011-12 Hazardous Waste Management Hazardous wastes pose a critical threat to the environment as well as the employees and hence handling of such wastes must be accorded prime importance. SAIL has always been conscious of the danger arising due to hazardous wastes and has been making continuous efforts to ensure that such wastes are disposed off appropriately and with extreme care. There was no incident of spills during the year 2011-12. Hazardous Waste Management at SAIL is being followed as per CPCB guidelines. Hazardous waste generated in plants is recycled/sold to authorized agencies/disposed of in Secured Land Fills or sent for disposal to State Pollution Control Board authorized Common Hazardous Waste Storage Treatment & Disposal Facility, depending on the type of hazardous waste generated. No hazardous wastes were shipped internationally. Break-up of Hazardous Waste Generation (T) Plants 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 Bhilai Steel Plant 7918.35 8660.15 6064.03 Durgapur Steel Plant 3069.99 3484.95 3648.19 Rourkela Steel Plant 1340.00 1260.00 213.26 Bokaro Steel Plant 2220.00 3229.00 2311.00 IISCO Steel Plant 87.26 160.66 90.12 Alloy Steel Plant 512.00 399.00 371.00 Salem Steel Plant 1152.75 1577.84 1959.58 Visvesvaraya Iron & Steel Plant 3.33 3.11 3.65 Landfill Facility All SAIL plants are either having a Secured Landfill Facility is to prevent contamination of ground water because of to dispose off hazardous waste or send them to the dumping of hazardous wastes. The facility will be authorised common hazardous wastes disposal facility. extended subsequently to accommodate hazardous wastes for the next 15 years. A Secured Landfill Facility (SLF) has recently been created at RSP. The hazardous waste generated from the various process units will be safely disposed off here to prevent ground water pollution. The main objective of the project Activities to reduce pollution due to vehicles  Maximization of rail transportation for movement of raw materials from mines, collieries, and other manufacturing facilities  SAIL prefers transport of its products through rail, thereby reducing road transportation and its carbon footprint.  Conveyors are used for the movement of raw material inside the manufacturing facilities.  Use of covered vehicle for road transportation, wherever possible. 47 Sustaining Actions Improving Lives Sustainable Development Performance Report 2011-12 Sustainable Performance Highlights 2011-12 Economic  526.1 billion INR economic value generated (Revenue)  8.26 billion INR dividend paid  0.61 billion INR community investments  79.32 billion INR employee wages and benefits Environment  Entire plant at BSP, DSP, BSL, VISL and SSP are accredited to the ISO 14001:2004 Environment Management System  Rolling Mills and few shops of RSP and Rolling Mill Complex of ISP are accredited to ISO 14001:2004 Environment Management System  89.20% of total water usage recycled in the process  CO2 intensity brought down to 2.81 T/tcs  Particulate matter emission brought down to 1.01 kg/tcs  Total solid waste utilisation enhanced to 86%  Surface water is the only source of water for production processes no ground water is withdrawn for production activities Social  LTIFR and LDR are reduced by 47% and 44% respectively during the last three years (2009 to 2011)  Specialised health care to more than 30 million people  Over 2400 free health check-up camps organised across the country, benefitting around 1.8 lakh underprivileged person  Modern education to about 70000 children through Company's more than 146 schools  Providing Mid-Day Meal to more than 18000 students in different schools of Bhilai everyday  71 Model Steel Villages completed till 2011-12  Installed over 6000 water sources in far-flung areas, providing drinking water access to around 30 lakh people 48 Sustaining Actions Improving Lives Social Sustainable Development Performance Report 2011-12 Performance Sustaining Actions Improving Lives SAIL has been a firm believer that society forms the backbone of any organisation. It is for this reason that issues related to employees and community has always drawn attention of decision makers at SAIL. Several initiatives have been taken to ensure that the development of community and development of SAIL always remain mutually inclusive. Human Capital Management SAIL recognises the potential of human resources in providing competitive advantage and considers its employees as most valuable resource. The Company has achieved its present level of excellence through investing in its human resource, which are behind every activity, every technology and every innovation. The Company continues to work for developing capabilities and realization of best potential of its people. SAIL's first priority is the safety and health of its employees based on the principles of respect for human rights. Employees (nos.) Employee breakup 116950 15% Non Executive 15% 110794 Executive 106004 85% 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 6% Male Female 94% 49 Sustainable Development Performance Report 2011-12 Non-Executive Employees Breakup post. The vacancies are also displayed on the SAIL website for wider circulation. 4% under 30 years Local residents, who are otherwise eligible for the posts 30-50 years notified, are eligible to apply against such posts. Female over 50 years employees are given ample opportunity. Their 45% representation stands at near 6% of the total workforce for the year 2011-12 and has been on a constant rise over the past years. During career progression, promotions are 51% strictly based on merit. Human Resource Turnover at Integrated Steel Plants 1078 Executive Employees Breakup Recruitment under 30 years Attrition 9% 30-50 years over 50 years 346 45% 267 200 72 43 106 98 46% 26 32 BSP DSP RSP BSL ISP Human Resource Turnover at Special Steel Plants Total Employees Breakup under 30 years 123 30-50 years 5% over 50 years Recruitment Attrition 45% 57 39 50% 5 6 7 2 0 ASP SSP VISL CFP SAIL is an equal opportunity employer and being a Public Human Resource Turnover at other Units Sector Unit, recruitments are guided by the rules of the 7 Company and the relevant guidelines issued by the Recruitment 6 Government of India from time to time. In terms of the Attrition Employment Exchange (Compulsory Notification of 5 Vacancies) Act and Supreme Court's judgment in Excise Superintendent, Malkapatnam, Krishna District, A.P. vs. K.P.N. Visweshwara Rao and others” case, vacancies, as 2 and when arise, are notified to the local employment exchange and are also published in the National as well as Local vernacular newspapers with prescribed 0 0 0 0 00 00 qualification, age, experience etc. for each category of CMO RDCIS CET SGW SSO SRU 50 Sustaining Actions Improving Lives Sustainable Development Performance Report 2011-12 In SAIL, there is absolutely no difference in basic salary Increase in the engagement of contract labours in the and remuneration paid to men and women employees recent past has been mainly on account of ongoing within a particular grade / category. As such the ratio of modernization & expansion programme. the basic salary and remuneration of women to men for each employee category is 1:1. Over the years, SAIL has kept its belief in people-building philosophy . New employees are recruited with equal SAIL provides parental leaves to all its employees. opportunities being provided to all, without any Maternity leave up to 12 weeks and 1 year child care is discrimination with regard to gender, caste, religion or provided to women employees. marital status. SAIL has an HR policy where the involvement of all employees in innovation, production Job Contracts in non core activities are awarded to and productive work environment are given a major contractors through tendering process to carry out thrust. different seasonal/temporary activities incidental to work and for the jobs of specialized & intermittent nature. To enable employees to plan their work, utilise their Contractors engage labour for executing the jobs. capabilities and maximise their contribution, SAIL has instituted Executive Performance Management System. Service conditions of these Contract Labours are The objective of this system is to foster a performance governed under the provisions of Contract Labour oriented culture among the employees to drive the (Regularization & Abolition) Act 1970 and other organisation on the path of excellence. Online applicable Labour Laws. Wages to contract labour are Competency based Performance Management System paid by the contractors engaging them in terms of the has been implemented for all executives irrespective of minimum wages notified by the Appropriate gender. Performance appraisals and reviews are done Government. SAIL, as a Principal Employer, ensures manually for all non executive employees, irrespective of regular & correct payment by Contractor to the contract gender. SAIL has several schemes such as Quality Circles Representation of SC/ST for last three years SC Employees ST Employees Total Employees 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 18112 17373 16720 15016 14466 13982 116950 110794 106004 labours. Contract labours are paid wages by the contractors over and above the notified minimum wages of the respective appropriate governments at all establishments of SAIL. Contractual Labour at SAIL Units Compliance to various statutory provisions viz. PF 82056 deductions, ESI coverage, EPS'95 etc. is ensured through a 70583 dedicated contract labour cell. Specific terms & conditions are also incorporated in the tender documents 46918 for ensuring contract labour welfare by the contractors. In addition, contract workers are also having access to all the basic welfare facilities like Canteen/Public Conveniences/Drinking water/Restroom etc. inside the work premises. General safety training & personal protective equipments are also provided to them for their 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 safety at work place. 51 Sustaining Actions Improving Lives Sustainable Development Performance Report 2011-12 (QC) and suggestion scheme. QC projects are encouraged amenities, education, sports & recreation and social by SAIL and selected projects are documented and welfare. SAIL has developed full fledged townships over published in form of booklet. Projects team members are the years at its plant locations. These townships have all also sponsored for national and international the modern infrastructural facilities along with premier competitions, bringing laurels to SAIL. schools, super specialty hospitals, shopping malls, multiplexes, parks, gyms, stadiums etc. As per the Right to Information Act 2005, all the SAIL plants and units have RTI Cell which facilitates common Together with corporate governance, collective citizens in seeking any information related to the plant. bargaining is part of an overall framework that contributes to responsible management. It is an An employee is required to serve notice period of 3 instrument used by parties to facilitate collaborative months prior to release on resignation. Whenever there is efforts to enhance the positive social impacts of an requirement to change the duty hours, the management organization. All employees of SAIL are covered by informs representatives of employees and contract labour collective bargaining agreements. This is the most direct in advance. way to demonstrate an organization's practices in relation to freedom of association. Benefits like Life Insurance, Health care, Disability/ Invalidity coverage, Maternity Leave, Retirement Benefits In SAIL, wages and benefits of non-executive employees etc. are standard for full-time employees of the are decided by NJCS (National Joint Committee for the organization. Contract Labourers engaged by the Steel Industry), which is a bipartite forum comprising of Contractors in establishments of SAIL, are covered under members representing both the employers as well as Statutory Benefits Non Statutory Benefits Provident Fund Group Insurance Scheme Gratuity Compassionate Employment Employees' Pension Scheme Medical Facility to Employees Life Cover Scheme SAIL Group Mediclaim Policy Workmen Compensation Workmen Compensation Welfare measures under the Factories Act Education Facilities Maternity Benefits Festival Advance Funeral Expenses Conveyance Advance House Building Advance Long Service Award Scholarship Schemes the ESI Benefits. SAIL Plants have their own Super Child Care leave upto 1 year Specialty Hospitals with state of the art facilities where Farewell to Superannuating Employee free outdoor and indoor medical treatment is provided to Life cover scheme (in Total Permanent Disablement all regular employees and their eligible dependants. cases Employees and their wards who require specialized Employee Family Benefit Scheme for disabled treatments which are not available at SAIL hospitals, are and separated employees or family of deceased also referred to other specialist hospitals at the cost of the employee Company. It is our continuous endeavour to further improve the existing facilities. SAIL has been a pioneer in providing various social benefits to its employees in the form of housing, civic 52 Sustaining Actions Improving Lives Sustainable Development Performance Report 2011-12 employees. Each plant also has Labour Welfare Officers related clauses. Periodic checks are being done with who interact with government labour officials to ensure respect to various suppliers/contractors regarding statutory compliance. From the employees' side, three compliance of human rights. The practices of SA 8000 are employees each from the four Central Trade Union promoted among suppliers on regular basis. Training & organisations of INTUC, AITUC, HMS and CITU and one awareness workshop on different aspects of SA 8000 each from the recognised trade union organisations of pertaining to child labour, forced labour, nonthe main steel plants of BSP, DSP, RSP, BSL, ISP, ASP, SSP, discrimination, and freedom of association, safe work VISP,CFP & RINL are members of the Committee. From environment and health & safety of employees are the employers' side, Chief Executive Officers/Executive provided to the employees. No structured training Directors of Steel Plants of BSP, RSP, DSP, BSL, ISP, ASP, programme has been arranged on this subject during the SSP, VISP, CFP & Director (Personnel) of RINL are reporting period. members of this Committee. From SAIL Corporate Office, Director (Finance) is a member and Director (Personnel) is The Company's recruitment policy requires appropriate the Convenor-Member of the Committee. All regular age proof for employment. The SA 8000 clause on child employees are covered under the purview of this labour guides communication to vendors and collective bargaining body. stakeholders that employment of persons only of age 18 years and above is a preconditioned to partnering with Steel Authority of India Limited has an established system SAIL, and that, in the event of any kind of violation by of workers' participation at different levels right from vendors within or outside the Company premises, National level up to shop-floor level. Some of these liabilities for the education of the child until the forums are functioning since early seventies and are completion of high school will accrue to the defaulting sufficiently empowered to address different issues related party. Being a public sector enterprise, SAIL condemns to wage, safety, and welfare of workers, arising from time child labour and any form of forced or compulsory labour. to time thus helping in conducive work environment. SAIL has full-fledged support and services of Central Statutory compliances related to labour matters are dealt Industrial Security Force (CISF) for ensuring security in by designated Labour Welfare Officers at each plant/unit, and around plant. There are no known cases of who also interact with government labour machinery as discrimination on any grounds. There are no violations of per requirement. human rights in SAIL. There is no discrimination towards any section/category of employees in SAIL. This is ensured by the Personnel Department which regularly monitors fairness in activities and services. Freedom of Association, as enshrined under the constitution of India and envisaged in the Trade Union Act, is also ensured. There are no such operations in SAIL where right to exercise the freedom of association and collective bargaining is at significant risk. SAIL strongly believes in protection of fundamental rights described in the Constitution of India. Our constitution enshrines all relevant principles and guidelines prescribed by the International Labour Organisation (ILO) on human rights. There was no recorded case during the reporting year on any violation of human rights. 100% employees receive regular performance and career development reviews. In all the new contracts, SAIL is including human rights 53 Sustaining Actions Improving Lives Sustainable Development Performance Report 2011-12 Health and Safety Iron and Steel making is a continuous process industry years by SAIL plants, marked with diverse work culture at with complex technology. SAIL recognizes the multi-locations. In addition, at plant/unit level, importance of maintaining a healthy & safe work Departmental Safety Committees are functioning with environment for consistent production and its adequate representation from workers’ side which meets sustenance. Moreover, while implementing a mega at fixed interval to discuss all issues related with safety, modernization and expansion plan to enhance its health & welfare of employees. production, SAIL is giving special thrust on Project Safety The committee helps to monitor and advises on during its execution. occupational health and safety programme across SAIL plants are having well defined Occupational Health various units. The views of JCSSI and corresponding & Safety (OH&S) Policy. OH&S objectives and targets are committees formed at plant levels are taken into achieved through established OH&S management consideration. programme for maintaining consciousness on safety & Safety of employees and workers has always been highly health amongst employees for successful important at SAIL. While SAIL plants have been setting implementation of safe & healthy work practices. Visible records for production, safety and occupational health concern of top management and individual employees standards have improved proportionally. This has been are demonstrated through participative approach made possible due to the sincere commitment of top adopted for controlling the OH&S risks / issues, management in spearheading the safety drive. consistent with the OH&S Policy and objectives for sound occupational health and safety performance. SAIL plants have adopted and implemented OHSAS18001. It is an internationally recognized standard in the Both management and workers' representatives agree area of Occupational Health & Safety Management and is that they have a vital interest and role to ensure a healthy compatible with ISO 9001 and ISO 14001, that supports and safe working environment for all employees. Joint and promotes good OH&S practices, in balance with Committee on Safety, Health & Environment in Steel socio-economic needs. Similarly, HIRA (Hazard Industry (JCSSI), a unique bipartite forum with Identification and Risk Assessment) documents are representation from major central trade unions as well as prepared for identified areas with control measures to management representatives of major steel producers of bring the risks to acceptable range. The emphasis is on the country, exist at national level to jointly evolve practices being proactive and preventive by the recommendations/ action plans for ensuring a safe & identification of hazards and the evaluation & control of harmonious work culture which gets substantiated from work related risks. the harmonious Industrial Relations enjoyed over the Safety Audits Three-tier Safety Audits are conducted at plants and units:  By Safety Engineering Dept. of Plants and Units  By SAIL Safety Organisation in association with representatives of other Plants/Units  By external agencies viz. National Safety Council, OHSAS auditors, Regional Labour Institute etc. 54 Sustaining Actions Improving Lives Sustainable Development Performance Report 2011-12 Essential Ingredients of Safety Management System and All the employees of SAIL are covered by the formal joint Practices at SAIL: management-worker health and safety committees.  Adequate emphasis is given on safety of human These committees are generally called for meeting once a resources. OHSAS Certification across SAIL's Steel Plants month in all departments and all the issues related to covers the occupational health and safety of all regular health and safety such as the organisation's commitment, employees, contract personnel, visitors and any other maintenance of good health, safe environment, welfare of person at the work place. employees, security of the plant, etc. are communicated,  Visible Management Commitment: The Company consulted and discussed thoroughly and minutely. 100% is committed towards preventing any accident. Safety is of contract workers have been given safety and monitored at the highest level of management i.e. environment training. Chairman and Director's level as well as by Chief Executives of respective Plants. Categories of OHS Programme  Safety setup in SAIL: At Corporate level, SAIL Safety Organisation (SSO) coordinates and monitors the Workers operational and fire safety activities. Each Plant/ unit of First aid, work place hazards and prevention, AIDS SAIL has a full fledged Safety Engineering Department to awareness, diabetic counseling, stress management take care of operational safety & fire related aspects on programme, occupational psychology counseling, day-to-day basis. Each department / shop have application of ergonomics in the work area, effect of Departmental Safety Officer to promote safety environmental pollution on health and gas safety. Lost Day Rate Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate 4.98 0.15 0.13 4.50 0.08 2.51 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 awareness amongst the employees. Families  Systems and Procedures: Standard Operating AIDS awareness, family planning, communicable diseases Procedures (SOPs) and Standard Maintenance like TB, Polio, Typhoid, Malaria, etc. Procedures (SMPs) are formulated in consonance with statutory rules and regulations on safety. For hazardous & critical jobs involving multiple agencies, systems like Communities Permit to Work and Protocol incorporating safety Family planning, mother and child health, immunization, provisions are in place which are followed up for strict nutrition, blindness control, AIDS awareness, personal adherence. Safety surveillance during all major Capital hygiene. repairs / Shutdown jobs is ensured for safe working. 55 Sustaining Actions Improving Lives Sustainable Development Performance Report 2011-12 Man Day Lost Man Day Lost for year 2011 8344 1326 6365 980 4444 920 657 277 157 46 81 0 2009 2010 2011 BSP DSP RSP BSL ISP ASP SSP VISL CFP Total accidents breakup for 2011-12 by employee Total accidents breakup for 2011-12 by type category Regular Fatal Contractual Reportable Non Reportable 18 51 First Aid 153 82 390 392 Total accidents breakup for 2011-12 by gender Total accidents breakup for 2011-12 Male 2 Female 136 133 108 67 541 38 24 19 15 3 BSP DSP RSP BSL ISP ASP SSP VISL CFP 56 Sustaining Actions Improving Lives Sustainable Development Performance Report 2011-12 Training forms an important component of implementing trainings etc. helping in educating for adopting safe an effective safety strategy. Continuous education, work practices. Concepts of Behaviour Based Safety training, counseling, prevention and risk-control (BBS) has been introduced to minimize at risk programmes are organised to assist workforce members, behaviour & reinforce safe behaviour amongst all their families and other community. Area specific employees including contractor workers workshops are conducted and job specific safety training  Awareness generation by showing films / making is imparted to the workers. Safety related information is presentation on BBS, displaying safety posters/ also broadcast through local TV network at plant banners/ hoardings/models, etc. at strategic townships. Training on safety is also imparted to the locations, organising Safety Exhibitions, celebration persons of Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) hired of Safety Week in various departments, organising for ensuring security in and around the plants. All CISF various Safety competitions, imparting Safety personnel are trained on Human Rights aspects at their training to School children etc. individual training camps as per standard training  Safety aspects of contractors’ workers are procedure of Government of India (GoI) for security adequately addressed by imparting induction personnel. training to all contract workers before issue of Gate Pass. Job related Safety trainings, Training for Safety initiatives at various plants of SAIL working at height and medical check-up of  Reporting, investigation of all accident cases contractor workers before issue of height pass are including near miss cases / dangerous occurrences in vogue. Safety conditions in the terms of contracts and implementation of remedial measures for awarded require adherence to safety norms and preventing recurrence. imposing fine for violations of safety norms.  Monitoring of Project / construction activities by Surprise inspections of contractual jobs are carried senior officers of Project and Safety Engg. Deptt. for out. ongoing large scale modernisation and expansion  Administrative measures like fixing accountability programmes. for accidents involving regular employees and  Providing user friendly conventional & job specific contractor employees, issue of warning letters / personal protective equipment and ensuring the advisory letters, enforcement of corrective / usage. Enforcing usage of Full Body harnesses punitive actions in case of safety violations are during height jobs. already implemented.  Scheduled preventive inspections conducted in fire prone areas and remedial measures implemented for loss prevention. Periodic inspection of cable galleries / tunnels and oil cellars.  Mock drills conducted as per schedule and identified weaknesses are attended for emergency preparedness.  Special drives & campaigns are launched for inspection of vital equipment & areas like welding transformers, crane walkways, over head platforms, pedestal fans/man coolers, pressure vessels, scaffoldings, conveyors, cable galleries, oil cellars, rail-road crossings, crash helmet checking etc.. ROKO-TOKO drives are also undertaken for unsafe work practices  HRD intervention by imparting Induction training, Refresher training, Job specific /Specialised 57 Sustaining Actions Improving Lives Sustainable Development Performance Report 2011-12 occupational disease has been reported at any of its BSP plants and units.  Internal audits in contractors’ areas in works extended to projects area Following OHS activities are conducted by various plants  Introduction of 'On-line Safety Management and units of SAIL: System’  Preventive activities like periodic health check-up  Specific safety inputs based on-job safety for Anthropometry, Pulmonary Function Test, analysis for contract jobs Audiometry, Oxymetry, Refraction, ECG, Blood DSP Sugar, Urine Protein, Clinical Examination etc.  Implementation of BBS in CEM, RCL, Skelp Mill  Curative activities like attending general health and HM&C department problems, accidental injuries and follow-up of life  Installation of more than 70 CCTVs across all style diseases major shops and project areas  Promotive activities like Holistic Health Care by RSP Yoga, Psychological Counselling, De-addiction Drive for Smoking/ Tobacco chewing/ Alcoholism.  Emphasis on safety in weekly mass contact exercises  Use of PPEs in enhancing Safety & Health standards at work place and reducing absenteeism &  Road safety campaigns to check usage of crash rehabilitation helmets  Vision Conservation Programme of all Mobile BSL Equipment Operators conducted to detect visual  Reporting and analysis of near miss cases disorder and to take necessary measure for  2-days induction and 2-days refresher training correction to contractor workers  Work environment monitoring and control in  Weekly safety awareness workshops respect of Dust, Gases, Heat, Noise, Vibration, ISP Radiation, Illumination etc.  Computerisation of health information to facilitate  Periodic safety interactions by CEO study of morbidity pattern  Safety training of contractor and sub Mass Immunisation programme, Epidemiological contractors’ supervisors studies, Biological monitoring and Biochemical  Surprise safety inspection in works and project studies to evaluate effect of various chemicals in sites by cross functional teams different departments  Work Physiology, Health Statistics, Health Occupational Health Education, Psychological Assessment, Counselling and similar functions at workplace with emphasis Occupational Health is one of the thrust areas in the on preventive care. Special care is taken for the corporate policy of SAIL. Health is considered as an women employees working in plant premises essential parameter of human resource to enhance  In addition to various health education & training productivity, prevent occupational diseases, bring down programmes including AIDS/HIV prevention health impairment and improve the quality of work life. organized throughout the year, Special Health Accordingly the concept of Total Health Care i.e Awareness programme organized during Preventive, Promotive, Protective, Curative & celebration of World Health Day, Occupational Rehabilitative with emphasis on early detection & Health Day etc. intervention has been introduced for work related  Research activities and presentation of papers in problems and creating health awareness among different national seminars/ workshops employees to make work environment more humane. Fully equipped multi disciplinary OHS centres in steel plants are functioning with this concept. No reportable 58 Sustaining Actions Improving Lives Sustainable Development Performance Report 2011-12 Training and Capacity Building SAIL recognises the potential of human resources in levels. The training functions are validated by the apex providing competitive advantage and considers its referral body known as TAB (Training Advisory Board), employees as most valuable resource. The Company has which is headed by Chairman, SAIL, and has as its achieved its present level of excellence through investing members all the Directors of the Company. The directors in its human resource, which are at the back of every take their respective agenda points from the TAC activity, every technology and every innovation. SAIL (Training Advisory Committee), which is chaired by CEOs continues to work for developing capabilities and and its meeting is attended by zonal and departmental realisation of best potential of its people. The thrust on heads. These bodies generate several organisational achieving higher growth coupled with optimal utilisation learning needs and thrust areas which are included in the of manpower continued. The focus on improving annual plans. The training department is also covered productivity and adoption of best practices in every area under QMS and EMS. Every shop has its own training are being pursued relentlessly. Efforts for active coordinator who is responsible for imparting training in participation by employees, implanting a conducive various areas along with the identified trainers. ambience for exhibiting creativity and innovation by Pre-employment training is given by the plant-level employees and ensuring a climate that reflects synergy Training Institute for training operatives, trade and contagious enthusiasm has been at the core of apprentices and graduate engineers. Post-operative Human Resource (HR) initiatives and interventions. training is also being imparted. Steel plant visits are Strategic alignment of Human Resource Management organized by various plants of SAIL. This exercise has (HRM) to business priorities and objectives facilitated resulted in broadening of outlook of the employees, steps for ensuring a smooth transition for upcoming new learning good practices, better awareness and a sense of facilities in the Modernization and Expansion Programme. pride. In order to train the management trainees, System HR initiatives also aided in building competent teams with of Mentoring has been introduced. Main objective of cross functional expertise leading to further enriching of such system is to stimulate and manage the individual the repositories of competencies in the Company. growth necessary for Management Trainees to deliver a The HR policy of SAIL is based on the business thrust areas business performance beyond the boundaries of the in tune with the vision statement and corporate plan of present levels and beliefs. The process of monitoring aims SAIL. Competence mapping is used to impart training to to help management trainees in: the employees. This system allows assessing the  Developing confidence and leadership qualities competence gap of individual employees. This  Building strong personal foundation and information is further used as input for determining the determining appropriate goals, strategies, tactics overall training needs. The effectiveness of the training and action plans plan is evaluated at the reaction, learning and application  Imbibing shared vision, mission and values Training hours breakup by employee category Executive Non-Executive Total Type of Training 2011-12 2011-12 2011-12 External training (including MTI/CPTI) 2714 1229 3943 Foreign training 262 0 262 Specific areas 765 8707 9472 Managerial competence enhancement 5667 3426 9093 Technical enhancement 4186 138217 142403 Fresh entrants 627 1881 2508 Other areas 3603 2878 6481 59 Sustaining Actions Improving Lives Sustainable Development Performance Report 2011-12 Training statistics for last three years Performance Indicator 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 Employees trained (%) 41.5 45.1 47.5 Training (man hours / employee) 54.4 40.8 47.8 Employees trained (nos.) 54323 53137 52967 Performance Improvement Workshops (PIWs) were organized during the year. These workshops were held for gap analysis, brain storming and discussion and finally building an action plan regarding issues like production and productivity, cost reduction, maintenance, housekeeping and safety. The workshops involve mostly the non-executives of the respective shops. Apart from these, specialized technical training and vocational training for college students are also held every year. SAIL also publishes quarterly in-house management and technical journals. 60 Sustaining Actions Improving Lives Sustainable Development Performance Report 2011-12 Responsible Corporate Citizenship SAIL has been at the forefront in the context of corporate In addition, expenditure to the tune of INR 2 billion citizenship with unwavering dedication towards annually is also incurred on non-SAIL people living in and development of the community in the vicinity of its plants around the plant/unit location/townships on account of and units. This commitment from SAIL has earned it a Health, Education, Township, etc. The facilities created in huge support from the members of community which has the steel townships at plants/units locations are being been a major contributor in positioning SAIL among the used by the local non-SAIL population either free of cost world leaders in steel making. or at a very nominal cost. CSR initiatives are carried out in and around steel townships and far flung location across the country in the Health area of village development including development of Healthcare of the community where the organization Model Steel Villages (MSVs), providing Medical and operates is critical as it creates a positive atmosphere Health Care, Immunization, Ante and Post Natal Care, which, in turn, maintains the health of the organization. Education, Access to Water Facilities, Construction and SAIL has taken cognizance of this and has been closely Repair of Roads, Road Side Drains & Street Lights, involved in ensuring the well-being of community Environmental Initiatives, Women Empowerment, Assistance to people with disabilities, Sustainable Income members: Generation through Self Help Groups, Promotion of No. of Primary Health Centre 54 Sports, Art, Culture & Recreational Activities, Preservation No. of RCH Centres 4 of National Heritage etc. No. Of Hospitals 23 No. of Specialty Hospitals 7 CSR Highlights No. of beds 4039  54 Primary Health Centres, 4 Reproductive No. of doctors 739 and Child Health Centres, 23 Hospitals and 7 Specialty Hospitals to provide specialized No. of paramedical staff 2967 healthcare facilities No. of beneficiaries during the year 44,05,928  Over 137 schools in the steel townships to No of beneficiaries up to the year 2,04,00,888 provide modern education to about 56,765 Immunization during the year (nos.) 1,14,891 children Sterilization during the year (nos.) 12,027  Access to around 7.480 million people across 86 villages during the year by constructing and repairing of roads  Installation of over 6052 water sources, thereby providing drinking water access to around 4.091 million people For carrying out social responsibilities, a portion of net annual distributable surplus has been earmarked every year. Expenditure on CSR activities during last three years Year Budget Allocation Budget Utilisation (Million INR) (Million INR) 2009-10 800 787.9 2010-11 940 689.5 2011-12 640 612 61 Sustaining Actions Improving Lives Sustainable Development Performance Report 2011-12 BSP  Medical camps at Rowghat area for the benefit of people  Sound proof van to an NGO “PRAYAS” to identify the deaf and dumb children DSP  Refractometer for eye operation of Durgapur Blind Relief Society  Endoscopy Machine, Procedural Table, diagnosis and treatment of cancer diseases at Sree Sree Mohanananda Cancer Diagnostic, Research and Welfare Society  Free distribution of 450 nos. of Artificial Limbs, 50 nos. of Wheel Chairs and 6 pairs of Hearing Aids RSP  Weekly Medical Camps at 17 villages providing free treatment and medicine treating 61773 patients  Establishment of Mother Culture Lab at IPD and Spawn Centres at Dalposh & Chungimati villages  Free medical centres at Chikatmati and Jalda Resettlement colony, taking care of 26050 patients  Project Akshay: Identification and treatment of tuberculosis cases, treating 278 patients in 2011-12  Project Sneha: Centre for free examination and treatment of leprosy patients, benefiting 576 patients ISP  Providing ambulance to Debasish Ghatak foundation  Regular medical facility to peripheral villages through extended OPD facility by mobile medical van RDCIS  Medical assistance and health camps at various charitable hospitals  Installation of ventilator, colour Doppler system and ECG machine at various hospitals in Ranchi 62 Sustaining Actions Improving Lives Sustainable Development Performance Report 2011-12 Education Children are the future of the nation and SAIL has always been committed to nurturing them. It has been SAIL's endeavour to provide quality education to students of its townships and nearby villages. The efforts by SAIL and its plants are validated by the fact that townships like those of BSP, DSP and RSP are renowned as a hub for quality technical education: Survival Rate in primary school 96.50% Ratio of Girls : Boys (Overall) 1.14 : 1 No. of additional classrooms 20 built during year Total no. of Adult education centre 7 Schools within township Students Primary 44 19499 Secondary 54 20532 Tertiary 39 16734 Total 137 56765 Schools outside township Students Primary 183 27735 Secondary 137 47978 Tertiary 26 6468 Total 346 82181 BSP  Running of school for under privileged children and tribal children at Bhilai  Mid day meal to 22000 students through Akshaya Patra Foundation at schools around Bhilai DSP  Construction of more classrooms and laboratory at Shri Ramkrishna Sevashram Vidyapith, Dormat  Improvement of Mitalli Sangha Library, Gopalpur, Durgapur  Provision of school kits and furnitures by Ispat Mahila Co-op Society (IMCS), Durgapur RSP  Mid day meal to 247 students in schools in Rourkela  Computer& library buildings at two peripheral village schools of Dumerta and Bisra Girl's High School  Scholarships to 99 underprivileged students of peripheral villages  “Deepika Ispat Sikhya Sadan”, a special school for underprivileged children (Class-1 to 6) with free education, dress, books and mid-day refreshments. BSL  Construction of rooms at Kalyaneshwari Ucha Vidyalaya, Bahadurpur and at Kalapathar  Construction of community hall at Aakandgora ISP  Basic provisions like generator, computers to Ramakrishna Mission free coaching centre at Asansol  Financial assistance for providing tiffin & educational kits to various schools and ashrams SSP  Anganwadi noon meal at Panchayat union elementary school  Other development in schools like provision of toilets and playgrounds, school uniforms RDCIS  Provision of books, stationary and infrastructure to orphanage, SAIL assisted schools at Khunti, Hatia 63 Sustaining Actions Improving Lives Sustainable Development Performance Report 2011-12 Engendering Development Women empowerment has been one of the critical issues for the nation and SAIL has duly recognized this, taking several proactive steps to enhance the contribution of women to the society. Initiatives such as training in various vocational courses to village women, education facilities for girls etc. have gone a long way in empowering them: Number of women employed 5234 Women in Senior management (nos.) 110 Women in management (nos.) 723 Women in non-executive position (nos.) 4517 No. of women engaged in institutions (Mahila Samaj) 1664 Quantum of order generated in 2011-12 (Amount in million INR) 6.758 BSP  Nursing education to 20 tribal girls at Bhilai DSP  Training on Production of Biofertilizer and tailoring to village women  Jr. Nursing Asstt. Training at Indian Red Cross Society, Durgapur RSP  Training for 40 Master Trainers of 10 Women Resource Centres on Group Management, Training Methodology and Evaluation, Health & Hygiene, Handicrafts, Improved Chullah, Mushroom Cultivation and Land & Water Management. ISP  24 sewing machines to teach tailoring to 144 village women  Course on Hair & Skin care and garment designing & dress making to 40 village women SSP  Women empowerment-Multiskilled garment technician training to village women RDCIS  Education, healthcare and income generation by Ispat Mahila Samaj, Ranchi SAIL  Besides above, various SAIL units have taken initiatives for facilitating empowerment of women belonging to a lower strata of the society through various projects like “Swayamsidhha”, “Kishori”, “Kiran”, etc Water Sources Water has aptly been referred to as elixir of life and SAIL has been always dedicated to provide good water infrastructure to the community where SAIL plants operate. There have been continuous efforts for providing safe drinking water and SAIL has benefited millions of people through its ventures: No. of water infrastructure created during the year 796 Number of people for whom water infrastructure created during the year 2,18,595 Total no. of people for whom created 40,91,530 No. of beneficiaries per water source 4950 Roads Connectivity Roads are the most basic means of connectivity and SAIL has recognized the fact that one of the biggest hindrances to the development of villages is poor road network and hence providing good road infrastructure has been a high priority for SAIL: Length of road constructed / repaired during the year (km) 46 Total number of beneficiaries during the year 1,02,000 Total number of beneficiaries 74,80,067 Total number of villages impacted 86 64 Sustaining Actions Improving Lives Sustainable Development Performance Report 2011-12 BSP  Road side plantation on 125km of highways and development of garden at NawagarhBemetara  Distribution of Solar Lanterns and other infrastructural development such as construction of Community Hall, Cultural Stage, Swayamsidda Bhavan, Cremation shed, roads etc at various Model Steel Villages. DSP  Construction of Well/Reservoir of Bharat Sevashram Sangha  Extension of Workshop building & equipment for disabled learners  Construction of building of Sri Ram Krishna Vivekananda Sevashram, Rammohan Avenue  Repair & Renovation of Old Age Home run by Durgapur Vivekananda Bhab Samaj RSP  Provision of sanitation and water points at Dumerjore, Baniguni, Jagdishpur, Ushra  Bituminous and concrete road construction at various locations  'Suraksha Path', a Foot Cross Over Bridge near Indira Gandhi Park  Renovation of football ground at Sector-22 in Rourkela  126 households water tank with a capacity of 65,000 litres for water supply BSL  Installation of 99 handpumps and digging of more than 30 bores  Construction of road and gate at AVVK working for the empowerment of differently-abled children  Construction of bituminous road at Model Steel Villages ISP  Construction of 40 nos. low cost sanitation at Dhenua  Construction of roads, green park Shishu Udyan, shed for cultural activities at Model Steel Villages Sports SAIL has had a glorious history of producing fine sportspersons. The credit for this goes to the 6 sports academies which have been built at the SAIL townships. These include football academy at Bokaro and Burnpur, hockey academy at Rourkela, athletics academy at Bhilai and Durgapur and archery academy at Kiriburu. In recognition of the promotion of sports by SAIL, it has been awarded the prestigious Rashtriya Khel Protsahan Purushkar, 2012 for Community Sports Identification and Nurturing of Budding Young Talent. In a matter of great pride to the nation, Sushil Kumar and Yogeshwar Dutt have won silver and bronze medal respectively in wrestling at London Olympics 2012. SAIL has been sponsoring these wrestlers right from their budding years and has provided them thorough support. The Company's contribution towards sports is narrated below: Number of new sports facilities built during the year 5 Total number of people for whom -training provided during the year 10,263 From SAIL family 2479 From local community 7784 Total number of events participated in during the year 102 Prizes won during the year (nos.) 129 Investment in sports facilities (Amount in million INR) Infrastructure building and maintenance 3.862 Sports materials (equipment, sports gear, etc) 3.821 65 Sustaining Actions Improving Lives Sustainable Development Performance Report 2011-12 BSP  Annual sports mela at Narayanpur to promote and encourage local sports talent DSP  Construction of Table Tennis Room and Gymnasium Room of Steel Club, Durgapur  Two seperate players’ Dressing Rooms, for boys & girls, with attached Toilets. Renovation of Basketball Court  Upgradation of facilities at Nehru Stadium at DSP Township RSP  Construction of gallery shed at Ispat Stadium ISP  Organising Inter-village Kabaddi and Football tournament  Providing necessary help for Football coaching camp organized by Burnpur United Club RDCIS  Coaching in badminton, volleyball and cricket Ancillary and Local Development Ancillaries have rendered a strong support to SAIL plants, as well as providing employment opportunities. SAIL has always encouraged ancillary units and provided them adequate assistance so that they can play their role in nation building along with SAIL: Number of units recognized 689 People employed (nos.) 10321 Quantum of orders generated in 2011-12 (Amount in billion INR) 3.35 Electronic & Power Control Co., an enterprise of Kakku Electronic & Power Control (P) Ltd., was formed in 1969 as an important substitute unit engaged in development of electro-mechanical control equipments imported from the erstwhile USSR, for Bhilai Steel Plant. With the continuous support of engineers of BSP, Kakku was able to develop a wide range of other import substitute products to satisfy the requirements of its mother plant, BSP and jointly contributed in saving our country's foreign exchange reserves. Today, Kakku has become one of the leading manufacturers of various types of electro-mechanical control equipment, material handling equipment, etc. Vocational Training and Income Generation Providing assistance to the community and encouraging their stride on the path of development has always been part of SAIL's social efforts. SAIL plants regularly organize training workshops for villagers where they are imparted skills in various income generation means. Such programme have played a key role in the development of villages: BSP  Developing and training villagers for mushroom spawn cultivation  Cottage industry development such as rug weaving, wax candle and sweet boxes making DSP  IGP programme on sustainable agriculture at Pratappur MSV  Training on Self Management Skill at SRREOSHI, Durgapur RSP  Project Duckery, Bankibahal MSV: income generation through duck rearing  A mushroom mother culture laboratory at IPD with mushroom spawn production centres at Dalposh & Chungimati villages were established to cater to quality mushroom spawn requirement ISP  Vocational training for 110 village youths 66 Sustaining Actions Improving Lives Sustainable Development Performance Report 2011-12 Preservation of Art and Culture India being a land of rich culture and vast heritage, it has been the Company's constant endeavour to ensure that this heritage is provided platform so that it is not lost with passage of time. With this motivation, SAIL plants have actively reached out to the community to encourage the local culture and showcase it to the nation and the world:  Lok Kala Mahotsav in Bhilai & Mines location  Installation of Statues of Rabindranath Tagore & Swami Vivekananda at DSP Township to commemorate their 150th Birth Anniversary  Financial assistance to ten cultural organisations for purchase of musical instruments and assets by SAIL Birhor Tribe Bokaro Steel Plant started a scheme for adopting children from the near-extinct Birhor tribe from the thick jungles of Jharkhand and providing them with special fooding and lodging facilities , to help them adjust to city life. So far, 30 Birhor children have been adopted under the scheme. Out of these 14 children, aged between six to seven years, have been adopted by the BSL under its corporate social responsibility scheme. They are residents of Tulbul, Khakhanda, Chotki Sidhiwara and Dumri Vihar villages, situated about 70 km from the district headquarters, in Gomia block. The children seem to be happy with the change as they are getting good food, a spic and span home equipped with television, fan, table and chair, bathroom, clothes, variety of sport items and stuffs. Mr Mukesh Birhor a child, said he was enjoying here with his friends. They love having cold drinks, dosa and paratha. We have not seen these food before in our village. We also like playing football.” 67 Sustaining Actions Improving Lives Sustainable Development Performance Report 2011-12 68 Sustaining Actions Improving Lives Product Sustainable Development Performance Report 2011-12 Responsibility Sustaining Actions Improving Lives SAIL is in constant endeavour in developing its product keeping in view the safe design of various structures by product development like TMT re-bars of earth quake resistant quality and TMT re-bars of high corrosion resistant quality in addition to development of high strength rock bolts and other varieties of steel. Stainless steel is one of the proven environment-friendly, recyclable raw materials that strongly support factors like hygiene, freedom from maintenance, long life in terms of usage and resistance to fire, rust etc. Customer Health and Safety SAIL CMO has about 10,000 varieties of products in its basket for marketing. The technical certificates (TC) are issued as per the standards prescribed by Bureau of Indian Standards. The main products of SAIL are various kinds of steel products and process by-products. Steel or no packaging materials. At BSP the material used in products are generally environment-friendly and do not packaging of steel products are mainly steel straps & pose any health or safety hazard during their use. wires. Similarly, RSP uses galvanized sheets for Therefore, specific procedures for preserving customer packaging material. ISP uses steel strips as packaging health and safety during the use of its products are not material. VISL uses mild steel bundling coils for required. The process by-products like slag and some packaging of materials, whereas SRU uses packing wood hazardous wastes are also generated. Use of safety for refractory items. This packaging material is 100% used appliances like safety helmets, boots, gloves etc. is at the customer end. At SSP, 15% of the packing wood of mandatory for the workmen. Hazardous waste handling is slabs received during transportation is used in packaging done as per the Hazardous Waste (Management, of coils. Handling & Trans boundary Movement), Rules 2008. SAIL plants and units have received authorization for the Product and Service Labeling same. There has been no incidence of non-compliance The product information regarding SAIL's products is with respect to regulations and voluntary codes widely publicised on the website which contains details concerning health and safety impacts of products and with regards to grade, size and application. The published services during their lifecycle. All products are confirmed product catalogues help in informing customer regarding to BIS standards. the products. The stamping and embossing on prime Product Stewardship steel products ensures proper product identification. All norms for physical dimensions, chemical composition and Steel products are 100% recyclable in their life cycle. Life technical delivery conditions for the associated Cycle Study as per World Steel Association had been specifications are strictly adhered to during production carried out at Bhilai Steel Plant. Major and dispatch of various products manufactured by SAIL. recommendations of LCA study have already been Test certificates are issued along with the deliveries to the implemented. Technically feasible recommendations customers so that the material can be identified and there have been envisaged in technology plan for is no mix up and the correct quality gets supplied to the expansion/modernisation of SAIL plants and remaining customer. There is no incidence of non-compliance with are in the process of implementation. The Company's respect to regulations and voluntary codes concerning R&D efforts also aim to develop light-weight, highproduct and service information and labeling. strength, corrosion-resistant steel products which create value for the customers during the usage. Most of the SAIL products are dispatched with minimum 69 Sustainable Development Performance Report 2011-12 Customer Satisfaction the Corporate Design Manual. Customer satisfaction is assessed continuously through Communication measurement of Customer Satisfaction Index (CSI) which SAIL as a whole has a comprehensive system of is collected every month from all key accounts through advertising addressed by the Corporate Affairs Division personally administered feedback forms which include for its corporate image and product promotion. The various parameters related to quality, supply and service. advertisements for all the plants are managed by SAIL at Central Marketing Organization conducts a market the corporate level. Advertisement campaigns like “Steel survey annually and makes forecasts with respect to Green”, “Steel in Need SAIL in Deed” etc. are conducted customer groups and market segments to be served by on regular basis. SAIL. CMO determines the requirements of customer Media Relations groups and communicates to the plant. Under Key Account Management (KAM), the requirements of The PR department issues press releases and briefs important customers are captured and their compliance highlighting the performance of SAIL plants and units to is recorded and analysed. Every month, a plant-CMO various national and local newspapers. The Chief of meeting is held to discuss the specific requirements of Communications, the official spokesperson of the customers as well as their feedback. The monthly Company, also keeps in regular touch with media houses. production and rolling plan is finalized on basis of this The PR department also issues tender advertisements / meeting and customer orders are released by CMO notices for publication in newspapers/journals. accordingly. During the year 2011-12 sales return was On-line Publication and Archiving 0.27% of the total sales. Total 30511 tons material was E-version of all PR publication has been started at all returned on quality complaints against the total sales of plants and units of SAIL. There is no incidence of non11.19 million tons. The bench marking score for CSI is compliance with regulations and voluntary codes pegged at 85% for domestic sales. During 2011-12 concerning marketing communications, including average of Customer Satisfaction Index in respect of five advertising, promotion and sponsorship etc. The privacy integrated Steel Plants of SAIL was 94.2 on a scale of 100. related to consumer information, such as specifications Average rating of ASP was 4.36 and for VISP 4.7 on the 5 of special products developed for specific consumers are point Index Scale. protected through confidentiality agreements. No All signages at all CMO offices, BSOs, Ware Houses, incidents have been reported regarding non-compliance Regional Offices etc. follow the guidelines contained in with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. No complaints have been received regarding breaches of customer privacy and loss of consumer data. SAIL has not been imposed with any fine for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services during the year 2011-12. 70 Sustaining Actions Improving Lives G3 Content Index Application level: A Profile Cross Reference/ Disclosure Description Reported Direct Answer Page No. STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART I: Profile Disclosures 1.0 Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision maker of the organization (e.g., CEO, chair, or 3 equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and its strategy 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities 13, 14, 26 2.0 Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organisation. 5 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services 5, 7 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation including main divisions, operating companies, 5, 8 subsidiaries and joint venture 2.4 Location of organization's headquarters 5 2.5 Number of countries where the organisation operates and names of countries with either 8 major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. 5, 16 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served and types of 5, 7-8, 33 customers/beneficiaries). 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation: 5-6, 16-18 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership. 9 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. 11-12 3.0 Report Parameters REPORT PROFILE 3.1 Reporting period (e.g. fiscal/calendar year) for information provided. 3-4, 9 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). 9 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) 9 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. 10 REPORT SCOPE AND BOUNDARY 3.5 Process for defining report content 9-10, 19-22 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g. countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers) See GRI Boundary Protocol for further guidance. 5 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report. 5, 9 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations and 5, 9 other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the indicators and other 9-10 information in the report. 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in either reports, and 5, 9 the reasons for such re-statements (e.g. mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods). 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement 5, 9 methods applied in the report. GRI CONTENT INDEX 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. 71-76 ASSURANCE 3.13 Policies and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. If not 9 included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, explain the scope and basis of any external assurance provided. Also explain the relationship between the reporting organization and the assurance provider(s). Level of Reporting: Fully Reported; Partially Reported; Not Reported 71 Sustaining Actions Improving Lives G3 Content Index Profile Cross Reference/ Disclosure Description Reported Direct Answer Page No. 4 Governance, Commitments and Engagement GOVERNANCE 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance 15-18 body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organization oversight. 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer (and, if so, their function within the organization's management and the reasons for this arrangement.) 17 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number of members of the 15-17 highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance body. 15-16 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers and executives (including departure arrangements) and the organization's performance 16 (including social and environmental performance) 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. 16 4.7 Process for determining the composition, qualifications, and expertise of the members of the highest governance body and its committees, including any consideration of gender and other indicators of diversity. 16 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant 25-27 to economic environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation. 4.9 Procedure of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization's identification and management of economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and 13-16 opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. 4.10 Process for evaluating the highest governance body's own performance, particularly with 15-16 respect to economic, environmental and social performance. COMMITMENT TO EXTERNAL INITIATIVES 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization 27, 29-30 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses. 31-32 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international 31-32 advocacy organizations in which the organization. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. 19-20 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. 19-20 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group. 19-21 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. 19-21 STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART II: Disclosures on Management Approach (DMAs) G3 DMA EC, DMA EN, DMA LA, DMA HR, DMA SO & DMA PR 27-28 DMA STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART III: Performance Indicators Economic Performance Indicators ASPECT: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and 33-35 payments to capital providers and governments. EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization's activities due to climate change. 13, 38-40 EC3 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan obligations. 34, 39, 52 EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. 35 Level of Reporting: Fully Reported; Partially Reported; Not Reported 72 Sustaining Actions Improving Lives G3 Content Index Profile Cross Reference/ Disclosure Description Reported Direct Answer Page No. ASPECT: MARKET PRESENCE EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum wage at significant 35 locations of operation. EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant locations 35, 66 of operation. EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local 50-51 community at locations of significant operation. ASPECT: INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for 20, 61-67 public benefit through commercial, in kind, or pro bono engagement. EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of 61-67 impacts. Environmental Performance Indicators ASPECT: MATERIALS EN-1 Materials used by weight or volume. 37 EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. 38 ASPECT: ENERGY EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. 38 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. 38 The corresponding primary energy consumed in its production. EN-5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. 39-40 EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, and 39-40 reduction in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved. 39-40 ASPECT: WATER EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. 43 EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. 42 EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. 43 ASPECT: BIODIVERSITY EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to protected areas and areas Not Material. of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. None of the plants of EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in SAIL are protected areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. located in EN13 Habitats protected or restored. the proximity of BioEN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity. diversity EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas sites/protect affected by operations, by level of extinctions risk. ed areas ASPECT: EMISSIONS, EFFLUENTS, AND WASTE EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. 41 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. 41 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. 39-41 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. 31 EN20 NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions by type and weight. 44 EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. 44 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. 45-46 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. 47 EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Based Convention Annex I, II, III and VIII, and percentage of transported waste 47 shipped internationally. EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats 42 significantly affected by the reporting organization's discharges of water and runoff. Level of Reporting: Fully Reported; Partially Reported; Not Reported 73 Sustaining Actions Improving Lives G3 Content Index Profile Cross Reference/ Disclosure Description Reported Direct Answer Page No. ASPECT: PRODUCT AND SERVICES EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts or products and services, and extent of impacts 69 mitigation EN27 Percentage of products and sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category. 69 ASPECT: COMPLIANCE EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations 46 ASPECT: TRANSPORT EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the organization's operations, and transporting members of the workforce. 69 ASPECT: OVERALL EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. 27 Social: Labour Practices and Decent Work Performance Indicators ASPECT: EMPLOYEMENT LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region 49-51 LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and region 50 LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by major operations 52 ASPECT: LABOR / MANAGEMENT RELATIONS LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. 52-53 LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes, including whether it is specified in collective agreements. 52 ASPECT: OCCUPATION HEALTH AND SAFETY LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management worker health and 54 safety committees that help monitor and advice on occupational health and safety programs. LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work related fatalities by region 55-56 LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist 57-58 workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. 54-55 ASPECT: TRAINING AND EDUCATION LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category. 59-60 LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings. 59-60 LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews 59 ASPECT: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category according to 16-17, 49-51 gender, age group, minority group membership and other indicators of diversity. EQUAL REMUNERATION FOR WOMEN AND MEN LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category. 51 Social: Human Rights Performance Indicators ASPECT: INVESTMENT AND PROCUREMENT PRACTICES HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that include human rights 28, 53 clauses or that have undergone human rights screening. HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening on human 53 rights and actions taken HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human 53 rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. ASPECT: NON-DISCRIMINATION HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken. 53 Level of Reporting: Fully Reported; Partially Reported; Not Reported 74 Sustaining Actions Improving Lives G3 Content Index Profile Cross Reference/ Disclosure Description Reported Direct Answer Page No. ASPECT: FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING HR5 Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective 53 bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. ASPECT: CHILD LABOR HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken 53 to contribute to the elimination of child labor. ASPECT: FORCED AND COMPULSORY LABOR HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and 53 measures to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor. ASPECT: SECURITY PRACTICES HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization's policies or procedures concerning 53, 57 aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. ASPECT: INDIGENOUS RIGHTS HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken. 53 Social: Society Performance Indicators ASPECT: LOCAL COMMUNITIES SO1 Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and practices that assess and manage the 61-67 impacts of operations on communities, including entering, operating, and exiting. ASPECT: CORRUPTION SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analysed for risks related to corruption 29-30 SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization's anti-corruption policies and procedures. 30 SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. 29 ASPECT: PUBLIC POLICY SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying. 30-32 SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions by country. 30 ASPECT: ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes. 29 ASPECT: COMPLIANCE SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulations. 46 Social: Product Responsibility Performance Indicators ASPECT: CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY PR-1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such 69 procedures. PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. 69 ASPECT: PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELING PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures and percentage of significant 69 products and services subject to such information requirements. PR-4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes. 69 PR-5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. 69-70 ASPECT: MARKETING COMMUNICATIONS PR-6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing 70 communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. Level of Reporting: Fully Reported; Partially Reported; Not Reported 75 Sustaining Actions Improving Lives G3 Content Index Profile Cross Reference/ Disclosure Description Reported Direct Answer Page No. PR-7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of 70 outcomes. ASPECT: CUSTOMER PRIVACY PR-8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data. 70 ASPECT: COMPLIANCE PR-9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services. 70 GRI Content Index Mining & Metals Sector Supplement Performance Indicator Description Reported Cross-Reference/Direct Answer MM1 Amount of land (owned or leased, and managed for production activities or extractive use) disturbed or None of the Plants of SAIL are located in the proximity of rehabilitated. biodiversity sites/protected areas. Mines are not within the MM2 The number and percentage of total sites identified as report boundary. requiring biodiversity management plans according to stated criteria, and the number (percentage) of those sites with plans in place. MM3 Total amounts of overburden, rock, tailings, and sludges Mines are not within the report boundary. and their associated risks. MM4 Number of strikes and lock-outs exceeding one week's There have been no strikes and lock-outs exceeding one duration, by country. week's duration during the reporting period MM5 Total number of operations taking place in or adjacent to None of the Steel Plants/ Units is located in the Indigenous Peoples' territories, and number and proximity of settlement/territories of indigenous people percentage of operations or sites where there are formal agreements with Indigenous Peoples' communities. MM6 Number and description of significant disputes relating to None of the steel plants are located in the proximity land use, customary rights of local communities and of the settlement of indigenous people and Indigenous Peoples. communities and hence, there are no significant dispute related to their land use and customary rights. MM7 The extent to which grievance mechanisms were used to No significant dispute related to land use and customary resolve disputes relating to land use, customary rights of rights of indigenous people. local communities and Indigenous Peoples, and the outcomes. MM8 Number (and percentage) of company operating sites None of the plants/units are adjacent to the mines. Mines where artisanal and small-scale mining (ASM) takes place are not within the report boundary. on, or adjacent to, the site; the associated risks and the actions taken to manage and mitigate these risks. MM9 Sites where resettlements took place, the number of No Steel Plant has any significant resettlement plan households resettled in each, and how their livelihoods pending. were affected in the process. MM10 Number and percentage of operations with closure plans. None of the Steel Plants/ Units have any closure plans. MM11 Programs and progress relating to materials stewardship. Page No. 27-28,37,48 Level of Reporting: Fully Reported; Partially Reported; Not Reported 76 Sustaining Actions Improving Lives Abbreviations AAQ Ambient Air Quality GHG Green House Gas AIDS Acquired Immuno-Deficiency Syndrome GoI Government of India AMR Addition Modification Replacement GRI Global Reporting Initiative ASTP Acid Sludge Treatment Plant GRI G3 Global Reporting Initiative Third ASP Alloy Steels Plant Generation BF Blast Furnace HCFC Hydro Chloro Fluoro Carbon BOD Biochemical Oxygen Demand HIV Human Immunodeficiency Virus BOF Basic Oxygen Furnace HP High Pressure BPL Below Poverty Line HRD Human Resource Development BSL Bokaro Steel Plant HRM Hot Rolling Mill BSO Branch Sales Office HSM Hot Strip Mill BSP Bhilai Steel Plant lISCO Indian Iron & Steel Company CaO Calcium Oxide INR Indian Rupee CCTV Closed Circuit Television IOD Institute of Directors CEO Chief Executive Officer ISO International Organisation for CET Centre for Engineering and Technology Standardisation CFC Chloro Fluoro Carbon ISP lISCO Steel Plant CFP Chandrapur Ferro Alloy Plant ISPs Integrated Steel Plants CII Confederation of Indian Industries IUCN International Union for Conservation of CISF Central Industrial Security Force Nature CMO Central Marketing Organisation JCSSI Joint Committee on Safety, Health and CO Coke Oven Environment in the Steel Industry COD Chemical Oxygen Demand JV Joint Venture CPCB Central Pollution Control Board KL Kilo Litre CPP Captive Power Plant L Litre CPSE Central Public Sector Enterprises LCA Life Cycle Assessment CPTI Central Power Training Institute LD Linz Donawitz CRM Cold Rolling Mill LDR Lost day Rate CSR Corporate Social Responsibility LTIFR Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate DSP Durgapur Steel Plant M&E Modernization and Expansion EAF Electric Arc Furnace MEL Maharashtra Elektrosmelt limited EBIDTA Earnings Before Interest, MKWh Million Kilo Watt Hour Depreciation,Taxes and Amortisation MLD Million Liter per Day ED Executive Director MnO Manganese Oxide EMD Environment Management Division MoEF Ministry of Environment & Forests ERM Enterprise Risk Management MoS Ministry of Steel EPS'95 Employees' Pension Scheme (1995) MoU Memorandum of Understanding ESI Employees' State Insurance MP Medium Pressure ESP Electro Static Precipitator MSV Model Steel Village ETP Effluent Treatment Plant MT Million Tonnes EVA Economic Value Added MTI Management Training Institute F&A Finance & Accounts MTPA Million Tonnes Per Annum GCal Giga Calorie NH3-N Ammonical Nitrogen GCM Gas Collecting Main NGO Non-Governmental Organisation GD Growth Division 77 Sustaining Actions Improving Lives Abbreviations NJCS National Joint Committee for the Steel SAF Submerged Arc Furnace Industry SAIL Steel Authority of India Limited Non-ED Non-Executive Director SCOPE Standing Conference of Public Enterprises O&G Oil & Grease SEFI Steel Executives Federation of India OHS/OH&S Occupational Health & Safety SGL Shot Grinding Line OHSAS Ocupational Health and Safety Si-Mn Silico Manganese Assessment Series SGW SAIL Growth Works, Kulti PAT Profit After Tax SMP Standard Maintenance Procedure PBS Power & Blowing Station SMS Steel Melting Shop PET Pipe/ Electrical Sheet/Tin Plate SOP Standard Operating Procedure PF Provident Fund SLF Secured Landfill PL Pickling Lime SP Sinter Plant PSU Public Sector Undertaking SS Suspended Solid QC Quality Control SSO SAIL Safety Organisation QMS Quality Management System SSP Salem Steel Plant RCL Research and Control Labrotary SRU SAIL Refractory Unit RDCIS Research & Development Centre for T Tonnes Iron & Steel tcs tonnes of crude steel R&D Research & Development tfs tonnes of finished steel R&E Research & Engineering thm tonnes of hot metal R&S Rail and Structural Mill TMT Thermo Mechanically Treated RCH Reproductive and Child Health UNDP United Nations Development Programme RMD Raw Materials Division VISL Visvesvaraya Iron and Steel Plant RSP Rourkela Steel Plant VVVF Variable Voltage Variable Frequency RTI Right to Information WSA World Steel Association SA Social Accountability We look forward to receiving your feedback on SAIL's Sustainability Report Please feel free to share your comments or suggestions regarding this Report You can reach us at sailsustainability@gmail.com 78 Sustaining Actions Improving Lives Sustainable Development Performance Report 2011-12 Sustaining Actions Improving Lives GRI Application Level A 79 LVhy vFk‚fjVh v‚Q bf.M;k fyfeVsM STEEL AUTHORITY OF INDIA LTD Registered Office: Published by: Ispat Bhawan, Lodi Road Environment Management Division New Delhi-110003, INDIA SAIL House, 50 J.L. Nehru Road, 3rd Floor Internet:www.sail.co.in Kolkata-700071 Email:secy.sail@sailex.com West Bengal, INDIA Email: sailex.emd@gmail.com There is a little bit of SAIL in everybody's life
