Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers CSR Report 2013 Go get social with us Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers | Ørestads Boulevard 114-118 | DK-2300 København S | Tel. +45 8877 6699 | www.cpcopenhagen.dk Crowne Plaza is an international 4-star hotel that provides a 5-star experience for both conference and meeting guests, tourist travelers and event attendees. We offer 366 well equipped hotel rooms, 3500 m2 of modern meeting and conference facilities and a ball room with capacity for 800 people. We are part of one of the world’s fastest growing hotel chains, with around 400 Crowne Plaza hotels around the world, and an additional 100 hotels under way. We are part of InterContinental Ho­tels Group (IHG), the world’s largest hotel chain. 2 Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers content CSR at Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers 3 Good Governance & Business Ethics Our Commitment 4 Objectives, Actions Implemented And Measureable Outcomes Plans For 2014 Workplace Our Commitment Objectives, Actions Implemented And Measureable Outcomes 5 Plans For 2014 Responsible Supply Chain Management Our Commitment 7 Objectives, Actions Implemented And Measureable Outcomes Plans For 2014 Environment & Climate Change Our Commitment 8 Objectives, Actions Implemented And Measureable Outcomes Plans For 2014 Community Our Commitment 10 Objectives, Actions Implemented And Measureable Outcomes Plans For 2014 CSR Report 2013 3 statement of support I am pleased to confirm that the Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. The principles of the UN Global Compact have gradually been merged and systematized by our own policies and procedures, framed by the management standards DS 49001 (CSR) and ISO 14001 (Environment). We have continued our uncompromising commitment to our vision of running a profitable business while living up to our social, environmental and economic responsibilities. Allan L. Agerholm Managing Director/CEO Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers 4 Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers CSR AT crowne plaza copenhagen towers At Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers, we strive to be a pioneer in sustainable development in the international hotel industry. We believe that running a profitable business and living up to our social, environmental and economic responsibilities are, and must continue to be, compatible goals. To this end, it is the responsibility of everyone working at Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers to ensure that: We will always choose the most sustainable solution, as long as it makes sense and adds value. We will abide by local laws and international legislation. This includes the respect and support of internationally acclaimed human rights including, but not limited to, the four core labour rights. We will continue to support the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact. We will “walk the talk” and embed CSR into our operational processes. We will use our position in the marketplace to raise awareness of CSR and help facilitate change to minimise impact on the environment and our community. CSR Policy Continual Planning Alongside the commitments formulated above, our CSR Improvement Policy can be divided into five principal segments based on an ongoing materiality assessment. The following model represents Crowne Plaza’s CSR Management System Model, based on the Plan-Do-Check-Act system. Control Implementation & Operation CSR Report 2013 5 GOOD GOvERnAnCE & BuSinESS ETHiCS How we treat our guests, customers and business partners and how we manage our company sustainably. Our commitment We will aim to develop strong relationships with our guests, customers, suppliers and other business partners. Through continuous dialogue, we will increase our knowledge and understand our stakeholders’ future concerns and thereby maximize our impact on and promote CSR in all our business activities. We will conduct our operations in accordance with the principles of fair competition and will abide by all applicable regulations. We will apply a zero-tolerance approach with respect to corruption, extortion and bribery. We will provide high standards of service to our guests and customers, and will provide several channels for complaints to ensure their concerns are efficiently addressed on those occasions where there is a problem. Objectives, actions implemented and measureable outcomes During 2013 we have continued to develop and maintain our fundamental governance structure. In addition, we also aim to be recertified next year in accordance to DS 49001 and ISO 14001. We have been focused on strengthening our stakeholder engagement process. Engagement with our stakeholders is important to us and we keep an open line of communication through various channels. Our key stakeholders with which we have an ongoing dialogue includes, but is not limited to customers, guests, employees, unions, NGO’s and suppliers. Plans for 2014 In 2014 we would like to engage with our stakeholders in an even more structured manner. 6 Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers CSR Report 2013 7 workplace Where we work, how we recruit and how we work with our staff. Our commitment We will work with our employees and other relevant stakeholders to ensure the best possible physical and psychological work environment. We will embrace diversity and view it as a key strength of our business. We will give equal treatment to all employees and will not tolerate any form of discrimination. We will support employees with training and opportunities for promotion to help them reach their potential and maximise their contribution to our company strategy. We will recruit, employ and promote employees on the basis of objective criteria, their qualifications and abilities required for the job to be performed. Objectives, actions implemented and measureable outcomes We have continued to implement initiatives to foster a culture of inclusion and to promote fair treatment and equal opportunities for all. At present, we have permanent employees representing 44 nationalities in our hotel. In addition, our employee gender ratio is 48,2% (w)/ 51,8% (m). Some key results from our 2013 employee survey can be seen on the opposite page. In 2013 we introduced our “What’s on your mind” mailbox. The purpose of this mailbox is for employees to share any feedback they might have with management, on an anonymous basis, if they so wish. Due to lack of resources we have unfortunately not been able to introduce our Crowne Plaza Training Wheel, Trainee Academy and a Supervisor Academy in 2013. Nevertheless, this remains a focus area for us and we hope to implement these initiatives in the year to come. 8 Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers At Crowne Plaza we also believe in taking special considerations for our elderly employees, as many may no longer be able to physically handle a demanding full-time job. We thus commit to engaging in dialogue with employees over the age of 60, to discuss any needs or requirements they might have, which could make their job easier. We hope that this company policy not only will be of benefit for our elderly employees, but that it will also to support continuity and inclusiveness in our company. Plans for 2014 As mentioned above, we will strive to implement our Crowne Plaza Training Wheel, Trainee Academy and Supervisor Academy in the year to come. We will also take a more professional approach to measure the job satisfaction of our employees. We will initiate a partnership with external consultants evaluate and support us and to ensure objectivity and impartiality. The survey performed by the consultants is based on recognized and global standards of how to define a good workplace. The investigation is based on factors like trust, pride and solidarity. Never Most of the time Sometimes Always 100 80 % 60 40 20 0 I know the hotel’s I feel proud to be working All employees are treated I am treated equally values at Crowne Plaza equally regardless of their regardless of my position sex, age, sexuality, ability to at the workplace work and ethnicity CSR Report 2013 9 RESPOnSiBLE SuPPLy CHAin mAnAGEmEnT How we procure and how we work with our suppliers. Our commitment We will only purchase goods and services which are required and suitable for carrying out the purposes of business for Crowne Plaza. We will aim to ensure that the best value for money is being obtained and that its resources are being used to the greatest benefit. We will work towards a system of ensuring that our suppliers and business partners are environmentally responsible, are not complicit in any violations of human rights or labour rights and do not participate in or permit corruption in all its forms. We will in all dealings with suppliers and potential suppliers, seek to preserve the highest standards of integrity, objectivity, fairness, efficiency, courtesy and professionalism and will look to suppliers to set similar standards. Objectives, actions implemented and measureable outcomes Our Supplier Code of Conduct is sent out to all our contacted suppliers as part of our procurement procedure. 86 % have signed the Code of Conduct to show their commitment to live up to our ethical requirements, in compared to 75 % signed in 2012. It has been our goal to reduce our supplier base with 10% in 2013 we have however been able to reduce our number of suppliers with 20%. With fewer suppliers we are not only able to manage purchases more effectively, we are also able to build better relations with our suppliers and promote sustainable development in our supply chain. 10 Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers We have also conducted a risk analysis of our entire supplier base, categorising them as low, medium or high risk. This provides us with a better understanding of the social and environmental challenges our suppliers face, so that we know which areas to focus on when in dialogue with these suppliers. Plans for 2014 We recognise that managing our supply chain responsibly is not without challenges. We will continue to focus our efforts on purchasing responsibly and working actively with our suppliers to ensure progress in terms of our long term goal. Using our supplier risk analysis we will look into means in which we can apply this risk analysis to better focus our responsible supply chain efforts. CSR Report 2013 11 EnviROnmEnT & CLimATE CHAnGE How we approach environmental sustainability and climate change. Our commitment We will generally apply a precautionary approach to the environment and climate change. We will continue to improve our environmental performance and will implement environmentally friendly solutions, wherever it makes economical and environmental sense and without compromising the experience of quality and comfort which our hotel offers. We will make the most efficient use of our energy, water and other natural resources, promoting conservation and savings wherever possible. We will optimise our waste reduction through recycling and limiting our use of hazardous material where alternatives are available, economical and suitable. We will incorporate environmental considerations into our procurement decisions and raise environmental awareness among our employees and key stakeholders. Objectives, actions implemented and measureable outcomes We are very proud to not only be recertified in accordance to DS 49001 (CSR), but also ISO 14001 (environment) for our entire company. Unfortunately we have not yet been able to become Green Mobility Lease certified as planned. Nevertheless, this is still planned for 2014 as we have now also internalised our airport shuttle operations. We are very proud to have accomplished the highest Green Engage certification Level 4 Leader. Green Engage is Intercontinental Hotel Group’s (IHG) online sustainability system in which hotels can monitor, manage and reduce waste, water and energy consumption. The system automatically generates reports and benchmarks so the hotel can compare its performance with other IHG hotels. Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers is one of only 2 hotels in the world that has achieved this level. Our innovative approach to being sustainable has also secured us winning the revered Green Engage Award in December 2013. A new cleaning system, called Viima, is currently being introduced in the hotel. Due to advanced microfiber technology chemical free is made possible. The use of Viima makes it possible to improve not only the quality of the cleaning, but also improves the working environment, the health of our staff and of course the environment. 12 Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers Plans for 2014 In terms of total energy consumption, we have a long term goal of 22 KwH per GN in 2017. We would like to reduce our paper consumption to 400.000 sheets of paper in 2014. Our main focus for 2014 will be to compile and initiate a waste reduction plan with objectives, and action plans on the basis of the data we have been collecting in 2013. Total energy consumption per guest night (KWH) Water consumption per guest night (M3) 40 0.23 30 0.22 20 0.21 10 0.20 44,6 32,9 29,8 0,2 0,22 0,21 0 0.19 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 Paper consumption (sheets) 800.000 600.000 400.000 677.500 486.000 200.000 0 2012 2013 CSR Report 2013 13 community How we engage with the community as a vital part of our responsible commercial activity. Our commitment We will regularly engage with our local community as a means to assist and address our key business objectives and community needs for mutual benefit. We will through local partnerships, support our local community and stimulate the local economy by providing jobs, apprenticeships and trainee positions to people who may face added obstacles in finding work, to help them develop skills and find employment. We will invest resources in the community through mutually beneficial partnerships, contra-deals and sponsorship agreements with key local stakeholders. Objectives, actions implemented and measureable outcomes We have continued to focus on diversity in our recruitment of staff. In collaboration with Copenhagen municipality, the hotel has provided internships and jobs for candidates coming from diverse cultural and religious backgrounds, who all face problems in finding employment. In 2013, Crowne Plaza has accommodated 36 candidates in trainee positions of which 8 has been offered permanent employment with us. In addition we have provided vocational internships for 15 students. Our CEO has been appointed a seat in the Business Forum for Social Responsibility (VFSA) by the Danish Minister of Employment. VFSA consists of Danish business executives, who work to integrate CSR on the political agenda, particularly in relation to strengthening the role of marginalised groups in the Danish labour market. The group participates in public debates and campaigns and initiates pilot projects to find new ways to include marginalised groups in private and public Danish companies. Plans for 2014 In the year to come, Crowne Plaza will continue to provide opportunities for those candidates who wish to improve their job-skills and to provide employment opportunities whenever possible. We aim to offer 30 trainee positions & 15 vocational internships. 14 Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers 15 Go get social with us Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers | Ørestads Boulevard 114-118 | DK-2300 København S | Tel. +45 8877 6699 | www.cpcopenhagen.dk
