Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2014 December, 2014 Kikkoman’s Promise To fill the world with the joys of food by delivering wholehearted flavor ●To provide high-quality products and services with integrity by continuously improving on our long tradition of techniques and know-how. ●To propose a well-balanced and nutritious diet that brings out the flavor of the ingredients and bring happiness to the world everyday by helping to support a healthy mind and body. ●To create exciting new flavor experiences by fusing food cultures from around the world and to propose a rich and varied foodlifestyle that matches the times. What is Kikkoman’s Promise? It was long ago during the Edo period that we began making soy sauce. Over time, we’ve come to supply soy sauce along with a variety of other products and services to more than 100 countries. Recognizing that our responsibilities to society have grown along with our business, we sought to craft a clear statement of our commitment what we hope to accomplish through our business and how those ambitions will inform our goals by getting back to the basics as embodied by our philosophy of “the customer comes fi rst.” That effort culminated in Kikkoman’s Promise. 1 Kikkoman Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2011Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2014 1 Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2014 Table of Contents Table of contents ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ P 1 Message from CEO・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ P2 Kikkoman Group at a Glance・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ P 4 Kikkoman’s Approach to Corporate Social Responsibility・・・・・・・・・・・・ P 6 Global Vision 2020 ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ P 8 Framework to Promote Corporate Social Responsibility ・・・・・・・・・・・・ P 9 Stakeholders・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ P11 Corporate Governance ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ P14 Risk Management ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ P16 Compliance ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ P18 Environmental Report Environmental Management・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ P23 Preventing Global Warming ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ P25 Reducing and Recycling Waste and Byproducts ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ P27 Promoting Environmental Management System・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ P30 Promoting Environmental Communication ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ P32 Environmental Risk Management ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ P33 Energy, Resource, and Discharge Flows ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ P34 Environmental Accounting・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ P36 Social Report For Our Customers・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ P39 For Our Employees・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ P49 For Our Shareholders and Investors ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ P57 Working with Suppliers ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ P59 As a Member of Communities ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ P62 Support for Recovery from the Great East Japan Earthquake ・・・・・・・・・・ P68 Shokuiku (Food Education) ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ P71 Global Reporting Initiative (G4) Content Index ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ P73 Kikkoman Group Major Group Companies・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ P78 Scope：This report covers the activities of the Kikkoman Group, comprising the Group’s holding company, Kikkoman Corporation, as well as its 67 consolidated subsidiaries and equity-method subsidiaries and affiliates (as of March 31, 2014). This report refers to the Kikkoman Group as “Kikkoman Group” or “the Group,” to Kikkoman Corporation as “Kikkoman Corp.,” and to Kikkoman Corp., Kikkoman Food Products Company, Kikkoman Beverage Company, and Kikkoman Business Services Company collectively as “Kikkoman.” Otherwise companies are referred to by name. Abbreviated names of group companies in this report are described in the “Major Group Companies” section. Reporting Period：Fiscal 2014 (April 1, 2013-March 31, 2014) This report may contain references to activities that were initiated prior to March 2013 or after April 2014. Date of Publication：December 2014 Previous report: December 2013 Next report: Scheduled for December 2015 Note on Statements about the Forecast：In addition to information about past and present activities undertaken by the Kikkoman Group, this report includes statements about the forecast in the form of plans and projections current at the time of its publication. These statements reflect the judgment of management based on information that was available at the time of their inclusion in the report. Changing conditions may cause the results of future business operations and other events to differ from projections. Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2014 1 Message from CEO In 2013, Washoku, the traditional dietary culture of Japan, was added to the UNESCO Representative List of Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity. As a company with a deep connection with Japanese food culture, we at Kikkoman Group were especially delighted by the recognition of Japanese cuisine. The preface to the UNESCO constitution states that “ignorance of each other’s ways and lives has been a common cause, throughout the history of mankind, of that suspicion and mistrust between the peoples of the world.” It goes on to state that “the wide diffusion of culture, and the education of humanity for justice and liberty and peace are indispensable to the dignity of man.” UNESCO’s ethos of encouraging cultural exchanges to deepen mutual understanding, thereby building a peaceful society has much in common with “promoting the international exchange of food culture,” one of Kikkoman Group’s management principles. Of all the different forms of culture, food culture is most closely tied to our daily lives. It also provides opportunities for people of different cultural backgrounds to come together and develop mutual understandings. The Kikkoman Group operates globally, and currently supplies products and services to more than 100 countries and regions around the world. With Japanese food culture attracting growing attention, it is our hope that we can help deepen friendships and understanding among people around the world. Accordingly, we are aware that this global expansion of the Kikkoman Group’s business brings greater social responsibility. To live up to the expectations and trust given by our stakeholders in Japan and elsewhere, we have taken steps such as signing the United Nations Global Compact. In 2011, we developed the Kikkoman’s Framework to Promote Corporate Social Responsibility to express our Group’s philosophy of fulfilling corporate social responsibilities. Specifically, it places our management principles into practice through three key elements, namely, “responsible operations,” “Products/Services,” and “Actions for global society.” At the Kikkoman Group, our concept of corporate citizenship is based on being diligent when conducting our daily business activities. As a food company, food safety is the most important responsibility in our business operations and we have stepped up our activities in this area. This report describes some of those activities relating to food safety. In the future, we intend to strengthen further our food safety measures and strive to ensure that customers can enjoy our products with confidence. Noriaki Horikiri President and Chief Executive Officer Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2014 2 The Ten Principles of the Global Compact Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Standards Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. What is the United Nations Global Compact? The Global Compact is an initiative proposed by then UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan at the World Economic Forum held in 1999 and was officially launched at UN Headquarters in 2000. The Global Compact asks participating companies to embrace, support and enact ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor standards, the environment, and anti-corruption. Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2014 3 Kikkoman Group at a Glance JAPAN FOODS–MANUFACTURING AND SALES Soy Sauce Food Products We manufacture and sell soy sauce to meet a wide range of We manufacture and sell products in various categories, incustomer needs: for the home, for foodservice such as rescluding soy sauce-based seasonings such as Tsuyu and Tare, taurants, and for food manufacturers. Using the latest techthe Del Monte brand of processed/canned tomato products, nology, we strive to improve continuously, while preserving ingredients for foodservice, and health foods. Through the traditional Japanese fermentation methods. development of products that bring out the goodness of food ingredients, we strive to create new demand. (Millions of yen) Beverage Sake350,000 Liquor and wine 343,168 300,200 300,000 283,463 283,239 We manufacture and sell beverages, such as vegetable/fruit We manufacture and sell alcoholic beverage products, such drinks under the Del Monte brand, which offers a line of disas the Manjo brand of Hon 250,000 Mirin and Manns Wine brand of tinctive products, and smooth soymilk drinks that are absowine, in addition to imported wine. The SOLARIS series by 200,000 lutely fresh and high in quality. We aim to support your healthy Manns Wine has been highly 150,000recognized in Japan and the and energetic lifestyle by offering beverages made of carefully rest of the world for winning numerous awards at international 100,000 selected ingredients from around the world. wine competitions. 50,000 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 (FY) (Millions of yen) 343,168 (Millions of yen) Operating Income Recurring Income 350,000 300,200 25,000 23,847 283,463 283,239 22,682 300,000 19,817 19,208 250,000 Others 20,000 16,751 17,764 18,709 200,000 15,242 15,000 This business segment covers the production and sale of clinical diagnostic reagents, hygiene inspection 150,000 agents, processing enzymes and chemical products such as hyaluronic acid, as well as real estate 10,000 rental, logistics and back-office support for the Kikkoman 100,000Group, and other businesses. 50,000 5,000 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 (FY) 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 (FY) Financial Highlights ●Net Sales ●Operating Income/Recurring Income ●Net Income (Millions of yen) (Millions of yen) Operating Income Recurring Income (Millions of yen) 350,000 343,168 25,000 23,847 14,000 22,682 12,559 300,200 12,000 300,000 283,463 283,239 19,817 11,012 20,000 19,208 18,709 17,764 10,000 250,000 16,751 8,983 15,242 15,000 8,000 7,770 200,000 150,000 6,000 10,000 100,000 4,000 5,000 50,000 2,000 0 0 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 (FY) 2011 2012 2013 2014 (FY) 2011 2012 2013 2014 (FY) Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2014 4 (Millions of yen) OVERSEAS FOODS–MANUFACTURING AND SALES Soy Sauce Del Monte Business In 1957, Kikkoman entered the U.S. market on a full-scale basis We manufacture and sell items such as canned fruits, corn prodand established our marketing office in San Francisco. Since ucts, and tomato ketchup in the Asia–Oceania region. Our manthen, we have promoted soy sauce by fusing it with local food ufacturing plants are located in Thailand and cultures. Soy sauce now has become a staple in more than 100 China; sweet corns packed in Tetra Recart concountries worldwide. In addition, we are enthusiastically rolling tainers are manufactured in Thailand and tomato out soy sauce-based seasonings and new products to meet the ketchup products are manufactured in China. needs of customers around the world. Other Foods We manufacture and sell products health foods and supplements, primarily in North America, under brands including Country Life. FOODS–WHOLESALE Led by JFC International headquartered in the United States, we maintain a global distribution network and deliver more than 10,000 items to supermarkets and restaurants around the world. These items include rice and seafood to crockery and cookware, as well as processed foods such as soy sauce. Kikkoman Group in the World Europe Canada China Japan U.S.A. Thailand Overseas Foods Wholesale Domestic Foods Singapore35％ Manufacturing ● Kikkoman Corp. and Sales ● Manufacturing facilities 47％ Australia (soy sauce) Overseas Foods ▲ Manufacturing facilities Manufacturing New Zealand Domestic Others (others) and Sales 2％ ■ Sales/wholesale offices 16％ ●Net Sales by ●Operating Income by Overview (as of March 31, 2014) Business Segment(FY2014) Business Segment (FY2014) Date of Establishment: December 7, 1917 Head Offi ce: 250 Noda, Noda-shi, Chiba Overseas Foods 278-8601, Japan Overseas Foods Domestic Foods Domestic Foods Wholesale Phone: +81-4-7123-5111 Wholesale Manufacturing Manufacturing 24％ President and CEO: Noriaki Horikiri 35％ and Sales and Sales Paid-in Capital: ¥11,599 million 19％ 47％ Number of Employees: 5,622 Overseas Foods Number of Group Companies: 67 Manufacturing Domestic Others Overseas Foods (includes consolidated subsidiaries and and Sales 4％ Manufacturing Domestic Others equity-method subsidiaries and affi liates) 2％ 53％ Note: The data refers to Kikkoman Corp. and Sales 16％ except for “Number of Employees” Figures in “Net Sales by Business Segment” and “Number of Group Companies.” do not include transactions between segments. Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2014 5 Kikkoman’s Approach to Corporate Social Responsibility Since its establishment, Kikkoman has always The basics of our Management Principles are regarded a connection with society as being of that we carry out our day-to-day business great importance. This attitude is reflected in activities in a reliable and trustworthy manner our Management Principles. and that we contribute to the realization of rich Now that we have come to supply a variety of and healthy food lifestyles through our products and services to customers in more products and services. In addition, we aim to than 100 countries worldwide, we recognize fulfill our responsibilities as a public entity and that our responsibilities to global society have contribute to society through activities that are grown together with the growth of our business. unique to Kikkoman. We believe that the We aim to become a company that is valued cumulative pursuit of each and every one of by people around the world and we will these activities is our corporate social continue to implement activities that are responsibility. aligned with our Management Principles. Kikkoman Corporate Citizenship Framework Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2014 6 Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2014 7 Global Vision 2020 “Global Vision 2020” is the Kikkoman Group’s corporate vision and basic strategy for achieving these aspirations by the year 2020. Established in April 2008, our vision identifies Corporate Social Responsibility as one of the key areas where Kikkoman Group can add value as a company. We believe that by continuing our role as responsible corporate citizens, Kikkoman Group can have a positive impact on society and become a company valued by people around the world. Global Vision 2020 Goals 1. Make Kikkoman soy sauce a truly global seasoning 2. Become a company that supports healthy lifestyles through food 3. Become a company whose existence is meaningful to the global society Global Vision 2020 Concept Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2014 8 Framework to Promote Corporate Social Responsibility Basic Approach The Kikkoman Group has been actively practicing corporate social responsibility through its business operations to fulfill its role as a good corporate citizen, and realize its management philosophy and “Goals” stated in Global Vision 2020. To achieve this, we believe it is essential that each individual employee gains awareness of and practices their respective role in the workplace while understanding the principles of the Kikkoman Group. Based on this concept, the Kikkoman Group adopts a system in which a Corporate Social Responsibility Committee is established as an organization that promotes Group-wide initiatives, rather than one specific department undertaking promotion of corporate social responsibility. Corporate Social Responsibility Committee In 2005, the Kikkoman Group established a Corporate Social Responsibility Committee comprised of members from multiple departments. The committee plays a central role not only in communicating and promoting our policies and initiatives throughout the Group, but also in systematizing the diverse our activities, which the Kikkoman Group has been carrying out with stakeholders, and working to continuously improve activities related to corporate social responsibility through the PDCA (Plan-Do-Check-Act) management cycle. Furthermore, under this system, the content of what has been discussed by this committee is reported to the CEO of Kikkoman Corp., and directives are received from the CEO. The role of chairperson of this committee is performed by the Chief Strategy Officer of Kikkoman Corp. (one of the Director and Executive Corporate Officers), and participating members include the respective general managers of the Corporate Planning Division, Foreign Administration Department, Environment Department, Corporate Communication Department, Legal & Compliance Department, and Human Resources Department of Kikkoman Corp., and the respective general managers of Purchasing Department and General Affairs Department of Kikkoman Business Service Company. Participating also in this committee are representatives from the business operating companies in Japan (Kikkoman Food Products Co., Kikkoman Beverage Co., Kikkoman Biochemifa Co., Kikkoman Soyfoods Co., Nippon Del Monte Corp., Manns Wine Co., Ltd., and Sobu Logistics Corp.); thus providing a system where the holding company and the business operating companies have united discussions. In FY 2012, based on the discussions of this committee, we developed the Kikkoman Corporate Citizenship Framework and announced it internally and publicly. Moreover, the major subsidiaries in Japan that participate in this committee formulate activity targets in line with the three themes of the Kikkoman Corporate Citizenship Framework. In addition to sharing the details of these activities among the committee, each company also confirms the status of progress at the respective company. Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2014 9 ●Framework to promote corporate social responsibility Reporting Policy Concerning Corporate Social Responsibility In 1998, Kikkoman Corp. started issuing the Environmental Report, an annual report related to the environment. In 2006, we expanded reporting of social aspects and issued Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report (hereafter “Corporate Citizenship Report”). The Kikkoman Group follows a triple bottom line concept* in its reporting, and reports on business, social and environmental aspects. We mainly report the business aspect on our website (IR section: http://www.kikkoman.com/finance/index.shtml) and mainly report social and environmental aspects in the Corporate Citizenship Report. * Triple bottom line: The “bottom line” is the last line of a financial statement that shows the profit or loss of a company. The idea of a triple bottom line refers to reporting three bottom lines consisting of not only the business aspect represented by profit, but also the social aspect and the environmental aspect. The Corporate Social Responsibility Committee of Kikkoman Corp. takes a leading role in the evaluation, content selection, and ordering of priorities for the Corporate Citizenship Report. While listening to the views of stakeholders obtained from website questionnaires and so forth, giving consideration to themes presented in the Kikkoman Corporate Citizenship Framework and topics focused on by society, the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee evaluates the Corporate Citizenship Report of the previous fiscal year. Based on this evaluation, the committee determines what content to present in the Corporate Citizenship Report for the next fiscal year. Editorial policy for this report mainly follows the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 guidelines. Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2014 10 Stakeholders Basic Approach Stakeholders refer to groups that have a relationship with the company and affect or are affected by the activities that the company carries out. The Kikkoman Group makes efforts to fulfill responsibilities to stakeholders, including customers, employees, shareholders and investors, suppliers, and local communities. Customers In addition to providing safe, reliable and high-quality products, we utilize feedback from customers in our initiatives to improve customer satisfaction. Initiatives ・The Kikkoman Group’s quality assurance system ・Appropriate labeling and advertisement ・The Kikkoman Consumer Center ・The CS Improvement Committee etc. Employees In addition to respecting the diversity of employees and supporting their efforts to improve their skills, we strive to create safe, pleasant workplaces. We also build labor-management relations based on mutual trust and respect. Initiatives ・Nurturing better work environment ・Preventing harassments ・Promoting fair human resource systems etc. Shareholders and investors In addition to enhancing transparency in management through timely and appropriate information disclosure, we strive to secure profit through sustainable growth and distribute profits appropriately. Initiatives ・Timely and appropriate information disclosure ・Open General Shareholders’ Meetings etc. Suppliers We strive to observe fair business practices and develop good working partnerships with suppliers though communication. Initiatives ・Conducting Fair Business Transactions ・The Kikkoman Group’s Policy for Business Partners etc. Local communities We carry out activities to contribute to local communities in the fields of food and health such as through social activities closely connected to the local communities and efforts to uphold the traditions of and develop food culture. Initiatives ・Social activities etc. Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2014 11 Cooperation with External Organizations The Kikkoman Group partners with external organizations, such as NGOs (Non-Governmental Organizations) with special expertise, to conduct activities promoting corporate social responsibility. These initiatives aim to solve social problems that cannot be achieved by the Group alone. In Japan, we work with non-government and non-profit organizations on a range of projects including recovery efforts for the Great East Japan Earthquake and the Food Bank. Overseas, Kikkoman supports activities such as a water quality improvement project in the Netherlands, and we also assist activities like the Food Bank in the United States. Dialogue with external experts Aiming to broadly reflect society’s expectations in activities of corporate social responsibility, the Kikkoman Group works to facilitate dialogue with external experts, and in March 2014, the Group took part in dialogue with the CSR Review Forum-Japan*, an alliance of NGO/NPOs. The CSR Review Forum-Japan formed a team of four experts, or reviewers, for the dialogue. Kikkoman and the reviewers then prepared the content together, prioritized the issues, and held the dialogue. * CSR Review Forum-Japan: An organization that reviews activities by corporations. It was established through an alliance of civil society organizations (NPO/NGO, consumer groups, labor organizations). http://www.csr-review.jp/ (Japanese only) During the dialogue process, there was a lively exchange of opinion. Topics of discussion included measures that the Kikkoman Group should take with respect to food safety and the supply chain from the perspective of society. The details of the dialogue were also shared with the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee, and we will incorporate this content in our future activities. Global Compact Japan Network Kikkoman Corp. has been participating as a member of the Global Compact Japan Network (GC-JN), which is the local network in Japan for the United Nations Global Compact. As of March 31, 2014, 183 companies and organizations participate in GC-JN. In addition to following the Global Compact’s ten principles, the role of the GC-JN is to conduct research and exchange information about actual activities and case studies of a broad scope of corporate social responsibility in subcommittees set up for particular themes. In FY 2014, Kikkoman Corp. performed the organizing role in a Global Compact research subcommittee on the In-house Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2014 12 Awareness of the UNGC Working Group and also performed the role of co-chair of the Expansion Committee. We also worked proactively to facilitate other activities at GC-JN, such as by planning in training seminars, which were designed to facilitate dialogues on corporate social responsibility between experts and managers. Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2014 13 Corporate Governance Basic Approach The Kikkoman Group believes that responding effectively to the changing business environment and maximizing corporate value through the enhancement of the Kikkoman Group management form the true basis for running a company with the mandate given by shareholders. We also consider one of our most important management priorities to be executing sound governance in order to fulfill our corporate responsibilities to all stakeholders. Corporate Governance Framework Kikkoman Corp. employs a corporate auditor system. We strive to improve and enhance our corporate governance framework with the aim of achieving greater management transparency, clearly defined management responsibility, speedy decision-making, and stronger management oversight. In March 2001, we introduced a corporate officer system and transferred authority for business execution to corporate officers in an effort to streamline operational responsibilities and speed decision-making and business execution. In October 2009, we shifted the Group’s management system to a holding company structure. Individual operational companies will enhance their ability to create value in line with their own areas of authority and responsibility based on a Group management strategy determined by the holding company, thereby maximizing the Group’s overall corporate value. ●The Corporate Governance System (As of June, 2014) Enhancing the Corporate Governance System Kikkoman Group’s decision making standard is specified in the Authorization Guidelines. Through strict control of decision making based on the guidelines, the Group ensures proper decision makings. In addition, through the Administrative Rules and Regulations for Affiliated Companies, Kikkoman Corp. monitors financial and management conditions of its subsidiaries. Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2014 14 Independent Outside Directors and Independent Corporate Auditors Appointment of Outside Directors and Outside Directors: Corporate Auditors In June 2002, Kikkoman Noriaki Horikiri* Corp. appointed outside directors and Kenichi Saito* established the Nominating Committee and Koji Negishi* Remuneration Committee to achieve greater Katsumi Amano management transparency and strengthen Toshihiko Shigeyama management oversight. Koichi Yamazaki Toshihiko Fukui** In FY2014, three of eleven directors were Mamoru Ozaki** outside directors, and two of four corporate Takeo Inokuchi** auditors were outside auditors. * Representative Director ** Independent Outside Director The role of the outside directors and outside Corporate Auditors: corporate auditors is to strengthen Takaharu Nakamura management oversight from an objective Koichi Mori perspective on the basis of their wide-ranging Motohiko Kogo*** experience and deep insight. In addition, the Toru Kajikawa*** outside directors strive to increase *** Independent Corporate Auditor management transparency by participating in the Nominating Committee and Remuneration Committee. Internal Control Systems Establishing an internal control system that ensures proper execution of business practices is high on our corporate agenda. Accordingly, we have been making Group-wide efforts to develop an enhanced framework for ensuring effective and efficient operations as well as compliance with laws and regulations. We periodically review and update the basic policy for “Establishing an Internal Control System” that the Board of Directors adopted in May 2006. In order to comply with the new internal controls reporting system mandated by the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act, which went into effect in April 2008, we established an Internal Control Committee and Internal Control Department in November 2008. To this same end, we have adopted a basic policy concerning internal controls as they relate to financial reporting and established a structure for strengthening internal controls related to financial reporting. Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2014 15 Risk Management Basic Approach In order to achieve stable growth and carry out our responsibility to our stakeholders, the Kikkoman Group is reinforcing management systems to address major risks affecting the Group’s operations. At Kikkoman Corp., corporate officers manage the divisions and subsidiaries for which they are responsible so as to prevent the emergence of perceived risks relating to the Group’s activities. The Kikkoman Group Risk Management Guideline In October, 2010, aiming to accurately manage and make implementations in response to the various risks surrounding the Kikkoman Group, we established “The Kikkoman Group Risk Management Guideline” (hereinafter the “Risk Management Guideline”) to set forth basic matters relating risk management. In addition to this, we have been compiling a series of Crisis Management Manuals to promote the standardization of the Group’s crisis management response. The Risk Management Guideline specifies the policies for eliminating or reducing the impact of risks on stakeholders of the Kikkoman Group. Rather than limiting the definition of risks to only natural disasters and accidents, the Risk Management Guideline also encompasses other content that would have a large impact on stakeholders such as compliance and environmental problems. By promoting the establishment of the risk management system, we fulfill our responsibility to stakeholders while realizing the stable growth of business. Moreover, by preparing manuals for the major risks and sharing these with affiliated companies in Japan, we are forging a strong system that can rapidly respond to even unforeseeable circumstances. Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2014 16 Risk Management Committee Pursuant to the Risk Management Guideline, the Kikkoman Group has established a Risk Management Committee under the Board of Directors of Kikkoman Corp. as an organization that supervises the discussion of issues and approval of countermeasures related to risk management, as well as the response to crises. Through the Risk Management Committee, we aim to develop a system that is prepared for risks and, at the same time, forge a strong system that will respond promptly to crises that could negatively impact the Group’s activities. BCP（Business Continuity Plan） Business Continuity Plan is a set of procedures and preparations to ensure, or recover, continuity of key operations when disasters and serious occur. This plan involves identifying key operations and documenting in advance. The comprehensive efforts to maintain and/or improve the BCP to respond to the disasters and accidents are referred as the Business Continuity Management (BCM). In FY 2013, the Kikkoman Group formulated a Business Continuity Plan (BCP) for major operational centers in Japan. In FY 2014, we conducted BCP drills on two occasions. In the first round of drills, representatives of the respective divisions of manufacturing, logistics and purchasing participated in mock disaster scenario drills that we conducted to confirm practical responses. In the second round of drills, we carried out a drill with 24 Group companies in Japan to confirm safety, a drill to report on the state of damage, and a review of the created list of emergency duties. Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2014 17 Compliance Basic Approach The Kikkoman Group believes “compliance” is a broad concept including not only “compliance with laws and ordinances” but also compliance with “company rules and regulations” and “social norms.” In other words, we believe compliance is about responding to the expectations of society. As the Kikkoman Group’s business becomes more globalized, the importance of compliance is increasing. While carrying out business amid diverse culture and values, we will collect the necessary information and further strengthen the Group’s compliance system to fulfill our responsibility as a corporate citizen. The Kikkoman Group Code of Conduct The Kikkoman Group adopted the Kikkoman Group Code of Conduct in August 2002 to codify standards for the attitude and conduct expected of Group employees. Since then, Group companies have worked to ensure that the Code is well understood and thoroughly practiced. The Kikkoman Group Code of Conduct, which commits Kikkoman employees to contribute to the development of society by fulfilling their work responsibilities with a sense of ethics and mission, consists of six principles: Securing of safety and symbiosis with global environment, Business activities with fair and free competition, Business information disclosure and promotion of communication, Respect for human rights and establishment of happy working environment , Observation of laws and regulations in Japan and abroad and maintenance of social orders, an Positive social action program. In an effort to ensure that the Code is well understood and thoroughly practiced throughout the Group, Kikkoman has created English, Chinese, German and French versions of the text. Pocket reference card Compliance Framework Submitting promissory letters of compliance with the Kikkoman Group Code of Conduct In Japan, pocket reference cards that include the full contents of the Code of Conduct are handed out to all Group employees. All employees are required to carry the cards with them. Kikkoman Group is working to ensure that employee conduct activities in accordance with corporate ethics and a law-abiding spirit by requiring all managerial employees holding positions of director, corporate officer, or manager/supervisor within Kikkoman as well as the presidents of the Group Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2014 18 companies to submit an annual promissory letters to the CEO pledging their compliance with the Kikkoman Group Code of Conduct. During FY2014, 413 employees signed the letter. 【Scope】 Japan: Kikkoman Corp.; Kikkoman Food Products; Kikkoman Beverage; Kikkoman Business Service; Kikkoman Biochemifa; Nippon Del Monte; Manns Wine; JFC Japan; Heisei Foods; Edogawa Foods; Hokkaido Kikkoman; Nagareyama Kikkoman; Saitama Kikkoman, Terra Vert; Takara Shoyu; Kikkoman Soyfoods; Sobu Logistics; Sobu Service Center; Kikkoman Marketing Center; Kikkoman Restaurant; Nihon Shoyu; and Kikkoman Nutricare Japan Overseas: KFI, KSU, JFC, KMP, KFE, KTE, JFCEU, KAP, and others The Corporate Ethics Committee The Kikkoman Group Corporate Ethics Committee was formed to ensure that the Kikkoman Group Code of Conduct is put into practice. With a total of six members including two outside experts such as outside lawyers as well as a director and officers from Kikkoman Corp., the Committee has overall responsibility for studying and implementing policies related to compliance. During FY2014, the Committee met a total of 12 times. Additionally, Committee members met with standing auditors to exchange information once in each half of the fiscal year. The Group Corporate Ethics Hotline The Kikkoman Group has established a Group Corporate Ethics Hotline and made it available for use by all employees of the Group companies in Japan. Employees are made aware of the hotline through repeated notices in individual companies’ internal notices, Group newsletters, and training sessions. We have worked to expand the system by opening the hotline up to use by part-time and temporary employees starting in FY2008 and by all domestic Group company employees following our transition to a holding company-based organization in October 2009. ●Group Corporate Ethics Hotline Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2014 19 The Group Corporate Ethics Hotline consists of an external hotline that is managed by two outside lawyers, a shared Group hotline that is managed by Kikkoman Corp.’s Legal & Compliance Department, and hotlines at individual companies that are set up as needed. Reports are received via dedicated phone line, fax, email, and dedicated post office box. When the office receives a report, an internal investigation is conducted, corrective measures taken, and feedback provided to the individual who initiated the report. The Corporate Ethics Committee Regulation stipulates protection for whistleblowers against any backlash or disadvantage that might result from submission of a report. During FY 2014, the Group Corporate Ethics Hotline received 12 calls and dealt with them appropriately. Conducting compliance audits In addition to instructions in daily operations by the Legal & Compliance Department of Kikkoman Corp. and regular audits by the Kikkoman Group Internal Auditing Department, a legal affairs officer and other personnel conduct compliance fact-finding missions to Group companies overseas. In FY 2014, the mission visited PKI、KPKI、PKZ、KAP、JFC AUST. This mission will be held in FY 2015 and work to strengthen compliance awareness throughout the Group. The Liaison Conference of the Kikkoman Group Compliance Promotion Compliance promotion has become an important issue as the number of group companies of the Kikkoman Group increases and its business fields diversifies. In order to promote compliance throughout the Group, the Kikkoman Group launched the Liaison Conference of the Kikkoman Group Compliance Promotion in FY 2012. The members attend the Liaison Conference of the Kikkoman Group Compliance Promotion organized by staff members of the Corporate Ethics Committee consisting of Legal & Compliance Department, Kikkoman Corp. The members work on projects such as developing compliance education programs, lectures to deepen understandings of legal issues, sharing information about good practices of the group companies. Compliance Survey The Kikkoman Group conducted a compliance survey with the goal of making a comprehensive assessment of, and improving, the state of domestic Group companies’ compliance. The survey elicited responses from each company to a total of 94 questions addressing topics such as management, general affairs and accounting, manufacturing and products, environmental responsibility, and labor management. No serious compliance infractions were discovered at the target Group companies as a result of the survey. Going forward, Kikkoman will work to enhance the Group compliance system, including by conducting surveys linked to its compliance audit efforts. 【Scope】 Kikkoman Food Products; Kikkoman Beverage; Kikkoman Business Service; Kikkoman Biochemifa; Nippon Del Monte; Manns Wine; JFC Japan; Heisei Foods; Edogawa Foods; Hokkaido Kikkoman; Nagareyama Kikkoman;Saitama Kikkoman; Terra Vert; Takara Shoyu; Kikkoman Soyfoods; Sobu Logistics; Sobu Service Center; KMC; Kikkoman Restaurant; Nihon Shoyu; Kikkoman Nutricare, Japan; and Higeta Shoyu Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2014 20 United Nations Global Compact Self Assessment Tool In FY2013, the Kikkoman Group conducted a self assessment based on the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Self Assessment Tool, an online survey developed by a group of institutes in Denmark to help the UNGC signatories measure their performances. This tool has 45 questions based on the ten principles of the UNGC with several indicators attached to each question. The UNGC Office introduces the tool on their website. http://www.globalcompactselfassessment.org/ In FY2013, the Kikkoman Group translated this tool into Japanese and conducted a survey to subsidiaries in Japan and overseas. The result suggested we should work more closely with our suppliers in the field of the corporate social responsibility, so the Group developed the Kikkoman Group’s Policy for Business Partners. 【Scope】 Japan： Kikkoman Biochemifa; Nippon Del Monte; Kikkoman Soyfoods; Higeta Shoyu; Manns Wine; Sobu Logistics; and Takara Shoyu Overseas： KFI、KSU、JFC、KFE、KTE、JFCEU、KAP and others Compliance Education and Awareness Programs To raise employee awareness of and enforce corporate ethics based on the Kikkoman Group Code of Conduct, we provide compliance education during training sessions for all managers/ supervisors and newly appointed managers/supervisors. Compliance education is also incorporated into training programs for all new recruits and new mid-career hires. In addition to these efforts, Legal & Compliance Department at Kikkoman Corp. visits subsidiaries and holds compliance lectures. In FY2014, the 25 lectures in total were held at 18 subsidiaries in Japan and 17 subsidiaries overseas. During the Compliance Month in FY2014, self-learning programs based on case studies were held at each department of 24 subsidiaries in Japan. The Kikkoman Group Compliance Handbook In order to develop a firm understanding of compliance, Kikkoman Corp. issues the Kikkoman Group Compliance Handbook in October, 2011 and distributed to employees in Japan. This handbook describes specific examples of non-compliance. By giving visible examples, we are trying to raise awareness as well as practice at workplace. The Compliance Handbook Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2014 21 社会性報告 Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2014 Environmental Report Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2014 22 Environmental Management The Kikkoman Group strives to conduct business activities while maintaining harmony with the environment in accordance with the company’s environmental philosophy. To that end, we have developed “Medium and Long-Term Environmental Preservation Goals” to pursue environmentally friendly business practices. Environmental Preservation System The Kikkoman Group has established the specific activities, while environmental manager General Environment Preservation Committee; information exchange meetings, which link major as a decision-making body, it is responsible for companies, provide a venue for sharing environmental preservation throughout the information and technologies of importance to Group. The President and CEO of Kikkoman the entire Group. Corp. serves as the chairperson of the ●Framework to Promote Environmental reservation Committee, whose responsibilities include drawing up, implementing, and managing the Medium and Long-Term Environment Policy. The Environment Preservation Promotion Committee, whose membership includes environmental management officers from Group companies, operates beneath the General Environment Preservation Committee to manage and guide environmental preservation activities from a Group-wide perspective. Environment Preservation Committees at each Group worksite take the lead in orchestrating Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2014 23 Medium and Long-Term Environmental Preservation Goals The General Environment Preservation Committee adopted the following Mediumand Long-term Environmental Preservation Goals in FY 2014. Medium and Long-term Environmental Preservation Goal 1 Preventing Global Warming 【Objectives】 1) Reduce total CO2 emissions at major companies in Japan by at least 17% from FY 2006 levels by FY 2015 2) Reduce CO2 emissions per unit of production at major companies in Japan and major overseas manufacturing companies by at least 1% year-on-year Medium and Long-Term Environmental Preservation Goal 2 Reducing and Recycling Waste and Byproducts 【Objectives】 1) Increase the recycling rate at manufacturing companies in Japan and major overseas manufacturing companies by at least 99% by FY 2015 2) Improve methods of recycling waste and byproducts 3) Work actively to increase the use of environmentally friendly containers and packaging material Medium and Long-Term Environmental Preservation Goal 3 Promoting Environmental Management System 【Objectives】 1) Promote strong system implementation and strive for continuous improvements among Group companies 2) Actively utilize the PDCA(Plan-Do-Check-Act) cycle 3) Provide environmental education and training for employees Medium and Long-Term Environmental Preservation Goal 4 Promoting Environmental Communication 【Objectives】 1) Collect and disclose environmental information 2) Undertake activities with environmental groups Kikkoman Group companies have pursued an effective program of environmental preservation activities under the management and leadership of the Environment Preservation Promotion Committee. During and after FY 2015, the Group will continue to establish new objectives and conduct its business activities in an environmentally friendly manner. Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2014 24 Medium and Long-Term Environmental Preservation Goal 1 Preventing Global Warming To reduce emissions as effectively as possible, the Kikkoman Group manages CO2 emissions from the dual perspectives of total emissions associated with production activities and emissions per unit of production based on manufacturing process management. Objectives 1) Reduce total CO2 emissions at major companies in Japan by at least 17% from FY 2006 levels by FY 2015 2) Reduce CO2 emissions per unit of production at major companies in Japan and major overseas manufacturing companies by at least 1% year-on-year Scope: Objective 1）Reducing total CO2 emissions Total of 12 companies in Japan (Major companies in Japan): Kikkoman Corp.; Kikkoman Food Products Co.; Hokkaido Kikkoman Co.; Nagareyama Kikkoman Co.; Heisei Foods Co.; Edogawa Foods Co.; Saitama Kikkoman Co.; Nippon Del Monte Corp.; Manns Wine Co., Ltd.; Kikkoman Biochemifa Co.; Kikkoman Soyfoods Co. and Takara Shoyu Co., Ltd. Objective 2) Reducing CO2 emissions per unit of production Total of 15 companies (Major companies in Japan and major manufacturing companies overseas): Kikkoman Corp.; Kikkoman Food Products Co.; Hokkaido Kikkoman Co.; Nagareyama Kikkoman Co.; Heisei Foods Co.; Edogawa Foods Co.; Saitama Kikkoman Co., Nippon Del Monte Corp.; Manns Wine Co., Ltd.; Kikkoman Biochemifa Co.; Kikkoman Soyfoods Co.; Takara Shoyu Co., Ltd.; KFI; KSP; and KFE Initiatives (1) Review and improve manufacturing processes Optimize and reduce energy consumption by consolidating factories and achieving greater efficiency in manufacturing processes. (2) Upgrade equipment When renewing equipment, switch to more energy-saving and thermalefficient types to help reduce CO2 emissions. (3) Improve efficiency in energy use Reduce reliance on grade A fuel oil and switch to natural gas, and use electricity more efficiently to reduce the environmental loads of operations. Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2014 25 FY 2014 Review Reducing total emissions Total CO2 emissions for the Kikkoman Group’s major companies in Japan in FY 2014 were 117,216 tCO2, which was a reduction of 27,760 tCO2 (19.1%) in comparison to FY 2006, and the Group achieved the objective. Due to an increase in production, CO2 emissions rose by 1,967 tCO2 over the previous year. ●Total CO2 emissions (major companies in Japan) Reducing emissions per unit of production In FY 2014, CO2 emissions per unit of production for Kikkoman Group major manufacturing companies in Japan and overseas fell to 0.160 tCO2/t; this represents a 97.0% reduction in comparison to FY 2013 levels (a decrease of 0.005 tCO2/t), meeting the objective. This was primarily due to a reduction in CO2 emissions in spite of an increase in production. The Group, including its overseas manufacturing companies, will work to further reduce emissions per unit of production. ●CO2 emissions per unit of production Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2014 26 Medium and Long-Term Environmental Preservation Goal ２ Reducing and Recycling Waste and Byproducts In addition to raising the recycling rate for waste products and byproducts, the Kikkoman Group is pursuing qualitative recycling improvements in keeping with the objectives of the Food Recycling Law. We strive to develop environmentally friendly packages as specified under “Kikkoman’s Guidelines for Containers and Packaging.” Objectives 1) Increase the recycling rate at manufacturing companies in Japan and major overseas manufacturing companies by at least 99% by FY 2015 2) Improve methods of recycling waste and byproducts 3) Work actively to increase the use of environmentally friendly containers and packaging material Scope: Objective 1）Total of 14 companies (Major manufacturing companies in Japan and overseas):: Kikkoman Food Products Co.; Hokkaido Kikkoman Co.; Nagareyama Kikkoman Co.; Heisei Foods Co.; Edogawa Foods Co.; Saitama Kikkoman Co., Nippon Del Monte Corp.; Manns Wine Co., Ltd.; Kikkoman Biochemifa Co.; Kikkoman Soyfoods Co.; Takara Shoyu Co., Ltd.; KFI; KSP; and KFE Objective 2）All Kikkoman Group companies Objective 3）All Kikkoman Group companies Initiatives (1) Improve the recycling rate. By examining causes that prevent recycling waste and byproducts, actively promote the 4Rs (refuse, reduce, reuse, and recycle). (2) Improve methods of recycling waste and byproducts. Strive to more effectively utilize waste and byproducts, for example by optimizing production volumes, reducing material use, improving process yields, and promoting feed usage in order to reduce byproducts, and processing residues as well as waste. (3) Strive to adopt environmentally friendly containers and packaging materials Step up efforts to promote environmentally friendly containers and packaging materials under Kikkoman’s Guidelines for Containers and Packaging while reviewing their materials, volume, usage, and post-consumption collection and processing methods. Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2014 27 Kikkoman’s Guidelines for Containers and Packaging 1. Reduce containers and packaging. 2. Use returnable and reusable containers and packaging for our products. 3. Consider applying shapes, designs, and materials to containers and packaging that facilitate simple collection and reuse. Repackage current products in new containers and packaging in compliance with the relevant laws and regulations of each country. 4. Make greater use of sustainable resources. 5. Increase procurement from environmentally conscious suppliers and vendors. 6. Use materials with chemical compositions and shapes that have been verified as safe for humans. 7. Collect customer feedback and information regarding where and how they purchase and use our products and incorporate it into the development of new containers and packaging. 8. Develop containers and packaging with universal designs to make them easy to use for a diverse range of customers. FY 2014 Review Improving the recycling rate The recycling rate for major manufacturing companies in Japan and overseas during FY 2014 was 99.3%, a 0.4% improvement over FY 2013’s rate of 98.9%, and the Group achieved the objective. Activities such as sludge recycling at Kikkoman Biochemifa’s Kamogawa Plant and recycling broken plastic sachets into solid fuel at Takara Shoyu Co., Ltd., contributed to this improvement. Improving methods for recycling waste and byproducts During FY 2014, we focused on the effective utilization of food-related byproducts (soy sauce cake, soy sauce oil, okara [bean curd refuse], mirin cake, apple residue, grape residue, and bonito and kelp soup extraction residues), in particular by boosting reuse as feed. We will continue to work on quality improvements of recycling waste and byproducts. ●Transition of waste and byproduct recycling rate (major manufacturing companies in Japan and overseas) Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2014 28 Increased use of environmentally friendly containers and packaging materials During FY 2014, Kikkoman Food Products Co. changed the specifications for its shipping cartons for products such as Itsudemo Shinsen Nama Shoyu. Nippon Del Monte Corp. also changed the specifications for its dressing cases and glass bottles used for juice gift products. These efforts helped reduce usage of materials such as glass and paper. In addition, Manns Wine Co., Ltd. adopted PET bottles for its “Nihon (Japanese) Wine” made from Japanese grapes such as “Koshu” and “Muscat Bailey A.” This was an industry first. “Itsudemo Shinsen Nama Shoyu (Always Fresh Raw Soy Sauce) 200mℓ” Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2014 29 Medium and Long-Term Environmental Preservation Goal 3 Promoting Environmental Management System To build a more efficient Group-wide environmental management system, the Kikkoman Group has obtained ISO14001 certification for all its major facilities as a whole in Japan. We are working to implement more sophisticated environmental management. Objectives 1) Promote strong system implementation and strive for continuous improvements among Group companies 2) Actively utilize the PDCA(Plan-Do-Check-Act) cycle 3) Provide environmental education and training for employees Scope: Objective 1）All Kikkoman Group companies Objective 2）All Kikkoman Group companies Objective 3）All Kikkoman Group companies Initiatives 1) Promote strong system implementation and strive for continuous improvements among Group companies Through specific activities in each workplace, we promote firm implementations and make continuous improvements among Group companies. 2) Actively utilize the PDCA(Plan-Do-Check-Act) cycle Establish objectives and policies concerning environmental preservation activities from a Group-wide perspective, establish a footing that facilitates information exchange while regularly reviewing the results of worksite efforts to meet objectives and follow policies, and leverage these activities to improve the environmental management system. Continue to conduct internal environmental audits of Group companies in Japan and overseas. 3) Provide environmental education for employees Offer training for new and mid-level employees to give them a global and ecological perspective, an understanding of the importance of environmental preservation, and motivation to work toward addressing the related issues. Provide highly specialized training for environmental managers and administrators. Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2014 30 FY 2014 Review Acquisition of ISO14001 Since obtaining ISO14001 certification for all major Group facilities as a whole in Japan in June 2011, the Group has pursued improved environmental management by enhancing internal communication and continuously improving the system. In FY 2014, internal auditors took a training course to improve their skills. Moreover, environmental near accidents are being reported for the purpose of sharing information regarding such cases. Framework to Promote ISO14001 KC=Kikkoman Corp. KF＝Kikkoman Food Products BC＝Kikkoman Biochemifa SF＝Kikkoman Soyfoods Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2014 31 Medium and Long-Term Environmental Preservation Goal ４ Promoting Environmental Communication The Kikkoman Group strives to share information with stakeholders. We also work with environmental groups and utilize the information, technology, and experience regarding environmental preservation activities. Objectives 1) Collect and disclose environmental information 2) Undertake activities with environmental groups Initiatives 1) Collect and disclose environmental information. Compile and publish the Corporate Citizenship Report, the Environmental Accounting, and the Environmental Preservation Activities Case Book. Hold seminars and give presentations at exhibitions and tradeshows. 2) Undertake activities with environmental groups. Work in partnership with industrial, governmental, and educational groups as well as NPOs to undertake various activities. Take steps to strengthen the collection of information related to the preservation of biodiversity. FY 2014 Review Principal environmental communication programs undertaken during FY 2014 Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2014 32 Environmental Risk Management In addition to ensuring compliance with environmental laws and regulations, the Kikkoman Group strives to reduce environmental risk as part of its daily operations by observing voluntary management standards. Principal Environmental Risk Management The Kikkoman Group’s main approach to environmental risk management includes the following components: 1) Water pollution prevention Since we use and discharge large volumes of water in our manufacturing and cleaning processes, we establish voluntary standards, paying particular attention to the maintenance of wastewater quality and the prevention of river water pollution. 2) Manual for the proper disposal of industrial waste We sort industrial waste before disposal, reduce industrial waste as much as possible, and pursue recycling. In Japan, we contract the collection, transfer, processing, and disposal of industrial waste to licensed service providers. We compiled the Kikkoman Manual for the Proper Disposal of Industrial Waste and strive to ensure that waste is disposed of properly. 3) Noise, vibration, and odor prevention To reduce noise, vibration, and odors, we have been installing quieter machines and soundproof/sound-absorbing walls around our factories. Noise and vibration levels are monitored regularly along the boundaries of our factories to ensure they do not exceed the levels prescribed by local community regulations. 4) Air pollution prevention In addition to observing regional regulations on the concentration and total amount of sulfur oxides (SOx), nitrogen oxides (NOx), and soot and particulate emissions, we seek to control these emissions by establishing voluntary standards at each of our factories. 5) Black mold pollution prevention Trees, roofs, and walls in the vicinity of soy sauce and mirin factories can be darkened by mold classified in the genus Aureobasidium. It propagates through the intake of alcohol, and its presence can generate a black pigment on material surfaces. In consideration of local residents’ potential reactions to such an infestation, Kikkoman Group hermetically seals the source of emissions, installs cleaning devices on air ducts, and recovers alcohol content from discharged gases to prevent the microbe from spreading to residential areas. Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2014 33 Energy, Resource, and Discharge Flows The Kikkoman Group strives to reduce the environmental loads of its operations by controlling the consumption of energy and materials on production lines, making manufacturing processes more efficient, and developing more readily recyclable containers and packaging for its products. Environmental Products Lifecycle Management The Kikkoman Group manufactures and sells an assortment of products, including soy sauce, soy sauce derivative products, beverages, ketchup, wine, soymilk, etc., to customers both within and outside of Japan. In the process of manufacturing these products, we consume not only raw materials but also energy, water, and packaging materials; moreover, we discharge solid, liquid, and gas waste. The Kikkoman Group strives to minimize its environmental load by seeking to consume less energy, water, and materials; improve efficiency in manufacturing and energy use; and reduce waste. We also attempt to reduce the environmental load of products after consumption by developing and using more readily recyclable containers and packaging materials, such as glass and plastic bottles and cartons. Scope: Total of 14 companies (Major manufacturing companies in Japan and overseas):: Kikkoman Food Products Co.; Hokkaido Kikkoman Co.; Nagareyama Kikkoman Co.; Heisei Foods Co.; Edogawa Foods Co.; Saitama Kikkoman Co., Nippon Del Monte Corp.; Manns Wine Co., Ltd.; Kikkoman Biochemifa Co.; Kikkoman Soyfoods Co.; Takara Shoyu Co., Ltd.; KFI; KSP; and KFE Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2014 34 ● Energy, resource and discharge flows for FY 2014 INPUT OUTPUT *The recycling rates for plastic bottles and glass bottles and the recovery rate for cartons reflect action by customers. These figures have been calculated based on the latest information published by respective trade organizations. Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2014 35 Environmental Accounting The Kikkoman Group quantifies and assesses from multiple perspectives the costs and benefits of its operations in relation to environmental preservation. This helps us pursue efficient environmental preservation practices. Environmental Accounting Scheme Environmental Accounting for FY 2014 Scope: Total of 14 companies (Major manufacturing companies in Japan and overseas): Kikkoman Food Products Co. (includes: Hokkaido Kikkoman Co.; Nagareyama Kikkoman Co.; Heisei Foods Co.; Edogawa Foods Co.; Saitama Kikkoman Co.), Nippon Del Monte Corp.; Manns Wine Co., Ltd.; Kikkoman Biochemifa Co.; Kikkoman Soyfoods Co.; Takara Shoyu Co., Ltd.; KFI; KSP; and KFE Reporting Period: April 1, 2013 March 31, 2014 Environmental preservation investments and expenses Environmental preservation beneﬁts (Rounded to the nearest million yen) Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2014 36 FY 2014 Review Environmental preservation investments Environmental preservation investments in FY 2014 totaled 1,160 million JPY, an increase of 471 million JPY from FY 2013. This increase was primarily due to a pollution-prevention investment associated with installing drain facilities and drainage paths for a new factory (Ibaraki Factory, Kikkoman Soyfoods Co.) and a new brewing facility (Manns Wine Co., Ltd.), as well as the expansion of a drain facility at Kikkoman Food Products’s Noda Factory. Environmental preservation expenses Environmental preservation expenses in FY 2014 totaled 2,726 million JPY, an increase of 402 million JPY from FY 2013. This increase was primarily due to a pollution-prevention investment for a new factory (Ibaraki Factory, Kikkoman Soyfoods Co.). Environmental preservation benefits The CO2 emissions of the environmental preservation benefits in FY 2014 were 118,227 tCO2. The monetary conversion of the benefits is 482 million JPY (J-VER medium value, September, 2013, 4,074 JPY/ tCO2). Using the same calculation, the converted value of the environmental preservation benefits for FY 2013 was 481 million JPY; the benefit increased by 1 million JPY. This increase was primarily due to Group-wide implementations aimed at reducing and recycle waste and byproducts. For detailed information about the method used to estimate environmental preservation benefits, and a complete environmental accounting report, please visit our website. URL: http://www.kikkoman.com/csr/e/index.shtml Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2014 37 Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2014 Social Report Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2014 38 For Our Customers In addition to providing safe and high-quality products through product quality assurance activities, the Kikkoman Group strives to utilize feedback from customers in initiatives to improve customer satisfaction. Basic Approach The Kikkoman Group believes that “food safety” is our most important responsibility as a company within the food industry. Our responsibility to food safety takes on an even greater importance as we pursue the goals of Global Vision 2020, and our business becomes more global and diverse. To ensure our customers receive only the safest products and services, the Kikkoman Group will continue striving to provide appropriate information and the highest level of safety. Kikkoman’s View on “Safety” and “Peace of Mind” At the Kikkoman Group, we consider the “safety” of the products and services we provide to be our highest priority. In order to supply “safe” products to customers, we conduct quality assurance inspection pursuant to strict inspection standards for all processes from ingredient selection to the final product stage as part of our system in place for ensuring food safety. At the same time, we also place importance on delivering products that give “peace of mind” to customers. The Kikkoman Group believes that “peace of mind” comes from building relationships of deep trust by communicating the “safety” of our products in an easy-to-understand manner. In short, we strive to improve customer satisfaction by delivering the product “safety” as well as the psychological “peace of mind” to customers. Quality Assurance for Safety and Peace of Mind The Kikkoman Group pursues a range of quality assurance activities conceived to provide safety and peace of mind. Our quality assurance examinations extend from the product development stage to ingredient production sites, processing, manufacturing, sterilization, product packaging, and labeling based on Food Sanitation Act and Act for Standardization and Proper Labeling of Agricultural and Forestry Products. We also examine product patentability along with trademark and related regulations, and the Quality Assurance Committee only approves the manufacture of a new product after it passes examination. Systems to Provide Safety for Customers The Kikkoman Group’s quality assurance system Following its October 2009 conversion to a holding company based organization, the Kikkoman Group has been pursuing quality assurance activities under the direction of Quality Assurance Department, the Kikkoman Corp. Quality assurance departments have been introduced at each Group company, and, through the activities of the Quality Assurance Committee and Group Quality Assurance Coordination Committee, the Group provides products and services whose safety, legality and social fairness are ensured. Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2014 39 ●The Kikkoman Group’s quality assurance flow The Quality Assurance Committee Kikkoman established the Quality Assurance Committee in 1986 with a membership consisting primarily of department heads and top management in order to spearhead efforts to ensure the safety of the company’s products. The committee was reorganized in October 2009 to cut across the Group horizontally, with participation from managers from research and legal affairs departments; production administration, sales, and product development departments at Kikkoman Food Products Co. and Kikkoman Beverage Co.; ingredient procurement departments and the Kikkoman Consumer Center at Kikkoman Business Service Co.; and quality assurance departments of the Group companies. We will continue to pursue Group-wide quality assurance activities in an effort to enact Group quality policies and guidelines; address issues; and supply safe products and services that comply with all applicable laws and reflect the principle of social fairness. Enhancing the group-wide quality assurance system In order to develop our quality assurance activities, the Kikkoman Group Quality Assurance Coordination Committee was launched in October, 2009. The Committee members strive to improve their quality assurance system through discussions such as: issues that each company face, finding common problems among the group companies as well as responses to the problems, actions to the current events, responses to revised laws/regulations, and sharing information about incidents. Also, the Quality Assurance Committee further improves the global network among the group companies to ensure the overseas quality assurance system. Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2014 40 ● The Group Quality Assurance System The Quality Assurance Department In 1985, Kikkoman became one of the first food industry companies in Japan to establish a Quality Assurance Department. Since then, the department has adopted the customer’s perspective as it conducts rigorous quality assurance reviews of all processes from ingredient procurement to product sales from the standpoint of assuring safety, legal compliance, and social fairness. Products that do not pass these reviews, which form the lynchpin of Kikkoman’s quality assurance program, are not brought to market. The Quality Assurance Department also serves as the secretariat of the Quality Assurance Committee. Working with individual Group companies’ quality assurance departments, the department strives to provide safe products and services that customers can use with confidence and peace of mind. Quality Assurance in the Product Development At Kikkoman, using safe ingredients and materials is a top priority in ensuring food safety. We track country of origin information on all of our ingredients and materials and thoroughly examine them for safety and legal compliance. ● Kikkoman’s Process for verifying ingredient specifications Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2014 41 Investigating and verifying allergens When any of the 7 ingredients legally required by the Food Sanitation Act to be listed on labels as “known to cause allergic reactions” or any of the 20 ingredients for which listing is recommended are used in a product, we specifically list those ingredients on product packaging. We also work to increase the reliability of our allergen labeling by conducting voluntary inspections of ingredients as necessary. ● Ingredients legally required or recommended to be listed on labels Checking safety of ingredients and materials made from beef To address the issue of BSE (bovine spongiform encephalopathy, commonly known as mad cow disease), we use only ingredients and materials made from beef that has been verified as totally safe. Whenever possible, we substitute ingredients and materials that are not made from beef. Screening for residual agricultural chemicals Kikkoman screens all domestic and imported ingredients and materials for agricultural chemicals. Since 2004, we have taken the additional step of ensuring food safety by conducting voluntary checks for residual agricultural chemicals contained in farm produce, such as grains, beans, vegetables, and fruits, to verify that their usage is properly controlled. In response to the Positive List System for Agricultural Chemical Residues in Foods under the revised Food Sanitation Act by the Japanese government, we developed efficient and accurate analytical methods in 2007 to enable about 300 commonly used agricultural chemicals to be analyzed at once, facilitating more effective and reliable testing for pesticide residues. Microbial treatment In order to protect our products from microbes and ensure safety, Kikkoman carefully develops our products and gives special consideration to proper sterilization and filling conditions. There are a variety of microbes that affect food products and the range of microbe resistance derives from food characteristics. Therefore, it is very important to adopt sterilization methods that have been optimized to provide safety on a product-by -product basis. Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2014 42 We target bacteria for sterilization depending on the salinity, water activity, pH level, and other characteristics of specific food products. In addition, we use indicator bacteria to check if they grow in the target products as well as measuring the heat resistance of bacteria targeted for sterilization in each food product. After these examinations, we determine sterilization conditions based on judgments concerning compatibility with the manufacturing plant, containers, and other aspects of production. Container and packaging safety and pursuit of better designs All containers and packaging that we use are checked to ensure that their materials and designs meet the standards of the Food Sanitation Act as well as our own internal safety guidelines. Also, based on the concept of “Universal Design,” we continue improving designs of our products. Quality Assurance in Production Quality Assurance in Production In order to supply customers with safe, high-quality products, the Kikkoman Group has received certification under the ISO9001 international quality control standard for most of its Japanese plants. Furthermore, Kikkoman Food Products Co. manages its production activities in accordance with a proprietary quality control system that combines (1) an ISO9001 system (an international model for quality control systems for products and services), (2) GMP (Good Manufacturing Practice) standards (standards for equipment and work procedures at facilities that produce food products), and (3) the HACCP (Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point) concept (a mechanism for preventing food accidents). The company also strives to manufacture safe products by conducting quality inspections as necessary during each production process. Monitoring quality control Kikkoman has put in place a system for monitoring quality control to ensure that customers can use Kikkoman brand products with confidence and peace of mind no matter where in the world they are. Managers with specialized knowledge extending beyond the plant in which they work provide comprehensive and regular monitoring of food product hygiene, equipment management, and other aspects of operation at the Group’s Japanese and overseas manufacturing plants. Original Equipment Manufacturers（OEM） manufacture a certain amount of the Kikkoman products. In order to assure quality of those products, we monitor the OEM based on our OEM assessment sheet that consists of 70 questions. The questions cover the following categories: administration, building / facilities, sanitation in general, raw materials, production, foreign materials, examination, and shipping. Before conducting site audits, the OEM are requested to implement self assessments. By comparing results of audits and self assessments, we strive to further improve our quality assurance system. Traceability Traceability refers to a condition that products and raw materials used for specific products can be traced by their manufacturers. Kikkoman pursues better traceability by strictly controlling raw materials, production and shipping. Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2014 43 Case example of traceability ーOrganic Soy Sauceー The organic soybean and organic wheat used in organic soy sauce must be subject to particularly strict management to ensure that it does not get mixed up with other raw ingredients. Kikkoman has established a system with traceability that includes the existence of certificates and transportation history to provide evidence that the products are organic. Flow or organic crops (Until reaching Kikkoman factory) Agriculture Grain storage Transport Grain grown by farmers with Organic grain is stored in Bags are sealed to prevent a organic certification is dedicated bags, and each bag 3rd party from opening and transported without mixing procured. is assigned a raw material with non-organic raw lot No. (raw material IP) materials. Customs Factory At this stage, the raw material The organic certified When received, each organic IP and the production lot No. importer arranges customs certificate is received and are linked. This ability to and sends the grain to a stored for each raw material reference the raw material IP designated warehouse or IP. from the production lot No. is Kikkoman factory. important for traceability. Flow of product (From Kikkoman factory until reaching customer) Receipt Analysis Manufacturing Receipt data is recorded for Samples of the received grain A production lot No. are each raw material IP and are tested and analyzed at assigned to products. They organic raw materials are our own factory. The factory are printed on the label and stored separately from keeps the records over a external packaging together non-organic materials. period. with best-by date, etc. Our factories receive annual inspections by organizations Shipment Customer certified MAFF* to ensure that The factory controls the When we receive inquires from all processes such as storage Shipping data and keeps the our customer, a trace* is and manufacturing meet the record over a period executed immediately. Organic JAS standard. * Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries *Mechanism of a trace: Check production lot No.  Identify raw material used from raw material IP  Investigate transportation route and growing location. Kikkoman factories keep records of the history of raw materials including packages, production process data, and distribution route data for not only organic soy sauce but also for other products. Through this system, in case of product related troubles, Kikkoman factories identify the target product and limit damage to a minimum as well as quickly finding the cause and solving the issue. Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2014 44 Radioactive materials Soon after the Great East Japan Earthquake, the Kikkoman Group deployed various group-wide efforts to deal with radioactive materials. We confirm safety of raw materials by monitoring results of radioactive material tests conducted by the Japanese government and local governments. Also, we confirm safety of our products by collecting and checking information from our suppliers regarding place of origin and control systems. When necessary, we analyze raw materials and water through our own analyzers or external institutions and ensure safety. At Kikkoman, Environment & Food Safety Analysis Center and/or each plant undertake the examinations by using germanium semiconductor detectors or Nal scintillation spectrometers. System to Deliver Peace of Mind to our Customers Complying with laws concerning product labeling and advertisement Kikkoman rigorously checks the veracity of product labeling and advertisement to verify compliance with the JAS (Japan Agricultural Standard), the Food Sanitation Act, the Act against Unjustifiable Premiums and Misleading Representations, the Fair Competition Codes, the Health Promotion Act, the Liquor Tax Act, the Pharmaceutical Affairs Act, and industry guidelines. If any problem is found, we immediately take corrective action before products reach the market to ensure that our product labeling complies with these laws and regulations. Appropriate Labeling and Advertisement Working from the customer’s perspective, Kikkoman verifies the absence of excessive or inappropriate claims on product packaging and in advertisements based on internal guidelines and other guidance. At the same time, Kikkoman’s Intellectual Property Department plays the lead role in checking as necessary that copyrights held by other companies are not being violated. Kikkoman strives at all times to provide clear, easy-to-understand labeling from the customer’s perspective, going beyond legal requirements as necessary. Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2014 45 Product label for Extra Fancy Whole Beans Soy Sauce (1) “Tokusen (extra grade)” Indicates that the product contains more umami-related compounds than special grade soy sauce. (2) “Whole Beans Soy Sauce” Indicates that whole soybeans were used as ingredients in the production of this soy sauce product, and that defatted soybeans were not used. (3) “Naturally Brewed” Indicates that the product was made using traditional Japanese methods for slowly fermenting and brewing moromi mash. (4) Nutrition labeling information Contains labeling information mandated by the JAS (Japan Agricultural Standard) and Food Sanitation Act. (5) Expiration date Indicates that latest date at which the full flavor of the unopened product can be enjoyed, assuming that it has been stored in accordance with instructions on the nutrition labeling information. (6) “After opening” Indicates that the product should be kept in the refrigerator after opening and used as soon as possible. (7) JAS mark Indicates that the product qualifies as special-grade soy sauce under the JAS (Japan Agricultural Standard) classification system of special grade, upper grade, and standard levels of quality. (8) Nutrition information Indicates nutrient content so that customers can choose the products they buy based on appropriate information. (9) Disposal method Indicates how the container should be recycled at the time of disposal. Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2014 46 Communicating information through our website The Kikkoman Consumer Center’s website features a Q&A section based on questions and comments from our customers as well as a “Utilizing Customer Feedback” section that introduces examples of how products have been improved. We not only accept customer feedback, but also apply it to our corporate activities and communicate the results to customers through our products and website. The Kikkoman Consumer Center’s website also has a section that informs countries of origin of raw materials used for our major products and products whose origins are frequently asked. System to Maintain a Stable Supply The Group believes that it is our social responsibility to deliver our products in a stable manner. Our plants constantly update their facilities for smooth productions and each plant works to obviate any chance of the accidents, which affects our production capabilities. Also, Kikkoman works with Sobu Logistics Corp. to review the Group’s logistics on a continuous basis to build a faster and more stable logistic system. The Great East Japan Earthquake affected our production and logistics capabilities, and a supply of some of our products temporarily stopped. Both productions and logistics were not seriously damaged, but the Group is introducing the BCP (Business Continuity Plan) in preparation for the future disasters. IN FY2013, major manufacturing facilities in Japan developed BCP in preparation for disasters. IN FY 2014, those facilities conducted a series of training based on BCP. Pursuing Customer Satisfaction The Kikkoman Consumer Center Kikkoman has established the Kikkoman Consumer Center to serve as the primary channel through which Kikkoman communicates with customers. The Center strives to provide accurate, speedy, and heartfelt service to customers in accordance with a basic policy of “Speed, Precision, and Sincerity.” Questions and comments received from customers are stored in a database that is utilized companywide in order to help provide speedy, accurate service and to take full advantage of customer feedback as a management resource. Furthermore, customer feedback is summarized and shared internally with executives, managers, and supervisors nationwide in the form of weekly reports. Participation of the Kikkoman Consumer Center in the Quality Assurance Committee helps bring customer feedback to bear in our efforts to both improve existing products and develop new ones. Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2014 47 ●Number of Customer inquiries FY Total Comments Inquiries Suggestions 2010 25,552 1,711 21,869 1,972 2011 25,839 1,665 21,271 2,903 2012 32,450 1,823 27,929 2,698 2013 26,423 1,330 21,808 3,285 2014 27,365 1,580 22,055 3,730 The CS Improvement Committee Not all comments and suggestions received from customers can be dealt with by the Kikkoman Consumer Center alone. The Customer Satisfaction (CS) Improvement Committee, chaired by top management and counting departmental officers as its members, takes care of inquiries that fall beyond the scope of the Center’s responsibility in order to improve Kikkoman’s products and services. ●How Kikkoman acts on customer feedback Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2014 48 For Our Employees In addition to respecting diversity of employees and supporting their efforts to improve their skills, the Kikkoman Group strives to create safe, pleasant workplaces that improve job satisfaction Basic Approach As the fields of operation of the Kikkoman Group expand and become global, the employees working in the Kikkoman Group are also becoming more diversified. Recognizing our environment is experiencing numerous changes, we strive to create work environments that employees can work with peace of mind and a sense of job satisfaction and utilize diverse human resources with different backgrounds and values to develop a global human resource. ●Number of employees March, 2014 ●New hires (non-consolidated basis) ＊Includes temporary employees Respecting Human Rights Respecting human rights When doing business, the Kikkoman Group respects human rights. The Kikkoman Group Code of Conduct states, “We respect personalities and individualities, foster mutual understanding, and stamp out discriminations based on prejudices. We make fair evaluations in the treatment of employees.” Managers at the Kikkoman Group submit an annual promissory letters to the CEO pledging their compliance with the Kikkoman Group Code of Conduct. In FY 2014, 413 manager-level employees signed the promissory letters. In 2001, Kikkoman announced our participation in the United Nations Global Compact(UNGC). The ten principles of the UNGC set forth in the Global Compact’s “Human Rights” and “Labor Standards” sections are fully compatible with those stipulated in our Labor Agreement, Working Regulations, and Labor-Management Joint Declaration. Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2014 49 Trainings for the managers Every year, Kikkoman conducts a management training program for all managers. This training program focuses on roles and measures as managers and helps managers to develop further understanding of compliance including human rights, employee management, and proper performance reviews. In FY 2014, 197 managers participated in this program. Preventing harassments Kikkoman regards sexual and power harassments as human rights violations and prohibits them in Kikkoman’s working regulations. Human resources departments are responsible for preventing and handling harassment issues, and we have opened counseling offices at major worksites. Furthermore, we continue to raise employee awareness of this issue through activities such as training programs for managers and supervisors. Promoting fair human resource systems and enlarging career opportunities Kikkoman’s human resources system employs an ability based evaluation process that comprises several subsystems, including human resources utilization, training and education, performance reviews, and compensation. Each employee’s individual performance is reviewed under a goals-and-objectives system whereby supervisors conduct interviews with their staff. Prior to the interviews, all supervisors are required to receive assessor training in order to ensure the fairness of reviews. We strive to support employees’ individual career objectives through self-assessment, a Career Development Program (CDP), and a Career Challenge Program, all of which allow employees to develop their skills and make their own decisions when applying for new positions within Kikkoman. Moreover, to ensure fairness across the entire human resource management system, we have created a Human Resource Management Verification Committee comprising labor union and management representatives, and the Human Resources Department periodically conducts interviews of individual employees in offices and plants in Japan and overseas to monitor implementation of the system. ●The Human Resource Management System (Kikkoman) Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2014 50 Nurturing Better Work Environment Work-life balance ●Flexible work arrangements (Kikkoman) In order to support and encourage employee efforts to achieve a healthy balance between rewarding work and fulfilling private lives, Kikkoman has implemented a set of Company-developed support programs designed to create an environment whereby employees can make the most of their abilities in a healthy and vital manner. We introduced childcare leave 10 years before its enactment in law and family care leave 20 years before its enactment in law. In 2009, Kikkoman received Kurumin certification from the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare, authorizing the company’s use of the Kurumin logo in accordance with the Act on Advancement of Measures to Support Raising Next-generation Children and recognizing it as a “company that actively works to support raising next-generation.” Human Resources Development Training programs Kikkoman offers tier-based training for its new employees and employees in management positions. In order to enhance the Group’s synergy, collective training programs with affiliates have been taken place. ●Number of participants in FY2014 Kikkoman offers a broad range of selfdevelopment training programs for employees, including courses at business schools; “My Challenge Training,” which allows trainees to select from several courses; correspondence courses; and e-learning courses. Through these educational and training opportunities, we support employees’ autonomous skill-building and career development efforts. Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2014 51 ●Human resource development chart (Kikkoman) The human resources development vision In keeping with the Human Resources Development Vision, Kikkoman’s educational programs are designed to offer support so that individual employees take joy in learning, work to strengthen their specialized skills, and continue to grow through lifelong learning. The Human Resources Development Vision aims to foster the development of professionals for the 21st century by helping employees develop skills and grow personally so that they can participate in their jobs in an engaged and energetic manner and contribute to organization innovation. Initiatives between Group companies The Kikkoman Group holds a networking event for human resources, which is organized by the Human Resources Department of Kikkoman Corp. and attended by representatives of the human resources departments of each major Group company in Japan. In addition to sharing the Group’s human resources policy at the human resources networking event, the attendees also exchange information on such topics as recruitment activities and human resources education with the aim of improving the human resources system. Furthermore, eight Group companies in Japan conduct joint training as part of new employee training. By carrying out Group joint training, we aim to not only convey the Group’s policies and basic principles but also to help employees see themselves as a member of the Group and view their work from a broader perspective. KEPT card The “KEPT card” is an initiative that aims to create a more vibrant corporate culture by having employees of 24 Group companies in Japan exchanging messages of gratitude with each other as gestures of mutual appreciation. The Kikkoman Group strives to bring about smooth communication by establishing this system for sending messages that express gratitude and show Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2014 52 recognition of good work. The system is aimed at not only employees working in different positions and geographically separated offices where there is little opportunity to meet face to face, but also employees that do work together every day. When the system began in FY2010, hand-written cards were used but in FY2015, a system that allows the sending of electronic messages was introduced to make it easier to use. Maintaining sound labor-management relationships Under the Labor-Management Joint Declaration, which was announced in 1998, Kikkoman has established and maintained sound labormanagement relationships based on mutual trust and respect. Additionally, Kikkoman has adopted a union shop labor agreement. Socially responsible corporate pension management Kikkoman has a contract-based defined-benefit pension plan to ensure the stability of our corporate pension fund in response to changes in employees’ needs and employment conditions in Japan. In 2006, Kikkoman became a signatory to the United Nations Principles of Responsible Investment. The move marks Kikkoman’s commitment to fulfilling its social responsibility by incorporating environmental, social, and corporate governance issues into investment decision-making and stock ownership practices with respect to its pension fund. Global Human Resource Development The Kikkoman Group is working to develop global human resource. We help our employees develop skills that can be displayed in Japan and overseas. The set of skills includes communication, leadership, intercultural adjustments, expertise, physical strength, and forward-looking mindset. As one of our initiatives, Kikkoman operates a Global Job Challenge System that targets mid-career employees. Under this system, we select employees from those who apply, and second them to a “Global Job Challenge Position,” which is established at each overseas office. One of the aims of this system is develop globally competent personnel by giving employees an opportunity early on to experience different cultures while performing actual duties. In addition, we hire foreign national employees to introduce diverse viewpoints to the Group, and just like with our Japanese employees, we provide position placement and training, treating them as managerial candidates for our companies worldwide. Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2014 53 Intercultural Adjustment Training Another initiative that Kikkoman conducts to foster globally competent personnel is the Intercultural Adjustment Program, which targets newly hired employees and third-year employees. Employees receiving this training learn the importance of viewing things from a global perspective and become more aware and interested about different cultural backgrounds and the global situation. The Kikkoman Group has also introduced programs employing games in which employees are split into groups to experience activities focusing on diversity around the world and a global point of view. By learning through simulated experiences about the difficulties in conducting business globally and the importance of information, employees are given the opportunity to think about the kind of knowledge that is required by globally competent personnel. Safe and Healthy Work Environment Kikkoman believes that providing a safe and pleasant work environment for employees is a fundamental principle of corporate management. Accordingly, Kikkoman ’s Safety and Health Committee, made up of labor and management representatives, plays a central role in implementing its occupational safety and health management system (OSHMS). Promoting safety and health activities Kikkoman has set up the Central Safety and Health Committee to review and determines policies and key objectives for companywide safety and health initiatives, and its decisions are made known throughout Kikkoman. Daily safety and health activities are undertaken through local safety and health committees. In addition, monitoring teams consisting of labor and management representatives conduct periodic monitoring inspections at both the central and local levels, and Kikkoman works to assess the causes of safety and health risks and take corrective action. There were 10 minor accidents and 2 accidents resulting in work stoppages during FY2014. We remain committed to strengthening efforts to eliminate accidents by applying risk assessment practices companywide. In order to further improve the Group’s Safety and Health standards, the Group held two joint meetings that the domestic affiliates discuss and share safety and health issues. Through these efforts, the Group is working to prevent future accidents. ●Changes in frequency rate(non-consolidated) ●Changes in severity rate(non-consolidated) An indicator of the frequency of disasters/accidents, An indicator of the severity of disasters/accidents, represented by the number of casualties resulting from represented by the amount of work time lost due to occupational accidents requiring absence from work occupational accidents per 1 million work hours. per 1,000 work hours. Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2014 54 ●Safety and Health Management Organization (Kikkoman) Efforts by the Group companies overseas The Group is working on improving safety and health system at our Group companies overseas. At KFI, KFE, and KSP, each company forms their Safety and Health Committee and strives to improve effectiveness of the safety and health system. All of our Group companies overseas provide with the lectures and/or trainings regarding safety and health as well as using proper protections while performing job functions. The affiliates share accident reports with the Foreign Administration Department at Kikkoman Corp. to avoid repeating the similar accidents. Encouraging Physical and Mental Well-being of employees Kikkoman provides medical supports to employees. Employees who need re-examination following their medical check-ups can receive advice from medical nurse. The employees can also access a health databank to check their records of health checkup. Kikkoman has opened a 24-hour telephone hotline for health and medical questions in partnership with an outside institution as part of its ongoing commitment to helping employees maintain good physical and mental health. In 2011, in addition to regular medical checkups, Kikkoman offered dental checkups, VDT check, and immunization against influenza by Kikkoman General Hospital. Kikkoman works with professional institutions to run our mental health program for our employees and their families. By introducing the Kikkoman Mental Health Manual, we strive to create an environment to prevent mental health problems. Kikkoman also developed a guideline that describes how to treat employees when they return to work from a leave for mental health reasons. Diversity in the workplace Promoting employment of people with disabilities Based on the principle of “normalization,” the concept of creating a society in which able-bodied and disabled people live and work together on equal terms, Kikkoman works to develop a work environment for people with disabilities. In FY2014 the proportion of employees with disabilities at Kikkoman Corp. and Kikkoman Food Products was 1.44% and 1.80%. Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2014 55 The Continuing Employment System In 2001, Kikkoman introduced the Post Retirement Employment System, which is available to those who retire at age of 60. This system made it possible to provide opportunities for the object employees to exercise their skills as well as passing on the skills of experienced workers to younger workers. Cultivating Better Workplace for Female Employees Kikkoman promotes to cultivate a work environment that female employees can work on a long-term basis and expand opportunities for participation. In order to help female employees come back to their work after childbirth, Kikkoman introduced the Childcare Leave 10 years before its enactment in law. In FY 201４, 34 employees including male employees applied for this program. Since the program was introduced, 472 employees in total have applied. Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2014 56 For Our Shareholders and Investors The Kikkoman Group strives to enhance transparency within its management by disclosing timely and appropriate information as well as securing earnings through sustainable growth. Timely and Appropriate Disclosure of Information Kikkoman Corp. places importance on information disclosure and investor relations (IR) activities that focus on fairness, timeliness, and expeditiousness. In addition to holding IR meetings not only in Japan, but also in the United States and Europe, we promptly disclose a variety of IR information on our website for the benefit of investors who are unable to participate in the meetings. In FY2014, for analysts and institutional investors, Kikkoman Corp. held 2 Information Meetings, 4 meetings with the management, and 1 factory tour. Going forward, we remain committed to pursuing activities designed to promote a better understanding of our businesses while receiving feedbacks from shareholders and investors. Promoting Open General Shareholders’ Meetings To encourage higher attendance, Kikkoman Corp. schedules the annual general shareholders’ meeting to avoid clashing with the most common dates for other companies’ meetings. Moreover, we deliver the convocation notice and related documents to shareholders three weeks in advance in order to allow careful review of the agenda. We also send an English-language convocation notice to overseas shareholders. In order to make it more convenient for shareholders to exercise their voting rights, we arrange a online voting system for shareholders. We also participate in a voting platform for institutional investors. Shareholder Return and Internal Reserve Kikkoman Corp. considers the dividend policy as one of ●Composition of shareholders (as of March 31, 2014) our key management issues. In this area, our basic policy is to reward shareholders through consistent distribution of profits backed by strong consolidated financial performance, while using funds to invest in strengthening its corporate foundation and future businesses. As a result of this approach, the dividend for FY2013 was JPY 20 per share In addition, we have a special benefit plan for shareholders aimed at deepening their understanding of the Kikkoman Group’s products and encouraging their ongoing support. Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2014 57 From a long-range perspective, we intend to deploy internal reserves in ways that create robust corporate value. Future plans include investments in expanding our international operations, streamlining production facilities, conducting research and development for new businesses, opening and expanding markets to cultivate new demand, and pursuing strategic investment activities. Credit Rating Credit ratings provided by rating agencies serve as a means of better understanding financial soundness of Kikkoman Corp. Kikkoman Corp. gives credit ratings an important role in financial strategy out of recognition that they reflect the manner in which capital markets evaluate the Company’s performance and creditworthiness. Kikkoman Corp. was given a rating of A (single A stable) by Rating and Investment Information, Inc., in Japan as of March 30, 2014. We are striving to maintain and further improve our ratings. Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2014 58 Working with Suppliers The Kikkoman Group strives to observe fair business practices and develops good working partnerships with suppliers Conducting Fair Business Transactions As outlined in our Code of Conduct, Kikkoman’s selection of and transactions with suppliers are fair and based solely on vendors’ ability to provide good quality, prices, and services, and not on the personal preferences or considerations of employees. Internal Procurement Guidelines provide a basis for the management system that ensures that this policy is followed. We have in place a system for reviewing proposed business with new suppliers against evaluation criteria and for reevaluating existing suppliers on a regular basis. Both of these measures ensure fair evaluation and provide opportunities for new suppliers. To help minimize potential risks, we procure ingredients and raw materials from multiple suppliers. Developing Good Partnerships with Suppliers At Kikkoman, the Purchasing Department, Kikkoman Business Service Co., plays a key role in maintaining close communication with suppliers in order to build and maintain fair and good relationships. Whenever we enter into basic contracts with suppliers for new transactions, we explain our compliance policies and share compliance concerns with them. Moreover, we brief subcontractors on Japan’s Act against Delay in Payment of Subcontract Proceeds, Etc. to Subcontractors each time an agreement is signed. Consolidation of the Group’s purchasing functions The Purchasing Department carries out centralized purchasing by combining the purchasing functions of domestic manufacturing companies such as Takara Shoyu, Higeta Shoyu, Nippon Del Monte, and Kikkoman Soyfoods. The Department strives to carry out fair transactions with suppliers while building mutually beneficial partnerships. Ensuring Quality of Ingredients Kikkoman works closely with suppliers to ensure ingredient quality. For example, when procuring raw farm produce, we track its production history and conduct voluntary checks for residual agricultural chemicals. When procuring organic crops or nonGMO produce as raw materials, we strive to maintain and improve the quality of procured materials through such measures as obtaining Certified Organically Grown Food Certificates, investigating the country of origin, and conducting joint inspections on IP handling. Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2014 59 Environmental Considerations in Procurement We also work closely with suppliers through the container and packaging procurement process to develop environmentally friendly containers. In FY2008, we formulated Guidelines for Containers and Packaging to illustrate the Group’s commitment to reducing the environmental impact of containers and packaging while improving customer satisfaction. We ensure that our suppliers understand the Guidelines, and we work with them to reduce the environmental impact of their products. In addition, we ask suppliers of ingredients and raw materials to deliver them in packages that generate less waste and require that their delivery truck drivers shut down engines while unloading at our facilities. When ordering ingredients and raw materials, we work with suppliers and Sobu Logistics Corporation to streamline truck deliveries and reduce the environmental impact of our operations, for example by using trucks returning from product delivery runs to pick up shipments from suppliers. The Kikkoman Group’s Policy for Business Partners The Kikkoman Group believes that in order to behave according to our management principles and contribute to society as a responsible corporate citizen, it must make efforts to cooperate with our business partners to consider the environment and comply with social norms. Through carrying out such efforts we aim to mutually boost the corporate value of the Kikkoman Group and each business partner. Up until now, we have carried out some initiatives with business partners concerning environmental aspects. However, in FY 2014, the Kikkoman Group established the Kikkoman Group’s Policy for Business Partners to more clearly communicate the Kikkoman Group’s principles to business partners while including global initiatives such as the UN Global Compact. The Kikkoman Group’s Policy for Business Partners explains the basic ideas, concepts and policies concerning transactions of the Kikkoman Group. In addition, it states key factors based on the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact that Kikkoman Group expects our business partners to comply. Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2014 60 [The Key Factors of The Kikkoman Group’s Policy for Business Partners] Quality and stable supply □ Retain and improve quality and safety of products and services. □ Create systems for the stable supply of products and services. Human Rights □ Respect human rights in compliance with international conventions. □ Do not discriminate based on race, ethnicity, nationality, religion, belief, gender, home origin, disability, illness, age, etc. Labor practices □ Prohibit all forms of harassment. □ Comply with minimum age standards. □ Prohibit compulsory labor and cruel punishments. □ Provide a safe and hygienic workplace environment. □ Pay wages at or above the legally prescribed amount. □ Comply with laws and ordinances on working hours. □ Respect the various rights applicable to workers. Environmental measures □ Initiatives to appropriately process and reduce waste products □ Initiatives to constrain the emissions of greenhouse gasses □ System to comply with environmental laws in the countries and territories in which one’s company conducts business activities Business transactions □ Prohibit transactions with organized crime. □ Prohibit inappropriate exchange of gifts or client entertainments. □ Prohibit making excessive demands on one’s suppliers. Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2014 61 As a Member of Communities The Kikkoman Group promotes a variety of social activities including community development programs and efforts to promote and preserve food cultures. Basic Approach Under the management principle of “To become a company whose existence is meaningful to global society,” the Kikkoman Group promotes a management that places a great value on our relationship with local communities. We hope to contribute to build a society that corporations and communities build mutual-beneficial relationships. The Group undertakes activities designed to support society at large, primarily in the field of food and health. We are also working to foster an appreciation and a preservation of Japanese food culture as well as maintaining harmony with world food cultures. Major Social Activities Supporting employees’ volunteer activities Kikkoman encourage our employees to engage in volunteer activities. We have introduced programs, such as the matching donation program, the community service program, and the volunteer leave programs, Kikkoman also facilitates nationwide volunteer activities in which employees can easily participate. They include collecting old postcards and used books in support of NGOs and NPOs, holding fund-raising drives for charity, assisting with sales of charity merchandise, and holding charity events to promote interaction with NGOs. Programs to provide hands-on experiences Kikkoman provides hands-on programs for elementary school children and their parents. These programs are designed to stimulate interests in food and nature. Some of our programs are held in conjunction with NGOs and NPOs. Employee volunteers take parts in these programs. Education and fostering of youth Kikkoman provides financial support to several international exchange programs for the education and fostering of young people in cooperation with various public organizations and educational institutes, both in Japan and abroad. Contributing to develop safe communities Kikkoman works to help communities develop safer environments by supporting firefighting operations and disaster-prevention activities as well as conducting traffic safety campaigns. Community outreach programs Kikkoman conducts community outreach programs, including by holding events that highlight local features, participating in traditional community events, and opening our facilities to the public. Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2014 62 Product provision to food bank organizations Since FY 2010, the Kikkoman Group has been active in donating products to food bank organizations in Japan and the United States. Food banks are organizations that receive food provision from food industry companies and freely donate food to facilities in the welfare sector that require assistance. The focus is on effectively utilizing food that is designated for disposal even though it can still be eaten. In addition to assisting welfare facilities and the like through our efforts through food banks, the Kikkoman Group is also lightening the burden on the environment by reducing food waste. To Second Harvest Japan, for example, Kikkoman Foods and other Group companies donate products that cannot be sold due to reasons unrelated to product quality such as soiled labeling, even though they still have more than 1 month left before the “best used by” date. In FY 2014, we donated products with a combined equivalent value of about 50 million yen. Cooking experience programs for families Since FY 2004, the Kikkoman Group has held cooking experience programs for parents and children in communities where factories are located. The theme of these programs is “food,” and they are designed for families to stimulate their interests in good diet and local communities. In FY 2014, we held programs at Nippon Del Monte Gunma Factory and Saitama Kikkoman. Tomato experience program at Gunma Factory Cooking experience at Saitama Kikkoman Sponsoring English education in Noda Kikkoman has supported English-language education in Noda since FY 2008 as part of an effort to increase children’s communication skills and enable them to make a contribution on the global stage when they grow up. Supporting the YFU exchange student program Kikkoman has supported an exchange student program by the international exchange organization Youth for Understanding (YFU) since 1979 through the Kikkoman Scholarship program. Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2014 63 In FY 2014, the program brought high-school students from the United States to Japan on short-term home-stays and sent Japanese high-school students to the United States on long-term home-stays. Participating students expanded their potential as “global citizens” through various activities and study with their hosts, and we expect them to take advantage of their experience to contribute to international exchanges. Promotions and Preservations of Food Cultures Kikkoman strives to promote and preserve international food cultures through lectures, cooking seminars, and operation of foodrelated facilities. Research on food cultures and transmission of information The Kikkoman Institute of International Food Culture, located at the Noda Head Office, conducts research on food culture with a focus on fermented seasonings and soy sauce, collects information related to food, and holds forums and seminars on related subjects. The Center also contributes to international exchange and amalgamation of food culture by making research findings and collected information and materials available to the general public at libraries and exhibitions and on its website. Cooking seminars at the Tokyo Head Office At Kikkoman’s Tokyo Head Office’s KCC Hall, Kikkoman holds seminars in the form of lectures, demonstrations, and tastings featuring culinary experts, chefs, and other food professionals as instructors. Content spans multiple genres such as Japanese food culture and cuisine, world food culture and cuisine, and food and health. During FY2014, we held 47 seminars with 2,179 participants. the Kikkoman General Hospital In Noda city, Chiba, Kikkoman Corp. has the Kikkoman General Hospital. Since the soy sauce brewing began in Noda city in the 17th century, the soy sauce business had a mutual-beneficial relationship with the local community. The origin of the hospital dates back to 1862 when a clinic was founded for workers at the breweries and their families. The clinic expanded over time and re-established as the Noda Hospital in 1914 in Kami-Hanawa in Noda City. Soon after Noda Shoyu Co., Ltd., a predecessor of Kikkoman Corp., was formed in 1917, the Noda Hospital became Kikkoman’s private hospital in 1918. In 1973, the Noda Hospital was renamed the Kikkoman General Hospital. Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2014 64 In order to further contribute to the society and the local community through providing medical services, Kikkoman Corp. began construction of a new hospital in March, 2011. The construction has completed in June, 2012, and began operation in August, 2012. In addition to installing new medical devices, the new hospital re-opened the maternity department to create better environments for expecting mothers in a local community. The new hospital also has new features such as relaxing spaces and countermeasures against disasters. Major Social Activities Overseas North America： Kikkoman Foods Foundation Inc. Kikkoman Foods Inc.(KFI), our soy sauce manufacturer in the United States, established a charitable foundation, Kikkoman Foods Foundation Inc. KFI has donated to organizations such as local educational institutions and disaster relief activities. In 2013, as part of the 40th anniversary celebration of the opening of our plant in Walworth, the foundation made a one million US dollar contribution to the University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee. The purpose of the contribution was to establish the Kikkoman Healthy Waters Environmental Health Laboratories and advance a study regarding safe and sustainable drinking water. Food bank initiatives in the United States Kikkoman Sales U.S.A. (KSU), a marketing company in the United States, conducts a social activity called “Kikkoman Kares.” Since 2010, as part of this initiative, KSU has donated food products to the food bank organizations in the United States, contributing an equivalent of about 185.4 tons in 2013. Asia： Water purification project in Singapore KIKKOMAN (S) PTE. LTD. (KSP), a soy sauce manufacturing company in Singapore, supports the construction of Kingfisher Lake, located inside “Gardens by the Bay,” a garden in Singapore. Kingfisher Lake has an environmentally friendly water purification system that utilizes the nature within the park, such as aquatic plants. The lake is expected to contribute to solve water problems in Singapore. Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2014 65 Contributions to local communities by the Del Monte Thai plant In order to support agricultural promotions in the Trat Province of Thailand, where the plant is located, and in the northeastern region of Thailand, Siam Del Monte Company Ltd. (SDM), a manufacturing company of processed vegetable and fruit products, has provided seeds for corn harvests, which serve as a stable source of income for farming households. Farming trainings were also provided to encourage more households to participate in this program. When a serious flood occurred in 2011, more than 2,000 cases of our products were donated through local governments for people who were affected by the disaster. Exchange of food cultures in China The Kikkoman Group opened an authentic Japanese restaurant, “Murasaki,” in the Japanese industry pavilion at Expo 2010 Shanghai China. Students from Shanghai University participated in operating this restaurant; eight students worked as service staff, and five students served as cooking assistants. These students significantly contributed our smooth operation. In October 2010, the Kikkoman “Murasaki” fund was established between the College of Foreign Languages at Shanghai University and the Kikkoman Group. This fund provides scholarships and training programs in Japan for students of high scholastic standing. In FY 2014, Kikkoman Corp. conducted seminars about Japanese food culture at universities in Shanghai and Guangzhou. Europe： Water quality improvement project in the Netherlands Since 1997, Kikkoman Foods Europe B.V. (KFE), our soy sauce manufacturer in the Netherlands, has supported a water quality improvement project for Zuidlaardermeer (Lake of Zuidlaren) in Groningen, the Netherlands. A unique aspect of this project is that the water purification mechanism utilizes natural resources. A vast water purification area is located next to the lake, and water from the lake is pumped to the designated area by a windmill. After the water in the area becomes purified by aquatic organisms and microbes, the waster gradually returns to the late. The windmill, which was installed by the Kikkoman’s support, was named “Kikkoman Windmill.” Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2014 66 Other regions: Project to improve nutrition in Kenya In FY 2013, Kikkoman Corp. started a nutrition improvement project that was proposed by its internal venture system (K-VIP). We aim to provide Japanese traditional fermentation technology as daily life wisdom to Africa while providing the necessary business resources to the local regions, and improve nutrition of infants and mothers, and people with illnesses. This project was a selected project from the 5th Call for Proposals for Preparatory Survey (BOP Business Promotion) carried out by Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA), and we are carrying out surveys and research based on assistance we are receiving from JICA. The Kikkoman Group has conducted social activities in the regions where we don’t have our subsidiaries or facilities. Those activities include supporting an establishment of elementary schools in Cambodia or supporting activities to prevent AIDS in South Africa. Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2014 67 Support for Recovery from the Great East Japan Earthquake The Kikkoman Group supports people and communities affected by the East Japan Earthquake Basic Approach The East Japan Earthquake on March 11, 2011 had a serious impact on people and communities in the affected areas, and it requires a great investment of time for reconstruction. The Group is supporting the restoration efforts over the mid to long term through the field of Food and Health. Supporting People and Communities Affected by the Earthquake Cooking classes at temporary housing facilities Kikkoman is supporting Team Omusubi, a project organized by a NGO, the Soul of Tohoku. The Group supports the project financially as well as offering Kikkoman products. The project invites professional cooks to the temporary housing facilities and holds cooking classes. Participants can enjoy cooking and delicious dishes that they cook together. The purpose of this project is to help people in the temporary housing facilities have lively communication and develop better communities within the facilities. Volunteers from Kikkoman join the cooking class programs as cooking assistants. Since October, 2011, total 46 classes were held by the end of FY2014 and more than 1,400 people participated. IPPO IPPO NIPPON Project Kikkoman Corp. participates in IPPO IPPO NIPPON Project promoted by Keizai Doyukai (Japan Association of Corporate Executives). As well as providing training equipment to vocational high schools in the three affected prefectures of Iwate, Miyagi, and Fukushima, the project provides school-start assistance to children in the affected regions and gives donations to the national universities in the affected regions. Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2014 68 In addition, by request of Keizai Doyukai, Kikkoman Corp. is cooperating with the Reconstruction Agency’s “New Tohoku Guidance Model Business” and has provided training to two employees of a marine products processing company in Onagawa-cho, Miyagi Prefecture in February 2014. In addition to providing lectures and frontline immersion in the business and marketing of Kikkoman, this training also gave the employees experience in food and hygiene management on the manufacturing floor. IPPO IPPO NIPPON project website http://www.doyukai.or.jp/ippo/ (in Japanese) Programs in Fukushima Pref. Kikkoman participates in activities in Fukushima Pref. because one of Nippon Del Monte’s plants had operated in Minami-Soma city, Fukushima, until 2011. Since FY 2013, Kikkoman supported projects by an international NGO, AAR Japan, which conducted programs in areas such as Miyagi, Iwate, and Fukushima Pref. Kikkoman supported programs such as camp programs for children in Fukushima Pref. and recreational meetings at temporary housings by providing Kikkoman products and helping their operations. In FY 2014, Kikkoman invited Ms. Ekuko Yokoyama of AAR Soma Office to Kikkoman Tokyo Head Office and Noda Head Office and held lectures on aftermath of the earthquake in Fukushima. After the lectures, we held charity fairs and sold products from affected regions. Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2014 69 Continuing Efforts to Support the Affected Areas As conditions in the affected areas change, our programs have to shift to expected activities. The Kikkoman Group will communicate with the people in the affected areas and support them in ways that Kikkoman can do best. Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2014 70 The Kikkoman Group’s Shokuiku Activities The Kikkoman Group considers Shokuiku (food education) the special responsibility of companies involved with food and food products. Since we announced our ‘Commitment to Shokuiku’ in May 2005, we have developed a program integrated throughout our business based on our ‘Shokuiku Framework’ . Basic Approach The Kikkoman Group is promoting Shokuiku activities based on our Shokuiku Framework. Hands-on soy sauce-making program Soy Sauce Factories at Kikkoman Food Products offer tours for elementary school students to learn and experience how soy sauce is made. In FY 2014, we conducted 323 tours for 18,500 visitors. The Kikkoman Soy Sauce Academy Kikkoman staff visits elementary schools to teach students about food and diet as part of the Kikkoman Soy Sauce Academy. Schools use this program as part of their integrated study time to provide an opportunity for students to think about the importance of food and what it means to enjoy eating while simultaneously learning about the ingredients and techniques used to make soy sauce. During FY 2014, 8,316 students participated in 250 sessions at 120 schools. The Kikkoman Academy This is a program that Kikkoman staff visits schools and other organizations to give lectures about a wide range of food related topics. During FY2014, 22 presentations were given to 1,220 participants. Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2014 71 The Kikkoman Soy Milk Lecture This is a program that Kikkoman staff visits school and other organizations on demand and give lectures about basic understandings and nutritional aspect of soy milk as well as dietary balance in general. In FY 2014, we held 2 lectures for 80 participants. Del Monte Tomato School These is a program that Kikkoman staff visits schools and provide lectures to second grade elementary students, with the purchase of tomato seedlings provided in the Del Monte Teaching Materials. The employees of Nippon Del Monte play a role as Dr. Tomato and his assistants and provide students with information about tomatoes and how to grow them. Factory tours to experience the soy sauce brewing process Kikkoman offers tours of soy sauce factories in Japan and Manns Wine Co., Ltd.’s wineries. In FY 2014, we offered hands-on soy sauce-making programs for elementary schools and other organizations, and 323,921 visitors participated. Website featuring foodand health-related information Kikkoman’s website features an extensive range of foodand health-related information, including the most recent news about our Shokuiku activities, seasonal recipes, and educational content for children. Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2014 72 Global Reporting Initiative (G4) Content Index Indicators Page No. Strategy and Analysis A statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization (such as CEO, chair, or equivalent senior position) about G4-1 2 the relevance of sustainability to the organization and the organization’s strategy for addressing sustainability. G4-2 A description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. － Organizational Profile G4-３ The name of the organization. 5, 79 G4-４ The primary brands, products, and services. 4, 5 G4-５ The location of the organization’s headquarters. 5 The number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries where either the organization has significant G4-６ 79 operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report. G4-7 The nature of ownership and legal form. 5 G4-8 The markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers and beneficiaries). 4, 5, 79 G4-9 The scale of the organization. 4, 5, 79 a. The total number of employees by employment contract and gender. b. The total number of permanent employees by employment type and gender. c. The total workforce by employees and supervised workers and by gender. d. The total workforce by region and gender. G4-10 e. Whether a substantial portion of the organization ’ s work is performed by workers who are legally recognized as 49 selfemployed, or by individuals other than employees or supervised workers, including employees and supervised employees of contractors. f. Significant variations in employment numbers (such as seasonal variations in employment in the tourism or agricultural industries). G4-11 The percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. ― G4-12 Describe the organization’s supply chain. ― G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain. ― G4-14 Precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization. 16, 17, 23, 24, 54, 55 Externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization G4-15 3 subscribes or which it endorses. G4-16 Memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and national or international advocacy organizations. 12, 13 Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries a. List all entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents. G4-17 b. Report whether any entity included in the organization’ s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents is not 79 covered by the report. a. Explain the process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries. G4-18 9,10 b. Explain how the organization has implemented the Reporting Principles for Defining Report Content. G4-19 List all the material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content. ― Described as G4-20 Aspect Boundary within the organization Scope in each section G4-21 Aspect Boundary outside the organization ― G4-22 The effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements. ― G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries. ― Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 A list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. 11-13, 63-71 G4-25 The basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. 11 G4-26 The organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement 11-13 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to G4-27 ― those key topics and concerns. The stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns. Report Profile G4-28 Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) for information provided. 1 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report. 1 G4-30 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial). 1 G4-31 The contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. 79 a. Report the ‘in accordance’ option the organization has chosen. b. Report the GRI Content Index for the chosen option (see tables below). G4-32 ― c. Report the reference to the External Assurance Report, if the report has been externally assured. (GRI recommends the use of external assurance but it is not a requirement to be ‘in accordance’ with the Guidelines.) a. The organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. b. The scope and basis of any external assurance provided. G4-33 c. The relationship between the organization and the assurance providers. ― d. Whether the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in seeking assurance for the organization ’ s sustainability report. Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2014 73 Indicators Page No. Governance The governance structure of the organization G4-34 9, 10, 14, 15 Any committees responsible for decision-making on economic, environmental and social impacts. The process for delegating authority for economic, environmental and social topics from the highest governance G4-35 9, 10, 23 body to senior executives and other employees. Whether the organization has appointed an executive-level position or positions with responsibility for economic, G4-36 9, 10, 23 environmental and social topics, and whether post holders report directly to the highest governance body. Processes for consultation between stakeholders and the highest governance body on economic, environmental G4-37 and social topics. If consultation is delegated, describe to whom and any feedback processes to the highest ― governance body. G4-38 The composition of the highest governance body and its committees. 14, 15 G4-39 Whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer ― The nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body and its committees, and the criteria G4-40 ― used for nominating and selecting highest governance body members. G4-41 Processes for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided and managed. ― The highest governance body’s and senior executives’ roles in the development, approval, and updating of the G4-42 organization ’ s purpose, value or mission statements, strategies, policies, and goals related to economic, ― environmental and social impacts. The measures taken to develop and enhance the highest governance body’s collective knowledge of economic, G4-43 ― environmental and social topics. a. The processes for evaluation of the highest governance body ’ s performance with respect to governance of economic, environmental and social topics. Report whether such evaluation is independent or not, and its frequency. G4-44 ― b. Actions taken in response to evaluation of the highest governance body ’ s performance with respect to governance of economic, environmental and social topics, including, as a minimum, changes in membership and organizational practice. a. The highest governance body’s role in the identification and management of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities. Include the highest governance body’s role in the implementation of due diligence processes. G4-45 ― b. Whether stakeholder consultation is used to support the highest governance body’s identification and management of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities. The highest governance body ’ s role in reviewing the effectiveness of the organization ’ s risk management G4-46 ― processes for economic, environmental and social topics. The frequency of the highest governance body’s review of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and G4-47 ― opportunities. The highest committee or position that formally reviews and approves the organization’s sustainability report and G4-48 9, 10 ensures that all material Aspects are covered. G4-49 The process for communicating critical concerns to the highest governance body. 9, 10 The nature and total number of critical concerns that were communicated to the highest governance body and G4-50 ― the mechanism(s) used to address and resolve them. a. The remuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior executives G4-51 b. How performance criteria in the remuneration policy relate to the highest governance body ’ s and senior executives ’ ― economic, environmental and social objectives. The process for determining remuneration. Whether remuneration consultants are involved in determining G4-52 remuneration and whether they are independent of management. Any other relationships which the 12 remuneration consultants have with the organization. How stakeholders ’ views are sought and taken into account regarding remuneration, including the results of G4-53 ― votes on remuneration policies and proposals, if applicable. The ratio of the annual total compensation for the organization ’ s highest-paid individual in each country of G4-54 significant operations to the median annual total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid ― individual) in the same country. The ratio of percentage increase in annual total compensation for the organization ’ s highest-paid individual in G4-55 each country of significant operations to the median percentage increase in annual total compensation for all ― employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country. Ethics and Integrity G4-56 The organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes of conduct and codes of 6, 7 18 The internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful behavior, and matters related to G4-57 19 organizational integrity, such as helplines or advice lines. The internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior, and matters G4-58 related to organizational integrity, such as escalation through line management, whistleblowing mechanisms or 19 hotlines. Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2014 74 Indicators Page No. Disclosures on Management Approach a. The reason why the Aspect is material and the impacts that make this Aspect material. 6, 7, 9, 10, 14G4-DMA b. How the organization manages the material Aspect or its impacts. 17, 23, 23, 39, c. The evaluation of the management approach 49, 59, 62 Economic Performance G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 4, 36, 37 G4-EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change ― G4-EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations ― G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from government ― Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of G4-EC5 ― operation G4-EC6 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community at significant locations of operation ― G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported ― G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts ― G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations of operation ― ENVIRONMENTAL G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 35 G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials ― G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization 35 G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside of the organization ― G4-EN5 Energy intensity ― G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption 36 G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services ― G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source ― G4-EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water ― G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused ― Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value G4-EN11 ― outside protected areas Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas G4-EN12 ― of high biodiversity value outside protected areas G4-EN13 Habitats protected or restored 65, 66 Total number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by G4-EN14 ― operations, by level of extinction risk G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) 25, 34, 35 G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) ― G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) ― G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity 26 G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 26 G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) ― Environmental G4-EN21 NOX, SOX, and other significant air emissions Accounting G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination ― G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 34, 35 G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills ― Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel G4-EN25 2 ― Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected G4-EN26 ― by the organization’s discharges of water and runoff G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services 27-29 G4-EN28 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category 34, 35 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with G4-EN29 ― environmental laws and regulations Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials for the organization’s G4-EN30 ― operations, and transporting members of the workforce G4-EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type 36, 37 G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria ― G4-EN33 Significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken ― Number of grievances about environmental impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance G4-EN34 ― mechanisms Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2014 75 Indicators Page No. LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender, and region 49 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by G4-LA2 ― significant locations of operation G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender ― Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, including whether these are specified in collective G4-LA4 ― agreements Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management–worker health and safety committees that G4-LA5 ― help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of G4-LA6 55 workrelated fatalities, by region and by gender G4-LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation ― G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 55 G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category ― Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and G4-LA10 ― assist them in managing career endings Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender and by G4-LA11 ― employee category Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age G4-LA12 ― group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by significant locations of G4-LA13 ― operation G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor practices criteria ― G4-LA15 Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor practices in the supply chain and actions taken ― G4-LA16 Number of grievances about labor practices filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms ― HUMAN RIGHTS Total number and percentage of significant investment agreements and contracts that include human rights G4-HR1 ― clauses or that underwent human rights screening Total hours of employee training on human rights policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that G4-HR2 ― are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken ― Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining G4-HR4 ― may be violated or at significant risk, and measures taken to support these rights Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to G4-HR5 ― contribute to the effective abolition of child labor Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and G4-HR6 ― measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization ’ s human rights policies or procedures that are G4-HR7 ― relevant to operations G4-HR8 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples and actions taken ― G4-HR9 Total number and percentage of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact ― G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights criteria ― G4-HR11 Significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts in the supply chain and actions taken ― Number of grievances about human rights impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance G4-HR12 ― mechanisms SOCIETY Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and development G4-SO1 ― programs G4-SO2 Operations with significant actual or potential negative impacts on local communities ― G4-SO3 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption and the significant risks 20-21 G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures ― G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken ― G4-SO6 Total value of political contributions by country and recipient/beneficiary ― G4-SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their ― Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and G4-SO8 ― regulations G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for impacts on society ― G4-SO10 Significant actual and potential negative impacts on society in the supply chain and actions taken ― Number of grievances about impacts on society filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance G4-SO11 ― mechanisms Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2014 76 Indicators Page No. Customer Health and Safety Percentage of significant product and service categories for which health and safety impacts are assessed for G4-PR1 ― improvement Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health and G4-PR2 ― safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes Type of product and service information required by the organization ’ s procedures for product and service G4-PR3 information and labeling, and percentage of significant product and service categories subject to such information ― requirements Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and G4-PR4 ― service information and labeling, by type of outcomes G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction ― G4-PR6 Sale of banned or disputed products ― Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing G4-PR7 ― communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes G4-PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data ― Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use G4-PR9 ― of products and services Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2014 77 Kikkoman Group Major Group Companies Abbreviated Name Names Operations Japan KIKKOMAN CORPORATION ― Holding Company Japan KIKKOMAN FOOD PRODUCTS COMPANY ― Manufacturing and Sales Japan KIKKOMAN BEVERAGE COMPANY ― Manufacturing and Sales Japan KIKKOMAN BUSINESS SERVICE COMPANY ― Administrations Japan KIKKOMAN BIOCHEMIFA COMPANY ― Manufacturing and Sales Japan NIPPON DEL MONTE CORPORATION ― Manufacturing Japan MANNS WINE CO., LTD. ― Manufacturing Japan JFC JAPAN INC. ― Trading Japan HEISEI FOODS COMPANY ― Manufacturing Japan EDOGAWA FOODS COMPANY ― Manufacturing Japan HOKKAIDO KIKKOMAN COMPANY ― Manufacturing Japan NAGAREYAMA KIKKOMAN CO.,LTD. ― Manufacturing Japan SAITAMA KIKKOMAN COMPANY ― Manufacturing Japan TERRA VERT CORPORATION ― Importing and Sales Japan TAKARA SHOYU CO., LTD. ― Manufacturing and Sales Japan KIKKOMAN SOYFOODS COMPANY ― Manufacturing and Sales Japan NiPPON DEL MONTE AGRI COMPANY ― Manufacturing and Sales Japan SOBU LOGISTICS CO., LTD. ― Logistics Japan KIKKOMAN MARKETING CENTER CO., LTD. ― Promotion Japan KIKKOMAN RESTAURANT, INC. ― Restaurant Japan KIKKOMAN NUTRICARE JAPAN, INC. ― Mail-Order Japan HIGETA SHOYU CO., LTD. ― Manufacturing USA KIKKOMAN FOODS, INC. ＫＦＩ Manufacturing USA KIKKOMAN SALES USA, INC. ＫＳＵ Sales USA KIKKOMAN MARKETING AND PLANNING, INC. ＫＭＰ Marketing Research USA KIKKOMAN USA R&D LABORATORY, INC. ＫＵＬ Research and Development USA KMS SERVICE INC. ＫＭＳ IT Services USA JFC INTERNATIONAL INC. ＪＦＣ Foods Wholesale USA COUNTRY LIFE, LLC ＣＬＬ Manufacturing and Sales Canada JFC INTERNATIONAL (CANADA) INC. ＪＦＣＩ Foods Wholesale Mexico JFC DE MEXICO SA.DE CV ＪＦＣＭ Foods Wholesale Germany KIKKOMAN TRADING EUROPE GmbH ＫＴＥ Sales Germany KIKKOMAN MARKETING & PLANNING EUROPE GmbH ＫＭＰEU Marketing Research Germany JFC INTERNATIONAL (EUROPE) GmbH ＪＦＣＥＵ Foods Wholesale Germany JFC DEUTSCHLAND GmbH ＪＦＣＤＥ Foods Wholesale Germany JFC RESTAURANT GmbH ＪＦＣＲ Restaurant The Netherlands KIKKOMAN FOODS EUROPE B.V. ＫＦＥ Manufacturing The Netherlands KIKKOMAN EUROPE R&D LABORATORY B.V. ＫＥＬ Research and Development UK JFC (UK) LIMITED ＪＦＣＵＫ Foods Wholesale France JFC FRANCE S.A.R.L. ＪＦＣＦ Foods Wholesale Austria JFC AUSTRIA GmbH JＦＣＡＴ Foods Wholesale Singapore KIKKOMAN (S) PTE. LTD. ＫＳＰ Manufacturing Singapore KIKKOMAN TRADING ASIA PTE LTD ＫＴＡ Sales Singapore KIKKOMAN MARKETING & PLANNING ASIA PTE.LTD. ＫＭＰＡ Marketing Research Singapore KIKKOMAN SINGAPORE R&D LABORATORY PTE.LTD. ＫＳＬ Research and Development Singapore DEL MONTE ASIA PTE LTD ＤＭＡ Sales Singapore JFC SINGAPORE PTE. LTD ＪＦＣＳＧ Foods Wholesale Australia KIKKOMAN AUSTRALIA PTY. LIMITED ＫＡＰ Sales Australia JFC AUSTRALIA CO PTY LTD ＪＦＣＡＵＳＴ Foods Wholesale Australia JFC NEW ZEALAND LIMITED ＪＦＣＮＺ Foods Wholesale Taiwan PRESIDENT KIKKOMAN INC. ＰＫＩ Manufacturing China KUNSHAN PRESIDENT KIKKOMAN BIOTECHNOLOGY CO.,LTD. ＫＰＫＩ Manufacturing China PRESIDENT KIKKOMAN ZHENJI FOODS CO.,LTD ＰＫＺ Manufacturing China JFC SHENG YUAN HONG (BEIJING) TRADING CO., LTD. ＪＦＣＢＥ Foods Wholesale China JFC HONG KONG LIMITED ＪＦＣＨＫ Foods Wholesale China DEL MONTE FOODS (XIAMEN) CO.,LTD. ＤＭＸ Manufacturing Thailand SIAM DEL MONTE COMPANY LIMITED ＳＤＭ Manufacturing Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2014 78 Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2011 Contact: Kikkoman Corporation 2-1-1, Nishi-Shinbashi, Minato-ku, Tokyo 105-8428, Japan TEL: +81-3-5521-5131 http://www.kikkoman.com Published December 2011 Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2014 77
