Bersay Communications Group UN Global Compact Communication on Progress (COP) Report 03 March 2014 Chairwoman’s Remarks As one of the leading players of the public relations industry in Turkey, Bersay has been among the pioneers in adopting the international professional standards and has continuously taken steps towards bringing the industry to higher levels. Bersay opted for a new organizational structure which would ensure further and deeper specialization by training the employees based on industries and functions. Each individual is offered a career plan tailormade in line with his/her traits, specialization programs and mentorship support is provided. In office specialization programs are reinforced with seminars, conferences and workshops whereby individuals gain practice. This really is a hard mission when the business world gets more and more communication-educated and new tools like social networks are constantly changing the game. Primary component of our service is our workforce, which we at Bersay call as Human Assets as a substitute for Human Resources. In an effort to help them broaden their horizons, we focused on providing our employees with a wide range of training programs. In 2013, these Bersay initiatives seasoned and the new career scheme was started in 2014. Since signing the UN Global Compact protocol in 2007, we are proud to be recording a continuous progress towards the principles and we are well aware that this is a neverending journey. It is my pleasure to present the fifth Communication on Progress report that represents our commitment to the Global Compact principles on behalf of all Bersay Communications Group employees. Arın Saydam Chairwoman Communication on Progress Report / 2013 About Bersay Communications Group Having its roots from Bersay Communications Consultancy established in 1990, Bersay Communications Group (BIG) was founded in 2005 to meet the communication needs of its clients from a single source through integrated solutions approach. Together with Bersay Communications Consultancy, the Group is comprised of Saydam Event Management, Kesisim Publishing and Design Studio, Dortok & Bersay Health and Wellness Communications, and Bersay Communications Institute. Bersay Communications Group is an exclusive affiliate of Ketchum, one of the leading global communications consultancy networks. Progress in 2013 A. Core Business Like many other countries, communications environment in Turkey is room to a range of agencies from big scale institutionalized corporations to freelancers with media background. As the industry standards cannot be settled within this range, the establishment of a regulated public relations industry gets more and more complicated every year. The agencies are struggling to keep the talented workforce, which is the primary element for value-added consultancy services. Agency teams are facing the challenge of getting behind the knowledge level of the client teams, especially in terms of sector expertise, where client teams enjoy the luxury of focusing only on limited areas and feeding on better information sources. On the other hand, agency teams continue living the same dilemma: Media coverage is never enough to achieve the communication goals but it still is the sine qua non of public relations. The era of agency professionals trained as generalists having average knowledge and expertise on every communications discipline and sector is now over. With this understanding, we started building our new organisation model on creating specialists in priority disciplines and industries that offer the highest potentials in the upcoming years for getting consultancy services. To ensure sustainable service quality, to foster customer satisfaction and to monitor customer feedback, scorecard system, inclusive of the key performance indicators was put in commission. The change management program was scrutinized in department specific pieces. The stakeholders and human assets were informed thoroughly before commissioning. Operational procedures were redefined. Reporting schemes and customer satisfaction surveys were renewed. Reassessed service evaluations criteria were utilized in the formation of a new customer service systematic. Implementation of new questionnaires regarding the Client Satisfaction was started such as 90 days Client Satisfaction Questionnaire driven by the team, one to one evaluation meetings with the randomly selected Clients driven by the Management plus a general Customer Satisfaction Survey driven by an independent research company. Communication on Progress Report / 2013 Another contribution by Bersay to the industry of public relations is the recently developed 5+1 Model. Under 5+1 Model, communications strategy and actions are built upon Corporate P e r f o r m a n c e , P roducts/Services Performance, Issue Management, Agenda Setting and Leadership Communications; then the Corporate Brand Promise is framed in line with a l l these 5 elements. The 5+1 Model enables the management of all communications processes under a main strategy as well as in full integration and harmony. As Bersay, we adopt a consultancy manner that takes into consideration the engineering side of the communications beside its practical side. With this approach, we are aiming to maximize the contribution of communications activities to the business results. This can be done by measuring communications efforts in every phase and analyzing the results in accordance with business objectives. To manage business processes better and to ensure the client safety in operational level, Bersay contemplates crisis plans on a regular basis. Annually, a risk management committee gathers during the budgeting periods to foresee, analyze, evaluate and decode potential risk related issues. The committee scores the issues in the framework of risk scoring. This framework consists of 7 evaluation parameters: business risks, financial risks, operational risks, process related risks, strategic risks, legal risks and environmental risks. Committee analyzes the data coming from the working group. Working group includes: CEO, Head of IT department, Head of Financial Department, Head of Administrative Affairs and Human Assets Manager. A proposal is drafted by the committee which is later offered to the board of directors. Once the proposal is approved, the action plan is put into execution. Bersay, continues to invest to increase the service quality and client & employee satisfaction, the company planned to renew the office equipments such as computers. Keeping in mind the leader role it pursues in the sector, Bersay experts frequently visit universities to convey good communication management messages and to share Bersay practices. Education & Awareness Raising With the understanding that our employees are in the heart of our core business, we transformed our human resources organisation to Human Assets Department in 2010, and since then, we have been spreading this approach also to our clients, business and solution partners. Human Assets is not a support unit for Bersay and with the vision that our most important assets are our employees; we are continuously taking steps in terms of keeping the best talents at Bersay. Bersay Human Assets Policy lies on a framework where establishing a healthy work environment, cultivating team collaboration, enabling the employees to improve themselves on a continuous basis with the help of training programs and employing qualified and efficient personnel at all positions is aimed. Thus efficiency, loyalty and intellectual added value generation are the key principles. As a new implementation, there is a new volunteering approach in the company where 6 volunteer teams work towards the defined objectives that are settled by themselves. This new approach creates integrity, motivation, cohesion and value–added benefits for the company as well as the employees. Communication on Progress Report / 2013 Human Assets Policy Concept; Human Assets Management Procedure based on qualifications;  As pointed out among 2013 targets, New Bersay Organizational structure and Bersay Crystal have been put into use.  15 interlinked processes were created.  Each employee was offered a career plan tailored for him/her.  For each position depicted in this career plan, 60 different assignment profiles and juxtaposed task explanations were defined.  To create a stable, synergic office atmosphere, to promote employee interaction and to intensify intellectual contribution and productivity, volunteer teams were formed with the help of aspirant employees. The action plans and budgets were drafted.  A personal development plan and Training Management system was put into use to support continuous employee improvement.  Each employee was equipped with a Scorecard with annual targets.  Bersay fire, earthquake, sabotage and first aid action plans were drafted and training activities were started.  A new salary and premiums system was developed. Another one among these steps is the great educational track record of BIE since 2008. As Bersay Communications Group, we have established BIE with the aim of providing training opportunities to both Bersay employees as well as the industry professionals. Since its establishment, BIE has hosted numerous conference and seminar programs that have greatly contributed to the world views of the participants. In 2013, we have organized the following training programs at BIE: Bahcesehir CO-OP Project: Consultants of Bersay Communications Group are also the lecturers of the CO-OP Education Model applied by Bahcesehir University with BIE support. The program included major communications disciplines like Reputation Management, Stakeholders and Target Audience, Crisis Management, Media Relations, Corporate Responsibility, Financial Communications, Online Communications, Event Management, Celebrity Communications and Leadership Management, Issue Management and Agenda Setting. 40 students participated in 2012-2013 classes. Communications Profession Trainings: Bersay consultants that contribute to the CO-OP projects presented their trainings to Bersay Group employees as well as participants from client teams. Around 50 participants attended to several lectures at BIE including Strategic Marketing at Crisis Era, Presentation Techniques, Public Relations Authorship, and Client Relations Management topics. Communication on Progress Report / 2013 All Bersay consultants enjoy participating in webinars arranged by Ketchum to betterify Ketchum / Bersay relations and to increase the industry know-how. Bersay also supports TUYID (Turkish Investor Relations Association) since its establishment and Bersay consultants that aim to specialize in finance sector benefit from regular finance trainings of TUYID. Bielog, the online platform of BIE, was kept open to contribution of all Bersay employees as well as PR industry professionals. B. Social Having about 8279 and gradually increasing online and offline materials including books, DVDs, magazine subscriptions focused on communications, BIE library is open to Bersay employees and client teams as well as communications professionals, students, interns, academicians, media members, and the attendants of BIE training programs through a simple membership process. Managed by a professional information management specialist, BIE library has 839 members 70 of which are Bersay employees. BIE’s revenue sources are generally the conferences such as Ducane Cundioğlu seminar on Philosophy, webinars and seminars, as well as all kinds of corporate programs including media trainings. Among these sources are the revenues of books and lectures of Ali Saydam, founder and Honorary President of Bersay Group, who is among the leading communications experts in Turkey. As a non-profit organisation, BIE donates its profits to communications master and doctorate students as scholarships. In 2013, 3 more scholarships were donated. C. Ethics Handling its business in full transparency with its clients and the industry, Bersay and Saydam companies are audited every two years in respect of being suitable to Consultancy Management Standard (CMS). Bersay continues to work with Turkish Ethics and Reputation Society after becoming a corporate member in 2011. Furthermore BIE maintains its activities according to the Ethics Declaration signed in 2012. D. Environment In 2013, Smart Plaza move by Bersay continued to aid the environment as our electricity consumption went down to 31.338 TL from 50.792 TL of 2012 after a %40 downfall recorded in 2013. Waste clustering practice was maintained. Our wastes have been clustered into categories according to their raw materials: Glass, plastic, battery and metal recycling bins are placed in the company and collected by the municipality weekly. Forward Looking We remain committed to Global Compact and its principles in all our strategies, throughout our organisation and during our consultancy services to our clients. In the upcoming years, we’ll continue adding value to our employees and clients, as well as actively contributing to the development of PR industry in Turkey. Communication on Progress Report / 2013 UN Global Compact Principles GC GRI Definition Bersay Approach Bersay Practices Bersay Communications Group believes that every people has right to Recruitment process Rewarding system Business should support work, choose his/her job, freedom of (Finder/Success Fee) HR1, HR2, and respect the protection expression, liberty and security, health HR3, HR4, care and equality. Bersay also consults Employee satisfaction of internationally survey 1 HR5, HR6, proclaimed human rights its suppliers and clients to support the HR7, HR8, same principles. Health insurance HR9 Trainings Internal Communication Internship Program Bersay policies on harassment, Business should ensure employment equity, safety and health Employee satisfaction that they are not complicit ensure that basic human rights are survey 2 HR1, HR2 in human rights firmly respected. Employee contracts and confidentiality Fire, sabotage, first aid trainings Trainings on health insurance Offering private pension funds & trainings Accessible management team Bersay policy on employment equity Bielog communication Business should uphold ensures the provision of good platform LA2, LA4, the freedom of working conditions in which all Weekly regular group LA5, LA13, association and effective employees could express their meetings 3 LA14, HR4, recognition of the right to collective bargaining ideas. Participative management HR5 Information sharing Profit sharing Bonuses Bersay employee policies are specified within employment contracts. Employee contracts cannot be Business should support Bersay is strictly against forced labor against the labor law. The the elimination of all considered as a potential risk also in contracts state the actual working 4 HR7 forms of forced and service sector. terms and conditions and their compulsory labor rights clearly. Thus, all of our employees are aware of these working conditions and their rights. Communication on Progress Report / 2013 Bersay is against the child Business should support the labor and complies with the Bersay does not recruit 5 HR6 effective abolition of child labor minimum age provisions of anybody below the legal age Turkish labor laws and of 18. regulations. Bersay believes every Business should support the individual has to be elimination of discrimination in treated fairly without LA2, LA13, respect of employment and Recruitment process 6 LA14, HR6 considering what their Intensive occupation gender is, what their education&training contract type is, what their program promoted job is and so on. with the scorecard system Discipline code Bersay, like the rest of the society, faces the global challenge of ensuring a Business should healthy and sustainable support a environment in the future. By precautionary signing the Global Compact Waste handling applications 7 4.11 approach to Bersay commits itself to environmental approach more carefully to Decreasing paper usage challenges environmental issues. Bersay Gradually falling electricity and gas signed the Ethics Declaration consumption in 2013. Bersay develops Corporate Social EN2, Responsiblity projects and projects EN5, aiming to EN6, One of the priorities of Bersay Business should undertake Communication Group is to promote greater EN7, create environmental environmental responsibility. The initiatives to promote EN10, greater environment awareness first for our clients are encouraged to apply 8 EN13, responsibility employees and for all of our those projects as their clients, suppliers and environmental and Corporate Social EN14, stakeholders. Responsibility projects. EN18, EN21, EN22, EN26, EN27, EN30 Communication on Progress Report / 2013 EN2, Business should encourage EN5, the development and Water, Paper, Electricity, Natural Gas, diffusion of Bersay encourages its staff to Energy Saving Supporting Recycling 9 EN6, environmentally friendly use environmentally Process EN7, technologies friendly technologies. EN10, EN18, EN26, EN27 Bersay’s employment agreement states that unethical business practice is a reason for ending employment contract. Bersay Memberships: ICCO, Business should work Bersay is against all forms of IDA (Communication Consultancies SO2, against corruption in all its 10 corruption, including Association of Turkey), TEID forms, including extortion SO3, and bribery extortion and bribery. (Turkish Ethics and Reputation SO4 Society) Individual Based Memberships: TUHID (Turkish PR Foundation), TBV (Turkish Information Foundation), TUSIAD (Turkish Industry and Business Association) Communication on Progress Report / 2013 Performance Indicators Actions Aims 2012 Targets 2012Results 2013 Targets 2013 Results 100% job 98% job 100% job 100% job Recruitment Process Fair treatment application application application application responding responding responding responding rate rate rate rate reached To give 10 corporate 13corporate 10corporate 10corporate trainings Human Rights individual trainings trainings trainings Training development 15 optional 15option 18 15 opportunities al optional optional trainings to our conducted training trainings trainings employees s Motivation / 1 year end 1 year end 1 year end Participation 1 year end organization organization / organization / to company organization / Internal / Weekly Weekly Weekly Bizbize Communication processes / Weekly Bizbize Bizbize Bizbize Meetings / 1 year Information Meetings / 1 Meetings / 1 Meetings / 1 end Kickoff sharing year end Kickyear end year end off Kickoff Kickoff To sustain the Discipline Revised Discipline Code fair and Code Revised Non-Discrimination Fair treatment Discipline is revised proper policy Code Labor Standards Number of Increase the 70% of our To sustain the Fair and proper Woman ratio of Fair treatment employees fair and policy was Employees / women are women proper policy sustained Number of Total employees Employees (65% in 2011) To sustain To sustain the Ethical TEID membership Antithe ethical ethical approach in Ethical Business approach in completed and approach in business Memberships Ethics Declaration Practices business business practices was Corruption practices signed practices sustained To reduce To reduce Consumption 40% productivity in Environment Environmentally consumption consumption rate was Water & friendly electricity and continue consumption and and continue reduced. Electricity Usage applications and and Waste supporting the 60% in water supporting the Recycling less consumption Management recyclin consumption recycling process g process maintained proces 8 scholarships 3 more For our nonprofit 9 scholarships / enterprise BIE to / 400 sTL for Sustain the scholarships / 400 400 TL for each scholarship Scholarships deliver its first each TL for each scholar by program scholarships scholar by scholar by month month for 12 month for for 12 months months 12 months Communication on Progress Report / 2013 2 books of Volunteer Activities Ali Saydam: To publish “Perception nonprofit Sustaining Sustaining BIELOG and books Management”, the ongoing the ongoing Publication English version of Publications supporting the book book activities “How to Loose development publishing Wives and Clients”, publishing continued of the sector and “Power is Solitude” and BIELOG and to donate BIELOG Sustaining of plannings their income plannings BILEOG Communication on Progress Report / 2013
