Global Compact Communication On Progress 2014 Global Compact Communication On Progress Christensen & Co. architects a/s Member since 2010 Address Bragesgade 10B. DK-2200 Copenhagen Denmark www.cco.as Contact Michael Christensen, founder, director. Heidi Pedersen, Public Relation & Executive Assistant 3 Global Compact Communication On Progress Executive Statement of Continuing Commitment We are pleased to confirm our ongoing commitment and support to Global Compact and the 10 principles covering the issue areas; human rights, labour, environment and anticorruption. In this Communication on Progress report, we express our support for the principles, which are a part of the core values of Christensen & Co. architects. We believe that good architecture applies to all aspects of a building. Neither design nor function, economy nor process should be considered separately, but holistically together. Good architecture makes a difference. Architects with intention, empathy and thoroughness make buildings that actively can change people’s lives. Michael Christensen Director and founder Christensen & Co. architects. Suatainability through design 4 5 Our new sustainable City Hall in Lund, Sweden. Global Compact Global Compact Communication On Progress Communication On Progress Short description of the Company Christensen & Co. architects (CCO) was established by Michael Christensen in 2006 and has gained a reputation of building healthy sustainable new buildings with a good indoor climate. CCO has won a number of major international and Danish competitions, amongst them buildings for education, leisure, culture and offices with a focus on sustainability. Our projects covers square meters ranging from around 2000 m² and up to 50.000 m² In 2013 we delivered the first DGNB certificated building in the new Nordhavn area in Copenhagen; Soil Centre Copenhagen. We are also proud participants in the charity project to build a foster home for 20 orphaned children and food a kitchen will the facility to feed up to 200 children from the village, as well as a medical unit in one of South Africa’s poorest province of Limpopo. Architecture is one of the fundamental pillars of our society. Worldwide, buildings account for 40% of CO2 emissions, through responsible architecture we can help to provide a higher life quality. We aim to create buildings, built from environmentally sound materials and buildings that contribute to a sustainable and responsible society. We constantly seek new innovative solutions, through close collaborations and extensive research. Our ambition is to constantly challenge architectural methods and processes. We believe that unique and characteristic solutions occurs when location, function, culture, climate challenges the architectural intention; Sustainability through integrated design. We support NGOs like Architects Without Borders and the Danish NGO campaign The World’s Best News part of the Danish contribution to of the UN initiative End Poverty 2015 Campaign, supporting The United Nations Millennium Development Goals. We are a team of 50 people; architects, design engineers and administrative staff. The office is situated in a residential area in the Northern part of Copenhagen. Technical University of Denmark: DTU Compute. Lyngby Campus 6 7 Sustainable research and education building and furniture design. Global Compact Communication On Progress Response to the four issue areas The centre of our approach to Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) is our architectural philosophy, to create buildings that are healthy for people as well as the environment. As consultants we advise our clients towards decisions that implement and introduce sustainable solutions in the building project´s through dialogue, workshops and an interactive process involving the end users. Together with the client and experts, we engage in the various issues and work together, promoting a culture of inclusion with everyone involved. With the aim to get decisions that will ultimately benefit the environment, the end user and stay within budget. We adhere to the principles of Global ENVIRONMENT Compact by following the four issue The end user and the environment is areas as stated below. a focal point for the practice. Being an architectural company our most HUMAN RIGHTS important output is our buildings. In our business approach we follow the Human Rights principles, as described Our main aim is to create buildings with a in the 1948 General Assembly Universal healthy indoor climate whilst respecting Declaration of Human Rights. the environment. During the building process as well as in considerations for We are a, predominately, Scandinavianthe life cycle of the building, with respect based office with projects in for the surrounding area and existing Scandinavia and we take outmost care nature and context within which we are and precautions, to ensure that Human building. Rights are upheld throughout all stages. In our choice of materials and fabricants and throughout the supply chain on ANTI-CORRUPTION projects we are involved in, as well as the Promoting close cross culture collaborations within which we engage. collaboration between the various disciplines within the building industry, the sub-contractors and our supply LABOUR chain ensures a healthy working climate. At Christensen & Co. architects we Where corruption is not permissible. comply with the labour standards as described by the International Labour Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. There is complete freedom of association at Christensen & Co. architects, as well as the recognition of the right to collective bargaining. There is a staff representative at the office, chosen in a vote among all employees. New Nursery at Islands Brygge Copenhagen Workshop sketch: preparation for the initial dialogue with the users and the client. Tryghed og udsyn En tryg afgrænset verden, med udsigt til den store verden når man har mod på det. 8 9 Global Compact Communication On Progress Practical actions OUR APPROACH A courtyard will provide the central of the end user, part of our commitment Our foundation is based on dialogue social area of the foster home. A large is to share the concept behind the and recognition of the social tree will be positioned in the middle of design with the users in order for them responsibilities of the practice. We the courtyard, providing shade. There to be able to use the building to its encourage communication and broad will be an outdoor fireplace and the maximum. In a building with numerous collaboration within the office, as well as courtyard will be the social focal point sustainable and low-energy technical a close collaborative cooperation with for the children and adults. functions, there has to be a close all external partners on the projects. relationship between design and end Ensuring that our knowledge is updated ACTIONS UNDERTAKEN user. with the latest research, in order to give Christensen & Co architects has been the best possible advice to clients. engaged in the development of new We have an ongoing schedule of internal policies and tools for CSR in the Danish seminars in the office, a morning of One of the drivers of a successful architectural practises. exchange of knowledge where project ACTIVITIES building is respectful collaboration experiences are shared. We invite Charity project in South Africa. between all parties included. We The project is initiated by the external speakers to the seminars to The opening of the foster home and medical clinic in Limpopo, South Africa therefore engage in extensive user Association of Danish Architectural enlighten us on any new methods on a involvement dialogue from the very Firms (Danske Ark) who has given subject. Subjects have included: beginning of the project and throughout commissioned social responsibility User dialogue, workshops, education the planning. Input from the end user consultants from Responsible Assets to and research environments, teamwork is of particular significance, and their cooperate with three architectural firms and flexibility. knowledge of how the practicality of the in Denmark; Henning Larsen Architects, daily life in the future building will unfold, C. F. Moller Architects and Christensen a prerequisite for the project´s success. & Co. We have worked together with the aim to develop new procedures and We believe in ambitious and challenging tools for handling CSR in architectural collaborations where dialogue is key and projects in Danish architectural the collective aim is high from the outset. practises. The new CSR tools will We also focus on measuring the be presented to the professional performance of the sustainable community in Denmark at a conference buildings. on June 11 2012. We at CCO will add to the general ACTIVITIES work by developing specific tools and In 2013 we were asked to take part in code of conduct for internal use, as a charity initiative to build a foster home a practical tool for the management housing 20-40 children, and a medical staff and project leaders. We find clinic in Alldays. it hugely satisfying to participate in these projects, which help us push the Alldays is a small town in the province boundaries for modern building design. of Lompopo, South Africa, one of the Not only does it keep us up to date in the poorest provinces in South Africa. field of innovative sustainable initiatives it also offers a constant challenge in We have take great pleasure in offering our quest to create healthy modern our services, free of charge, to the buildings. project. Meeting the locals, staff at both the foster home and medical clinic and We are looking forward to see the new getting an insight into life in one of the CSR tools put into practice after, and poorest communities in South Africa has hope that everyone within the Danish been an experience. architectural community will find it easier to act responsible on a daily basis. The building is build from local material and by local workers with assistance We design our buildings for longevity from young people from Alldays as part and to improve life for the end user. of their training as craftsmen. There has to be a clear relationship between the design and the behaviour 10 11 Global Compact Communication On Progress Measurement of Completely different spaces in one oasis with a view of the surroundings engineers to excavator drivers. The sculptural form. through the carefully placed windows, materials in the interior are dominated outcome The sculptural building makes for a each offering beautifully framed views of by the raw concrete of the outer walls, protecting boundary between areas the landscape or the waters of Øresund. walls and fixtures made of plywood, and CASE: SOIL CENTRE trafficked by heavy machinery and At the same time, placement of the floors made from bedding mortar. COPENHAGEN the protected nature site, and with its windows in the facade optimises the We are continuing our work zigzagging shape the building creates use of natural light, so the character The first DGNB certified building in creating sustainable buildings and spaces that face either towards the soil and quality of that light becomes an Nordhavn opened a new zero-energy building arrival area or the nature site. integrated part of the architectural KMC Nordhavn is the first DGNB in the summer of 2013. The building narrative. certified building in Denmark built after will house a new environmental The facades are clad in stretch metal the test phase has ended and the very center at Copenhagen´s new made from rusty weathering steel. On A green and luxuriant interior first certified building in Nordhavn. It is Northern Harbour Area, an the roof tall grass and, in time, even When you step in through the main a zero energy building, which combines upcoming area developed with an smallish bushes and trees will grow. In entrance you can see right through the passive and active energy efficiency FACT SHEET innovative sustainable green focus. this sense the building makes up for the building to the nature site behind it. Two measures based on an overall view, piece of the landscape it has occupied, large indoor trees, along with the lush which encompasses energy efficiency, General contractor: Between the sky and the ocean. and will help preserve the natural plant wall, create a green and delightful building materials and social aspects. CPH City & Port Development On the edge of Øresund, where the sky biodiversity of the area. The weathering internal contrast to the dusty and rough User: Copenhagen Municipality. meets he ocean behind the Freeport and steel is protected by a red layer of rust, exterior environment. Dressing rooms, The design of the building results in The Technical and Environmental the Container Terminal lies Copenhagen visually connecting it to the area and the laboratories and the office section an extremely low energy consumption Administration Municipality’s new soil treatment centre, ambitious environmental profile of the are all situated in one interior element and the necessary energy is provided Soil Centre Copenhagen. It is here building. It offers, besides the beautiful that almost resembles a huge piece using geothermal energy from the many Area: 1,800 m2. millions of cubic metres of dug up soil red colour, a robust surface that can of furniture sitting between the tall kilometres of piping underneath the Architect: Christensen & Co from construction projects and metro withstand the dust and dirt in this harsh concrete walls. black asphalt in front of the building Engineer: Grontmij building sites around Copenhagen environment. as well as solar panels and solar create new ground for Copenhagen´s The office section is on the first floor, cells integrated into the slanting roof new urban area Nordhavn. The centre consists of a series of very while dressing rooms and laboratories surfaces. different spaces and functions, and are on the ground floor. The large The centre employees analyse and the shape of the building arose from number of roof windows shower the handle the contaminated soil, making the particular need for height and building with a pleasant light from above, sure that it is used in an environmentally spaciousness. The building consists and along with the facade windows, safe manner. The landscape at of an office section for employees, allows for some very good natural light Nordhavn is flat and makes for a laboratories, dressing rooms, two conditions in the office section. The fascinating and ever changing scenery, large workshops, garages and storage floor plan encourages interdisciplinary giant piles of soil and huge excavations. spaces. At the centre of the building synergy between the centre’s very More than anything, it looks like a rough the office section makes for a peaceful different departments ranging from lunar landscape with left-over building materials and rusty metal parts. To the Northwest of Soil Centre Copenhagen the landscape is contrastingly lush with little green hills, shrubbery and little ponds and lakes fringed with rushes. A wild nature site filled with sounds from birds, swans and mewing seagulls. It is also here the protected European Green Toad, has made a new home for itself. This has led to a decision to always preserve the area the way it is. With this very unique context Soil Centre Copenhagen grows out of the landscape with its characteristic shape and rusty red facades. The building has a distinctive silhouette against the vast horizon, and the building is simultaneously an integrated part of the landscape and an obviously man-made object. 12 13 Global Compact Communication On Progress 14 15 For further information please go to our web site www.cco.as
