2014 HYUNDAI ENGINEERING & CONSTRUCTION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ENGLISH This report is printed on FSCTM certified paper using soy ink. 2014 HYUNDAI ENGINEERING & CONSTRUCTION ABOUT THIS REPORT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Intergrated Reporting This report is Hyundai E&C’s 5th sustainability report. Hyundai E&C has been publishing its annual sustainability report in an integrated format since 2011 to disclose the economic, environmental and social CONTENTS values it created for the stakeholders in a faithful and balanced way. Hyundai E&C contributed to the development of international standards by participating in the Integrated Reporting Pilot Program managed by the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC). INTEGRATED REPORTING STRATEGY FRAMEWORK ST GY TE RA rea n tio Gr ow th 16 MANAGEMENT & STRATEGY 30 ENVIRONMENT ble Risks/Opportunities eC Va ina sta lu Su 2. 1. INTEGRATED REPORTING Future Outlook Resource Distribution S AL CI Performance Management AN FINANCIALS FIN NON-FINANCIALS 3. Integrated Value NON-FINANCIALS 42 TECHNOLOGY 52 EMPLOYEE 1. Value Creation 2. Sustainable Growth 3. Integrated Value Hyundai E&C's value creation process Establishment of midto long-term strategies Connection between financial information Future outlook based on the analysis of on sustainability management and non-financial information megatrends Activities and accomplishments in economic, Analysis on the efficiency of sustainability Strategies on a new growth business and environmental, and social sectors management activities new market entrance Catalogue of sustainability management targets Report of the sales increase and cost reduction of five areas and KPIs cases due to sustainability management About This Report 62 SOCIETY 74 APPENDIX Reporting Period & Scope This report covers Hyundai E&C’s economic, environmental, and social activities and performances of the headquarters as well as domestic and overseas sites from January 1, 2013 to December 31, 2013. In addition, we partially included meaningful activities and performances until May 2014. For the quantitative performance, data of the recent 3 years are reported so that the yearly development can be analyzed. Reporting Standard This report has been prepared based on the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3.1 Guidelines and the Construction and Real Estate Sector Supplement. This report also reflects the ten principles of the UN Global Compact and the main agenda of ISO 26000. For the financial performance, Hyundai E&C reports consolidated data about itself and its subsidiaries based on the Korean International Financial Reporting Standards (K-IFRS). Assurance In order to ensure the credibility of the Sustainability Report, an independent assurance and the GRI Application Level Check have been carried out. The results are available on pages 77 through 78 of this report. 2014 HYUNDAI ENGINEERING & CONSTRUCTION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT The Passion of Each and Every Member of CONTENTS Hyundai E&C is Creating a Sustainable Tomorrow. 02 Message from the CEO 04 Corporate Philosophy & Vision & NT 06 Business at a Glance ME MANAGEMENT & STRATEGY GE NA MA 08 HYUNDAI E&C BIG PICTURE The world is the land of infinite possibilities and the stage GY TE RA where Hyundai E&C makes its dream come true. ST Hyundai E&C realizes a sustainable future through the global value creation. ENVIRONMENT Environmental issues due to the climate change and resource scarcity EM PL OY EE 16 MANAGEMENT & STRATEGY 30 ENVIRONMENT are crises to companies and at the same time, opportunities. 18 Global Value Creation 32 Maximizing Eco-efficiency Hyundai E&C minizmizes environmental impacts by maximizing the eco-efficiency. 22 Creating Sustainable Future 36 Minimizing Environmental Impacts 24 Sound Corporate Governance 40 Environmental Performances TECHNOLOGY 26 Ethical Management Enhancement at a Glance Technology is the future of Hyundai E&C GY 28 Strategic Risk Management LO NO and the innovative DNA that makes the impossible possible. CH TE Hyundai E&C strives for the customer satisfaction by differentiating the technology capability. EN T M RON VI EN EMPLOYEE Employees enable the innovation 42 TECHNOLOGY 52 EMPLOYEE and are the driving forces of Hyundai E&C's business activities. SO CI 44 Differentiating Technology Capability 54 Cultivating Innovative Talents ET Y Hyundai E&C realizes employee values by cultivating innovative talents. 50 Customer Satisfaction through Innovation 57 Balancing Work and Life 60 Safe Working Environment SOCIETY Suppliers are the most important companions and local communities are the base of business. Hyundai E&C seeks to grow together with the society by enhancing the capability of its entire value chain. 62 SOCIETY 74 APPENDIX 64 Empowering Value Chain 75 Financial Performance 66 Shared Growth with Suppliers 76 Sustainability KPIs 69 Strategic Social Contribution 77 Third Party Assurance Statement 72 2013 HDEC Social Contribution Highlights 79 Greenhouse Gas Verification Statement 80 GRI Index 2014 COVER STORY 84 GRI Application Level Check Hyundai E&C is making a construction history and paving the way Statement for a sustainable future with our corporate spirit of creative daring. The 2014 cover represents the daring and progressive mind-set of each member 85 Major Awards, Accolades of Hyundai E&C and our collective will to create a sustainable base for mankind. & Membership 2014 HYUNDAI E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT INTRO Message from the CEO ECONOMY ENVIRONMENT TECHNOLOGY We will continue to fulfill our role and responsibility as a global leading company in sustainability management. EMPLOYEE Dear stakeholders, We would like to express our gratitude for your concern and support that propel us to fulfill our social responsibilities. Since our establishment in 1947, Hyundai E&C has strived to lead the national growth and enhance the quality of the people’s lives as the first Korean construction company. In addition, we do our best to promote human welfare on the basis of the corporate culture, “Human is everything”. We have focused on sustainability management to actively respond to the ever-changing market of construction, and SOCIETY achieve a long-term growth while we leap forward to become the global integrated engineering company. This year, we established five areas of sustainability management to build a foundation for the shared growth of the company and the society: management & strategy, environment, technology, employee, and society. Hyundai E&C’s sustainability managements are achieving valuable results. APPENDIX For the first time in the Korean construction industry, Hyundai E&C entered the global market in 1965. In November 2013, we opened up the door for a new era of the Korean construction market by achieving the overseas orders received of more than 100 billion USD (cumulative) and won the first place in the Construction Capability Evaluation for five consecutive years. Furthermore, we have been included in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) for four consecutive years and received the first place as the world’s sustainability leader in the construction sector in 2011 and 2013. Particularly, we have been recognized as the business partner who established a successful model of win-win partnership between a large enterprise and SMEs by providing various programs and supporting systems that assist the suppliers to enter the global market. Moreover, we have focused on developing environment-friendly green technologies to acquire patents and new technology certifications and are actively applying them to our sites. We will take these outstanding performances as a stepping stone to fulfill our role and responsibility as a global leading company in sustainability management. With a broader perspective, we will grow further together. Please look We would like to express our gratitude for your concern and support that propel us forward to Hyundai E&C’s promising future which fosters a better tomorrow and a bigger happiness. I kindly ask our to fulfill our social responsibilities. companions’ and our stakeholders’ love and interest. Thank you. President & CEO l Jung Soo-Hyun HYUNDAI ENGINEERING & CONSTRUCTION 02 Message from the CEO Message from the CEO 03 2014 HYUNDAI E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT INTRO Corporate Philosophy & Vision ECONOMY Hyundai E&C's VISION Hyundai E&C’s creative foresight, active willpower, and strong initiative have been the driving force for the growth and the source of the competitiveness throughout its 67 years of history. Since the In order to accomplish its vision that states “as a global leading provider of high-value engineering solutions, ENVIRONMENT incorporation into Hyundai Motor Group in 2011, Hyundai E&C has shared and internalized the we will create the foundation for a better life through cross-business synergy and convergence with future Group’s management philosophy and core values to strengthen its capability to become a genuine technologies.” Hyundai E&C strives to create the best possible values by respecting humanity, implementing global construction company. environmental management, and growing harmoniously with our stakeholders. Midto Long-term Business Strategy For the successful realization of the Group’s vision, Hyundai E&C The Group's Management Philosophy established a midto long-term business strategy in 2011 to determine strategic tasks for each division and select TECHNOLOGY On the basis of the Group’s management philosophy, “realizing the dream of mankind by creating a new future core products and new growth businesses. In addition, we newly established the Strategic Planning Group in through ingenious thinking and continuously challenging new frontiers,” Hyundai E&C is accomplishing a history of March 2013 to enhance our research ability and capability to develop new businesses and enter new markets as success and is leading the future. well as to organize the system for executing strategy. EMPLOYEE Customer Collaboration Globality We promote a customer-driven We create synergy through We respect the diversity of corporate culture by providing a sense of ‘togetherness’ that is fostered cultures and customs, aspire best quality and impeccable service by mutual communication to be the world’s best at what we do, with all values centered on our customers. and cooperation within the company and strive to become and with our business partners. a respected global corporate citizen. Together WE MANAGEMENT BUILD SOCIETY for PHILOSOPHY The Group's VISION a Better Future Hyundai E&C's VISION TOMORROW CORE Challenge People VALUE We refuse to be complacent, We believe the future of our organization embrace every opportunity for greater challenge, lied in the hearts and capabilities of individual members, APPENDIX and are confident in achieving our goals and will help them develop their potential with unwavering passion and ingenious thinking. by creating a corporate culture that respects talent. Unlimited Strive for the business’s continuous growth in order to take The Group's Core Values Hyundai E&C's MISSION Sense of the responsibility for our employees and their families as well Every member of the Group realizes the future vision by Responsibility Seek the highest quality to unlimitedly take the responsibility for our customers’ happiness and safety abiding by, with priority, the Group’s five core values as a As a global leading provider Through cross-business synergy standard of their action and decision making. By sharing of high-value engineering soluions Prepare the basis for sustainable growth and internalizing the core values, we will promote a Provide integrated construction services Engrain a DNA of pursuing the unlimited growth and development communal spirit and solidarity, and establish an advanced Enhance partnership with relevant industries to and diversify the type of overseas contracts expand business areas Realization Refuse to stay comfortable or complacent, yet have an entrepreneurial corporate culture that matches the reputation of the Establish an optimized management infrastructure of spirit to take the risk of failure and pioneer new business areas company. Possibilities In addition, we will step forward to become a creative,  ealize even the smallest possibility into a reality R and create a fundamental, added value global construction company by implementing challenges Convergence with future technologies Create the foundation for a better life and cooperation and by respecting customers and Ensure that individual technologies developed Value ‘people’ as a top priority employees. With the open mind and global capability of in separate work areas are integrated and utilized and create a better foundation for life Provide the best-quality products and services to as many people as in new areas to create new growth drivers by having a shared mindset with customers Respect possible and contribute to the development of human society’s every member, Hyundai E&C’s greater tomorrow begins. for overall standard of living Fulfill the role as a catalyst of new growth business areas Grow together with all stakeholders and contribute to the society Mankind Proactively respond to environmental issues and participate in philanthropic activities to contribute to the world’s local communities 04 Corporate Philosophy & Vision Corporate Philosophy & Vision 05 2014 HYUNDAI E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT INTRO Business at a Glance ECONOMY Company Overview & Business Portfolio Major Financial Performance in 2013 Backed by advanced technological capabilities and verified execution abilities, Hyundai E&C is creating a better tomorrow by accomplishing the shared growth with stakeholders all over the world. As of May 2014, a total of 5,492 employees are working at the headquarters, 3 domestic and 27 overseas branches, and 179 domestic and 73 overseas sites. By stably operating businesses in Southeast Asia, the Middle East, Latin America, the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS), Orders Received 21,717.3 billion KRW ENVIRONMENT and Africa, Hyundai E&C is growing to become a global advanced company with larger potential and competitiveness. Revenue 13,938.3 billion KRW Orders Received per Region Opperating Income 792.9 billion KRW 569.6 billion KRW Domestic and Overseas TECHNOLOGY Net Profit Branches (including Liaison Offices) EUROPE MIDDLE EAST NORTH AMERICA / PACIFIC London 877.71 million USD 62,837.50 million USD 610.22 million USD Credit Rating* AA* Credit rating from Korea Ratings Corporation, NICE Information Service, and Korea Investors Service EMPLOYEE Algiers Istanbul Tripoli Tashkent Tehran Baghdad Houston Beijing Kuwait Al-Khobar Joong-bu Riyadh Dubai New Delhi SOCIETY Ho-nam Tokyo Doha Muscat Young-nam Caracas Abudabi Dhaka Bogota Hanoi AFRICA ASIA LATIN AMERICA APPENDIX 320.96 million USD Kuala Lumpur Singapore 35,825.76 million USD 3,966.94 million USD Jakarta Johannesburg Montevideo CIVIL WORKS BUILDING WORKS PLANT WORKS POWER & ENERGY WORKS Hyundai E&C’s Civil Works Division has helped the national economic With an indomitable will and creativity, the Building Works Division creates Hyundai E&C’s Plant Works Division is expanding further to new markets of The Power & Energy Works Division pioneers global markets of the electric development by pioneering global civil and environmental business markets the future space where people and the environment can coexist by leading higher value-added business through its outstanding business execution power generation, desalination plants, facilities for power transmission and based on its advanced technology and experience accumulated for 67 the market changes and shifting a new paradigm in the construction ability and technologies. On the basis of its rich construction experience industrial electricity with its world-class, source engineering technology years. By operating projects including land development, ports, railways, industry. Hyundai E&C will solidify its place as a Global Space Creator in mega-scale petrochemical plants, steelworks & refineries, and nuclear and competitiveness in performance. Hyundai E&C continues to enhance roads, bridges, water resources, and the environment through green which leads the world’s construction industry by further developing the power generation projects and high reputation, Hyundai E&C will strengthen its position as a Total Power & Utility Provider that expands cutting-edge environment business organizations and the technology development fields of environment-friendly green buildings, high-rise buildings, and its capability in the global plant engineering, procurement, and construction future businesses by securing the global business capability through the in the pace of the environmental markets, Hyundai E&C provides a core mixed development business with exceptional technological abilities that to lead the world’s plant construction industry. expansion to new markets, by enhancing capabilities of human resources, infrastructure solution for various countries’ economic development. governments and clients around the world can trust. and by growing together with the Group. 06 Business at a Glance Business at a Glance 07 HYUNDAI E&C BIG PICTURE The Beginning of the Change Hyundai E&C’s challenge to create a sustainable future BIG PICTURE 01 < Megatrend Outlook > for the society and the company Identifying the opportunity and risk factors based on the analysis of 2030 midto long-term trends BIG PICTURE 02 < Challenges to Opportunities > Preparing countermeasures against changes of the future in advance by securing differentiated source technologies through the analysis of the four major megatrends in the construction industry BIG PICTURE 03 < Hyundai E&C Creating Shared Value > Growing together with the society by creating shared values through Hyundai E&C’s sustainability management 08 HYUNDAI E&C BIG PICTURE 09 BIG The world’s sustainability is threatened by global climate changes, population growth, energy and water scarcity, and resource depletion. The rapid growth in world’s population PICTURE has led to the global urbanization when risks caused by shortages of water have increased drastically. The industrialization of developing countries has accelerated the 44% Increase in urban population 01 exhaustion of energy and resources. 110% Scale of urban expansion MEG Megatrend Outlook UN / Seto, et. al. (2011) ATR E ND 01 change 01 The global urbanization centered on developing countries already began 53% Increase in water withdrawals 84% UN Habitat Increase in water stressed population ME 2030 Water R. Group / WEF GA change 02 TR EN The world-wide water shortage and risks D 0 began to spread 2 WDP 2010 The Acceleration of the Change on a World Scale The Outlook of 2030 change 03 33% Most corporations depend absolutely Increase in on oil, coal, and gas primary energy demand IEA 03 N D 84% AT RE Increase in electricity generation MEG change 04 IEA The extraction amount of mineral / metal / biomass reached 37 billion tons KPMG 55% Increase in raw material extraction (including fossil fuels) D 04 T REN SERI MEGA 10 HYUNDAI E&C BIG PICTURE 11 BIG PICTURE 01 Intensified socio-economic problems in urban areas URBANIZATION caused by the concentration of city population and the rise of urban poor MEG Megatrend Outlook ATR E ND 01 WATER SCARCITY / POLLUTION ME GA TR EN D 0 Outbreak of security threats on water supply between businesses and markets 2 as the growth and expansion of the businesses are endangered INDUSTRY MEGATRENDS RISK FACTORS Based on the analysis of the global megatrends, Hyundai E&C defined four major megatrends of the construction industry: urbanization, water scarcity/pollution, energy/fuel, and resource scarcity. By analyzing the future of each megatrend, Hyundai E&C strives to identify risks and opportunities and integrate them into the business. 03 ENERGY / FUEL N D AT RE MEG Advent of severe crises on energy caused by sudden changes in energy policy, supply, and fuel prices MATERIAL RESOURCE SCARCITY D 04 T REN MEGA World-wide excessive competitions on securing resources including metal, biomass, agricultural products, and water 10 HYUNDAI E&C BIG PICTURE 11 BIG Technology is the future and the key to solve problems of the planet. Hyundai E&C sets midto long-term R&D goals for each of the four megatrends and strives to secure PICTURE differentiated source technologies to lead the ever-changing construction industry. Provide large/smart infrastructure 02 in accordance with expansion of the urban areas URBA NIZA TIO N Challengs to Opportunities RISK & OPPORTUNITY 01 Intensified socio-economic problems Overcome environmental risks through URBANIZATION in urban areas water treatment and environmental WA restoration technologies TE RS CA RC RISK & OPPORTUNITY 02 IT Y WATER SCARCITY / Outbreak of security threats between /P businesses and markets on water supply ol POLLUTION lu tio n INDUSTRY MEGATREND R&D Goals for Each Megatrend ENERGY / FUEL RISK & OPPORTUNITY 03 EL Advent of severe crises on energy shortage / FU GY Respond to energy scarcity ENE R MATERIAL RESOURCE with renewable energy and low-carbon SCARCITY high-efficiency technologies RISK & OPPORTUNITY 04 World-wide excessive competitions on securing resources TY R CI CA ES U RC Prepare for the age of limited resources R ESO RIAL by developing waste-recycling MATE technologies and the alternate materials 12 HYUNDAI E&C BIG PICTURE 13 BIG Hyundai E&C strives to become a global integrated engineering company that solves the problems of the future by providing sustainable construction products and environmentPICTURE friendly technology services with its differentiated technology capability. pecialized building , ed s Advanc 02 High-ris Environ e building, mental remode ling URBA NIZA TIO N Challengs to Opportunities nel Long tun ng span bridge, Super-lo ies chnolog ucture te rt dvanced po infr a s tr art URBANIZATION ment of large/sm tion infr astructure, A Develop orta Smart transp WA TE RS CA RC iation, plant, Soil remed IT ter treatment Water treatment system Y Development of wa gies bed restoration Ecological river WATER SCARCITY / restoration technolo /P me nta l and environ ol POLLUTION lu tio n TECHNOLOGY HYUNDAI E&C Technology is the future and the key to solving problems of the planet. Research & Development for Each Megatrend Development of renewable ener gy and low-carbon high-efficien cy technologies ENERGY / FUEL Gas plant, Coal gasification plan t, Biogas plant EL Develop / FU ment of w and altern aste-rec R GY ate mate rials ycling te chnologie ENE s Offshore w MATERIAL RESOURCE ind, Offsho Offshore pla re wind/tida SCARCITY nt, Concen l energy, trated Sola r Power (CS P) Combine d cycle p Circulati ower pla ng Fluidiz nt, Green ed Bed C smart bu ombustio ilding, TY n (CFBC R CI ) boiler CA ES Energy U RC /waste storage R ESO Resour , RIAL ce recy MATE constru c ling hig ction m h-perfo aterials rmance 12 HYUNDAI E&C BIG PICTURE 13 BIG Hyundai E&C implements a company-wide sustainability management to promote its long-term growth as well as the prosperity of humanity. In 2014, Hyundai E&C has Strategic Management PICTURE established five areas of sustainability – strategic management, environment management, technology management, talent management, and social management – to build a The whole world is the land of infinite possibilities and the stage MANAGEMENT & STRATEGY 03 tomorrow where the company and the society grow together. where Hyundai E&C makes its dream come true. P.16 ※ Creating Shared Value (CSV): The management principle by which economic value and social value are created simultaneously by accepting the demands of the society and solving problems. Hyundai E&C realizes a sustainable future through the global value creation. Hyundai E&C Creating Shared Value Environment Management URBANIZATION Environmental issues due to the climate change and resource scarcity ENVIRONMENT are crises to companies and at the same time, opportunities. P.30 Hyundai E&C minimizes environmental impacts by maximizing the eco-efficiency. WATER SCARCITY / POLLUTION Technology Management TECHNOLOGY WE Sustainability Technology is the future of Hyundai E&C and the innovative DNA that makes the impossible possible. P.42 BUILD Management TOMORROW Approaches Hyundai E&C strives for the customer satisfaction by differentiating the technology capability. Talent Management ENERGY / FUEL Employees enable the innovation EMPLOYEE and are the driving forces of Hyundai E&C's business activities. P.52 Hyundai E&C realizes employee values MATERIAL RESOURCE by cultivating innovative talents. SCARCITY Social Management Suppliers are the most important companions SOCIETY and local communities are the base of business. P.62 INDUSTRY Hyundai E&C's VISION MEGATREND Hyundai E&C seeks to grow together with the society by enhancing the capability of its entire value chain. 14 HYUNDAI E&C BIG PICTURE 15 BIG Creating Business Value PICTURE Sustainable Habitat Creating Global Value MANAGEMENT & STRATEGY 03 P.16 For Human ECONOMY Hyundai E&C Social Value Creating Creating Shared Value Sustainable Future Business Value Maximizing Eco-efficiency URBANIZATION ENVIRONMENT P.30 ENVIRONMENT BUSINESS value Social Value WATER SCARCITY / Creating Business Value Minimizing POLLUTION Environmental Impacts Sustainable Construction Products Business Value Environment-friendly Technology Service Differentiating Technology Capability TECHNOLOGY P.42 Creating TECHNOLOGY Shared Value Social Value Ensuring SOCIAL value Customer Satisfaction Business Value Creating Social Value ENERGY / FUEL Cultivating Innovative Talents EMPLOYEE Solutions for Mankind’s Social Problems P.52 Solutions for Planet’s Environmental Problems EMPLOYEE MATERIAL RESOURCE Social Value SCARCITY Realizing Employee Value Business Value Empowering Value Chain SOCIETY P.62 Hyundai E&C aims to achieve the sustainable development of the SOCIETY INDUSTRY company and the society by creating shared values. Hyundai E&C MEGATREND will create a sustainable habitat for human with confidence that it can accomplish everything imaginable, indomitable determination, creative Social Value foreknowledge, and challenging spirit. Accomplishing Shared Growth 14 HYUNDAI E&C BIG PICTURE 15 100 10 1 st MANAGEMENT Billion USD of Cumulative Overseas Orders Billion USD of Annual Overseas Orders Place at the Construction Capability & STRATEGY for the First Time in Korean Construction in 2012 and 2013 Evaluation for 5 Consecutive Years Industry P.18 P.19 P.18 Creating Business Value Global Value Creating Shared Value ECONOMY Hyundai E&C realizes a sustainable future through Social Value Creating the global value creation. Sustainable Future Our Approach The world’s sustainability is threatened by the continuous climate changes, population growth, energy and water scarcity, and resource depletion. Hyundai E&C seeks to become a global engineering company which provides a solution for such problems and creates global values by providing environmentfriendly construction products and distinguished technology services. Hyundai E&C strives to strengthen the basis for a sustainable future in its own way. We enhance our business portfolio, create economic values by investing in new growth industries and entering into emerging markets, establish a sound corporate governance with a transparent ethical management system, and handle risks strategically. ▲ Machang Bridge, Korea / APR 2004 JUN 2008 ECONOMY 17 2014 HYUNDAI E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT INTRO Global Value Creation ECONOMY BOUNDARY MANAGEMENT APPROACH Construction Capability Hyundai E&C has been leading the development of Korea throughout the history. Now we are Hyundai E&C won the first place in the Construction Capability Evaluation 2013 announced by the Ministry of 2013 Construction Capability Evaluation Land, Infrastructure, and Transport (formerly known as the Ministry of Land, Transport, and Maritime Affairs) for HDEC Supplier Customer Community Other advancing one step further to open up a new chapter of the sustainable world. In order to do so, 1 5 Hyundai E&C strives to enhance its business portfolio with strategies by divisions, invest in new st Consecutive five consecutive years, reaffirming the company’s position as a pillar of the Korean construction industry. We are ENVIRONMENT Place years developing business, and enter new emerging markets. striving to grow in both scale and quality to become a global leader, not just the top contractor in Korea. for Development of Business Portfolio Strategy Competitiveness in Overseas Markets Hyundai E&C is driven by the close cooperation between divisions centered around the Strategic Planning Group, Hyundai E&C opened up a new era of the Korean construction industry by exceeding 100 billion USD of overseas newly established in 2013, to increase the business capability and to establish the competitive and well-balanced TECHNOLOGY Proportion of Overseas Orders orders received (accumulated) in 2013 for the first time in the Korean construction industry. Despite the global business portfolio. We solidify our competitiveness by strengthening core products and basic business while we (Unit: %) economic recession, Hyundai E&C leads the ‘Construction Korea’ based on excellent technologies, abundant enhance the business portfolio by developing new growth drivers and future products. 69.0 74.5 construction experience, and customers’ solid trust. These achievements are due to the successful diversification Hyundai E&C proved its competitive level of technologies against its competitors by receiving orders including of overseas business portfolio by advancing to new markets in Latin America and Africa as well as the Middle East the GTL project in Uzbekistan and the SARB project in UAE in 2013 and enhanced its core products by promoting 41.2 market, which is becoming highly competitive. the mixed-use development in Wirye new town. In addition, we built instantiation facilities for Green Smart EMPLOYEE buildings to take a pre-emptive action for ever-changing markets. • Milestone of Overseas Contracts • Business Portfolio Conceptual Map The first domestic company to achieve overseas contracts of 2011 2012 2013 Core Products 100.4 SOCIETY * Proportion of overseas orders against the total annual Civil & Environment New Growth Drivers 93.5 orders received Port construction 62.9 67.2 78.3 83.0 Billion USD 50.0 Billion USD Billion USD Billion USD (cumulative) Civil & Environment Billion USD Billion USD Billion USD Building Hydro-environment & Mixed-use development water treatment, Resource development Plant 2006 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 APPENDIX Oil & Gas Building Green smart building Power & Energy UAE Kuwait UAE CFBC* Plant Jebel Ali Container Terminal Jaber Causeway Bridge SARB offshore oilfield Steel plant, Improved nuclear Qatar Venezuela Turkey power generation Raslaffan Pearl-GTL project Puerto la Cruz Oil Refinery The 3rd Bosporus Bridge Future Products Power & Energy Latin America Oil refinery Power plant operation Civil & Environment Offshore wind power Hyundai E&C Leads the Global Construction Market by Exceeding 100 Billion USD in Overseas Orders Building Basic Business Industrialized residence Civil & Environment Plant was the very first overseas construction done by a domestic company, it took 48 years to Land transportation GTL*, Environmental plant, accomplish such a splendid feat. Offshore Building Hyundai E&C has carried out overseas projects not only in the Middle East, but also in emerging markets of 57 countries in Asia, Africa, Central and South America, CIS, and High-rise building, Domestic Power & Energy residence, Public construction North America. It has received 794 orders overseas establishing a solid foothold in global IGCC*, Solar, Biomass markets. Especially in 2010, 2012, and 2013, we received orders of over 10 billion USD Plant each year which has been never seen in the Korean construction industry before and Petrochemical & industrial facility, In November 2013, Hyundai E&C received an order of 1.4 billion USD to construct an thus opened up a new era of 10 billion USD of overseas orders. Nuclear power generation extra-large oil refinery in Latin America, which led to the achievement of a total of over In order to continue the progress, Hyundai E&C establishes a business portfolio based 100 billion USD of overseas orders for the first time in the Korean construction industry. on flagship products and new growth business and secures the global competitiveness Power & Energy C FBC :Circulating Fluidized Bed Combustion Since our first global project in 1965 to construct the first highway in Thailand, which in organization, planning, sales, and technologies. IGCC :Integrated Gasification Combined Cycle Overseas power transmission GTL : Gas-to-liquids 18 ECONOMY ECONOMY 19 2014 HYUNDAI E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT INTRO Global Value Creation ECONOMY Advancement of Business Model • Strategies on Major Emerging Markets Due to the recession in the domestic construction industry and increasing competitions in global markets, Hyundai E&C strives to satisfy its clients by creating various values as a ‘Total Service Provider’ who offers comprehensive Strategies on Major Emerging Markets services ranging from planning to financing, engineering, construction, operation, and maintenance. Based on ENVIRONMENT its vast experience and advanced technology accumulated through the implementation of over 794 projects in 01. Continue the effort to expand to the 57 countries, Hyundai E&C is becoming an integrated engineering company that customers can trust. Especially, Latin American market we will continue to promote our higher value-added businesses, such as the development and operation, at the 02. Establish customized strategies by regions corporate level in 2014. to receive orders Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) 03. Select profitable projects and strengthen TECHNOLOGY • Total Service Provider the risk management capability 12 countries: Russia, Ukraine, Belarus, Moldova, Kazakhstan, 2. 4. 6. Uzbekistan, Turkmenistan, Tajikistan, Kyrgyzstan, 1. 3. 5. Armenia, Republic of Azerbaijan, Georgia Financing Operation Planning Design Procurem ent Construc tion & Mainten ng ring & Marketi & Enginee ance EMPLOYEE Sub-Saharan Africa Latin America Development of New Growth Drivers In March 2013, we newly established a Strategic Planning Group within the Planning Division to systematically identify new growth drivers. Also, we set detailed plans to find and operate the new growth drivers for each SOCIETY business area and operated a task force (TF) to shape direction and execution strategy. We implemented strategies to successfully enter a market and find new growth drivers including the water treatment, environmental plant, and private power plant through partnership with global construction companies and M&A with companies owning advanced technologies. Hyundai E&C Leads the “Construcion Korea” at the Heart of Emerging Markets APPENDIX Based on the market analysis derived from the continuous monitoring of the market trend in 2014, we will determine the time and scale of entering the market that draws the best solution to the company’s profits and growth in the future. “Hyundai E&C Enters Chilean Construction Industry Opening Door of Latin American Market” Expansion to Emerging Markets Hyundai E&C has actively promoted to receive orders in Latin America by establishing overseas branches in Hyundai E&C has chosen South and Central America, sub-Saharan Africa, and Commonwealth of Independent Bogota, Columbia in 2010 and in Venezuela and Uruguay afterward. Due to the efforts, we received an order of 648 million USD to construct Chacao Bridge placed by the Chile’s Ministry of Public Works in February 2014. States (CIS) as major emerging markets and put multilateral efforts to establish a foundation for the expansion. Hyundai E&C’s cutting-edge technologies for a super-long span bridge and its strong construction capability As a result of our devotion to the market of South and Central America after establishing an overseas branch in received high remarks in constructing the 2.75 km-long four-lane suspension bridge that connects Chiloe Bogota, Columbia in 2010, we succeeded to contract Bello Wastewater Treatment Plant of Columbia in 2012 for Island and the mainland. We will do our best to construct Chacao Bridge successfully in order to raise the the first time and expanded to the construction industry of Chile in February 2014. Based on these successes, we awareness of the company and to tighten the grip of the Latin market. ▲ Chacao Bridge, Chile will seek to expand our business into the entire Latin America. For the markets in Africa, we are reinforcing our project capability all over the African continent by receiving “Hyundai E&C Finally Enters European Market through Bosporus in Turkey” orders of the enlargement construction of the Azito power plant in Cote d’Ivoire located in the Midwest of Africa in 2013 and the construction of Jinja Bridge from the Uganda National Roads Authority. In the CIS markets, we Hyundai E&C received the order of 700 million USD to construct the 3rd Bosporus Bridge in Turkey placed by Ictas, a Turkish construction company and Astaldi, an Italian construction company. The project is to construct received the order of Talimarjan Thermal Power Plant Expansion Project in Uzbekistan, which is worth 820 million a 2,164m-long super-long span bridge with a 1,408m center span that crosses the Bosporus. It is the world’s USD, completing the ‘construction Silk Road’ that starts from the Middle East to Central Asia. first construction to use the EPC method to integrate cable-stayed and suspension bridge. Hyundai E&C plans By constructing the 3rd Bosporus Bridge in Turkey, Hyundai E&C has broken the barrier of the European to establish a bridgehead to expand more to the European market and improve the competitiveness and its position in the European construction industry by successfully completing the construction of the 3rd Bosporus construction industry that has been dominated by European firms. In order to be successful in global markets Bridge that symbolizes the connection between the East and the West. in 2014, we will continue to enhance our competitiveness of receiving new orders by selecting and managing ▲ The 3rd Bosporus Bridge, Turkey prime focused projects, and also strengthen the competitive edge in marketing by fostering regional experts continuously increasing the share in new markets. 20 ECONOMY ECONOMY 21 2014 HYUNDAI E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT INTRO Creating Sustainable Future ECONOMY BOUNDARY MANAGEMENT APPROACH Stakeholder Engagement Policy In order to create a sustainable future with various stakeholders including suppliers, customers, and Hyundai E&C selects the government/media/associations, employees, customers, suppliers, local communities, and HDEC Supplier Customer Community Other local communities, Hyundai E&C has strengthened the sustainability management system. In addition, shareholders/investors as the six major stakeholders of the company and operates several communication channels to we are striving for the continuous growth by advancing the internal management system through the make sustainable growth and maximize the shared value. ENVIRONMENT establishment of a sound corporate governance, reinforcement of ethical management, and strategic risk management. Sustainability Management Strategy Government, Media, TECHNOLOGY Hyundai E&C’s sustainability management philosophy is clearly presented in its corporate vision, “as a global and Associations leading provider of high-value engineering solutions, we will create the foundation for a better life through crossDistribution of Economic Values participate in the government’s policy business synergy and convergence with future technologies.” The mission given to us today is to provide a B uild a constructive relationship with to Stakeholders Transparently disclose via media sustainable base for humanity and solve the problems including climate changes, population growth, energy and (Unit: billion KRW) water scarcity, and resource depletion through sustainable construction products and competitive technologies. and comply with regulations relevant associations Government EMPLOYEE Ma Sustainability Management Organization Corporate Customers t h r x imi z oug e c l an d Employees tax payment 192.3 I nc h te us to chn me pra is a Hyundai E&C established a Sustainability Task Force in February 2014 to effectively pursue systematical and re a s e olo r s a ir a p b ili ty im p u s c gie t is f s e fa on apa tes C on rov om t ac t ion r o v id ns at i t i v ec t si e e c o m r s’ t P p e va a sustainability management to establish the sustainability strategy. The TF is implementing multilateral sustainability Employees e nv s t r u c ir o n t a mu r u s t c om t i nn o s a fe t y nce me c om ni c por wo rk ala nt at io S up tee fe b management activities, such as analyzing megatrends and reviewing a Materiality Test and the improvement Total of for t ab n a n a n d li le r ar rk annual wages 531.2 esi den Gu wo tasks by areas. We will grow with our stakeholders through the internalization and enhancement of sustainability sue t ial P ur SOCIETY management. Suppliers Procurement and Est nce te b u s a b li s h 8,019.1 r na ora Key Sustainability Issues subcontracting expenses g ove c or p in e s s f a ir a so und t he S ha rela nd ha nce ld e rs re i n tion t ran Every year, we conduct a Materiality Test to determine key issues that affect Hyundai E&C’s sustainability. Based b li s nha eho Re for ma s spa a l ye s har w in a li ze t ren E st o s u nes s -w i he tion t Local Communities u f Protect the environment around sites t in t i ve o n m sha and ue Enhance three major CSR activities on the determined issues, we select key contents to report and establish goals and plans for sustainability C on peti val ana re d te c h c om t he gem gro nol Actively communicate with local Social contribution i ze o r s ent w t h o gi es management by business areas. In 2013, we have determined five areas of sustainability and 20 key sustainability 9.47 xi m st and APPENDIX expenses Ma inve and issues. The five areas are management & strategy, environment, technology, employee, and society. Shareholders/Investors communities Shareholders Suppliers Dividends Payment 55.7 and Investors • Materiality Test Process • Materiality Matrix External Interest 2 1 STEP 01 Determine sustainability management issues 5 Create an Apply global standards such as GRI, ISO 26000, DJSI / Review the construction industry’s trend / Conduct media research / 8 issue-pool 13 Apply Hyundai E&C’s present internal condition 6 10 9 7 Local 15 3 Communities 11 4 17 12 14 20 16 STEP 02 Evaluate internal stakeholders’ level of influence and external 19 18 stakeholders’ level of interest Internal Impact Conduct Number of participants: 3,553 in/external stakeholders including a stakeholder 20 Key Sustainability Issues employees, customers, suppliers, and local communities Hyundai E&C Stands Out as a Global Top-tier Company in Sustainability Management survey Survey period: March 17 21, 2014 1 Long-term corporate vision 11 Diversification of business abroad Survey method: Hyundai E&C webpage, Hillstate webpage, Internal 2 Customer satisfaction 12 Sustainability management groupware, e-mail Hyundai E&C was selected as the Industry Leader, the most sustainable construction the competitiveness in overseas markets. In addition, the evaluation functions as an 3 Appraisal and compensation 13 Customer information management 4 Source Technology secured 14 Custom of Labor relations company, in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) in September 2013. DJSI is the investment index for a business investment portfolio. The result is given to international 5 Creation of economic outcome 15 Environmental management system world’s most authoritative index developed and announced by Dow Jones, the largest investing institutions and pension and fund management institutions every year proving 6 Development of human resource 16 Risk management financial information company, and RobecoSAM, a Swiss assessment company. its positive effects in securing the liquidity. Since 2010, Hyundai E&C has been included STEP 03 Identify key issues through analysis of the materiality matrix 7 Work-Life balance 17 Fair trade It evaluates the sustainability performance of the largest 2,500 companies by industries. in the DJSI World Index for four consecutive years enhancing the company’s position 8 Business ethics 18 Employee welfare The Industry Leader is recognized as a ‘company that is delivering social responsibility as a global leader in the construction industry. Compose the materiality matrix Identify key Safety management Select 20 key sustainability management issues 9 19 Environmental pollution prevention while being successful in a long term’, and therefore can differentiate itself and enhance issues 10 Environment-friendly R&D 20 Law compliance 22 ECONOMY ECONOMY 23 2014 HYUNDAI E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT INTRO Sound Corporate Governance ECONOMY BOUNDARY MANAGEMENT APPROACH Roles, Election Criteria and Remuneration of the BOD Hyundai E&C establishes a stable management environment and a sound corporate governance On behalf of the company and shareholders, the BOD authentically establishes core management goals and 11 28 BOD Agendas policies and monitors business activities of directors and executives to maximize the value of the company and HDEC Supplier Customer Community Other for the successful business. We strive to increase the efficiency of the board of directors and its Meetings on committees and to reinforce the transparency of the board of the directors. build the stakeholders’ trust. Hyundai E&C has standards for appointing directors in order to assure the balance ENVIRONMENT among duty, experience, independence, and knowledge of the BOD, and it appoints directors at the general shareholders’ meeting after receiving recommendations from the BOD and the Outside Director Nominating Structure of the Board of Directors (BOD) Committee. The size and composition of the BOD is reviewed periodically to improve the BOD’s efficiency. The Hyundai E&C operates a Board of Directors (BOD) composed of one executive director, two other directors, and Outside Director Nominating Committee ensures that the candidate fulfills the required work experience to secure four external directors to ensure the independence and transparency of a decision-making process. Since the the diversity in the BOD and the complementarity of duties. In 2013, 11 board meetings were held to discuss 28 TECHNOLOGY construction industry requires a prompt decision making for all sites around the world, the BOD is chaired also by issues on the agenda including the approval of business with subsidiaries. The attendance rate of the external the CEO of Hyundai E&C, and the independent lead director is appointed in order to ensure the independence of directors fulfilled the minimum rate of 70% as required by the company policy. the BOD. The independent lead director secures the BOD’s independence by playing important roles including Directors’ remuneration, including the severance pay, is paid within the limit determined at the general monitoring the CEO’s managerial activities, mediating the conflicts between internal and external directors, shareholders’ meeting and its status is disclosed through quarterly, semiannual, and business reports. When provoking regular meetings of external directors, and collecting and proposing the external directors’ opinions. the remuneration of a director exceeds 500 million KRW, we disclose individual payments for the director and its EMPLOYEE None of the external directors has belonged to Hyundai E&C or relevant subsidiaries, or has been specially estimation standards for the transparency. affiliated in the last five years. All external directors are appointed based on their expertise and experience in at least one of the following fields: law, accounting/finance, and construction. The appointed external directors carry out their duties as advisors and facilitators of business operations by improving the fairness and transparency Committees under the BOD of company management, by positioning themselves independent from the management in accordance with Three committees, the Audit Committee, the Outside Director Nominating Committee, and the Ethical relevant laws including the commercial law to provide their advice and expertise for decision making process, and Management Committee, are operated under the BOD for the improvement of the BOD transparency, the efficient SOCIETY by implementing objective monitoring and audit of management activities. In order to assist the external directors business operation and fulfillment of expertise, and sustainability management activities. with their tasks, Hyundai E&C provides necessary information and educational opportunities. (As of MAY 2014) Information regarding the BOD’s articles of association, responsibilities, and resolutions can be found on Committee Composition Functions Financial Supervisory Service’s Hyundai E&C’s website. In addition, we regularly disclose the BOD-related information that needs to be publicly Data Analysis, Retrieval and Transfer Audit legality of business activities of the BOD and System (DART) available at the Data Analysis, Retrieval, and Transfer System (DART) of the Financial Supervisory Service. the management APPENDIX Chairman Shin Hyun-Yoon Audit Committee Review integrity and validity of the company’s financial activities + three External directors Review and control internal audits, appoint external auditor • Current Status of the Board of Directors (As of MAY 2014) Summon extraordinary shareholders' meeting Position Name Type Recommender Principal Work Experience Outside Director Nominating Chairman Jung Soo-Hyun Recommend candidates for external directors (current) CEO & President, Hyundai E&C Committee + four External directors Executive Director Jung Soo-Hyun Standing (former) CEO & President, Hyundai AMCO Board of Establish sustainability vision and strategic tasks Chung Mong-Koo Directors (current) Chairman, Hyundai Motor Review transparency of internal transactions and execution of Chairman Shin Hyun-Yoon ethical management Other Director Ethical Management + three External directors, Ensure execution of Compliance Program Kim Yong-Hwan (current) Vice-president, Hyundai Motor Committee Hyundai E&C’s Main Shareholder one Executive director Deliberate and resolve major social contribution policies Distribution Deliberate and vote on a deal among affiliate persons defined by (current) Vice-president, Education and Scholarship at Yonsei Univ. (Unit: % / As of DEC 2013) Shin Hyun-Yoon the Monopoly Regulation and Fair Trade Act (former) Dean, School of Law at Yonsei Univ. Non(current) Chairman, Samsong Tax Firm Lee Seung-Jae 20.93 Standing (former) Director, Jungbu Regional Tax Office Outside Director External Director Nominating 39.68 Protection of Shareholders’ Rights (current) Professor, Architectural Engineering at KonKuk Univ. Suh Chee-Ho Committee (former) Chairman, Architecture Institute of Korea 100 % 8.72 As Hyundai E&C’s owners, shareholders have the right to have a share in the profits and exercise one’s voting 5.23 right according to related legislations including commercial laws. For amendments to the Articles of Incorporation, (current) Lawyer, Lee International IP & Law Group 25.44 mergers or split offs, changes in capital and other such matters that affect the status of the company or create Park Sung-Duck (former) Inspection Commissioner, Board of Audit and Inspection a significant impact on shareholder rights, the general shareholders’ meeting makes decisions focused on of Korea H yundai Motor preserving shareholders’ rights. Hyundai E&C also protects the shareholders’ right to know by disclosing Hyundai Mobis Foreigners important management information through various channels including the corporate disclosure system, the KIA Motors Others website, and general shareholders’ meeting in a timely and accurate manner. 24 ECONOMY ECONOMY 25 2014 HYUNDAI E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT INTRO Ethical Management Enhancement ECONOMY BOUNDARY MANAGEMENT APPROACH to protect the informant’s identity and confidentiality and by assigning a reference number to each case, the Type of Reports via the Cyber Audit Office informant can track the status of the case. Hyundai E&C strives to become a respectful company to stakeholders through ethical management HDEC Supplier Customer Community Other and fair trade as a responsible corporate citizen. In order to do so, we are leading an advanced Consultation with businesses In 2013, we improved the accessibility of the Cyber Audit Office by announcing its instruction through a pop-up 11 corporate culture of ethical management by aligning the relevant internal organization and reinforcing % window on Hi-Partner, our suppliers’ portal. In 2014, we will further increase the rate of valid reports by emailing to ENVIRONMENT the ethical management system. the management of our suppliers to promote and guide the use of Cyber Audit Office. Consultation with clients, etc. Compliance Program for Fair Trade HDEC Green CSR Declaration Hyundai E&C strives to establish the ethical management system and internalize a general sense of ethics 78 % Hyundai E&C operates an compliance program for fair trade to raise our employees’ awareness of a transparent and fair business culture and the program is utilized as a means of the internal control. To internalize employees’ TECHNOLOGY by enacting the HDEC Green CSR Declaration to share its ethical management vision with stakeholders and Corruption awareness of the fair trade compliance, we expanded preventive educations and implemented a practical 11 encourage their participation as well. The HDEC Green CSR Declaration is applied to not only all employees, % internal supervision system by reinforcing the compliance committee and internal inspections in 2013. We but also Group companies and suppliers. In addition, we conduct regular reviews to reflect changes of industry will continue to operate and strengthen key components of the compliance program to firmly establish the trends, stakeholders’ needs, and global environmental problems to the Declaration. In May 2013, the Declaration awareness of fair trade. included issues such as the overseas human rights, anti-trust, and biodiversity through the fourth revision. 7 Key Components of a Compliance Program for Fair Trade EMPLOYEE • Ethical Management System Code of Conduct 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 CEO’s Appointment Establishment Training Monitoring & Regulations Establishment Supervisory Body commitment of supervisors & amendment system supervisory on any act of of Moral Pride Ethics Training for autonomous of Autonomous Compliance system violation documentation system 3 Practical compliance Handbook in HDEC SOCIETY Elements Establish a transparent management system on a global scale Carry out an in-depth training on ‘Clean Company’ Establishment of Compliance System To systematically implement the compliance program for fair trade, Hyundai E&C 5 Areas of we biannually hold the Compliance Conference to examine internal fair trade risks and share fair trade issues in which all of customers, Implementation Expand and improve management evaluation tasks occurring outside the company. In addition, we conduct regular internal inspections for each business area to fix employees, and suppliers any violations of laws. At regular board meetings, we report plans and results of the operation of the program to APPENDIX take pride Build infrastructures for ethical management enhance the effectiveness and raise the will to participate. Also, we will increase the number of the autonomous Enhance win-win cooperation system compliance conference to over four times a year. Reinforcement of Training on Fair Trade In order to firmly settle the awareness of autonomous compliance Ethical Management Activities Fair Trade Training with fair trade, we have expanded our mandatory training for fair trade to all employees. In 2013, the precautionary By firmly establishing the ethical management system and internalizing ethical management, Hyundai E&C effect about law violations increased by inviting external specialists to provide trainings on subcontracting, fair Convention on Compliance Management corrects unjust practices and cost structure by ethical standards and fulfills the corporate social responsibility. In trade, labeling and advertisement, and cartel. In 2014, we will further enhance the preventive education of external September 2013, we built the foundation to systematically promote ethical management by developing step-byspecialist and regularly upload educational materials to the internal autonomous compliance message board. step implementation plans. In December of the same year, we implemented online education on business ethics for all employees to reinforce their awareness of ethics. Also, we promoted year-round campaigns on compliance Fair Trade Training Program and ethical actions. Through the convention on compliance management in January 2014, our employees pledged to establish a fair business culture, eradicate unfair collective actions, seek a culture of the shared growth, Overview of the Fair Transactions in Subcontracting Act; Recent For domestic project managers and and take the corporate social responsibility. In the future, we will appoint ethical management personnel for each Subcontracting Act management team leaders trends in policy making and legal executions division to implement activities to reinforce the ethical management system, such as creating an integrated ethical For executives and team leaders at the management message board for education and promotion. Special Education headquarters, Finance & Accounting Division, Key fair trade issues of Hyundai E&C and risk on Fair Trade new employees, administrative managers management measures; Compliance Management and project management group Operation of the Cyber Audit Office We are operating the Cyber Audit Office (http://enaudit.hdec.kr) in both English and Korean offering cyber Prevention For employees and management working Laws and cases of bid rigging; Code of Conduct of a Cartel in contracts and sales education on the Code of Ethics and other related internal policies and regulations to raise the awareness of the compliance with ethical management. Especially, cases of unfair request, corruption, and recommendation for Labeling and Responsible Personnel of housing sales Understanding and violation of Act on Fair Labeling policies are reported in real-time through the Cyber Audit Office and handled transparently. Also, reports from Advertisement and PR and Advertising overseas through the Hot-Line for each country are corresponded promptly. All the reports are non-disclosed 26 ECONOMY ECONOMY 27 2014 HYUNDAI E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT INTRO Strategic Risk Management ECONOMY BOUNDARY MANAGEMENT APPROACH risks classifying accordingly into two categories: corporate risks and project risks. Hyundai E&C proactively discerns potential risk factors and prevent the risk through the company-wide Corporate Risks The corporate risks are divided into country risks and company and market risks. The HDEC Supplier Customer Community Other systematic risk management. Moreover, by identifying and commercializing opportunity factors, we Risk Assessment Meeting country risks include political, sociocultural, climate change and water-related environmental risks that may arise strive for the sustainable business. ENVIRONMENT from external changes domestically and overseas. We are managing these risks at the corporate level. The company and market risks include market, business, and financial risks usually handled by the company. Risk Management System Especially, we manage overseas funds efficiently by checking foreign exchange rates for each country through the intranet in real-time as the number of overseas projects increase continuously. After restructuring the risk managing organization in 2012, we have established the risk management system and strengthened its infrastructure by developing the IT-based risk management system. We and particularly the PRM Project Risks The project risks include business risks such as economic recession or overheating and TECHNOLOGY team, which is in charge of managing risks, continuously make a great effort to raise the risk awareness at the material procurement. We comprehensively manage risks that are closely related to projects by conducting an corporate level and to form the sympathy about the necessity of risk management. Risk Management System analysis on the situation of the construction market and all of our businesses. In addition, to systematically and professionally respond to legal risks arisen from our business activities, we are operating the ‘Hyundai E&C Risk Analysis and Assessment System In order to methodically analyze and manage risks, we conduct Conflict Management System’. quantitative and qualitative assessments by experts and the result is built into a database as analysis materials. In 2013, we established a Risk Breakdown Structure (RBS), the risk management standards for the entire company, EMPLOYEE to create a checklist by project types and apply it to all projects. In 2014, we will optimize the RBS for each project Key Risks Management Activities type to strengthen risk identification procedures. Reinforcement of Risk Management Process during the Order Stage Since the project risks often occur Risk Response System Hyundai E&C minimizes risks through the risk response system which is a basis at the early stage of an order, active risk management from the early stage is required. Therefore, Hyundai E&C for planning, monitoring, and evaluating the operation of response plans. In 2014, we will further reinforce the has improved the evaluation process of orders and systemized the review process of risks at the order stage procedure to review whether the plan is properly implemented for a more thorough risk management. to effectively manage risks that can occur early on. To further strengthen the risk management process, we will improve the reviewing and analyzing processes at the order stage and establish an integrated operational plan to SOCIETY Risk Reporting Structure Hyundai E&C analyzes the risks’ degree of seriousness, probability of occurrence, evaluate orders. and extent of influence, and then quantifies and categorizes risks into several stages. By classifying our risk reporting structure by stages, we are able to report and manage risks in a more timely and effective manner. Monitoring of Company-wide Key Risk Indicator In order to respond to various risks in a prompt and effective manner, we have selected 20 key risks, monitored their current status on a monthly basis, and analyzed IT-based Risk Management System Hyundai E&C has established and operated an IT-based risk APPENDIX them through the scenario mapping. In addition, we have determined Key Risk Indicators (KRIs) on each key risk management system to control the information created during the processes of identification, analysis, and developed a response manual for each of the related organizations to establish a risk response system that assessment, and response of risks. We will improve risk management by continuously accumulating risk corresponds to unusual activities right away. Hyundai E&C will enhance the integrated risk management system information as intelligent assets and analyzing it. so that the executives can utilize the major information collected through the system right away when making • Risk Reporting Structure decisions. Board of Directors CEO High-level Risk CRO Mid-level Risk Hyundai E&C’s 20 Key Risks Low-level Risk Political uncertainties ·Reported to the CRO · The CRO directly reports to the · The CRO directly reports to 01. Rise of raw materials prices 06. Failure of new projects 11. in foreign countries 16. Non-compliance with laws (Chief Risk Officer) CEO the BOD and undertake the investigation of a given risk and ·If a given risk is considered to be Inability to qualify with Diminished ties with urgent and to have a significant the responsible personnel 02. Currency volatility 07. the global QC standards 12. suppliers 17. Occupational accidents effect on project(s), report to ·Establish a risk mitigation both the CEO and the BOD and strategy, regular monitoring Changes in the construction make a prompt decision system, and countermeasures to 03. Intensified competition 08. Liquidity crisis 13. industry policies and regulations 18. Information and technology leak a crisis situation 04. Weakening of brand awareness 09. Changes in the global economy 14. Damages to corporate image 19. Natural disasters Definition of Risks Failure to set appropriate Stagnant domestic construction 05. management targets 10. industry 15. Vulnerability in HR management 20. Man-made hazards For the effective risk management, we take all factors such as business areas, markets in which we operate business, the macroeconomic environment, and characteristics of stakeholders into consideration to manage 28 ECONOMY ECONOMY 29 0 278 15,594 Environmental Incidents for Two Consecutive Years in 2012 and 2013 Times of Domestic and Overseas Site Audits in 2013 P.38 Hours of Environmental Management Education in 2013 P.33 ENVIRONMENT P.38 Maximizing Business Value Creating Shared Value Eco-efficiency ENVIRONMENT Hyundai E&C minizmizes environmental impacts by Social Value Minimizing maximizing the eco-efficiency. Environmental Impacts Our Approach Environmental issues caused by the climate change and resource scarcity are crises which companies are confronted with and, at the same time, opportunities. We increase our business profit through the improvement of the environmental efficiency by establishing and managing reduction targets on major environmental performances and minimize environmental impacts created by business operations as well. In order to achieve our vision of ‘2020 Global Green One Pioneer’, we reinforce our environmental management capability by establishing a management system, which supervises all business operation stages of the technology development, engineering, procurement, transportation, construction, operation, and deconstruction, based on the company-wide environmental management strategies. ▲ Suntec City, Singapore / jan 1991 may 1997 ENVIRONMENT 31 2014 HYUNDAI E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT INTRO Maximizing Eco-efficiency ECONOMY BOUNDARY MANAGEMENT APPROACH Performance Management of Environmental Management Using the Integrated Environmental As the resource depletion becomes a reality around the world, the cost reduction through the efficient Performance Management System, we establish and implement environmental management goals for all HDEC Supplier Customer Community Other management of environmental performance is directly connected to a company’s competitiveness. domestic and overseas sites and manage performance accordingly. Each year, the performance results are Hyundai E&C strives to maximize its eco-efficiency by establishing an environmental management reported to the highest management so that they can be used to set management plans and goals and to identify ENVIRONMENT system and setting and managing reduction targets by business stages. improvement tasks for the following year. To efficiently manage the environmental management performance, we have integrated the GHG & Energy Management System and the Waste Management System with Hyundai Project Management System (H-PMS), which is an integrated management system for sites, to collect and track Environmental Management System data in real-time. Thus, we significantly increased the efficiency of the environmental performance management. Integrated Management System for Health, Safety, and Environment For environmental management, we We plan to reinforce the company-wide environmental performance monitoring system through the TECHNOLOGY have established an integrated management system for safety, health, and environment by combining OHSAS establishment of the Integrated Environmental Performance Management System by sequentially connecting the 18001, KOSHA 18001 (safety and health), ISO 14001 (environmental management system), KSI 7001 & 7002 (green e-HRD, environment-friendly procurement, social contribution, and green sales to the H-PMS. Furthermore, in management system), and ISO 50001 (energy management system) since 2012. 2014, Hyundai E&C will strive to optimize the environmental management performance through various efforts In 2013, we established policies and goals for safety, health, environment, and energy. We used them such as developing a forecasting model of GHG emissions and establishing a performance management system to establish policies and goals for each site and managed them according to the implementation plans. We of GHG & energy reduction to proactively respond to the Greenhouse Gas and Energy Target Management EMPLOYEE encouraged all sites to use the integrated management system for safety, health, and environment, tried to System and the Emissions Trading System. increase users’ convenience, and reestablished the environment-friendly roadmap reflecting environmental trends. • Integrated Environmental Performance Management System In 2014, we will strive to settle a company-wide environmental management system in all business areas by * HRPMS : Hyundai Research Project Management System reinforcing the management of overseas environmental performance and reestablishing the R&R on sites’ waste management. GHG and Energy Waste Management Management System System SOCIETY • Management Policy & Goals * HSE: Health, Safety and Environment Environment-friendly 2013 2014 HRPMS* H-PMS Procurement System (procurement) Realize Low Carbon Green Growth Implementation of HSE* Basics and Principles Social Contribution e-HRD System (education) Establish a global (social contribution) Establish a proactive prevention system through risk management APPENDIX green management system Improve process efficiency through optimization of HSE system Establish green management performance HSE Pursue collaboration and communication through best HSE service management processes Policy Audits on Environmental Management Activities In order to reinforce the implementation of environmental Expand communication with stakeholders Implement environmental management through efficient environment and energy management management, Hyundai E&C has conducted regular audits on all sites (twice a year for domestic sites and once a year for overseas sites). The evaluation results are included in the KPIs of a site manager and HSE personnel and Expand the company-wide Achieve ‘ZERO critical accident’ green management system the evaluation score of each site is included in the evaluation score of the construction completion so that a site Comply with HSE standard work procedures HSE Systematically manage energy use and GHG with outstanding grade will be awarded with performance-based benefits. Maximize internal customers’ satisfaction through active communication Goals emissions Environmental Management Education In 2014, to strengthen the responsibility on environmental management, the results of HSE management Enhance information transparency Utilize performance management system to reduce GHG Emissions and Energy Attended Consumption evaluation will be applied to KPIs of head of operations, head of HSE jurisdiction, PD, and all chiefs of parts Trainees (person) Training hours (hour) including chief of the government affairs part. In addition, we will improve the efficiency of the evaluation by more Training hours per person (hour) intensely conducting two-day audits for domestic sties and by performing additional audits for the overseas sites • Environmental Management Roadmap 3.65 of poor HSE management. 2014 2.77 Environment-Friendly Company Environmental Management Education To increase employees’ understanding of environmental 15,594 Valuing Principles and Basics 2010 2011 2013 management and expand environmental management activities, we provide comprehensive educations. In 11,999 Establish a Foundation for Settle Environmental Management Global Leading Environmental Establish environmental management by manageing environment and energy efficiently 2013, we increased the quantity and improved the quality of educations for not only our employees, but also our Environmental Management Company Align and expand the Environmental Management Strengthen response strategies to GHG Target suppliers’ employees such as on-site engineers, administrators, and tech workers and developed a curriculum by Establish GHG inventory and set reduction targets and Technology Collaboration Committees Become a global, representative Management System Strengthen R&D capabilities for environmentManage each division’s quantitative and qualitative environmental company Increase opportunities to communicate on jobs. Also, we have strived to provide trainee-focused educations by inviting outside lecturers to offer expertise. friendly new growth drivers goals and performance Improve profitability based on the environmental issues with stakeholders As a result, a total of 4,276 employees spent 15,594 hours to receive educations. To enhance the utilization of 4,326 4,276 Operate the Environmental Management Reinforce operation and management of GHG company’s core technologies and global Provide environmental education for employees emissions environmental markets and develop talents Committee the integrated management system and their capability, we offer educations on the specialization of the green Provide environmental training for employees and Expand to new environmental markets develop talent management system to HSE personnel at sites. Hyundai E&C will continue to settle environmental management 2012 2013 through multilateral and systematic educations. 32 ENVIRONMENT ENVIRONMENT 33 2014 HYUNDAI E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT INTRO Maximizing eco-efficiency ECONOMY Response to Climate Change Leadership in Carbon Management Since 1955, as a major member company of the Society for Climate change caused by GHG emissions is intensifying as the industrialization of developing countries Greenhouse Gas Emissions* Environmental Construction, Hyundai E&C has passionately attended consultative group meetings, seminars, (Unit: tCO2-e) accelerates. Nowadays, the capability to improve the energy efficiency and reduce carbon emissions is becoming and subcommittees to expand the base of carbon management in the construction industry. In 2012, Hyundai Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 a company’s competitiveness in most industries. Responding to climate change is becoming an important issue E&C participated in the Climate Disclosure Standard Board (CDSB) Working Group to participate in establishing ENVIRONMENT for the construction industry as the energy consumption affects business significantly. Due to its characteristics, measures to implement the Climate Change Reporting Framework (CCRF). Also, in 2013, we worked as an the energy consumption and GHG emissions occur from construction machinery and emissions vary by sites 438,650 adviser for the revision of environmental regulations including the Noise and Vibration Control Act, the Clean Air 396,720 374,158 making it difficult to establish and manage reduction targets. Hyundai E&C, however, strengthens its response Conservation Act, and the Construction Technology Management Act. Especially, by participating in the pilot strategies in line with the national GHG reduction targets and concentrates on the company-wide energy project of the GHG Target Management System conducted by the Korea Infrastructure Safety & Technology and GHG management to enhance our leadership in global carbon management as an environment-friendly Corporation, we review the adequacy of regulations when applying existing policies, which are created for the TECHNOLOGY construction company. energy-based industry such as manufacturing industry, to the construction industry and improve accordingly. 363,698 340,843 322,501 Carbon Management System Carbon Management Activities Carbon Management Strategy Under its vision of ‘2020 Global Green One Pioneer,’ Hyundai E&C has been 46,979 38,824 37,568 Management of GHG Emissions Hyundai E&C annually conducts external assurances on GHG emissions implementing the carbon management strategy to reduce the GHG emissions and energy consumption and to to establish accurate GHG reduction targets. We comply with the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change 27,973 17,053 14,089 EMPLOYEE obtain Zero-House technologies by 2020. (IPCC), which is the international guideline, GHG protocol from WRI·WBSCD, and ISO 14064 to find emission In order to achieve midto long-term GHG reduction targets promptly, Hyundai E&C chose representative sites source and measure emissions. The measurement scope is divided into Scope 1, 2, and 3 following the guideline 2011 2012 2013 for each business area, such as the Busan International Financial Center (BIFC), Samcheok Green Power, Shinfrom WRI·WBSCD. In 2013, the total of GHG emissions was 374,158tCO2-e, which is a 5.69% decrease from Hanul Unit 1&2, Wonju 2nd Yeongdong expressway, and Sejong Hillstate, and analyzed the energy consumption 396,720tCO2-e in 2012. Hyundai E&C will continue to do its best to reduce the GHG emissions by operating *GHG Emissions: estimated through basic unit and and potential of GHG reduction in 2013. Based on the assessment result, Hyundai E&C will develop and operate sales dy divisions and scopes based on verified data environment-friendly sites. (GHG emissions change according to the adjustment of the optimized GHG reduction guideline by stages, which includes the development of forecasting model of GHG SOCIETY organizational boundaries) Activities to Reduce GHG Emissions Hyundai E&C reduces GHG emissions and the energy consumption emissions, establishment of a GHG reduction performance management system, identification of GHG reduction by implementing various reduction activities and policies at the corporate level. Green Campaign is our items, and publication of a GHG reduction manual. Green Campaign representative reduction campaign and is consistently implemented not only at the headquarters, but also • Carbon Management Strategy at all sites. To further decrease the energy consumption at sites where most of the energy consumption occurs, we have found reduction items that can be applied to work right away and have promoted campaigns. VISION: “2020 Global Green One Pioneer” APPENDIX Green Campaign at the headquarters is to reduce the energy consumption in daily lives at the office, such GOAL as maintaining the proper room temperate and saving electricity of computers, lights, air conditioners, and Reduce Energy Consumption Develop ‘Zero-House’ Technologies by 2020 heaters. Our employees are encouraged and supported to use public transportation and commuter buses when and GHG Emissions (LCCO2* technologies by 2025) commuting. Moreover, we replaced some gasoline-powered vehicles at the headquarters with hybrid cars, which are more energy efficient, and will gradually increase the number. Green System Green Project Management Green R&D Establish Environmental Create Environment-Friendly Expand Environment-Friendly Management System Sites Technologies 1 B uild the foundation for environmental 4 Systematically reduce GHG emissions 7 S ecure core environment-friendly management system 5 E xpand environment-friendly technologies 2 Improve image as an environmentoutsourcing Value Creation Case: Cost Savings through Carbon Management Activities 8 Dominate environment-friendly friendly company 6 O  perate sites in an environmentsource technology in advance 3 O  perate the Environmental friendly manner Management Committee Hyundai E&C has established the ISO 50001 system at Site Headquarters all sites and has implemented various Green Campaigns * LCCO 2 : Life Cycle CO 2 Use steam at existing factories when curing concrete Maintain optimal indoor temperature at the headquarters and all sites to increase the energy Switch to mobile tower cranes to substitute the use of diesel Turn off lights and cooling/heating equipments efficiency and reduce the carbon emissions. As a result Reinforcement of Energy Management System Hyundai E&C created a leading energy management system with electricity Shut down computers or set them to sleep mode of these systematic carbon management activities, Install a remote mobile control device for tower cranes by establishing a GHG inventory system in 2010 and being the world’s first construction company to acquire Use personal mugs instead of paper cups and 22,562tCO2-e of GHG emissions were reduced in 2013 Encourage car-sharing encourage the use of scrap paper compared to 2012 and 30.57 billion KRW of financial and apply the ISO 50001 (energy management system) certification to sites in 2012. We have established the Check vehicles regularly Use stairs and reduce the number of elevator performance* was achieved through annual energy systematic management system by thoroughly reviewing the energy consumption at the planning stage, setting use Prohibit sudden acceleration, sudden braking, and idling reduction activities. Hyundai E&C will lead the GHG reduction targets based on the review, and monthly monitoring the energy consumption. Particularly, from 2014, within sites emissions reduction activities at the corporate level by Vehicle energy management at sites has become more efficient because H-PMS, the integrated management system for Adjust the tire pressure of construction equipment to establishing an environment-friendly workplace. improve fuel efficiency Use hybrid cars for the corporate fleet sites, now integrates the GHG system so that energy data such as the energy consumption by energy sources Encourage the use of bicycles within sites Use public transportation or commuter buses for * The number indicates the cost saved by GHG emissions reduction commuting to/from work and GHG emissions can be collected and analyzed in real-time. In 2014, we will continuously improve the energy activities only. Please refer to CDP (https://www.cdp.net) for details. efficiency by identifying evergy reduction items by sites and develop a reduction guideline. 34 ENVIRONMENT ENVIRONMENT 35 2014 HYUNDAI E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT INTRO Minimizing Environmental Impacts ECONOMY BOUNDARY MANAGEMENT APPROACH Environment-Friendly Procurement To minimize our impacts on the environment around sites, we has established an environmental Hyundai E&C strengthens the environment-friendly procurement system by evaluating environment-friendliness HDEC Supplier Customer Community Other management system for all construction stages including the technology development, engineering, of a material when purchasing and by encouraging suppliers to develop environment-friendly materials through procurement, transportation, construction, operation, and deconstruction. Moreover, we strive to supporting environmental management. Particularly, we signed the ‘Voluntary Agreement on EnvironmentENVIRONMENT protect the environment from the inevitable environmental impacts created during the construction. Friendly Procurement’ with the Ministry of Environment and are continuously improving our environment-friendly procurement processes for the production and consumption of environment-friendly goods. Environment-Friendly Procurement Process Hyundai E&C categorizes and manages environment-friendly products in accordance with the Hyundai Environmental Goods Standard (HEGS). The environment-friendly • Environment-Friendly Construction Process products are divided into eight codes, HEGS 1 to 8, and the code is entered into the Environment-friendly TECHNOLOGY Procurement System when charging for or ordering a material. The data is classified by codes at each site and is managed as performance of the site and the responsible personnel to encourage the environment-friendly procurement. Hyundai E&C will continue to minimize the environmental impacts caused by materials usage by expanding the environment-friendly procurement. EMPLOYEE 06 • Environment-Friendly Procurement Process 05 Environment* HEGS : Hyundai Environmental Goods Standard 04 Environmentfriendly 2. 4. friendly Operation 1. 3. 03 Environmentfriendly Deconstruction 02 EnvironmentCategorize Request and order Monitor the record Goals Construction ·Increase environmentenvironmentmaterials of environment01 SOCIETY Environmentfriendly friendly certification Promote minimization Transport ·Reduce construction friendly products friendly of environmental impact Environmentfriendly ·Realize the sustainable Input the HEGS code of waste matter procurement from material use friendly Technology Procurement ·Minimize environmental construction Categorize environmenta given material through Development and impacts caused by ·Establish environmentthe Environment-friendly Encourage the use of ·Minimize environmental friendly deconstruction friendly products in Monitor each site construction environment-friendly Engineering ·Increase environmentimpacts caused by standards accordance with HEGS* Procurement System products transportation friendly procurement ·Maximize the resource ·Enhance environment·Maximize the energy efficiency ·Establish environmentefficiency P.39 P.48 49 friendly technology APPENDIX friendly supply chain ·Realize environmentfriendly engineering P.37 P.38 39 P.48 49 P.37 After construction stage Assessment of Materials’ Environment-Friendliness To minimize the environmental impacts of materials, Construction stage Assessment Standards for Materials’ we evaluate the material’s degree of harm. The environment-friendliness of a material is evaluated based on three Environment-Friendliness standards: harmfulness, infringement of regulations, and usage amount. We strive to find an alternate material for Prior to construction stage a less environment-friendly material. · Toxicity · Non-degradability Harmfulness 유해성 · Ecosystems destruction Environment-Friendly Transport Hyundai E&C Becomes the Best Construction Company in Singapore · Toxic Chemical Infringement Substance Control Act To reduce GHG emissions from the transportation of materials and the driving of heavy equipment, Hyundai E&C 유해성of · Wastes Control Act regulations · Fire Services Act has established a guideline on the operation of work vehicles. In May 2014, for the first time in the Korean construction industry, Hyundai E&C won the best honor of PLATINUM in the Construction Productivity Awards (CPA) and won the Quality A Guideline on Operation of Work Vehicles ‘Eco-drive guideline’, a guideline on the operation of work Champion GOLDPLUS in the Quality Excellence Awards (QEA) at the BCA Awards 2014 · Average usage 유해성amount Usage amount of all sites vehicles, is to reduce the mileage and protect the environment and includes driving guidelines about traffic hosted by the Building and Construction Authority (BCA) in Singapore. The BCA Awards are given to the selected best constructions distinguishing themselves in information, driving habits, and automobile management. Every vehicle and heavy equipment at the headquarters productivity, efficiency, construction quality, design, safety, and environment. The QEA is and all sites follow this guideline. awarded to the best construction company after evaluating its constructions completed in the past five years by the superiority in quality, etc. Hyundai E&C has received the awards 13 Introduction of Environment-Friendly Vehicles To reduce GHG emissions from work vehicles, we have used times since 1997, which is an unrivaled record enhancing its competitiveness and position in hybrid cars since 2012. We will persistently increase the number of environment-friendly cars to take the lead in the Singaporean construction market. protecting environment. ▲ 2014 BCA Awards, Singapore 36 ENVIRONMENT ENVIRONMENT 37 2014 HYUNDAI E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT INTRO Minimizing Environmental Impacts ECONOMY Environment-Friendly Construction waste water has clearly decreased by more than half compared to 2011. We invested and spent 36.7 billion KRW In order to minimize environmental impacts throughout the entire construction stages, we strive to strictly manage for the environment protection in 2013, which is a 19.9% increase from 30.6 billion KRW in 2011. energy, water, and material consumption at sites and periodically inspect the environment around sites. Ecosystem Protection For biodiversity, Hyundai E&C strictly complies with the Nagoya Protocol and proactively ENVIRONMENT Reinforcement of Site Audits Hyundai E&C annually conducts independent external audits and internal Ecosystem Protection Activities evaluates impacts on the ecosystem to protect the ecological environment and minimize topographic changes Expansion in Publication of audits by experts for all domestic and overseas sites. In 2013, we conducted a total of 278 site audits and damages to natural vegetation. In a case which any damage to the ecosystem is expected, we take impact “Environmental Standard” for Overseas Countries Replace habitat (251 domestic and 27 overseas audits) for 140 domestic sites and 30 overseas sites including the selected 21 Transplant trees and plants; Create ecological minimization measures such as transplanting, replacement of habitat, and construction design changes. Even after sites which are newly established, large-scale, and/or with a record of multiple civil complaints and are subject to wetlands by settling basins; Install an island of groundbreaking, we continue to protect the ecosystem around sites. In 2013, we strictly implemented the ecosys“artificial” plants; Develop natural streams and special environmental audits and management. Therefore, we achieved zero environmental accident in 2013 as in green areas tem protection measures for sites where protected species inhabit. TECHNOLOGY 2012. Install protection devices and pathways • Protected Species around Sites Hyundai E&C is the first in the Korean construction industry to publish the ‘Environmental Standard’ for Build escape paths and escape-leading fences overseas countries where it operates business, such as Singapore, Saudi Arabia, UAE, Qatar, and Kuwait. In for small animals; Install pathways that utilize December 2013, Hyundai E&C won the 9th Best Practices Contest of Construction Environmental Management silt protectors, blocking paths, roadside trees, Incheon New Port Container Haman and other on-site structures Oystercatcher, Saunders’ gull, Jinju Section of Gyeongjeon Line for its contribution to the industry development by ‘improving work efficiency through environmental guidelines Far Eastern Curlew, Kestrel, Spoonbill Kestrel EMPLOYEE by countries’. We will continue to utilize the guideline to respond to each country’s environmental regulations and Consider alternative engineering increase the quality of environmental management through the systematic management at overseas sites. Change the construction location; Apply lowHan River Restoration Project, Changwon Busan Highway vibration construction methods; Downscale Environmental Protection Expenditures Section 6 Terrapin, Wildcat, Buzzard, Kite, Site Resource Management Hyundai E&C reduces the resource consumption by systematically managing bridge foundations and Investment in 2013 Polygonatum stenophyllum max, Hen harrier (Unit: %) resources at the construction stage. Resource consumption data by types of work and by sources are collected Aster altaicus Willd. var. uchiyamai (Nakai) Kitamura, Mongolian racerunner and managed through the Integrated Environmental Performance Management System on a monthly basis. SOCIETY 14.18 Also, we develop and operate reduction items that can be applied to construction at sites as a part of the Green 29.80 Campaign. For materials, we reduced the consumption by calculating the exact quantity and price through the Environment-Friendly Deconstruction Building Information Modeling (BIM). To reduce the water consumption, we use rainwater storage facilities, de17.27 36.7 We have developed guidelines for environment-friendly deconstruction and waste management and Billion KRW watering equipment for underground water, and sprinklers. systematically operated management systems. An integrated management is implemented by construction 14.50 24.25 Site Environmental Management In order to minimize impacts on the environment around a site, Hyundai stages, types, and suppliers. APPENDIX E&C divides site environmental management into four elements: air, water quality, soil, and noise & vibration. Particularly, wastewater from sites is disposed following relevant regional government’s wastewater treatment Integrated Environmental Waste Management System For efficient waste management, we linked Air Water Quality Waste regulations. We prevent the water pollution by installing and operating wastewater purifying facilities at sites and the Environmental Waste Management System to our integrated management system, Hyundai Project Noise & Vibration Others analyzing the water quality more than once every half year. As a result of strict water management, the amount of Management System (H-PMS). The waste amount and disposal cost are aggregated by divisions, companies, and types in real-time. By securing the transparency and credibility of related data, we increase the external credit rating. The data is used as a reference for the bidding and the budget compilation in the future. Measures to Manage Environmental Factors at Sites Waste Disposal Hyundai E&C disposes waste following designated guidelines for each type of waste. For sites that discharge large amounts of waste or are highly important, we have established and operated waste disposal and recycling targets by sites to minimize the waste. We sell recyclable wastes to recycling plants to • Operate wastewater treatment facilities such as retaining • Establish the air pollutant emissions and abatement facility increase the resource utilization. And, we regulate to put a priority on purchasing recycled materials and cyclic walls, tunnels, and batch plants installation standards • C onduct daily audit of wastewater management facilities; • Install dust barriers and automatic sprinklers aggregate. In order to protect the employees’ and local residents’ health from toxic substances including asbestos Analyze water quality more than once every half year • Operate the real-time Tele-Monitoring System accrued during the deconstruction process, we have established and implemented the management procedure • Manage the marine environment • Disclose the status of air quality through the electronic displays • Install diversion channels and grit chambers; Strictly manage Air Quality at sites Water Quality for toxic substances and commit toxic waste to professional organizations and designated waste management oil facilities specialists. • Prohibit any equipment repair & maintenance work and oil Environment-Friendly Deconstruction Guideline We comply with the ‘Guideline on Occupational Safety change work within sites • Install sound-proof and vibration-proof facilities • Use low-noise equipment Standards for Deconstruction Work’ to minimize environmental impacts created during the deconstruction and • Developed a contaminated soil washing technology (the Environmental Technology Verification No. 92) • Operate vehicles at low speed within sites demolition stages and prevent accidents. Furthermore, we conduct assessments in advance for possible harmful • Six patents and two utility models related to the remediation of • Install sound-proof walls around sites Soil Contamination contaminated soil Noise & Vibration substances such as asbestos to prevent employees from being directly exposed to dangers. We request for an examination by a professional organization to analyze the asbestos content. If it exceeds 1%, we commit the asbestos removal and disposal to hazardous waste management specialists. 38 ENVIRONMENT ENVIRONMENT 39 2014 HYUNDAI E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT INTRO Environmental Performances at a Glance Hyundai E&C maximizes the eco-efficiency as well as minimizes environmental impacts ECONOMY by establishing an environmental management system for all business processes. INPUT OUTPUT ENVIRONMENT Energy Consumption (TJ) Direct GHG Emissions 03 Description 2011 2012 2013 02 TECHNOLOGY 2.35 Diesel 270.92 88.08 86.91 1.28 Gasoline 25.65 24.56 18.03 27,973 1.01 Kerosene 41.12 23.93 18.48 Minimizing Maximizing 17,053 Environmental Intensity by Revenues LNG 36.39 173.30 66.44 (tCO2-e / 100 million KRW) 14,089 LPG 5.25 5.56 2.59 Eco-efficiency Direct GHG Emissions EMPLOYEE District heating 0.21 0.87 1.67 Impacts (tCO2-e) Electric power 903.43 771.20 770.56 01 06 2011 2012 2013 Lump coal (brown coal) 13.95 7.19 20.16 Ignition coal (wood coal) 0.70 0.50 Indirect GHG Emissions Total energy 1,296.92 1,095.39 985.34 SOCIETY consumption 3.94 2.91 2.70 46,979 Material Use 05 38,824 37,568 04 Intensity by Revenues (tCO2-e / 100 million KRW) Description 2011 2012 2013 Indirect GHG Emissions APPENDIX Reinforcing bar (ton) 299,726 352,883 463,146 (tCO2-e) 01 02 03 04 05 06 Steel (ton) 90,000 114,000 73,000 EnvironmentEnvironmentEnvironmentEnvironmentEnvironmentEnvironment2011 2012 2013 3 Ready-mixed concrete (m ) 3,529,397 2,293,475 2,457,581 friendly Technology friendly friendly friendly friendly friendly Development and Procurement Transport Construction Deconstruction Operation Cement (ton) 120,679 85,872 86,185 Other Indirect GHG Emissions Engineering 3 Sand (m ) 750,056 8,764,430 11,699,798 ·Enhance environment ·Increase environment·Minimize environmental ·Minimize environmental ·Reduce construction ·Increase environment30.51 Aggregate (m ) 3 1,118,235 7,431,776 5,335,498 technology friendly procurement impacts caused by impacts caused by waste matter friendly certification transportation construction 25.58 ·Realize environment-friendly ·Establish environment·Establish environment·Realize the sustainable 23.14 Asphalt concrete (ton) 757,131 476,903 275,036 engineering friendly supply chain ·Maximize the energy ·Maximize the resource friendly deconstruction construction efficiency efficiency standards LO2 (ℓ) 1,842,634 1,436,324 1,276,421 363,698 Intensity by Revenues 340,843 322,501 (tCO2-e / 100 million KRW) Coal in medium-size lumps 5,619,606 1,191,627 2,902,127 (kg) Energy Consumption Wastewater Discharge Other Indirect GHG Emissions (tCO2-e) Water Usage (ton) 2011 2012 2013 0.11 0.21 Type 2011 2012 2013 0.08 0.12 ※ G HG Emissions Amount: estimated through basic unit and sales dy divisions and 0.07 0.08 scopes based on verified data (GHG emissions change according to the adjustment of 2,557 organizational boundaries) Tap water 62.9 36.1 71.0 1,296.92 1,095.39 985.34 Surface water 40.0 33.5 12.0 1,577 Underground water 26.0 12.4 10.0 Intensity by Revenues Intensity by Revenues (ton / 100 million KRW) 1,118 Description 2011 2012 2013 (TJ / 100 million KRW) Rain water 0.5 7.3 2.0 Wastewater Wastes discharged (ton) 580,077 254,875 625,147 Energy Consumption Discharge (1000 ton) Total water usage 129.4 89.3 95.0 (TJ) Recycled volume (ton) 35,023 2,655 13,436 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 40 ENVIRONMENT ENVIRONMENT 41 55 227 94.4 Patent Applications in 2013 Cases of In-house Technical Consulting in 2013 Poinits in Customer Satisfaction Survey in 2013 TECHNOLOGY P.45 P.45 P.51 Differentiating Business Value Technology Creating Shared Value Capability Hyundai E&C strives for the TECHNOLOGY customer satisfaction by differentiating Social Value Ensuring the technology capability. Customer Satisfaction Our Approach Technology is Hyundai E&C's future and its innovative DNA that has made the impossible possible. Through the competitive technology development and innovative technology services, Hyundai E&C implements environment-friendly construction businesses and creates a sustainable base for mankind by solving problems of energy and water scarcity, resource depletion, environmental pollution, and urbanization. Hyundai E&C will develop new technology and construction method by enhancing the R&D capability and expanding the global network and realize the Management of Technology for customers through the quality innovation and the reinforcement of the communication with customers. ▲ Jang Bogo Antarctic Research Station, Antarctica / dec 2010 may 2014 TECHNOLOGY 43 2014 HYUNDAI E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT INTRO Differentiating Technology Capability ECONOMY BOUNDARY MANAGEMENT APPROACH in 2014. 137 employees are working in the R&D Division as of May 2014, which is a 154% increase from 89 Hyundai E&C believes that a sustainable future can be created by innovative technologies. employees in the end of 2011. HDEC Supplier Customer Community Other We will build a better tomorrow by developing the source technology for new growth and future Increase in Investment for R&D Facilities Hyundai E&C has continuously increased the investment products through the enhancement of our R&D capability and technological competitiveness and the ENVIRONMENT Green Smart Innovation Center (GSIC) in securing research facilities since 2011 to replace equipments, build additional laboratories, increase the expansion of the global R&D network. technology development cost, and allocate more human resources. The investment in 2013 has increased by 186% from 2011. ‘Green Smart Innovation Center’, which integrates Green+Smart technologies of Hyundai E&C, R&D Strategies is currently under construction in the R&D Division located at Mabuk-dong, Yongin-si, Gyeonggi-do, Korea, and it will be completed in October 2014. We strive to become an engineering-based global construction company by securing the capability in source Hyundai E&C has a plan to develop source technology related to new growth and future products and foster TECHNOLOGY technology and developing future innovative technology. We enhance the global R&D capability by expanding the new business by conducting systematic researches of the environment and energy fields with nine demonstration global network, foster outstanding researchers to secure source technologies for new growth and future products, centers of the structural test laboratory, the wind tunnel laboratory, the acoustic laboratory, and the climate and expand the company-wide technical consulting by establishing a system of 'Collaboration in Technology.' To simulator. help the future growth of Hyundai E&C, we analyze megatrends, such as urbanization, the scarcity of energy, fuel, resource, and water, and the environmental pollution, to identify issues of future construction technology and to EMPLOYEE provide midto long-term strategic R&D products. R&D Capability Enhancement Securement of Source Technology To find intellectual property and to enhance the technological • R&D Strategies competitiveness, we have introduced a ‘Job Invention Compensation System’ to encourage patent applications Creating New Growth Engines thorough Strengthening R&D Competiveness and registrations since 2013. Through the Hyundai E&C’s policy to support and encourage patent applications and registrations, the number of patents has risen significantly. 55 patents were applied and 49 patents were SOCIETY Reinforce R&D Innovate Technological registered in 2013. Especially, since continuous researches on new growth areas and orders/commercialization Expand Global Network Capability Competitiveness came to fruition, three new technologies; ‘Soil Remediation Technology’, ‘Intelligent Multi-Grouting System (IMG)’, Increase the investment in human Commercialize core technologies Establish and operate global R&D and ‘Ecological River Restoration Technology’, were developed and two green technology certifications; ‘Residential resource and R&D projects for foundation business groups Water Saving Technology’ and ‘Energy Recovery Ventilation System’, were achieved in 2013. Secure outstanding researchers Secure source technology through Promote global joint-researches Increase the investment in R&D the demonstration of future industry Enhance the global network Currently, we hold 249 domestic patents, including eight new technologies and three green technologies. We aim facilities Strengthen the synergy in Hyundai to add four more new technologies and two new green technology certificates in 2014. APPENDIX Motor Group Commercialization of Technologies Hyundai E&C improves the technological capability incessantly by strategically managing patents and strives for commercialization of developed source technologies to enhance the competitiveness in receiving orders. In November 2013, for the first time in the Korean construction industry, Securement of R&D Foundation we proposed the ‘Contaminated Soil Remediation R&D Project’ to Singapore using our ‘Soil Remediation Reinforcement of R&D Capability To achieve the goal of ‘Securing Technologies to become a Global Technology’ and were selected to implement the business. R&D Division HR Status Construction Leader based on Engineering’, we reorganized and expanded the research institute to the Also, we developed the nation’s first ‘Prefabricated Parallel Wire Strand (PPWS)’ technology, which is currently (Unit: person / As of MAY 2014) ‘Research and Development (R&D) Division’ in 2011 and established the midto long-term R&D roadmap in being applied to the Ulsan Bridge construction. The PPWS is globally recognized as a superb technology and 137 2013. We are trying to develop future-oriented and environment-friendly technologies by recruiting excellent thus played a significant role in receiving the order of ‘the 3rd Bosporus Bridge Construction’. Hyundai E&C is 122 researchers and investing in research facilities. The R&D budget in 2013 has increased 186% from 2011 and striving to receive more orders and to improve the cost competitiveness by applying our technologies at the 105 89 we will allocate more budget to comprehensively invest in equipments and to establish additional laboratories bidding and engineering stages. • R&D Division Organization In-house Technical Consulting Reinforcement of Technological Support for Sites Hyundai E&C expands the company-wide technological (Unit: case) cooperation which reduces cost and construction time by solving problems of sites with the actual application of Head of R&D Division 227 new technologies and construction methods and with the expansion of in-house technical consulting for sites. In 2013, we have provided 227 cases of technological supports to domestic and overseas sites. By divisions, most 2011 2012 2013 2014 184 Infra Building Energy & Environment cases were for the Civil & Environmental Division and the Building Works Division, which was 79%. By types, most R&D Group R&D Group R&D Group cases were for materialsㆍroads and construction & environment, which was 50%. R&D We established an IT-based technology browsing system, ‘In-house Technical Consulting System’ in March Infrastructure R&D Team Advanced Building R&D Team Offshore Energy R&D Team Strategy Underground Space R&D Team Green City R&D Team Water & Environment R&D Team Team 2014. By putting the system into a groupware, sites can browse technologies in real-time and ask for support Advanced Material R&D Team Energy & Plant R&D Team 2012 2013 whenever needed. 44 TECHNOLOGY TECHNOLOGY 45 2014 HYUNDAI E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT INTRO Differentiating Technology capability ECONOMY Expansion of R&D Network Development of Convergence Technology through Group Synergy Hyundai E&C promotes cooperations Reinforcement of Global R&D Cooperation We promote a wide-scope of international joint researches with and joint R&D projects with affiliates of Hyundai Motor Group to develop convergence technologies in various advanced global agencies and project owners to obtain future technology. Hyundai E&C is currently promoting fields such as road/traffic areas, high-strength steel, waste recycling, and building energy management system. various technological collaborations with advanced global companies in the UK, the USA, Canada, Japan, Hyundai Motor Group established an environment-friendly resource circulation structure between motor, steel, ENVIRONMENT Australia, Denmark, Finland, and Thailand. In 2013, we signed joint research agreements such as MOU and and construction fields. Based on this structure, Hyundai E&C is developing new growth technologies in energy, NDA with these research agencies. We are strengthening our global network by conducting various researches resource, electricity, and traffic areas. Hyundai E&C will create and expand synergy effect with affilates of Hyundai including a soil remediation research with NTC-NTU in Singapore and wind engineering research with the Motor Group. University of Western Ontario. Additionally, we are sending our employees to global advanced companies in order • Technology Development through Group Synergy to enhance their technology capability. TECHNOLOGY * ITS: Intelligent Transportation System • MOUs in the Area of New Growth Hyundai Team Partner Oranization Team Partner Oranization Motor Loughborough Univ. (JUN 2011) Construction Company High-tech Curtin Univ. (DEC 2013) Construction Gehry Technologies (JUN 2013) Material in g I nd yc l us t R ec r ia l EMPLOYEE Technology Western Ontario Univ. (DEC 2013) la s s F ue Water / UCLA-Water Technology Research Center G l Ce s te ll Wa Environment (FEB 2012) Green City LBNL (JUN 2013) Energy / Plant Hyundai Hyundai ● Green Factory USN, USP (NOV 2011) Tokyo Metropolitan Univ. (OCT 2012) (Nuclear) Steel Hysco Infrastructure Yokohama National Univ. (OCT 2012) Wa Siemens Korea (SEP 2013) st Korea Railroad Research Institute (NOV 2012) Ocean Energy ew at e Siemens Wind Power (OCT 2013) rR ecy S la clin SOCIETY gA g● p pl ic a Pennsylvania State Univ. (NOV 2013) VIT (JAN 2013) t io n Underground Space R&D Planning ● Road surface prediction CSIRO (DEC 2013) AIT (FEB 2013) High-strength HDEC R&D Hyundai E&C, Hyundai Motor Company Hyundai MOBIS and Hyundai Autoever Structural Steel Division mn Joint research project of four Group companies Colu b th PC C Sla g P e● tren and ous • Global Technology Cooperation in 2014 h-s ar H Hig l APPENDIX d u Mo Integrated Building Energy Hyundai Hyundai Engineering mobis Management System P re ci s eC un d o n s t S* er W r u c t d IT a te io n R oa r Hyundai Autoever Finland VTT Technology cooperation Hyundai E&C Technical Forum Hyundai E&C annually holds its own technology competition, ‘Hyundai E&C 2014 Hyundai E&C UK Thailand Canada Technical Forum Poster Technical Forum’, for university students and SMEs to find outstanding domestic and overseas technologies. Loughborough Univ. High-rise building AIT Technology cooperation UWO High-rise building ‘Hyundai E&C Technical Forum’ is the biggest event of the company. We receive applications for five months and review them in September and award exceptional technologies. ‘Hyundai E&C Technical Forum’ consists of Japan USA Germany three parts: Technology competition award ceremony; Hyundai E&C’s technology performance presentation; and Gehry Tech. High-rise building Siemens Offshore wind TMU Super-long span bridge LBNL Green Smart building overseas experts’ presentation. Through the forum, we try to expand the interest to the technology development VOITH Tidal power generation YNU Super-long span bridge Australia UCLA Water treatment plant and increase the accessibility to new technologies. CSIRO CCS (Carbon Capture & Storage) USN Nuclear power generation France Curtin Univ. Nano-geopolymer Vietnam USP Nuclear power generation INSA-Lyon Pile foundation UWA Offshore wind ECC HCMC Renewable energy Penn State Univ. T unnel Boring Machine (TBM) 46 TECHNOLOGY TECHNOLOGY 47 2014 HYUNDAI E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT INTRO Differentiating Technology capability ECONOMY Development and Operation of Environment-Friendly Technologies • Application of Building Energy Technology to Sites In order to minimize the energy consumption at the stage of operating a building, Hyundai E&C has established Technology Period Site a roadmap to commercialize a Zero-energy technology by 2020 and has been developing innovative energy After June 2013 Sejong Hillstate reducing technologies according to midto long-term plans. Hyundai E&C leads environmental management by ENVIRONMENT Integrated Energy Saving System optimizing the use of energy and resources not only for the construction, but also for the operation of a completed The second half of 2014 Green Smart Building (GSB) buildings and by developing green items. Response to climate change Micro Energy Grid System for Buildings The second half of 2014 Green Smart Building (GSB) Identify connecting plan for CDM Development of Energy Technologies The Korean Government plans to make the ‘Zero-energy’ compulsory and for domestic GHG reduction performance April 2012 Daegu Posco Esiapolis Energy Recovery Ventilation System for newly-constructed buildings by 2025. To respond to the government policy, we are developing various energy Green building The second half of 2014 Green Smart Building (GSB) Make proposal for low-energy technology technologies to reduce the energy consumption in a building. In addition, we are applying the developed energy TECHNOLOGY development July 2013 LH Chuncheon Janghack District technologies to domestic and overseas sites. Green home Residential Water Saving Technology Build low-energy Hillstate complex The second half of 2014 Green Smart Building (GSB) • Current Status of Energy Technology Development Development of H-MEG Technology We are developing the Hyundai Micro Energy Grid (H-MEG) technology, Research Project Purpose and Detail H-MEG the integrated operational technologies for a building, for energy supply and efficient operation of buildings that EMPLOYEE Micro Energy Grid Technology for Buildings (AUG 2011DEC 2014) Maximizing energy saving through efficient supply and consumption of energy HYUNDAI Micro Energy Grid can connect to the national backbone network. The H-MEG technology not only reduces the energy consumption Designing low-energy building optimally considering local weather conditions by maximizing the efficiency in producing, contributing, and using the building energy, but also is considered as Optimum Design for Green Buildings (JAN 2013 DEC 2014) Establishing engineering and construction of domestic and overseas low-energy buildings a core technology to significantly affect the competitiveness of new green megamarkets such as green buildings, Establishing plan for “Zero-energy” for heating and cooling by using the passive method Green remodeling environmental remodeling, and green cities. Cooling & Heating and Hot-water Application Technology Utilize core technologies for improving energy Developing Total Air-conditioning System for heating, cooling and hot water of buildings SOCIETY Using Solar Air-conditioning and Heating (JAN 2014 DEC 2016) efficiency → Turn into a new business Green Building Certification In 2013, 54 domestic projects of buildings completed have received the Green Realizing and demonstrating commercialize-able zero-energy technology for apartment Building Certification (either preliminary or completed) and 18 have been certified by the Building Energy Efficiency Overseas sector Realizing Technology for Zero-energy Apartment Buildings (JAN 2014 DEC 2016) Expanding business opportunities in housing through realizing zero-energy apartment buildings Utilize for obtaining orders, Rating System. For overseas projects, seven projects have been certified by the Green Mark while one project review a new business model Demonstration Monitoring of Hydrogen Fuel Cell for Buildings (APR 2014 JUL 2015) Monitoring the demonstration of hydrogen fuel cells used at buildings to produce electricity and heat achieved a LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) certification. The LEED Green Building Rating Green city System is a standard benchmark about materials, resources, engineering, structures and functions of highIdentifying development direction for Smart Façade Technology Realize the Micro Energy Grid (MEG) for green Smart Façade System Technology (JAN 2014 JUL 2014) functional environment-friendly buildings. APPENDIX Selecting core technologies and identifying development strategies city and village Understanding the current status of project on energy optimization of plant buildings Establishment of Plans and Strategies for Commercialization of Examining the current status of GEMS✽ and monitoring Green Factories (JAN 2014 OCT 2014) Researching the proper ventilation amount by air quality * GEMS: Greenhouse-Gas and Energy Management System Hyundai E&C Realizes an Era of Zero-energy through ‘Intelligent Building Control Technology for HVAC’ Hyundai E&C Leads Environment-Friendly Technology Markets with its ‘Soil Remediation Technology’ In March 2014, Hyundai E&C developed the ‘Intelligent Building Control Technology for HVAC’ that can reduce over 35% By developing the ‘Soil Remediation Technology,’ Hyundai E&C has proved its world’s best 35% of the energy consumed for heating and cooling of a building. This technology saves the energy using the artificial neural technological competitiveness once again. This technology is to purify soil that has been contaminated network algorithm without replacing the existing equipment system of a building. It is a convergence and mixed control by heavy metals. The technology selects and applies processes by contaminants and characteristics technology that organically combines ICT✽ and SI✽ technology. of the contaminated soil, applies the physical process first, and therefore improves the efficiency and Saving Especially, the technology allows to achieve the same result with only 20% of investment costs of the existing energy economic feasibility of the process. Also, the technology is environment-friendly since it overcomes the saving technologies. Therefore, if the technology is applied to the government’s ‘Green Remodeling’ business, it could limit of the existing soil cleansing technologies and secures safety by using a zero-discharge system, achieve the maximized environmental improvement and energy saving at a minimum cost. which recycles the entire cleansing water contaminated by heavy metals generated during the soil Hyundai E&C will apply the ‘Intelligent Building Control Technology for HVAC’ to all sites including ‘Hyundai E&C Green cleansing process. Smart Innovation Center (GSIC)’, which are being currently constructed, to secure its position in the market of ‘Green Hyundai E&C is currently using this technology for a heavy-metal contaminated soil purification project Smart Building’ and lead environmental management. in Jang Hang, Chungcheong nam-do, Korea since 2013. In the future, we will aggressively apply the technology to overseas projects in the Middle East, Singapore, and others to continuously lead the * ICT: Information & Communication Technology ▲ Heavy-Metal Contaminated Soil Purification Project, Jang Hang global market of environment-friendly technologies. SI: System Integration 48 TECHNOLOGY TECHNOLOGY 49 2014 HYUNDAI E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT INTRO Customer Satisfaction through Innovation ECONOMY BOUNDARY MANAGEMENT APPROACH Quality Innovation Based on the corporate culture prioritizing customers, Hyundai E&C strives to constantly innovate Reinforcement of Company-wide Quality Management To reinforce the quality control capability and to Company-wide Quailty Management respond proactively to customers’ needs, Hyundai E&C operates the Quality Management Innovation Group HDEC Supplier Customer Community Other the quality for the creation of customer values by listening to customers’ demands through various communication channels. Quality Evaluation for which promotes the quality innovation and improves the quality management system. In 2013, we conducted 66 ENVIRONMENT sites quality evaluations for 66 projects and quality audits for 18 projects to check the quality of projects. Through the Project Trouble Shooting Guide (PTSG) system, we have collected and spread about 4,295 numbers of success Expansion of Customer Communication and failure cases (cumulative) to settle the preventive quality system. Quality Audits for We operate various on and offline communication channels to gather customers’ opinions and to respond to their Furthermore, we have provided online quality training to 2,400 technical staffs of the company to raise their 18 sites demands promptly and efficiently. awareness of the quality. We will strive to strengthen the global business capability and satisfy customers’ needs TECHNOLOGY through the quality innovation. • Operational Status of Customer Communication Channels Expansion of Quality Innovation of Suppliers We strive to promote the quality innovation of not only our ON-LINE OFF-LINE Supplier Quality Chain Workshop employees, but also the entire value chain including materials and construction suppliers. To support suppliers’ quality enhancement, we regularly hold workshops, offer specialized quality training for each construction type, Customer Center on Website Phone & Mail EMPLOYEE and conduct quality evaluations of construction suppliers. (1:1 Online Support) Seoul Office (1) In addition, we improve suppliers’ weakness in quality and conduct the quality audits so that the quality of Mobile Website COMMUNICATION Regional Offices (6) Hillstate Website materials supplied to domestic and overseas sites meets the requirements of customers. We also make the Move-in Support Centers (19) Hillstate Blog quality chain activities periodically for the shared growth with our suppliers in quality. Hillstate Styler SOCIETY Customer Satisfaction Activities Online Communication Channels We are operating a customer center on the corporate website (en.hdec. Hillstate Styler ‘Hillstate Styler’, established in 2008, is an evaluation group mainly composed of housewives Hyundai E&C Website kr) to listen carefully to the voice of customers and striving to respond promptly to their grievances and problems. Hillstate Styler Activities to receive and reflect various opinions of customers. In 2013, the ‘Hillstate Styler’ made 132 proposals over seven For customers’ convenience, we provide one-to-one online consultations, operate our website in seven different sessions and 40 were accepted to improve the quality of Hillstate apartments. We will continue to promote active languages including Arabic and Spanish for overseas customers, and created and regularly update a mobile customer participation activities to increase their satisfaction and loyalty. APPENDIX Hillstate Website website. Protection of Customer Information and Compliance with Regulations Hyundai E&C operates a Privacy Besides the corporate website, we also operate a website of our main house brand, Hillstate (www.hillstate. Protection Committee and appointed a Chief Privacy Officer (CPO) to strictly protect customers’ personal co.kr) to provide specialized information for residents. Through the website, customers can obtain information on information. We also comply with marketing and communication regulations to increase customers’ trust by reconstruction plans, sales, and after services and also receive professional consultations by the customer center delivering accurate and proper information. via phone or web. In 2013, we received 1,787 customer opinions via the website and 67,216 customer opinions via the customer center. Customer Satisfaction Survey We conduct customer satisfaction surveys on the construction quality, which In order to get closer to our customers, we conducted external certifications and achieved the ‘Web Customer Satisfaction Survey Results is composed of ten areas including the company’s will to implement customers’ needs, a satisfaction about Accessibility Certification’ from the Korea Institute of Web Accessibility Certification and Value for the Hillstate (Unit: point) the quality, leadership, and continuous improvements. In 2013, we have conducted surveys for project owners, webpage. Moreover, Hillstate has won the first place for ‘THE PROUD Korea’s Prestigious Construction Brand’ designers, and supervisors of 66 projects and the result was 94.4 points, which is a slight increase from 2012. 95.3 94.3 94.4 announced by the Korea Management Association Consulting (KMAC) for four consecutive years. Hillstate also In order to increase the credibility of the data, we assign an on-site evaluation team to directly assess the won the honor of the first place in the ‘Korean Standard Service Quality Index’ and the ‘Contact Service Quality projects. We will strive to understand customers’ needs and to realize the customer impression by expanding Index’ announced by the Korean Standard Association (KSA). In 2014, we will further enhance the customer survey targets and conducting the online survey as well. communication by operating various online channels including the Hillstate blog. Offline Communication Channels We have various off-line communication channels including phone call, 2011 2012 2013 mail, direct visit, and face-to-face talk. Particularly, we operate 19 move-in support centers at Hillstate complex and seven CS centers in Seoul and other regions for residents to conveniently reach us. Furthermore, we hold the Hillstate Day Event before the completion of the construction to gather customers’ opinions and improve their satisfaction through the consultation. We will strive to maximize the customer satisfaction by providing prompt after services and enhancing customer services in early days of move-in. 50 TECHNOLOGY TECHNOLOGY 51 519 146 1,251 EMPLOYEE Newly-hired Employees Average Training Hours per Employee Times of Safety Inspections in 2013 in 2013 in 2013 P.55 P.56 P.60 Cultivating Business Value Innovative Talents Creating Shared Value EMPLOYEE Hyundai E&C realizes employee values by cultivating innovative Social Value Realizing talents. Employee Value Our Approach Employees enable the innovation and are the driving forces of Hyundai E&C's business activities. In order for us to provide solutions for environmental and social problems of the world as a global construction company, it is essential to develop global, innovative talents who overcome the impossible and challenge to be the best. We will be a leading company which supports the value creation of individual employee and realizes a work and life balance at a safe work environment by securing outstanding talents and developing the best capability. ▲ Habshan-5 Utilities & Offsites Project, Abu Dhabi, U.A.E. / jul 2009 may 2013 EMPLOYEE 53 2014 HYUNDAI E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT INTRO Cultivating innovative talents ECONOMY BOUNDARY MANAGEMENT APPROACH Equal Opportunities in Employment Hyundai E&C considers cultivating innovative talents, who lead changes and innovations in the Recruitment In 2013, Hyundai E&C newly recruited a total of 519 employees of 270 new university graduates, HDEC Supplier Customer Community Other world and create new values, as the most important task. In order to implement the task, we secure 207 experienced workers, and 42 interns. We are constantly enhancing the executing capability for overseas innovative talents through the development of global capability and the fair performance evaluation projects by securing outstanding talents in advance through the expansion of internship programs and by ENVIRONMENT and will be a global leader in the construction industry. constantly recruiting excellent talents with the global capability. • Current Status of Employees • Current Status of Recruitment (Unit: person/ As of DEC 31, 2013) (Unit: person) • Talent Management Process Experienced New recruit Intern 519 Full-time employees 4,476 TECHNOLOGY 478 487 42 33 Male 4,215 114 Female 261 242 270 Cultivation Work-Life Contract workers 845 of Innovative 263 Balance Talents Male 824 EMPLOYEE 212 207 Female 21 101 STEP 01 STEP 01 Equal opportunities Various welfare and in employment benefit programs Total 5,321 2011 2012 2013 Fair and transparent recruitment; Various welfare activities Protection of human rights for employees’ convenience and respect of diversity and motivation SOCIETY Pursuit of Diversity Hyundai E&C strives for the diversity of the organization by expanding the recruitment ratio EMPLOYEE STEP 02 Value STEP 02 Recruitment of Social Minorities of female, foreign workers, men of national merit, and individuals with disabilities. Since January 2014, every new (At HQ / As of DEC 31, 2013) Global innovative Creation Corporate culture of open domestic site is required to recruit at least one individual with disabilities and thus we take the lead in delivering 66 talents cultivation cummunication and trust Systematical training program Creation of trustable corporate Individuals with the corporate social responsibility. to cultivate global leaders culture based on communication Disabilities and harmony Compliance with Human Rights and International Standards As a global construction company, Hyundai 76 APPENDIX STEP 03 Men of Merit STEP 03 E&C has its own strict standards for human rights and labor. We publicly endorse global standards on human Fair Appraisal and Compensation Safe working environment rights and diversity, such as the United Nations’ Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the ILO Conventions, the Fair appraisal process and Safety of employees through 11 strict pre-inspections and safety domestic Labor Standard Act, the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, and the Global Sullivan Principles. compensation in line with Foreigners appraisal results management Based on the Labor Standard Act, Hyundai E&C clearly states its stance on an employment contract and strictly prohibits child labor and forced labor. Particularly, we have developed standards for the protection of human rights to prevent religious and racial discriminations and actively operate supporting programs at overseas sites. Due to these efforts, we incurred no restrictions or accusations with regard to human rights in 2013. Hyundai E&C’s Ideal Employee Cultivation of Global Innovative Talents Value CREATOR Global DEVELOPER Synergy BUILDER We operate a structured human resource development program to enhance the global capability and work Challenge to the New Individuals who, with creativity and a pioneering spirit, continuously strive to Individuals who are prepared to work globally with an open mind and Individuals who can create synergy within a group by communicating and e-HRD System Website capability based on the e-Human Resource Development (e-HRD) System. challenge the status quo and create respect diversity cooperating with diverse stakeholders Challenge to the new value Reinforcement of Global Capability Fostering outstanding talents with the global capability is crucial Impossible to successfully implement overseas projects which are constantly being expanded. Hyundai E&C supports Challenge to the Best Hyundai E&C’s Ideal Employee employees to become global leaders by expanding educational programs on language, different culture, and negotiation as well as by enhancing overseas working and training activities. Beginning from 2013, the second Hyundai E&C believes that an organization’s greatest asset and the future are its employees. The concept of our “INNOVATIVE language education program includes not only French, Spanish, and Chinese, but also Arabic to improve ideal employee, ‘Innovative Challenger,’ describes an individual who creates new values by challenging to the CHALLENGER” new, to the impossible, and to becoming the best. Our employees are growing as individuals who create greater employees’ linguistic proficiency. synergy and new values with a challenging spirit, creativity, and an open mind. 54 EMPLOYEE EMPLOYEE 55 2014 HYUNDAI E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT INTRO Cultivating innovative talents Balancing Work and Life ECONOMY Advancement of Professional Job Training Based on the job training system, Hyundai E&C provides a variety BOUNDARY MANAGEMENT APPROACH Annual Average Training Hours of systematic training programs by positions, groups, and duties as well as EP & CM education for employees. Hyundai E&C offers various welfare and benefit programs for employees’ personal life and the work-life per Employee (Unit: hour) Also, we are utilizing the e-HRD system to establish an advanced talent development program that cultivates HDEC Supplier Customer Community Other balance. Also, we will create a corporate culture of trust and open communication, which is also family146 professionals with the practical work capability based on actual work. oriented for our employees. ENVIRONMENT 123 Expansion of Integrated Group Training Hyundai E&C offers an integrated training in all educational courses to create synergies by the incorporation into Hyundai Motor Group. Moreover, we continuously expand Welfare & Benefits investments in trainings to enhance the corporate competitiveness and to increase the employee satisfaction by To motivate our employees and to ensure a better quality of life, Hyundai E&C provides various welfare and developing emloyees’ capabilities. In 2013, the annual average training hours per employee were 146 hours and benefit programs including supports for employees’ leisure activities, childbirth and motherhood, residential and the educational expenditure per employee was 1,047 thousand KRW. TECHNOLOGY economic security, and health care. 2012 2013 Improvement of Knowledge Management System (KMS) We have been operating the Knowledge • Welfare & Benefit Programs *A nnual average training hours per person = Management System (KMS) since 2003 for the efficient sharing and acquisition of knowledge. Around 70,000 Total annual training hours ÷ Total employees Program details cases of knowledge database have been stored in the system. The KMS divides knowledge into three categories: Description knowledge management, case management, and Q&A. The system registers and manages knowledge for Bonus for summer vacation; Discount at sports centers; Access to designated recreational Support for leisure activities EMPLOYEE easy search as needed. In 2013, to search information according to site’s characteristics more easily, we further lodges available across Korea enhanced the integrated search function for more efficient use and improved the case utilization process. As a Childbirth incentive program; Support for childcare expenses; Paternity leave for male Support for childbirth and motherhood Knowledge Registration Process employees (3 days); Operation of day care center in workplaces result, it had more than 1 million annual views in 2013. Support for residential & economic security Welfare Fund (3% annual interest rate); Corporate residences for single households STEP 1 Knowledge or proposal is uploaded Intranet-based Knowledge Sharing Work-related knowledge can be shared through the knowledge sharing by a user. A ‘knowledge department’ Regular medical check-up; Special test for metabolic syndrome; Mental health check-up; is assigned. platform on the Closed User Group (CUG) menu in a groupware. Employees can work efficiently by sharing Medical support & healthcare Smoking cessation program SOCIETY knowledge about regulations and guidelines, organizations and human resources, notices and cooperations, and Birth through middle school: 100,000 KRW per child STEP 2 Content is registered by relevant departmental news for each business division. Support for education of High school: 450,000 KRW per child (for public schools) department (within ten days). employees’ children University: 4 million KRW per academic semester A ‘knowledge specialist’ is assigned. Educational expense support for children with special needs Fair Appraisal and Compensation Gift for employees’ parents; Gift on the national holiday; Gift for employees’ children upon STEP 3 Content is evaluated by ‘knowledge Gifts specialist’ (within ten days). Based on the accurate evaluation of the employee’s work abilities, we operate a performance appraisal enrollment at school APPENDIX program to improve the performance of individuals and the organization. Also, we compensate employees Selective benefits package Benefits “credit card” (amount varies by positions) according to appraisal results. STEP 4 A level is assigned to knowledge Other Support for moving expenses for families of employees working overseas; Special reward content. for employees with long-term service to the company Appraisal By introducing and operating HR programs based on Management by Objective (MBO) since 2012, we have advanced the performance management system such as ‘goal-setting’, ‘mid-term examination’, and ‘final evaluation’ for accurate and professional evaluations and fair compensations. Also, for an effective appraisal, Childbirth & Parental Leave By operating programs of supports for childbirth and motherhood, we strive to we developed an IT-based performance appraisal system and educate the responsible personnel. In September improve the working environment for female employees and relieve social problems caused by the low birth rate 2013, we collected opinions by holding a public hearing of responsible parties and conducting an employee in Korea. 21 female employees used the 90-day maternity leave and all returned to work in 2013. Therefore, the satisfaction survey on HR to settle the performance appraisal program. returning rate of 2013 was 100%. In addition, we operate the best kindergartens for our female employees to be successful in both work and child care. We strive to create a corporate culture where employees can return to Compensation Hyundai E&C operates a compensation system based on performance appraisal results. work stably after their maternity and parental leave. Particularly, a Promotion Point Program motivates our employees by allowing them to predict the possibility of promotion which is based on the appraisal result and capability. Hyundai E&C will strengthen its global Healthcare Support Hyundai E&C offers various healthcare programs, such as supports on smoking competitiveness and maximize employee values by stabilizing and improving the performance appraisal system. cessation program and metabolic syndrome and CPR training, and operates a cardioverter defibrillator at the Hyundai E&C guarantees gender equality. An individual’s wage may vary depending on his/her position and in-house medical room. In 2013, we invested 1.71 billion KRW for medical check-up of 4,988 employees and working conditions, but never on the gender. their families. In 2014, we will introduce education, counseling, and therapy for mental health of employees by cooperating with the Jongro Community Mental Health Center. Retirement Pension Plan Hyundai E&C is operating a retirement savings plan for employees in two types: defined-benefit pension plan and defined-contribution pension plan. Employees can choose to receive their retirement savings either at once or as a pension plan. In the future, Hyundai E&C will continue to increase the savings deposit and enhance employees’ pensionable right to guarantee their stable life after the retirement. 56 EMPLOYEE EMPLOYEE 57 2014 HYUNDAI E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT INTRO Balancing Work and Life ECONOMY Corporate Culture of Open Communication and Trust Hyundai E&C creates a corporate culture which values communication and trust to share management policies and improve the employee satisfaction. In order to do so, we guarantee freedom of the Labor Union activities. We also discuss about the improvement of policies, productivity, employee welfare and benefits, and work ENVIRONMENT environment and reflect opinions to management activities. Labor Union A Hyundai E&C employee can freely join or withdraw from the Labor Union in accordance with Article 3 and Article 5 of the Collective Agreement in the Labor Union Act. The company regulates itself to neither hinder an individual’s registration to nor force the withdrawal from the Union. According to the duty to notify on 01 02 Article 10 of the Collective Agreement, it is a compulsory principle to immediately give notice to all employees TECHNOLOGY regarding significant changes in the business, such as organizational restructuring. As of December 2013, 444 employees, 14.55% of the 3,052 employees who are qualified to join the Union, are members of the Labor Union and subject to the protection by the right of collective bargaining. Junior Board Activities The Junior Board at Hyundai E&C is a young ‘Idea Bank’ to foster major talents and EMPLOYEE Junior Board’s Discussion with CEO create a corporate culture of communication. Since the creation of the first Junior Board in 1990, the 22nd Junior Board is actively participating in various corporate affairs. The Junior Board consists of those who are volunteers 03 04 or recommended by the headquarters among assistant managers, managers, and senior managers. Normally the Junior Board is operated for a period of two years. In 2013, the Junior Board led the improvement of the corporate culture by implementing a smart work campaign, an event for the anniversary of the foundation, and CSR activities. It also worked as a communication channel between employees through a discussion with the CEO. Its advanced activities were chosen as the best practice of realizing the Hyundai Motor Group’s core values. SOCIETY In 2014, the Junior Board will attend major corporate business conferences to express opinions on management issues and implement leadership trainings to enhance the capability. Greeting Day On the Greeting Day, employees use the internal messenger to send encouraging messages to 05 06 APPENDIX each other for a joyful workplace through open communication. To encourage the participation, ‘Communication King/Queen’ who sends out the most greetings and ‘Most Popular Employee’ who receives the most greetings PHOTO 01, 02, 03 Camp and Field Trips for Children of Employees PHOTO 04, 05, 06 Harmonizing Activities are chosen weekly. Facebook Page for Employees For fun communication, we operate a special Facebook page for domestic Facebook Page for Employees and overseas employees. Various events are held through the page and we will expand the range of participants Employee Satisfaction of events so that employees’ friends and families can also share postings. Employee Engagement Survey Since 2011, we have surveyed the Employee Engagement Index (EEI) to improve the work environment by increasing the employees’ work satisfaction. The EEI result was 83% in 2013. In 2014, we held a briefing session to share the result with the management of each division and a Change Agent (CA) Family-oriented Corporate Culture council and emailed the result to other employees. Hyundai E&C seeks to create a heartwarming family-oriented company for employees and their families. In addition to the EEI, we assess the level of internalization of Hyundai E&C’s core values (Customers, Challenge, Collaboration, People, Globality) and influential factors to the corporate culture. 84 action plans based Harmonizing Activities To enhance the employee morale and a sense of belonging, we are holding a number on the assessment results by divisions are being established and implemented in 2014 and its result will be of harmonizing activities. By business divisions, we hold activities such as a sports day, environmental protection applied to each division’s KPI. activities, volunteer activities, tracking, and cultural events. Turnover Rate A turnover rate indicates the employees’ work satisfaction, the quality of welfare, and the Camp and Field Trips for Children For children of employees, Hyundai E&C offers various programs such as employment insecurity. In 2013, 5.56% of employees left the company which is a sharp decrease from 6.36% in field trips to a farm, TV stations, and an aerospace museum, ski camps, and English camps. By actively collecting the previous year. The voluntary turnover rate, which excludes the retirement, disciplinary dismissal, and transfer opinions through surveys, we will improve the quality of programs incessantly. within the Group, is 2.30%. To decrease the turnover rate, we select wage differentials between full time and contract workers and wage levels against competitors as key risk management index and establish and monitor response plans by scenarios. 58 EMPLOYEE EMPLOYEE 59 2014 HYUNDAI E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT INTRO Safe WORKING ENVIRONMENT ECONOMY BOUNDARY MANAGEMENT APPROACH • Out System Operation Standards Hyundai E&C strives for the ‘TOTAL SAFETY’ by enhancing all employees’ awareness of Health, Safety, Penalty Infringement HDEC Supplier Customer Community Other and Environment (HSE) for a safe and pleasant work environment. We pursue the systematic safety Not wearing a safety harness when working in high places; Not wearing a safety management by reinforcing each division’s accident prevention activities aiming zero critical and Immediately “out” upon helmet (hard hat) within site; Operating machinery without a license; Not wearing ENVIRONMENT http://en.hdec.kr/sustainability/ 1 OUT violation seatbelts when driving construction equipment (with tires that can drive more than safety.asp environmental accident and by implementing the Permit to Work (PTW) system for all types of work. 30km); Violating safety instructions on wielding and use of fire Not wearing protective equipments (other than a safety helmet and a seatbelt); 1st time: Warning 2 OUT Disassembling safety facilities without an approval and not restoring to the original Safety Management System 2nd time: Out of site state; Violating safety instructions on rope hoist Integrated HSE Management System Hyundai E&C has combined the safety & health management system 1st time: Warning TECHNOLOGY Violating basic workplace safety & environmental regulations and the environment & health system for the simplification of work and systematic management. Since July 2012, 3 OUT 2nd time: Special training (company-wide and each site’s own) 3rd time: Out of site we have been operating the integrated HSE Management System which combines the green management system with the energy management system. In 2013, the HSE Management System for 239 domestic and overseas sites was constantly improved and developed and the HSE Work Guide-book and Environmental Safety Inspection Day By monthly holding a ‘Safety Inspection Day’ at all sites with the top management, we Safety Inspection Day inspect and improve the safety conditions on sites, enhance the awareness of safety issues to prevent accidents, Standard were established for each of the six newly-entered countries. We will strive to improve the companyand encourage the participation of all employees and workers. By doing this, we strive to achieve the ‘zero EMPLOYEE wide HSE work standard and process, standardize data and continuously revise and manage information that is already established. accident’ constructions. Hyundai E&C will continue the ‘Safety Inspection Day’ by diversifying inspection themes and expanding emotional safety activities. Reinforcement of HSE Division We have enhanced the level of safety management by establishing the HSE team in 2013, implementing specialized inspections and trainings by divisions, and performing the HSE HSE Training Hyundai E&C provides HSE trainings for all employees, sites workers, and suppliers to change management review by the Division Head. Also, we strive to change the employees’ awareness of the importance and improve the awareness of safety and environment. In 2013, 4,002 site workers participated in HSE trainings SOCIETY of safety management and to achieve the safety management targets by including each site's safety management and the satisfaction on training increased to 83.3% from 80.7% of the previous year. We will strive to further performance to the KPI of responsible personnel such as site managers. In addition, we will gradually extend improve trainings by inviting external lecturers and enhancing training contents for the increase of the satisfaction Current Status of HSE Training and the quality of training. the scope of the KPI application. In 2014, we will restructure and reinforce the organization to enhance each department’s autonomous and responsible HSE management and technical safety. 2011 2012 2013 Reinforcement of Site Inspections Distribution of the HSE Standards To revitalize the Global HSE training, we implement case-based trainings (Unit: time) HSE training participants (person) about basic overseas safety guidelines (accidents, traffic, fire) and about clients’ requests. Also, HSE Standards 3,208 4,305 4,002 APPENDIX 1,251 Safety Management Activities are translated in different languages and distributed. Furthermore, we will visit sites which request for supports 1,172 123 Expansion of Permit to Work (PTW) By operating the Permit to Work (PTW) since 2011, which is an Satisfaction rate on HSE training (%) and promote a ‘HSE One-point Training’ by educating, auditing, and evaluating the sites. 115 221 253 advanced accident prevention system, we establish a safety measure for possible risk factors, obtain a permit to 85.8 80.7 83.3 Accident Rate Management Even though the accident rate of 2013 slightly increased to 0.20% from 0.14% 663 work, and then begin the work for highly dangerous works. If a given work did not receive the PTW or omitted of the previous year, it is still a lower figure compared to the average accident rate of the domestic construction 105 safety measures as stated in the PTW document, it is subject to an immediate halt. We have expanded the PTW 126 875 industry. Particularly, the number of critical accidents clearly declined leading to the actual decrease of accidents. system to all types of work to actively prevent accidents. 836 In 2014, by fortifying the ‘Risk Watching & Warning’ function and advancing the HSE System, we will achieve the 432 Reinforcement of Site Inspections In 2013, we conducted 1,251 inspections for understanding domestic and target accident rate of 0.14% and strive to reduce the accident rate, eradicate critical accidents, and settle the overseas sites’ safety management status (e.g. falls, equipments, collapse, etc.) and for the accident prevention. safety culture. 2011 2012 2013 And, we categorized the level of danger into A to D grades by sites to promote further improvements. In addition, Supportive Evaluative Selection of Priority Management Targets by Periods Hyundai E&C analyzes accidents by projects, ages, Special a Feed-back System is being developed, which records and manages inspection results to reinforce the tracking processes, types, days, hours, causes, and original cause materials. Based on the analysis, we select priority function for improper factors by sites. management targets which occur frequently and provide company-wide campaigns and trainings to prevent ※ Supportive inspections: Constant inspections Expansion of Out System In order to promote the safety consciousness of all employees and site workers, accidents in advance. Evaluative inspections: Regular inspections by sites Special inspections: Inspections of highly dangerous Hyundai E&C has implemented the Out System which outlines restrictive measures for varying degrees of safety sites and subsidiaries violations and has implemented in-house training at headquarters to prevent the recurrence of accidents. In 2013, Value Creation Case: Cost Savings by OHS Activities the Out System was executed 5,544 times. 3,444 employees received warnings, 1,315 employees received trainings, and 785 employees were expelled out of sites. In 2014, we will reinforce safety management activities by Hyundai E&C has focused on managing works of high accident risks through the Permit Over three years from 2011 to 2013, insurance expenses declined by about 7%, allowing the sites to view Out System records of each worker and managing the history of workers who received to Work (PTW) since 2011 and promoted various OHS activities, such as enhancing from 25.6 billion KRW in 2011 to 23.8 billion KRW in 2013. Compared to 2011, a cost the safety consciousness of site workers through the Out System. As a result, we could saving of reduced insurance expenses is a total of about 4.25 billion KRW combining the education for redemption after the expulsion. drastically decrease the number of critical accidents and save costs as well, creating a 2.5 billion KRW in 2012 and 1.75 billion KRW in 2013. We will continue to realize the ‘Total safer work environment. Safety’ for the safe and pleasant workplace. 60 EMPLOYEE EMPLOYEE 61 1,796 284.3 4.55 Benefiting Suppliers of Training Program in 2013 Billion KRW of Urgent Funds for Suppliers in 2013 Billion KRW of Donation for Social Contribution in 2013 SOCIETY P.66 P.66 P.69 Empowering Business Value Creating Shared Value Value Chain Hyundai E&C seeks to grow SOCIETY together with the society by enhancing the capability of Social Value Accomplishing its entire value chain. Shared Growth Our Approach Suppliers are the most important companions and local communities are the base of business. To promote our vision of sustainability, it is essential to identify and foster global suppliers with capability and the consideration and cooperation of local communities should precede. Hyundai E&C enhances the value chain capability by selecting outstanding domestic and overseas suppliers and implementing various activities. In addition, by participating in local communities and social contribution activities, Hyundai E&C strives to fulfill its role and responsibility as a global corporate citizen. ▲ Manifa Power Transmission & Substations, Saudi Arabia / jun 2008 sep 2013 SOCIETY 63 2014 HYUNDAI E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT INTRO Empowering Value Chain ECONOMY BOUNDARY MANAGEMENT APPROACH Reinforcement of Global Procurement Management In 2013, Hyundai E&C has stabilized the preFor Hyundai E&C to advance further as a sustainable construction company, the sustainability of established systems of bidding, transport, and procurement management by advancing the management system HDEC Supplier Customer Community Other the entire value chain including materials and construction suppliers should be constantly improved. of materials and subcontracts for overseas projects. Also, processes of the evaluation management for suppliers, Hyundai E&C finds excellent suppliers to enhance the capability of domestic and overseas supply contract management, and payment management have been newly established. Moreover, by purchasing ENVIRONMENT chain and provides various programs to improve the competitiveness. materials from local markets and therefore saving costs, we have contributed to the cost competitiveness and sales increase of local suppliers. Since 2012, we have assigned procurement personnel to overseas branches in Singapore, Dubai, Tripoli, and Doha to purchase local materials, office supplies, and safety features required for Identification of Outstanding Suppliers the operation of overseas businesses and branches. We applied this system to the Kuwait branch in 2013 as well. Selecting outstanding suppliers and strictly managing the quality of their business are vital elements for Hyundai For countries where it is difficult to establish a branch, such as Venezuela, Vietnam, and Saudi Arabia, we assign TECHNOLOGY E&C to enhance the capability of the entire value chain. We provide equal opportunities to every supplier and fairly procurement personnel to sites. In 2014, we will also send procurement personnel to Uzbekistan and Iraq, which and transparently select suppliers based upon the shared growth policy for suppliers. are the newly-entered markets. To support the preferential local procurement, we have established the management system for overseas Fair and Transparent Selection of Suppliers In order to continuously foster excellent suppliers, we separately construction materials and subcontracts, ‘e-Procurement & e-Subcontract’. To shorten the procurement lead evaluate the existing core suppliers and new suppliers. For the management stability of suppliers, we make Overseas construction material and subcontract time, we have developed and are operating the simplification system of local payments for overseas sites and the compliance with environmental, safety, and health policies a requirement of a contract to identify capable EMPLOYEE management system for branches. In order to further simplify the process of repetitive purchases from overseas branches, we will develop suppliers and operate a “Low Bid Deliberation System” to prevent excessively low bidding. local procurement a new unit price contract program. Enhancement of System to Identify Outstanding Overseas Suppliers Hyundai E&C strategically diversifies e-Procurement & Optimization of Global Logistics Hyundai E&C has improved the efficiency of the customs clearance work its global business by advancing to new markets. To increase the competitiveness and operate business e-Subcontract by developing a manual by countries to proactively prevent any possible cost occurred due to a delay in the successfully in emerging markets, it is crucial to identify and manage excellent local suppliers in a timely manner. project period. In addition, we developed an electronic bidding system and a local logistics cost system as In order to do so, Hyundai E&C established a ‘Global Sourcing Team’ in October 2013, which is in charge of SOCIETY a basis to computerize the integrated logistics. Through the electronic bidding system, Hyundai E&C not only managing overseas suppliers. The team created a basis to integrate the suppliers management system at selects suppliers fairly and transparently, but also operates logistics efficiently based on bidding results. We further the corporate level, which had been controlled seperately by divisions. In 2014, we will develop and operate a advance logistics by computerizing the handling of various logistics data and expenses. The work efficiency company-wide management system for overseas suppliers based on the ERP system to enhance the foundation increased sharply as overseas logistics information can be checked in real-time through the IT-based operating of overseas projects’ efficient operations. system. In 2014, we will reinforce our global logistics capability by diversifying company pools of local specialists, special cargo deliverers, and ship transports. APPENDIX • Management Goals for Overseas Suppliers Goal Details Advancement of Global Subcontracting Management It is imperative to identify excellent local subcontractors for successful overseas projects. Hyundai E&C has set detailed standards for suppliers, such as supplier status Operate standards and policies equivalent Set evaluation, registration, and management standards of overseas companies by countries and local regulations, and therefore established a systematic management system for construction to the domestic level suppliers. Also, we are advancing the global subcontracting management by applying standards and policies to Continuously identify excellent overseas Prepare a list of companies to implement overseas projects; Automatically select pre-qualified suppliers candidates and list up bidders; Monitor trends and general status of overseas companies the management and operation of overseas construction suppliers, which are equivalent to the domestic level, and computerizing the management of overseas subcontracting works. Systematize works related to managing Manage a ‘front log’ of overseas companies located in the regions with high development overseas subcontracts potential; Visit major regions for due diligence • Improvement of Overseas Supplier Management Reinforcement of Global Supply Chain Competitiveness Improved management of Established standards for evaluation, registration, the supplier pool and management of overseas subcontractors Hyundai E&C proceeds to expand its systems for cost management, business execution, and organization e-Procurement & e-Subcontract System management to overseas branches and sites in order to enhance the competitiveness of the global supply chain for Overseas Projects and thus successfully implements strategies to enter new markets. Developed a computerized Prepared a list of overseas project subcontractors Expansion of Global Organization Hyundai E&C operates 27 overseas branches including five procurement system for overseas by countries and types of work subcontracting management branches. Overseas branches establish a management infrastructure in overseas sites and function as an important bridge connecting the headquarters and sites. They play a key role in the effective implementation of overseas projects by identifying excellent local suppliers, managing the overseas supplier pool, and supporting Identified additional overseas sites. We will continue to improve the operational efficiency by enhancing the global organizational structure and subcontractors and conducted Visited major sites and key regions for due diligence a “fact-finding” research the systematic infrastructure for overseas projects. 64 SOCIETY SOCIETY 65 2014 HYUNDAI E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT INTRO Shared Growth With Suppliers ECONOMY BOUNDARY MANAGEMENT APPROACH • The Result of Supplier Education in 2013 Suppliers and Hyundai E&C grow together. We assist suppliers’ growth by providing educations and Name of education Number of education (time) Number of suppliers HDEC Supplier Customer Community Other supports for the technological development and also contribute to their management stability through Education on ethics 1 498 a wide range of financial supports. Furthermore, we promote various supporting activities for their ENVIRONMENT Discussion session with procurement suppliers 2 122 successful overseas expansion. Inaugural assembly of Council of suppliers and CEO seminar 1 261 Excellent suppliers’ visit to overseas sites 1 29 Establishment of System for Shared Growth with Suppliers Shared growth seminar for subcontractors by work types 4 434 We provide various educations and support technology development for our suppliers’ competitiveness and TECHNOLOGY Increase of Financial Support Education on fair consignment for subcontractors 2 214 management stability. In addition, we operate the Win-win Growth Fund to provide additional financial supports. In for Suppliers 2013, we lent 40.7 billion KRW to support suppliers’ stable management and technology development and further Discussion session for subcontractors by work types 11 118 24 lent 15.1 billion KRW to 24 suppliers through the Win-win Growth Fund. To assist suppliers’ stable management, 14 Education on overseas expansion for subcontractors 2 120 we make a full cash payment for subcontracts under 100 million KRW within the average of 14 days. Total 24 1,796 Support for Suppliers’ Win-win Management Hyundai E&C is making earnest efforts to achieve win-win EMPLOYEE 111 151 management with a total of 1,370 suppliers (as of 2013) by providing financial, technological, and educational Support for Suppliers’ Expansion to Overseas Markets Since 2009, Hyundai E&C has actively supported supports and operating programs to strengthen the communication. Due to these efforts, we won the Minister suppliers to enter global markets by providing the Overseas Expansion Training Program for their employees of Land, Transport, and Maritime Affairs Award at the ‘Awards for the Promotion of the Construction Industry’s biannually through the Hyundai E&C Human Resource Education Center. Also, we offer a fully funded program for Cooperation 2012’. At the ‘Evaluation of Joint Cooperation among Construction Companies 2013’ conducted by the 2012 2013 CEOs of excellent suppliers to visit overseas sites. In 2014, we will invite 26 CEOs to visit our main sites in Turkey, Ministry of Land, Transport, and Maritime Affairs (MLTM), we scored over 90 points and received the highest rating Qatar, and UAE. We also co-hosted an information session on the overseas expansion in UAE with KOTRA and SOCIETY Win-win Growth Fund benefits for two consecutive years. The MLTM’s Evaluation annually evaluates the performance of industry players’ joint (100 million KRW) International Constructors Association of Korea (ICAK). Benefited suppliers from Win-win Growth Fund cooperations and provides incentives to excellent companies to create the environment of joint cooperations and the To provide opportunities to experience overseas sites to suppliers which have not entered overseas markets, (company) shared growth between integrated and special contractors as well as between large corporations and SMEs. we operate an overseas working program. We provide comprehensive educations for about two months, which Finacial Support for Suppliers For the shared growth with suppliers, practical financial supports are required are required to operate overseas sites and are about the construction, manufacturing, quality, safety, human for SME suppliers which have a relatively weak financial base. Since signing the ‘Joint Cooperation and Fair Trade resources, custom clearance, orders, taxation system, and establishment of overseas branches. APPENDIX Agreement’ with suppliers in 2010, Hyundai E&C has operated the Win-win Growth Fund of about 20 billion KRW cooperating with banks to help suppliers which are suffering from financial difficulties due to the economic recession of the construction industry. Particularly, we provided an emergency funding of 284.3 billion KRW to 259 suppliers with insufficient working capital to secure their liquidity in 2013. Outstanding Suppliers Visit Overseas Sites Hyundai E&C will strive to be a model of the shared growth and win-win management between large enterprises and SMEs and create a more cooperative partnership. Technical and Educational Support for Suppliers We hold an annual ‘Hyundai E&C Technical Forum’, a technology competition for the joint cooperation, to discover new technologies and construction methods and offer research funds to excellent suppliers. Moreover, we strive in various ways to identify excellent suppliers, provide the patent application fee to enhance their technology capability, and promote joint technology researches and technology escrow for collaborative patent applications. In 2014, we will sponsor five suppliers’ patent application fee, apply eight collaborative patents, and open patents to our suppliers for free after a certain period of time to enhance their competitiveness. We provide various educations for the qualitative growth of suppliers. In 2013, we offered eight education ▲ Visit to the Site of Lusail Expressway in Qatar ▲ Overseas Expansion Briefing Session courses to 1,796 suppliers for 24 times. Particularly, we expand our educational supports by organizing the In April 2014, representatives from excellent suppliers visited our main sites in Particularly, a site director of the Abu Dhabi branch, officials from the KOTRA and the Council of suppliers and regularly holding CEO seminars and shared growth seminars quarterly and by work Turkey and the Middle East and sought measures to enter global markets. They Small & Medium Business Contractor Center at the ICAK, and local lawyers attended types for all registered suppliers. consist of excellent procurement and subcontract suppliers and the chairman of the an Overseas Expansion Briefing Session. They had a time to find measures to enter representatives. To enhance their global visions, they visited four sites such as the global markets by sharing suppliers’ successful cases about overseas expansion and third Bosphorus Bridge in Turkey, the Hamad Medical City and Lusail Expressway in asking and answering questions about overseas constructions. Qatar, and the nuclear power plant in UAE, where constructions are currently going on. 66 SOCIETY SOCIETY 67 2014 HYUNDAI E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT INTRO Shared Growth With Suppliers Strategic Social Contribution ECONOMY Communication with Suppliers BOUNDARY MANAGEMENT APPROACH Hyundai E&C has a systematical communication system for open communication and joint cooperation with As an international company, Hyundai E&C strives to fulfill its social responsibility and to grow together Hi-Partner Win-win Growth Support Center suppliers. The Council of suppliers is established as a regular consultative group to communicate well with HDEC Supplier Customer Community Other with local communities. We will expand the scope of our social contribution activities to not only suppliers and consists of six subcommittees. It contributes to the improvement of Hyundai E&C’s policies by domestic, but also overseas sites and underdeveloped countries for the global win-win cooperation ENVIRONMENT collecting and reviewing suppliers’ grievances and suggestions on its own. We also operate the Win-win Growth with local communities and a constructive future with external stakeholders. Support Center within the ‘Hi-Partner’ portal, Hyundai E&C’s subcontract and procurement system, as a means to enable a constant communication. • Supplier Communication Method Social Contribution System Hyundai E&C’s Social Contribution System Hyundai E&C has continuously promoted three major social TECHNOLOGY Joint Cooperation Committee Win-win Growth Seminar Slogan for Hyundai E&C Family Community contribution activities, ‘Sharing Love,’ ‘Sharing Hope,’ and ‘Sharing Culture’, led by the Community Service Service Group Operate on a monthly basis to secure fairness and transparency Held four Shared Growth Seminars by work types Corps established in 2009. Also, we implement an ‘Employees’ Volunteer Mileage Program’ to encourage the in managing suppliers for all suppliers in 2013 participation of all employees and are expanding local social contribution activities in overseas countries in which Register/cancel a supplier; Reward/impose sanction; Select excellent suppliers; Deliberate on low bidding price we operate business. Since 2013, we have supported public services for the society’s vulnerable class such as teenagers, multicultural families, and residents of impoverished areas. Hyundai E&C donated about 4.55 billion EMPLOYEE Supplier Satisfaction Survey Win-win Growth Support Center KRW in 2013 and will increase the donation to about 5.4 billion KRW in 2014 and continuously expand various social contribution activities for socially responsible management. Ascertain suppliers’ requests in a timely manner Collect enquiries and suggestions; Request for response to Develop plans to respond to suppliers’ requests quarterly satisfaction surveys in a timely manner Three Major Areas of Activity Key Activities Activities for the vulnerable and local Hyundai E&C’s Social Sharing Love communities; Activities for overseas; SOCIETY Contribution Organization Supplier Satisfaction Support for social welfare Improvement of residential environment (Home Repair Road) Hyundai E&C has a self-developed supplier satisfaction survey system using VOC and IPA methods and actively collects their requests through regular surveys. The supplier satisfaction survey is conducted half-yearly and each Sharing Hope Scholarship program for teenagers; supplier rates and gives opinions on the provided indexes by items, ranging from the selection process to the Support of underfed children in local Support for education & payment process. We actively reflect their needs collected from the survey to improve the win-win management scholarship communities APPENDIX and subcontract policies. • Supplier Satisfaction Survey Sharing Culture Cultural Property Keeper; Restoration work for cultural assets; Establishment of Support for culture & art volunteer centers in national parks Survey target Suppliers with which at least one transaction is being held during the survey period Survey period Half-yearly Survey method ‘Satisfaction Survey’ page within the Win-win Growth Center Hyundai Motor Group’s Social Contribution System Since the incorporation into Hyundai Motor Group in Satisfaction on Hyundai E&C’s management and operation of suppliers; Reason for dissatisfaction; Breakdown of Donations 2011, Hyundai E&C has shared the Group’s social contribution system and participated various social contribution Survey contents (Unit : %) Improvements and suggestions activities at the Group level. Selection stage → Selection of suppliers and contracts 3 Survey items Construction stage → Construction, construction design changes, calculation, service payment 6 2 The Four Moves Key Activities Hyundai E&C’s Participation General management → Hyundai E&C’s employees, communication, follow-up management Ethical management Total Donations Easy Move Promoting the support for social enterprise Social Enterprises 25 4.55 Improving mobility and ease of and making donation for the needy at the end of the year transportation for the disabled Billion KRW 64 Safe Move Global Social Dispatching Happy Move Global Youth Value Creation Case: Revenue Generations Through the Overseas Expansion Training Program for Suppliers Spreading a safe traffic culture Contribution Volunteers E ducational Support Culture, Arts & Sports “Due to our efforts for the shared growth with suppliers, we have dream to enter overseas markets. The sum of approved overseas orders of these and Scholarship Happy Move Home Repair Road volunteer corps with Health and Medical Care opened a door for suppliers’ overseas expansion.” Encouraging volunteerism and Cultural CSR suppliers was 255.1 billion KRW in 2012, 111.8 billion KRW in 2013, and 147.2 billion Social Welfare university students charity across the Group Since 2009, Hyundai E&C has invited suppliers to overseas sites and provided the KRW as of May 2014. Therefore, it exceeded a total of 514.1 billion KRW. Hyundai E&C Environmental Protection Overseas Expansion Training Program. A research revealed that most of the 300 will continue to expand opportunities of the Overseas Expansion Training Program and Green Move suppliers that received the training for free between 2011 and 2013 achieved their contribute to the capability development and sales increase of our suppliers. CSR Campaign Gift Car Campaign Environmental social contribution 68 SOCIETY SOCIETY 69 2014 HYUNDAI E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT INTRO Strategic Social Contribution ECONOMY Performance of Social Contribution Activities Sharing Love Volunteer Mileage Program Hyundai E&C implements a volunteer mileage program to encourage the ‘Sharing Love’ activities are social contribution activities for the social welfare, which mainly focus on improving Status of Employees’ Volunteer participation of all employees to social contribution activities and manage performances efficiently. The mileage the residential environment of low income families and the public interest of local communities and overseas Mileage Program program is used for the organizational assessment. In 2013, we achieved 10.6 miles per person exceeding the underdeveloped countries, according to the construction industry characteristic of operating business around ENVIRONMENT (Unit: mileage per person) annual goal of average 8 miles per person. In 2014, we will actively promote the social contribution activities by the world. Hyundai E&C is enhancing support for education, environment, culture, improvement of the residential 10.6 expanding the annual goal to the average 10 miles per person. environment and social welfare in developing countries especially in which it operates the business. We 10.3 10 We provide activity costs for volunteer works through a social contribution returner policy and encourage supported to establish a community center in the Philippines in 2011 and dispatched the ‘Hillstate Global employees by awarding outstanding volunteers at the end of each year. Volunteer Corps’ consisting of employees and university students for the first time in the Korean construction 8 8 industry in 2012. We are extending the scope of supports to countries such as Vietnam, Bangladesh, and Africa in 2013 and 2014 and have supporting 14 regions in 11 countries as of 2013. TECHNOLOGY • Current Status of Overseas Social Contribution Activities We have launched a ‘Sharing Love Fund’ campaign for the vulnerable class in local communities since 2009. In Continent Country Supporting Activity Supporting Period 2013, we donated 320 million KRW and participated various social contribution activities for the vulnerable around Establishment of education and welfare center and dispatchment the world. We will implement various public services such as community-related social contribution activities 2012 2013 2014 Central Asia Kazakhstan 2012 2013 of global volunteer corps through the active participation of the company and employees. Company’s Goal Accomplished Result Philippines Establishment of communication center for low income families in San Isidro 2011 2012 EMPLOYEE Establishment of middle school in communities near 2012 2013 Increase in Donations Muong Duong power plant Sharing Hope (Unit : 100 million KRW) Vietnam House repair of low income families in impoverished areas in Hoa Bihn 2012 present Southeast Asia ‘Sharing Hope’ activities are our social contribution activities that support educational scholarship programs for 54.0 Establishment of community center for low income families near Thai Binh 2013 2014 domestic and overseas children and teenagers. In 2010, for the first time in the Korean construction industry, 45.5 we operated a scholarship program (‘Green Trees, Wings of Hope’) for children who lost their parents from Indonesia Improvement of sanitary facilities for water quality near Peusangan site 2012 present SOCIETY construction disasters and need financial support. Since 2009, we have been visiting underfed children during Bangladesh Support for the establishment of elementary school in Dhaka 2013 2014 every summer/winter vacation to deliver ‘Lunchboxes of Hope’. We have not only delivered lunchboxes, but also 18.9 Athletic scholarship in impoverished areas near Bogota 2012 2013 provided a comprehensive mentoring program which supports about 400 children emotionally, educationally, and Latin America Columbia culturally. We will expand our support by creating a ‘Hyundai E&C Dream School Mentoring Support Corps’ using Athletic scholarship for low income families in Chia 2012 2014 employees’ talents. 2012 2013 2014 e Libya Donation of restoration & relief fund for Libya 2011 2011 Also, we have operated ‘Volunteer Corps for Fixing Home (Home Repair Road)’ to prevent flood damages for APPENDIX Middle East houses of mountain regions, which can be damaged by disasters. The group consists of our employees and Kuwait Ecosystem protection campaign near Bubiyan site 2013 2014 college students of engineering major. They fix houses of seniors who live alone, draw murals, help laundries, Mozambique Support for the establishment of elementary and middle schools 2012 present and shoot portraits. In 2013, we expanded areas to help and fixed about 200 houses. In 2014, we will continue Africa to improve the residential environment of local communities for the preparation of disasters and the safety Kenya Improvement of drinking water near refugee areas 2013 present enhancement through the ‘Home Repair Road Volunteer Corps’. • Milestone of Hyundai E&C’s Social Contribution Activities Sharing Culture ‘Sharing Culture’ activities are social contribution activities focused on the promotion of cultural arts, protection 2014 of cultural assets, and conservation of natural treasure. Since we signed the agreement for ‘One Keeper for Enhancing strategic social Every Cultural Asset’ with the Culture Heritage Administrations in 2005, we have supported the restoration of contribution activities Geumcheongyo (a bridge within Changdeok Palace, a UNESCO World Heritage Site) for four years and plan to 2012 and systemizing overseas complete the work in 2014. Furthermore, a total of 2,404 employees have participated in the restoration of ancient Dispatched ‘Global Volunteer Corps’ 2010 social contribution activities palaces for 73 times in last four years and we will continue the activity. To conserve natural treasure, we have Introduced the Employees’ Volunteer Mileage Program implemented the ‘Han River Ecology Protection Activities’ since 2013. And, we have promoted a project to build a volunteer center in the Mt. Baekdu National Park for four consecutive years. Followed by the 1st volunteer center in Mt. Jiri and the 2nd in Mt. Bukhan, the 3rd in the Taean National Park will be opened in 2014. 2009 Established the Hyundai E&C Community Service Corps 2011 and CSR team for the first time Cooperated to support Hyundai Motor 2013 in the construction industry Group’s Four Moves Expanded social contribution activities to overseas countries Activities of Community Service Corps 70 SOCIETY SOCIETY 71 INTRO HDEC Social Contribution Home Repair Road [Sharing hope] We have been operating ‘Home Repair Road (Volunteer Corps for ECONOMY Fixing Home)’ to prevent flood damages for houses of mountain regions, which can be damaged by disasters. The group consists of our employees and college students of engineering major. They fix houses of seniors who live alone, draw murals, help laundries, ENVIRONMENT and shoot portraits. In 2013, we expanded areas to help and Collecting Coins of Love [Sharing Love Fund] fixed about 200 houses. In 2014, we will continue to improve the 2,700 employees of Hyundai E&C voluntarily donated a total of 320 residential environment of local communities for the preparation of million KRW for the domestic and overseas vulnerable class through disasters and the safety enhancement through the ‘Home Repair 01 the ‘Sharing Love Fund’. All donated funds were used to improve Road Volunteer Corps’. the quality of drinking water in Kenya and Indonesia, to support TECHNOLOGY PHOTO 06 Home Repair Road multicultural families’ independence, to fix houses of low income households, and to provide financial supports for operations and rehabilitations of children with severe disabilities. PHOTO 01 Collecting Coins of Love 02 06 Cultural Assets Keeper [Sharing Culture] To preserve cultural assets for a long time, we have actively EMPLOYEE implemented ‘Cultural Assets Keeper’ activities since 2005, such Overseas Social Contribution Activities as the restoration of Geumcheongyo within Changdeok Palace [Sharing Love] by utilizing our outstanding civil engineering and construction capabilities. A total of 2,404 employees have participated in the By utilizing technologies and capabilities as a construction company, restoration of ancient palaces for 73 times in last four years and we Hyundai E&C promotes social contribution activities in 14 regions of SOCIETY will continue the activity. 11 countries including Kenya, Indonesia, Vietnam, Bangladesh, and Columbia. PHOTO 07 Irrigation Ceremony of Geumcheon in Changdeokgung In Vietnam, we built a middle school in Muong Duong for free and sponsored a house repair project for low income families in Hoa binh. We also built a middle school in Dhaka, Bangladesh and supported educational scholarship program. In Indonesia and 03 05  stablishment of the Volunteer Center E APPENDIX Kenya, we implemented projects to improve the quality of drinking in National Parks [Sharing Culture] water and offered education on hygiene. Additionally, we supported We have implemented various ‘Natural Treasure Keeper’ activities educations on safety, hygiene, and housing for low income families in accordance with characteristics of the construction industry and in Columbia. We strive to improve the welfare and education demands of the society. By signing a ‘MOU for conservation of in impoverished areas of the world through our global social national parks and mountain ranges of the Korean Peninsula’ with contribution activities. the Ministry of Environment and the Korea National Park Service, we established volunteer centers in Mt. Jiri and Mt. Bukhan, will PHOTO 02 Educational Support on Housing in Columbia open the 3rd volunteer center in the Taean National Park and are PHOTO 03 Improving Drinking Water Quality Project in Kenya providing trainings to enhance volunteers’ professional capabilities. PHOTO 04 Groundbreaking Ceremony for Home Improvement Project for Impoverished Areas in Vietnam PHOTO 08 Opening Ceremony of the Volunteer Center in Mt. Bukhan (in the presence of Hanoi branch) Lunchboxes of Sharing Love [Sharing Hope] 04 Han River Ecology Protection Activities Since 2009, we have delivered ‘Lunchboxes of Hope’ to children [Sharing Culture] of low income families. We not only deliver lunchboxes, but also In order to preserve the natural treasure, we have promoted ‘Han 07 provide a mentoring program which supports children emotionally, River Ecology Protection Activities’ since 2013, where Han River educationally, and culturally to share hope. We will expand the is the lifeline of Seoul. Our employee volunteers take care of flower program into the ‘Hyundai E&C Dream School Mentoring Support beds and clean up the environment at Hangang Park in Jamwon Corps’ in accordance with talents of employees. and Ttukseom areas. PHOTO 05 Lunchboxes of Hope PHOTO 09 Han River Ecology Protection Activities 08 09 72 SOCIETY SOCIETY 73 2014 HYUNDAI E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT INTRO Financial Performance ECONOMY APPENDIX (Condensed) Separate Statements of Income (Unit: million KRW) ENVIRONMENT Financial Performance 75 Description 2011 2012 2013 Sustainability KPIs 76 Sales 10,104,552 10,433,442 10,591,308 Cost of sales 9,242,199 9,604,835 9,762,976 Third Party Assurance Statement 77 Gross profit 862,353 828,607 828,332 Greenhouse Gas Verification Statement 79 Operating income 496,979 415,634 475,744 TECHNOLOGY GRI Index 80 Income before income tax expense 611,573 450,604 472,808 Net income 503,313 347,019 360,278 GRI Application Level Check Statement 84 Major Awards, Accolades & Membership 85 (Condensed) Separate Statements of Financial Position (Unit: million KRW) EMPLOYEE Description 2011 2012 2013 Current assets 6,952,511 7,404,995 8,297,022 Non-current assets 3,731,156 3,650,190 3,604,405 Total assets 10,683,667 11,055,185 11,901,427 Current liabilities 4,697,796 4,786,586 5,152,864 Non-current liabilities 1,668,114 1,752,414 2,064,737 SOCIETY Total liabilities 6,365,910 6,539,000 7,217,601 Capital stock 557,273 557,273 557,273 Other contributed capital 828,181 828,181 828,181 Components of other capital 149,114 96,528 (30,776) APPENDIX Retained earnings 2,783,189 3,034,203 3,329,148 Total equity 4,317,757 4,516,185 4,683,826 Financial Stability (Based on Separate Data) (Unit: %) Description 2011 2012 2013 Current ratio 147.9 156.3 160.9 Debt ratio 147.4 168.0 183.2 Net worth ratio 40.4 37.3 35.3 Tax Policy Hyundai E&C strictly complies with tax laws and related regulations in all 57 countries where it operates business. In order to support the business operation and customer services more effectively, Hyundai E&C strives to pay tax efficiently within the legal limits by optimizing its domestic and overseas business structures. Hyundai E&C maintains an honest and positive relationship with the tax authorities of each country such as a National Tax Service, pays its tax faithfully in accordance with each country’s tax laws every year, and focuses on transparently disclosing all tax-related data. Every year, we specify the information of the corporate tax, deferred corporate tax, and effective tax rate on the audit report and disclose the information through the Data Analysis, Retrieval and Transfer System (dart.fss.or.kr). In 2013, the effective tax rate was 25.24% which is a 2.17% increase from the previous year’s 23.07%. APPENDIX 75 2014 HYUNDAI E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT INTRO Sustainability KPIs Third Party Assurance Statement ECONOMY To the readers of the 2014 Hyundai E&C Sustainability Report Sustainability Management KPIs The Institute for Industrial Policy Studies (hereafter “Auditor”) was engaged by Hyundai E&C to review information specified in its ENVIRONMENT 2014 2014 Hyundai E&C Sustainability Report (hereafter “Report”) to provide an independent third-party assurance on the reported Area KPI 2011 2012 2013 (goal/plan/prospect) content. On the basis of the above, the Auditor presents the following independent statement of assurance. Overseas orders received (cumulative) (thousand USD) 83,011,407 93,537,034 104,439,091 115,822,411 Economy Percentage of overseas orders received (%) 41.2 69.0 74.5 74.7 Responsibility Hyundai E&C is responsible for all information and claims contained in the Report regarding the establishment of its sustainability and Objective management goals, performance management, etc. The responsibility of the Auditor is to deliver the findings from its assurance Board attendance rate of external directors (%) 100 100 97.75 100 undertaking to the management of Hyundai E&C. The key objective of the assurance is to check whether there are any material bias or TECHNOLOGY Domestic GHG emissions target (tCO2-e) 438,650 396,720 373,276 428,043 errors present in the Report; assess whether the underlying data collection system is in proper working order; while undertaking in an Overseas GHG emissions target (tCO2-e)* 252,030 286,243 303,299 382,718 overall review of the Company’s process for identifying issues of material importance to sustainability management as well as the produced Environment Total HSE training participants (person) 3,208 4,305 4,002 4,381 results so that the Auditor may deliver recommendations that can help improve the quality of future reporting. HSE training satisfaction (%) 85.8 80.7 83.3 85.5 Assurance Type The Report was reviewed against the following criteria and guidelines: (1) AA1000 Assurance Standards (2008)*; (2) Global Reporting R&D human resource (person) 89 105 122 176 EMPLOYEE and Level R&D Initiative’s (GRI) G3.1 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines**; and (3) B.E.S.T Sustainability Reporting Guidelines*** Number of patent applications (case) 40 51 55 75 • Assurance Scope: Contents of the “2014 Sustainability Report by Hyundai E&C Customer • Assurance Type & Level: Type II, Moderate Customer satisfaction (point) 95.3 94.3 94.4 94.7 management • Assurance Criteria: - “IPS Assurance Manual” to verify compliance against AA1000AS (2008) standard's three core principles Newly recruited employees (person) 478 487 519 380 “IPS Performance Indicators Assurance Criteria” to assess the reliability of performance indicators GRI G3.1 Guideline and B.E.S.T Guideline’s “reporting level” Employees Annual average training hours per employee (hour) 174.9 123.0 146.0 151.0 Educational expenditure per person (KRW) 1,190,000 926,994 1,047,000 1,180,000 SOCIETY Work Undertaken The Auditor confirmed 1) the inclusivity, materiality, and responsiveness of the reported content; 2) the reliability of the reported performance Number of site inspections (time) 663 1,172 1,251 1,201 and Scope data; 3) the Report’s level of compliance against GRI’s G3.1 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines; and 4) the level of compliance relative to OHS Accident rate (%) 0.14 0.14 0.20 0.14 the B.E.S.T Reporting Guidelines through the process outlined below. Revenue generation due to the Overseas Expansion Review of the Company’s processes for identifying material issues and outcomes 6,272 2,551 1,118 2,311 APPENDIX Training Program (100 million KRW) Review of the Company’s stakeholder engagement processes Supply chain management Interviews with persons responsible for each performance dimension and the collection of performance data to determine the adequacy of the reported content Number of benefiting suppliers of the Overseas 412 97 104 99 On-site review (Hyundai E&C’s Head Office) to assess systems and processes in place for the collection and reporting of raw performance data Expansion Training Program (company) Review of underlying reference data on key economic, social, and environmental performance Donations (100 million KRW) 16.0 18.9 45.5 54.0 Sample testing of materiality issues to ascertain the completeness and accuracy of information contained in the Report Social Annual company-wide goal of employees' volunteer Review of the Report’s compliance against GRI/ B.E.S.T reporting guidelines contribution 8 8 8 10 mileage program (mile per person) Limitations The scope of this undertaking was limited to: * F or GHG emissions data, data of the domestic headquarters and all domestic sites are collcted. For overseas sites, however, GHG emissions of all sites are calculated based on the data of main overseas sites to increase the credibility. We will gradually expand the scope of data collection. Interviews with individuals responsible for different performance dimensions and the collection of performance data; review of the adequacy of the reported data On-site review of Hyundai E&C's Head Office Assurance based on relevant data and information available for the relevant reporting period Review of the reliability of reported performance data This undertaking does not include data on green-house gas emissions, which is subject to a separate review Assurance The Auditor did not find any material misstatements or bias contained in the Report. Findings [ Inclusivity ] Is the Company’s stakeholder engagement strategy-setting and related processes adequate? It is the Auditor's view that Hyundai E&C is aware of the importance of stakeholder engagement in its sustainability management initiative and has worked to build a process for stakeholder engagement in order to incorporate the collected views toward its business management activities. The Auditor noted efforts * AA1000AS is a sustainability assurance standard developed by the UK-based Institute of Social and Ethical Accountability (AccountAbility) in November 1999 to assure organization-wide sustainability performance and accountability by improving the quality of accounting, auditing and reporting practices in the social and business ethics domain. The revised 2008 version has been in effect since 2010. ** The GRI G3.1 Guideline was established by the GRI, convened by the Coalition for Environmentally Responsible Economies (CERES) and UNEP in 1997. Following the G3 Guideline, which was introduced in Oct. 2006, the G3.1 Guideline was released in Mar. 2011, with expanded and supplementary guidance on human rights, gender, and the local community. The 4th revised G4 version was introduced in May. 2013. *** The B.E.S.T Guideline was jointly developed by the Ministry of Commerce, Industry, and Energy (MOCIE), the Korea Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KCCI), and the Institute for Industrial Policy Studies (IPS) in 2006 as a sustainability reporting and assurance guideline, and provides for five levels of reporting rigor (Level 1 5). 76 APPENDIX APPENDIX 77 2014 HYUNDAI E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT INTRO Assurance Findings by the Company to assess stakeholder views by establishing engagement channels for six major stakeholder groups identified to be of importance to Hyundai E&C. The Auditor took particular note of the variety of communication channels being run by the Company for its key stakeholder groups (ex. Junior Board, Greenhouse Gas Verification Statement supplier deliberation council, Hillstate Styler program, etc.) to assess core stakeholder demands so that they can be reflected into its business activities. ECONOMY Moreover, after defining stakeholder-specific engagement policies, Hyundai E&C has worked to better share its sustainability management outcomes with its stakeholders in keeping with the principle of inclusivity. [Materiality] Does the Report contain information of the highest material importance to Hyundai E&C stakeholders across the economic, social, and environmental dimensions? It is the Auditor’s view that the Report does not omit or exclude issues of importance to the sustainability management activities of Hyundai E&C. The Auditor Introduction DNV Certification, Ltd. (“DNV”) was commissioned by HYUNDAI Engineering & Construction Co., Ltd. (“HYUNDAI Engineering & ENVIRONMENT confirmed efforts by the Company to identify and report on issues of material importance to its stakeholders via a three-step process (compiling an issue Construction”) to verify the HYUNDAI Engineering & Construction’s Greenhouse Gas Inventory Report for the calendar year 2013 (“the pool , listing up key issues, final selection of material issues) to identify issues that may impact the sustainability of Hyundai E&C, and provide a status update report”) based upon a limited level of assurance. HYUNDAI Engineering & Construction is responsible for the preparation of the GHG on how the issues are being managed as well as their outcomes. Notably, Hyundai E&C has defined 20 top core issues as having material importance to emissions data on the basis set out within the Guidelines for the Operation of Target Management Scheme (Notification No. 2012-211 of the Company based on the level of impact to internal stakeholders and level of interest among external stakeholders, and classified them into one of the five Ministry of Environment) and the principles set out in ISO 14064-1:2006. Our responsibility in performing this work is to the management dimensions of sustainability management to structure a table of contents for the Report, while working to provide a complete account of its sustainability of HYUNDAI Engineering & Construction only and in accordance with terms of reference agreed with them. DNV expressly disclaims any activities and outcomes in line with the principle of materiality. liability or responsibility for any decisions, whether investment or otherwise, based upon this assurance statement. TECHNOLOGY [Responsiveness] Does the Report provide an adequate response to stakeholder demands and interests? The Auditor found Hyundai E&C to be responding adequately to issues of concern and interest to its stakeholders. It has established various communication Scope of The emissions data covered by our examination comprise Direct emissions (Scope 1 emissions), Energy indirect emissions (Scope 2 channels specific to relevant stakeholder groups, while trying to report on the Company's response to issues identified to be important via stakeholder Assurance emissions) and Other indirect emissions (Scope 3 emissions) : engagement well as their end results. Notably, as part of an effort to better identify the demands and views of its stakeholders while reinforcing the Company's responsiveness, Hyundai E&C was found operating numerous stakeholder channels, such as public hearings with HR persons responsible for employee • Reporting period under verification : Calendar Year 2013 evaluation, customer/supplier satisfaction surveys etc., which is in line with the principle of responsiveness. • Organizational boundary for reporting : HYUNDAI Engineering & Construction Co., Ltd. EMPLOYEE [Level of Compliance to Reporting Guidelines] Organizational Boundaries Address / Remark Verification activity The Auditor found the Report to correspond to an A+ reporting level relative to the GRI G3.1 Guidelines. Also, in view of the coverage and reliability of the Buildings Headquarter(Address: Hyundai Bldg. 140-2, Kye-dong, Jongno-gu, Seoul, Korea) and 3 buildings Desk Review, Site visit, information provided, the Report was found to fulfill 90.6% of requirements to qualify for a Level 4 Report relative to the B.E.S.T Guidelines. Domestic construction sites 166 sites of Plant, Power Plant, Civil, Building Data sampling verification [Reliability of Performance Indicators] After reviewing the performance indicators stated in the Report, which correspond with the top 20 core issues, the Auditor found the underlying data collection SOCIETY Verification The verification has been conducted by DNV from 7th May through 28th May 2014 and performed in accordance with the verification system to be adequate and failed to find any material errors that can either bias the Company’s judgment or compromise the reliability of its data. Approach principles and tasks outlined in ISO 14064-3:2006 and the Guidelines for the Operation of Target Management Scheme (Notification No. 2012-211 of Ministry of Environment). We planned and performed our work so as to obtain all the information and explanations deemed Recommendations The Auditor found the “2014 Sustainability Report by Hyundai E&C commendable in the following respects. The Report (1) sets out the direction for the Company's sustainability management while taking into account high level mega trend analysis as well as the business environment of the necessary to provide us with sufficient evidence to provide a limited verification opinion concerning the completeness of the emission construction sector; (2) provides integrated reporting of the Company’s sustainability management activities and outcomes with links between inventory as well as the reported emission figures in ton CO2 equivalent. As part of the verification process: financial and non-financial information; (3) provides a detailed account centered around key material issues, making it easier to understand for both • We have reviewed and verified the HYUNDAI Engineering & Construction’s Greenhouse gas Management System APPENDIX internal and external stakeholders. For future reports, the Auditor recommends considering the following. • We have reviewed the GHG inventory Report Apply new reporting framework and guidelines while strengthening the level of DMA disclosure • We have reviewed and verified the process to generate, aggregate and report the emissions data Track qualitative sustainability management activities using quantitative indicators while also strengthening reporting coverage Strengthen monitoring on the Company's response to stakeholder demands and expectations Conclusions As a result of the work described above, in our opinion nothing has come to our attention that would cause us to believe that the GHG emissions data set out in HYUNDAI Engineering & Construction’s report are not fairly stated. The GHG Emissions of HYUNDAI Independence Apart from this independent assurance undertaking, the Auditor was not involved in the preparation of any part of the Report, and has no Engineering & Construction for the year 2013 were confirmed as below; commercial affiliation with Hyundai E&C that might compromise our independence. • Greenhouse Gas Emissions of HYUNDAI Engineering & Construction Co., Ltd. of Yr 2013 (Unit: ton-CO2 equivalent) Qualifications Commissioned by Hyundai E&C as the Auditor for this assurance undertaking, the Institute for Industrial Policy Studies (IPS) was Direct emissions Indirect emissions Other indirect emissions Reductions compared Total emissions of the Auditor (Scope 1) (Scope 2) (Scope 3) to the yr 2012 established in 1993 and has since developed into a specialized institution with broad expertise in the areas of business ethics, CSR, and Yr 2012 16,342 36,134 327,639 380,115 sustainability management since 2002. Yr 2013 14,059 37,488 321,730 373,277 6,838 ※ In order to report the GHG emissions as an integer, the rounded number on the statement might be different from the number on the system with ± 1 tCO2. ※ Total emissions = Scope 1 + Scope 2 + Scope 3 June 19, 2014 Lee Yoon-Cheol May 28, 2014 Chairman,The Institute for Industrial Policy Studies Park Se-Hee Ahn In-Kyoon Lead Verifier Country Manager DNV Certification, Ltd. This Assurance Statement is valid as of the date of the issuance (29th May 2013). Please note that this Assurance statement would be revised if any material discrepancy which may impact on the Greenhouse Gas Emissions of HYUNDAI Engineering & Construction Co., Ltd., is subsequently brought to our attention. In the event of ambiguity or contradiction in this statement between English version and Korean version, Korean shall be given precedent. 78 APPENDIX APPENDIX 79 2014 HYUNDAI E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT INTRO GRI Index ECONOMY ● Completely Reported ◐ Partially Reported ◦ Not Reported ● Completely Reported ◐ Partially Reported ◦ Not Reported Level of Level of Index Indicators ISO 26000 Page Reporting Remarks Index Indicators ISO 26000 Page Reporting Remarks Strategy and Analysis 4.12 Externally developed principles or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses 34~35 ● Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and / or national / international advocacy ENVIRONMENT 1.1 Message from CEO 2~3 ● 4.13 organizations 85 ● 6.2 1.2 Description of opportunities and challenges 2~3, 8~11, 28~29 ● 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 23 ● 6.2 Organizational Profile 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 23 ● 2.1 Name of the organization 6 ● 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement 23 ● 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services 6~7 ● Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the 4.17 organization has responded to those key topics and concerns 22~23 ● 2.3 Operational structure of the organization 6.2 6~7 ● TECHNOLOGY Economic Performance Indexes 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters Cover ● DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 17, 18, 43, 44 ● 2.5 Names of countries with major operations 6~7 ● EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 6.8, 6.8.3, 6.8.7, 6.8.9 7, 23, 75 ● 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 24~25 ● EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change 6.5.5 8~13, 34~35 ● 2.7 Markets served 6~7 ● EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations 6.4.4, 6.8 57 ● 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization 6~7 ● EMPLOYEE EC4 Significant financial assistance received from Government ● Not applicable 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership 6~7, 24~25 ● Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum wage at significant locations EC5 of operation 6.4.4, 6.8 55 ◐ 2.10 Awards received 85 ● Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally based suppliers at significant locations of Report Parameters EC6 operation 6.6.6, 6.8, 6.8.5, 6.8.7 65 ● Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community at 3.1 Reporting period About This Report ● EC7 significant locations of operation 6.8, 6.8.5, 6.8.7 ◦ 3.2 Date of most recent previous report 80 ● AUG 2013 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit 6.3.9, 6.8, 6.8.3, 6.8.4, SOCIETY EC8 through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement 64~73 ● 6.8.5, 6.8.6 6.8.7, 6.8.9 3.3 Reporting cycle About This Report ● 6.3.9, 6.6.6, 6.6.7, 6.7.8, 6.8, 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents Cover ● EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts 23, 69~71 ● 6.8.5, 6.8.6, 6.8.7, 6.8.9 3.5 Process for defining report content 22~23 ● Environmental Performance Indicators 3.6 Boundary of the report About This Report ● DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 31, 32, 36 ● 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report About This Report ● EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 40 ● APPENDIX Basis for reporting that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between 3.8 organizations About This Report ● EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials 41 ● 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations About This Report ● EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source 40, 79 ● 3.10 Re-statements of information provided in earlier reports ● Not applicable EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source 40, 79 ● Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods CRE1 Building Energy Intensity 40 ◐ 3.11 applied in the report About This Report ● 3.12 GRI Content Index 80~83 ● EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements 35, 40, 48 ● Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy-based products and services, and reductions 6.5, 6.5.4 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report 7.5.3 About This Report, 77~78 ● EN6 in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives 35, 40, 48 ● Governance, Commitments, and Engagement EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved 35 ● EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 38, 40 ● 4.1 Governance structure of the organization 24~25 ● EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water ● Not applicable 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer 24 ● EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused 38, 40 ● 4.3 Board composition 24~25 ● CRE2 Building water intensity 40 ◐ Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest 4.4 governance body 24~25, 28 ● Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high EN11 biodiversity value outside protected areas 39 ● Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and 4.5 executives 24~25 ● Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas EN12 and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas 39 ● 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided 24~25 ● 6.2 EN13 Habitats protected or restored 6.5, 6.5.6 39 ● Process for determining the qualifications, and expertise of the members of the highest governance 4.7 body in the economic, environmental and social fields 24~25 ● EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity 39 ● 4.8 Statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles 4~5, 14~15, 26 ● Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected EN15 by operations, by level of extinction risk 39 ● Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s identification and 4.9 management of economic, environmental, and social performance 28 ● EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight 35, 41, 79 ● Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, particularly with respect to 4.10 economic, environmental, and social performance 25 ● EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight 6.5, 6.5.5 35, 41, 79 ● Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the 4.11 organization 26~29 ● CRE3 Greenhouse gas emissions intensity from buildings 41 ◐ 80 APPENDIX APPENDIX 81 2014 HYUNDAI E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT INTRO GRI Index ECONOMY ● Completely Reported ◐ Partially Reported ◦ Not Reported ● Completely Reported ◐ Partially Reported ◦ Not Reported Level of Level of Index Indicators ISO 26000 Page Reporting Remarks Index Indicators ISO 26000 Page Reporting Remarks CRE4 Greenhouse gas emissions intensity from new construction and redevelopment 35, 41, 79 ● HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 6.3, 6.3.6, 6.3.7, 6.3.10, 6.4.3 ● Not applicable 6.5, 6.5.5 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved 34, 35 ● Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and 6.3, 6.3.3, 6.3.4, 6.3.5, ENVIRONMENT HR5 collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights 58 ● 6.3.8, 6.3.10, 6.4.3, 6.4.5 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight ● Not applicable 6.3, 6.3.3, 6.3.4, 6.3.5, HR6 Abolition of child labor 55 ● EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight ● Not applicable 6.3.7, 6.3.10 EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination 38, 41 ● 6.3, 6.3.3, 6.3.4, 6.3.5, HR7 Elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor 55 ● 6.3.7, 6.3.10 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 39, 41 ● 6.5, 6.5.3 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s policies or procedures concerning aspects HR8 of human rights that are relevant to operations 6.3, 6.3.5, 6.4.3, 6.6.6 ◦ Land and other assets remediated and in need of remediation for the existing or intended land use CRE5 according to applicable legal designations ● Not applicable TECHNOLOGY 6.3, 6.3.6, 6.3.7, 6.3.8, HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken ● Not applicable EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills ● Not applicable 6.6.7 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews and/or EN24 ● Not applicable HR10 impact assessments ◦ Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance EN25 affected by the reporting organization’s discharges of water and runoff 6.5, 6.5.4, 6.5.6 ● Not applicable HR11 ● Not applicable mechanisms EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation 6.5, 6.5.4, 6.6.6, 6.7.5 36~41 ● Society Performance Indicators EMPLOYEE EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category 6.5, 6.5.4, 6.7.5 ● Not applicable DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 63, 69 ● Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with EN28 environmental laws and regulations 6.5 ● Not applicable Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and practices that assess and manage the impacts of SO1 operations on communities 6.3.9, 6.8, 6.8.5, 6.8.7, 6.6.7 69~73 ● Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the EN29 organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce 6.5, 6.5.4, 6.6.6 37 ● SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption 27 ● EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type 6.5 38 ● SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anticorruption policies and procedures 6.6, 6.6.3 27 ● Labor Practices and Decent Work Performance Indicators SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption ◦ SOCIETY DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 53, 54, 57, 60 ● SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying ● Not applicable 6.6, 6.6.4, 6.8.3 LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region 55 ◐ SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions ● by country Not applicable 6.4, 6.4.3 LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover 55, 59 ● Total number of legal actions for anticompetitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their SO7 outcomes 6.6, 6.6.5, 6.6.7 ● Not applicable LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees 6.4, 6.4.3, 6.4.4 57 ● 6.4, 6.4.3, 6.4.4, Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 58 ● SO8 laws and regulations 6.6, 6.6.7, 6.8.7 ● Not applicable APPENDIX 6.4.5, 6.3.10 LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes ● SO9 Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities 69~73 ● 6.4, 6.4.3, 6.4.4, 6.4.5 58 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety Number of persons voluntarily and involuntarily displaced and/or resettled by development, broken LA6 58 ● CRE7 down by project ◦ committees Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of work-related Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with significant potential or actual LA7 6.4, 6.4.6 60~61 ● SO10 negative impacts on local communities 69~73 ● fatalities Percentage of the organization operating in verified compliance with an internationally recognized health CRE6 and safety management system. 60~61 ● Product Responsibility Performance Indicators Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce 6.4, 6.4.6, 6.8, 6.8.3, DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 50 ● LA8 members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases 57, 61 ● 6.8.4, 6.8.8 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 6.4, 6.4.6 58, 60, 61 ● PR1 improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such 50~51 ◐ procedures 6.3.9, 6.6.6, 6.7, 6.7.4, 6.7.5 LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category 6.4, 6.4.7 56 ◐ Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health PR2 and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle ● Not applicable Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of LA11 employees and assist them in managing career endings 6.4, 6.4.7, 6.8.5 55, 56 ● Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of significant products PR3 ◦ LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews 6.4, 6.4.7 56 ● and services subject to such information requirements Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category according to gender, age Type and number of sustainability certification, rating and labeling schemes for new construction, 6.7, 6.7.3, 6.7.4, LA13 6.3.7, 6.3.10, 6.4, 6.4.3 24, 55 ● CRE8 management, occupation and redevelopment 49 ● group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity 6.7.5, 6.7.6, 6.7.9 6.3.7, 6.3.10, 6.4, Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category 56 ● PR4 and service information and labeling, by result type ● Not applicable 6.4.3, 6.4.4 LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender 57 ● 6.7, 6.7.4, 6.7.5, PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 51 ● 6.7.6, 6.7.8, 6.7.9 Human Rights Performance Indicators PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communications 51 ◐ DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 53, 54 ● Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning 6.7, 6.7.3, 6.7.6, 6.7.9 PR7 marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship ● Not applicable Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements and contracts that include clauses HR1 incorporating human rights concerns, or that have undergone human rights screening 6.3, 6.33, 6.3.5, 6.6.6 26, 27, 64, 65 ● Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of PR8 customer data 6.7, 6.7.7 ● Not applicable HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone human rights screening 6.3, 6.3.3, 6.3.5, 6.4.3, 6.6.6 26, 27, 64, 65 ● Monetary value of significant fines for noncompliance with laws and regulations concerning the HR3 Employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights 6.3, 6.3.5 27 ◐ PR9 provision and use of products and services 6.7, 6.7.6 ● Not applicable 82 APPENDIX APPENDIX 83 Major Awards and Accolades 2014 Major Awards Award Description Host / Provider 2014 Money Today Overseas Construction Awards Best of the Best (Pioneer category) Money Today 2014 Money Today Korea Residential Service Awards Best of the Best (Planning Design category) Money Today 2014 Annual Asia Economy Apartment Brand Awards Grand Prize (High-class category) Asia Economy 2013 Major Awards Award Description Host / Provider 2012 Construction Cooperation Advancement Awards Minister’s Accommodation for Contribution Construction Economy 2013 Money Today Overseas Construction Awards Minister’s Award, Grand Prize Money Today 2013 Money Today Korea Residential Service Awards Minister’s Award, Overall Grand Prize (Private Sector category) Money Today 2013 Annual Asia Economy Apartment Brand Awards Grand Prize (High-class category) Asia Economy First-half HanKyung Residential Culture Awards Grand Prize (Apartment category) HanKyung Prize of Excellence 2013 MaeKyung Good Apartment for Living Awards MaeKyung (General Apartment of Large Contractors category) 2013 Korea Jungang Daily Eco-friendly Construction Industry Awards Grand Prize (General Building category) Joongang Daily HanKyung Business Well-being Apartment Awards Customer Satisfaction HanKyung Business 2012 Money Today Korea Luxury Housing Awards Best of the Best Money Today 2013 Asia Construction Awards Overall Grand Prize (Shared Growth category) Asia Economy 5th Aju Economy Construction Awards Overall Grand Prize (Overseas Construction category) Aju Economy 2013 Asia Today Green Construction Awards Chairman's Award (Civil Engineering category) Asia Economy 2013 Green Housing Awards Grand Prize (Green Energy category) Hankook Daily 2013 eDaily Construction Industry Awards Grand Prize (Civil Engineering category) eDaily 9th Korea Civil Engineering & Construction Technology Awards Best of the Best (Office Building Construction category) MaeKyung 2013 Construction Economy Advertisement Awards Grand Prize (Corporate PR category) Construction Economy MLTM Minister’s Prize, Grand Prize 2013 Korea’s Representative Apartment Awards Hankook Economy TV (Environment-Friendliness category) 2013 Second-half HanKyung Residential Culture Awards Grand Prize (Apartment category) HanKyung 2013 Herald Economy Green Residence Awards Overall Grand Prize (Overseas Construction category) Herald Economy 4th Korea Green Construction Awards Grand Prize (Construction category) Seoul Newspaper 84 APPENDIX Membership Association Memberships International Tunneling and Underground Space Association Korea Remodeling Association Construction Association of Korea Korea Housing Association Architectural Institute of Korea The Korea Railway Association Korea Electric Association Korea Plant Industries Association Korean Society of Civil Engineers Korea Institute of Plant Engineering & Construction Building Smart Korea Korea Ports & Harbours Association Korea Construction IT Convergence Institute Korea Environmental Industry Association Korea National Commission on Large Dams Korean Institute of BIM Korea Road & Transportation Association International Contractors Association of Korea ※ Partial list: 119 business/academic association memberships in total Acknowledgements Kang Ki-Ho HSE Planning Team Song Geun-Il Procurement Planning Team Kang Young-Min Green & Environment Team Building Works Management & Song Jin-Geol Administration Team Kwon Young-Pil Project Risk Management Team Shin Young-Seok Business Analysis Team Kim Da-Young Building Works Marketing Team Um Jeong-Sik Human Resources Development Team Kim Sun-Kyung Domestic Business Planning Team Power & Energy Management & Kim Se-Won Welfare Management Team Yea Chang-Hae Administration Team Kim Yoon Design PR Team Yun Seung-Hyeon Investor Relations Team Kim Jae-Hun General Affairs Team Lee Kyung-Ho Building Works Mechanical Team Kim Tae-Hee HSE Planning Team Lee Yo-Soo Business Strategy Team Contact Us Kim Hyun-Koo Tax Team Lee Jae-Wook Building Works Housing Design Team The 2014 Hyundai Engineering & Construction Sustainability Report is also available on our Kim Hye-Jin Research & Development Strategy Team Lee Jeong-Hui Procurement Planning Team website (http://en.hdec.kr). Should you want more information or have any enquiries, please do Kim Heung-Jun Green & Environment Team not hesitate to contact us via the contact information below. We appreciate your feedback. Lee Hye-Young Design PR Team Roh Kyung-Rae Interantional Business Planning Team Jeon Yong-Chan Tax Team Business Innovation Team, Business Planning Group, Planning Division, Hyundai Bldg., Roh Bong-Kyun Quality Management Planning Team Jeon Woo-Chul Human Resources Planning Team 75 Yulgok-ro, Jongno-gu, Seoul, Korea, 110-920 Roh Tae-Sun Auditing Team 1 Civil & Environment Management & Tel/ 82-2-746-2893 Fax/ 82-2-746-4856 Jeong Do-Hwan Administration Team Park Kyu-Dong Business Policy Team Park Bum-Soo Plant Management & Administration Team Jeong Sung-Hoon Human Resources Operation Team Published: JUL 2014 Park So-Eun Business Planning Team Han Seung-Chul Research & Development Strategy Team Publisher: Jung Soo-Hyun Park Yul-Woo Business Innovation Team Hong Seung-Myung Human Resources Planning Team Publishing Entity: Business Innovation Team, Business Planning Group, Planning Division, Hyundai E&C Suh Sang-Beom Accounting Team Hwang Ji-Yong Human Resources Development Team Planning & Design: Nstein Co., Ltd. 82-2-336-7865
