Communication on Progress (COP) April 2014 1. Introduction I am pleased to confirm that the Green Ventures International reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti Corruption. With this communication, we re-express our intent to advance those principles within our sphere of influence. We are committed to making the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company, and to engaging in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, particularly the Millennium Development Goals. Green Ventures International will make a clear statement of this commitment to our stakeholders and the general public. Yours sincerely, ________________ Mr. Krish R. Krishnan CEO 2 2. About Green Ventures Green Ventures was established in 2007 to focus on renewable energy project development, energy efficiency and carbon credit generation as well as basic rural energy services. Main focus areas include:  Large-scale run-of-the river hydropower project  Kali Gandaki Koban: 163 MW  Climate change studies  Rural social energy projects (Green Village Ventures) 3 2.1 About Green Village Ventures Green Village Ventures (GVV) is a for-profit social enterprise whose mission is to meet the energy needs of rural people on the Indian subcontinent using pioneering and sustainable business models. http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IhfZIGraDTw&feature=youtu.be Key features and strengths  Innovative pay-per-use green business models  Extensive field implementation experience  Proven technologies  Strong presence in India and Nepal 4 3. Our Planned Projects A. Rural Social Energy (Solar Lantern) Project  15 villages in India (Implemented between 2012-2013)  250 villages ± 25,000 BOP families (By Year 2014)  750 villages ± 75,000 BOP families (2015 onwards) B. Large Scale Hydropower Project  Kali Gandaki Koban: 163 MW (under development) 5 4. Our Approach to the 10 Principles Green Ventures energy projects are guided by Sustainability principles. These principles have been developed in-house over the years based on implementing our projects in under served communities. The three major stakeholders we impacted within the natural context of our business in this tenure are as follows:  People (Villagers & Employees)  Clean Energy Practitioners (Regionally)  Society (Globally & Locally) 6 5. Our Policy/Solution At Green Ventures, we use green technologies and innovative business models to create sustainable energy solutions for us as well to our clients. Our solutions include large-scale renewable energy generation projects, improved energy efficiency schemes, and rural social energy initiatives. At the heart of our approach is the concept that all stakeholders must be involved in a project’s design, implementation and operation for it to be successful. 7 6. Our Future Initiative We are planning to:  Continue our work towards using green technologies and innovative business models to create sustainable energy solutions for us as well to our clients.  Encourage our clients/partners to register within Global Compact Framework.  Set the agenda for diversity and encouraging equal opportunities in recruitment, training and promotion. 8 Green Ventures 1003B, Express Zone Building, Patel Vanika, Western Express Highway, Malad (E), Mumbai 400097, India Telephone No.: +91 9820200867 Fax : +91 22 66459565 www.greenventuresinternational.com
