Aberdeen Asset Management Corporate Responsibility Report For the 12 months to 30 September 2013 Contents Introduction from Andrew Laing 4 Our approach 5 Investing in our people 6 Investing responsibly 11 Taking responsibility for our own environmental impact 16 Engaging with our stakeholders 18 Plans for 2014 22 GRI Index 23 UN Global Compact 30 Our front cover images: page 18 page 11 page 16 page 18 page 18 page 18 Community engagement in Philadelphia; our electric cars in Oslo; company meetings in Singapore; the charity Rat Race in Kuala Lumpur; SeeBeyondBorders school lessons in Cambodia; school mentoring in Philadelphia. About Aberdeen Asset Management Aberdeen Asset Management is a global asset management group investing across the main investment strategies of equities, fixed income and property, complemented by our solutions business, which provides multi-asset and fund of alternatives services. We have operations in 26 countries with some 33 offices and 2,200 staff. Aberdeen Asset Management Corporate Responsibilty Report 2013 3 Introduction We are pleased to present our fourth Corporate Responsibility (CR) report covering our activities across our global operations for the financial year to end September 2013. Andrew Laing, Deputy Chief Executive This year, we have succeeded in embedding CR further into our business culture. We: • incorporated CR into the Group’s global strategy communication to all employees • introduced training on CR issues for new Board directors • undertook an employee satisfaction survey for the first time • engaged more with our investments and stakeholders on environmental, social and governance (ESG) issues • became a signatory of the UN Global Compact • expanded the scope of the Aberdeen Charitable Foundation • widened the coverage of our environmental management system While there is still much room for extending CR across our business, This year, we placed increased focus and allocated additional funds we have made tremendous strides in turning potential ESG risks into to implementing our CR policies to help reduce our business risks and opportunities for our business. In this report, you will find how our succeed in an increasingly competitive marketplace. biggest risks and opportunities focus on: We are working to increase the satisfaction levels of our employees. Risks: Opportunities: We are now also better placed to meet the needs of our clients and have an increasingly sound understanding of our investments and their Our people Empowering our employees impact on others. And we are spending less on raw materials and fossil fuels than in the past. We see these improvements as real progress. Our investments Making better informed investment decisions We hope you find this report helpful and, as always, welcome any Our stakeholders Engaging more with our stakeholders feedback on our activities. Andrew Laing Deputy Chief Executive December 2013 4 Aberdeen Asset Management Corporate Responsibilty Report 2013 Our approach For the past three years, our annual CR report has been structured according to seven areas of the business corporate governance, responsible investing, environment, people and human rights, health, safety and wellbeing, suppliers and charitable investment. However, this categorisation does not adequately reflect what our material CR business risks and opportunities are as a global asset manager and why we need to build these issues into our global corporate strategy. We have therefore redefined our approach, focusing on three key areas of CR, all of which have a material impact on our business operations. In this report, we highlight our material CR issues and provide details on what we have been doing this year to address them. Our material CR issues Investing in our people We are a people business and therefore one of our principal risks is not having the right people in the right jobs and not providing our employees with the support they need – whether it be in the form of learning and development opportunities, career progression, wellbeing or a whole host of other reasons – to be able to perform at their best. Our first section, Investing in our people, details how we are managing this risk and, as a result, deriving benefits from it. Investing responsibly At Aberdeen, asset management is our sole focus. We concentrate on getting our investment decisions right by assessing the risks and opportunities of each investment we make. While the investment approach for each asset varies, we continue to integrate ESG considerations into our methodologies. We have a well-developed ESG system in place for equities and have begun to implement this across our fixed income business. Within our property division, our teams have worked this year with investors, property agents and tenants to understand and reduce the environmental impacts of the buildings we manage. Similarly, we are keen to reduce the impact of the buildings in which we are tenants. In the section entitled Taking responsibility for our environmental impact, we detail the work that we are undertaking across our global offices to manage our own footprint. Engaging with our stakeholders As with any large, global business, our stakeholders are wide ranging from employees, shareholders and clients, to the communities in which we operate, our investee companies, government and professional bodies, suppliers and rating agencies. We are committed to listening to our stakeholders and working with them to improve our business operations. In our final section, Engaging with stakeholders, we provide examples of the work we have done this year, most notably through our charitable foundation, but also in influencing public policy, engaging with our supply chain and building our brand. Aberdeen Asset Management Corporate Responsibilty Report 2013 5 Investing in our people We are committed to recruiting and retaining talented and motivated individuals who put clients at the heart of our business. Our investment philosophy and process is founded on high quality teams of people, dedicated to delivering consistent service to our customers. Recruitment and selection “ The apprenticeship programme at Recruitment, development and retention of talent is key to our Aberdeen offered all the factors I was ability to perform well for our customers and, as a consequence, our shareholders. looking for involvement with different Our strategy is to recruit, wherever possible, at graduate level, placing departments, onsite training, the an emphasis on succession planning and developing our future leaders. opportunity to gain qualifications We also encourage moves within the business, preferring to use our emerging talent pool to fill available posts. and a job with a growing and We continue to grow our apprenticeship, intern and graduate reputable company.” programmes as we believe that this approach creates loyalty in the Emma Kidd, Trainee Performance Analyst organisation. Our graduate rotation scheme aims to equip recruits with a broad based knowledge of both Aberdeen and the asset management industry as a whole, before they choose a permanent position. This year we hired 109 interns, 43 graduates, 3 apprentices and 6 individuals on the Investment 2020A scheme. Since 1994, when our graduate programme commenced, we have recruited 179 graduates, 144 of which are still at the company. A Investment 2020 is a scheme put together by 13 investment management firms (of which Aberdeen is one) with UK based offices which offers school leavers and students recently graduated from university the opportunity to get paid work experience in their firms. Employee engagement survey We have a loyal and growing workforce and to ensure that our activities match the needs of employees, the Board decided THE RESULTS WERE EXTREMELY POSITIVE that this year we would undertake our first employee survey. As this was to be a pilot year, we chose our EMEA region, representing over two-thirds of global headcount, to trial the survey. We had an excellent response rate with 85% of 7.8 GENERAL 8.6 BELIEVING THAT 8.9 COLLEAGUES 8.2 RECOMMEND employees in the region taking part. SATISFACTION CLIENT NEEDS SUPPORTING ABERDEEN ARE OUR TOP OTHER AS AN EMPLOYER There were, as expected, areas that our employees identified PRIORITY COLLEAGUES TO OTHERS where we can improve and we are now working with country and division heads on action plans for the year ahead. SCORING (OUT OF 10) Following the year end, we have rolled the survey out across the rest of the Group and are waiting for the results. 6 Aberdeen Asset Management Corporate Responsibilty Report 2013 Learning, development and talent management As the economy improves, retaining talent will become more of a necessity. A solid talent pipeline is therefore crucial for future success and company growth. As such, this year the Board decided to introduce a global talent management programme with the aim of having a talent pool that is capable of filling senior management positions to enable us to successfully plan for the company’s future. We are introducing two new distinct pipelines within the talent management programme: • Senior Leadership Programme • Emerging Talent Programme These programmes are in addition to our entry level schemes, the biannual or annual appraisal process for all employees and the delivery of appropriate training and development to meet individual requirements. Succession planning Succession plans are held globally for all senior roles across the Group from the Group Management Board (GMB) to regional, country and desk heads. Plans are formally reviewed and updated biannually and are held for each functional and geographical area of the business. The process involves detailed discussions of the skill sets and development potential of possible successors. Competitive compensation Rewarding employees for their contribution is fundamental to recruiting and retaining a talented workforce. As such, we regularly benchmark our compensation packages against industry peers in our different regions and offer packages which are locally competitive. We continue to encourage share ownership, thereby aligning employee interests with those of shareholders and company performance, and also offer some senior employees a deferral into a limited range of Aberdeen funds, aligning our bonus scheme with the interests of our clients. Company strategy cascade We value our culture of teamwork, openness and collective commitment towards meeting the strategic objectives of the company. In 2013, we implemented company strategy cascade training to ensure that all employees understood the strategic objectives of the company and how to incorporate these into departmental and individual objectives. Aligning the company strategy to objectives creates a framework for delivering the strategy and ensures that everyone across the Group is working towards the core objectives defined by the PLC Board. Mentoring Since its inception, in May 2011, our mentoring scheme has remained a popular and successful support opportunity for employees. The programme is now offered in our UK and European offices and is due to expand into the US and Asia next year. Average hours of Number of employees Average employee tenure 2013 Employee training per employee sitting professional exams 5yrs and 7yrs for continuous serviceA turnover rate 9.7% 2012 Employee 2013: 22hrs 2013: 106 A for those employees who joined Aberdeen as a result of an acquisition turnover rate 8.0% 2012: 18hrs 2012: 116 Aberdeen Asset Management Corporate Responsibilty Report 2013 7 INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE CONTINUED Gender diversity Equality and diversity We have always been committed to championing gender equality, both in our own As a global organisation with customers business and also in our investee companies. We have a number of initiatives in spanning a multitude of countries, place, a selection of which are set out below: cultures and professions, we view Achieving a gender balance at entry level We strive to achieve a gender balance for our apprenticeship, intern and graduate diversity as a valuable business asset. We programmes, recognising that to achieve a sustainable pipeline, focus must be placed strive to be an employer of choice in all of on each level of the business. We do this by closely monitoring the gender split of the countries in which we operate and to the number of young people who apply, are asked for interview and who are offered provide an environment in which jobs at Aberdeen. everyone is treated equally. In the Americas, we have historically struggled to achieve a gender balance at entry level. However, the addition of a local Learning and Development function this year We have a comprehensive global equal is allowing us to be more pro-active and selective in terms of sourcing our interns opportunities and anti-harassment policy and graduates going forward and allowing us to actively target female candidates. and are committed to creating an inclusive Maternity coaching environment in which all employees have This initiative was introduced in the UK in 2012 and takes the form of group the opportunity to develop. workshops. Employees are offered three sessions – pre, during and post leave, which offer advice and support on subjects including assertiveness, managing worklife balance, career development and maintaining a strategic focus at work. We recognise the importance of not just offering coaching to women on, or about to go “ Diversity is a subject very close to on, maternity leave, but also ensuring that managers are fully equipped to provide our hearts at Aberdeen, both as an the support needed during this time. The aim is to make the process for mothers employer and as an investor. As a returning to the business from maternity leave a smooth one and provide the support they need to help them progress in their career. “buy and hold” fund manager, we In addition, our maternity and paternity policies exceed the statutory minimum and know that the best companies draw in 14 of the 26 countries in which we operate we have employees working flexibly, on the widest pool of talent. So it is representing 4% of the global workforce. In the UK, this year we held seminars on the support that is available to working parents and carers, both of which were well important for us that the businesses received, and we are also working to increase awareness of the services provided by in which we invest don’t limit our employee assistance programme. themselves, in either the way they Supporting external initiatives recruit, or how they develop their This year we signed up to the UK Government’s Think, Act, Report scheme which provides a simple step-by-step framework to help companies think about gender people. This applies to our own equality in their workforces, particularly in relation to recruitment, retention, business too.” promotion and pay. It encourages companies to share their progress and experiences in these areas, so that others can learn from them. Martin Gilbert, Chief Executive We support many other external initiatives too, including Women on Boards UK, the Women’s Business Forum, the investor group of the 30% club, the Women’s Sport and Fitness Foundation and the Breaking the Mould and Asian Women of Achievement awards. Total workforce: 2,200A ManagersB 53% 47% 64% 36% MALE FEMALE MALE FEMALE Group Management Board Board of Directors 11 Men 10 Men 2 Females 4 Females Return to work following maternity and paternity leave, 2013: 77%. A The Full-Time Equivalency (FTE) average B Aberdeen defines a manager as someone who has headcount for the year was 2,100. at least one person reporting into them. 8 Aberdeen Asset Management Corporate Responsibilty Report 2013 Backroom to Boardroom The topic of female representation in the boardrooms of UK companies and organisations has been a subject that has grown in visibility and importance since Lord Davies’ first review in 2011. He has added to the many and varied opinions on the effectiveness of initiatives to address female participation in the boardroom, from diversity committees to mandatory targets. While progress has been made, with greater female representation on UK boards and a growing recognition that diversity at all levels of an organisation makes good business sense, women are still underrepresented at senior levels. Aberdeen’s Backroom to Boardroom (B2B) initiative, which is headed by our Chief Investment Officer, Anne Richards, provides an opportunity for senior female members of the investment community and organisations which are crucial to the wider economy, to come together and connect with women who are still building their careers. The events showcase how wide the talent pool of women who are board-ready really is, as well as encouraging women on their way to the boardroom by sharing experiences, networking and supporting executive development. To date, there have been eleven B2B events, held both in the UK and internationally. By connecting women from a range of different backgrounds, including academia, media and the not-for-profit sector, and at different stages of their careers, B2B is helping to create a strong professional network which inspires a future generation of business leaders and so helps to provide a sustainable executive pipeline. Aberdeen Asset Management Corporate Responsibilty Report 2013 9 INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE CONTINUED Other diversity metrics Age composition of the workforce 2500 Ethnicity: Currently, we do not record data on selfdeclared ethnicity however this is an area we will 2000 consider developing in the coming year. We do collate data on nationalities and we currently have 45 different Number of employees 1500 nationalities represented in our workforce. Disability: While we do have employees with disabilities, 1000 we feel it is at their discretion to release this information. We therefore do not report on this metric. 500 0 2011 2012 2013 16-25 26-35 36-45 46-55 56-65 65+ Health, safety and wellbeing Our aim: To promote a Providing a safe working environment for all employees is a fundamental responsibility of the culture of healthier lifestyles company. In our industry, where employees are predominantly desk based, we recognise the need to uphold basic health and safety compliance and elevate the importance of wellbeing and also to improve the quality and engagement with employees on this issue. and longevity of life for our Our focus this year has been on starting to establish a global approach to wellbeing, collating employees and their families. information on what each of our global offices already does and structuring these activities into This leads to increased four main areas – medical health, family, fitness and nutrition. productivity, resilience, job We already have some great examples of global activity in this area, from our annual health satisfaction and loyalty. fairs in the US, to wellbeing seminars on topical issues and an interactive, office-wide health challenge in Stockholm. We hope to build on this work and expand our engagement on material It also reduces healthcare wellbeing issues, including muscular skeletal health, employee resilience and mental health. costs and absenteeism. Absenteeism per employee in 2013: 2.2 days, 2012: 2.0 days. No accidents or near misses in the current or prior yearA A As reportable by RIDDOR Human Rights This year, to demonstrate further our support for the adoption of responsible business practices, we became a signatory to the UN Global Compact. Our operations and policies support and reflect the ten Global Compact principles and we uphold the Universal Declaration of Human Rights in all our operations. We also uphold employee rights and respect collective bargaining and freedom of association. In countries where an employee delegate or works council is not present, employees are encouraged to share their opinions with line managers or human resources representatives. 10 Aberdeen Asset Management Corporate Responsibilty Report 2013 Investing responsibly Equities We continue to integrate ESG factors The extent to which we integrate ESG factors into the equity investment process into the investment process for each of continues to develop with corporate governance being part of our initial quality our asset classes. assessment and environmental and social factors being examined post investment. While ESG has its own unique benefits Corporate governance We continue to believe that effective and transparent corporate governance leads and issues, depending on the asset class to companies being more successful in their core activities which, in turn, allows for to which it is applied, overall, it is an enhanced returns to shareholders. invaluable factor when examining an Investee companies investment as a whole. ESG has quickly Aberdeen’s corporate governance principles provide a globally applied framework gained ground with investors as an for investment analysis, shareholder engagement and proxy voting. Our annual investment approach or overlay which equity engagement report sets out some of the issues that we have engaged with companies on over the course of the past year and how this has affected helps to identify longer term risks within investment decisions. Topical engagement themes include remuneration, diversity, a portfolio. share blocking, royalty fees and proxy voting. Our equity engagement report and additional information on our stewardship responsibilities can be found at: “ As signatories to the UNPRI, we aberdeen-asset.co.uk/aam.nsf/AboutUs/governancestewardship know the value of understanding the full picture of the investments This year we make for our clients across all of our asset classes. Clients value WE VOTED OVER AT OVER communications on ESG matters and 18,700 1,700 we are committed to engaging both RESOLUTIONS SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS our investments and our stakeholders on responsible investing issues.” SUPPORTING BOARD Anne Richards, Chief Investment Officer RECOMMENDATIONS IN OVER 91% OF PROPOSALS Aberdeen PLC From an internal perspective, the Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Board provides oversight of the company’s operations and sets our strategic direction. The Board aims to improve and develop our own strong corporate governance practices and this includes having a diverse membership, a separate Chairman and Chief Executive and regular evaluation. Further details can be found in the Corporate Governance section of our annual report. Our assets under Screened assets SRI assets under management under management A managementB 2013: £200.4bn 2013: £17.7bn 2013: £1.1bn 2012: £187.2bn 2012: £17.6bn 2012: £1.1bn A Our screened funds refer to those that have restrictions not classed as SRI or ESG, such as country restrictions or Sharia compliant funds. B SRI specific funds have certain traditional SRI and ESG restrictions and so prohibit investment in companies that generate revenues through non-compliant activities. Aberdeen Asset Management Corporate Responsibilty Report 2013 11 INVESTING RESPONSIBLY CONTINUED Environmental and social considerations Our in-house ESG team highlight potential environmental and social investment risks and communicate these to our regional equity teams. Once invested, the team continues to engage with our investee companies, which are held across our mainstream and more traditional SRI funds. In 2013, the team spoke with over 150 companies about their challenges from an ESG perspective, frequently pushing for greater transparency and improved performance in the belief that this can only benefit long term financial performance. Highlights from our engagements with investee companies are provided on a six monthly basis to clients for their respective funds. These are available upon request. Some examples include: Industry: European pharmaceutical group Issue: Increase in labour-related lawsuits, litigation over kickbacks and improper promotion of medical products. Engagement: Aberdeen’s ESG team queried the group over its internal controls and how the fines will affect the group’s balance sheet. The team has encouraged the company to improve its policy and compliance framework and to bolster a culture in which it focuses on preventing issues before they develop. Industry: UK banking group Issue: Fines resulting from fraud, money laundering, corruption, and tax issues. Engagement: While many financial institutions are wrestling with similar issues, increased accountability from regulators and from investors is pressing banks to adopt more responsible lending and money management practices. Our ESG team has encouraged this group to be more transparent on its fines and to incorporate ESG risk factors into remuneration scores for executives and senior managers, with the aim that this will help to improve performance. As investors demand more from companies in terms of the management of, and accounting for, ESG factors, our team increasingly pushes groups to set targets to include these factors at board level, to integrate them into remuneration and to include information on ESG in the annual report. Companies vary widely in their migration to these goals but we keep insisting with the expectation that pressure will eventually bring about positive change. Evidence that this works lies across all sectors – from a clothing manufacturer’s decision to develop a human rights policy to an energy company’s development of ESG related key performance indicators for executive remuneration. Engagement also continues to be a key component of our commitment to the UNPRI and to integrating, more fully, ESG factors into investment decisions across asset classes. In 2013, the team spoke with over 150 companies about their challenges from an ESG perspective. 12 Aberdeen Asset Management Corporate Responsibilty Report 2013 Fixed income An example of how the team’s ESG research affects an investment can be seen in Corporate debt a large, Italian conglomerate which has recently been charged over bribery and As in 2012, our fixed income teams have seen an increase in corruption relating to procurement. While actions have been taken to improve the client interest for incorporating ESG factors into fixed income corporate governance structure of the group, it remains to be seen if these will take mandates. Currently, our Pan-European fixed income team hold. As such, the team deems the bonds of the conglomerate not to be a suitable integrates ESG and SRI factors into its investment process investment for its portfolios. by using a scoring system as part of its credit research. Scores based on ESG factors (such as corporate governance Our emerging market debt team has also done some work on integrating ESG transparency and environmental policies) along with some SRI considerations into investment decisions, and undertakes this on a portfolio basis as considerations (including turnover from alcohol and tobacco requested by clients. production) can affect a bond’s overall investment ability. The Sovereign debt Pan-European fixed income team now has 40% ESG coverage This year, there has been a noticeable increase in interest from investors in sovereign of its investible investment grade corporate universe, which debt in ESG type considerations for their portfolios. Our sovereign debt teams have represents an increase of 60% from last year. All of its research researched some of the various metrics for considering a more top-down approach is undertaken in house. to country rankings in terms of environmental and social concerns and while the team is now more cognisant of the various metrics, it has no immediate plans to put a formal process in place for using these metrics in their investment process. Rather, the teams plan to speak more with clients and stakeholders over the next year before deciding whether or not to implement a formal ESG process for sovereign debt. Private Equity Aberdeen SVG (“ASVG”)A considers responsible investment factors, in line with the UNPRI principles, within both the due diligence process for new fund investments and in the on-going monitoring of these commitments. Due diligence An assessment of a General Partner’s (“GP’s”) corporate governance practices has always been a core part of the ASVG due diligence process, and social and environmental aspects have become increasingly important in recent years. In order to assess the adequacy of a particular GP’s approach to ESG issues, the investment team requests specific information on the process the GP uses to assess its exposure to environmental, social, human capital and governance risks, as well as ensuring that these issues are fully considered within the investment approval process. Prior to making a commitment, the investment team will also need to understand how the GP approaches the reporting of ESG issues to investors and other stakeholders, to ensure that ASVG would receive adequate disclosure of any issues arising during the fund’s life. Monitoring The investment team monitors underlying portfolio funds very closely, and any ESG issues would be identified as part of this regular monitoring process. Where issues arise, the investment team becomes fully involved in Limited Partner decision-making where appropriate, and will track the progress of these issues until resolution. A Aberdeen SVG Private Equity Managers Limited (“ASVGM”) (formerly SVG Managers Limited) and Aberdeen SVG Private Equity Advisers Limited (”ASVGA”) (formerly SVG Advisers Limited), are together referred to as “Aberdeen SVG” or “ASVG”. ASVGA is a wholly owned subsidiary of ASVGM. ASVGM is owned, as to 50.1%, by Aberdeen Asset Management PLC and, as to 49.9%, by SVG Capital plc. Both Aberdeen SVG Private Equity Advisers Limited and Aberdeen SVG Private Equity Managers Limited are authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority in the UK. Aberdeen Asset Management Corporate Responsibilty Report 2013 13 INVESTING RESPONSIBLY CONTINUED Minimising the risk of the UK minimum Energy Performance Standards Property A key risk identified for the future is the valuation impact and increased running The built environment is a key costs associated with buildings with poorly rated Energy Performance Certificates (EPC). Provisions set out within the UK Energy Act 2011 make it unlawful to let contributor to global warming, and is also properties below the minimum energy performance standard of an F or G EPC vulnerable to is effects. We have rating after 1 April 2018. We have proactively reviewed all of our assets and therefore been working with our obtained robust EPCs ensuring that we obtain the most accurate ratings possible investors, property agents and tenants to via engagement with tenants, property managers and reviewing records and on site manuals. Through this active management, we have reduced our exposure from understand and reduce the the Energy Act from almost 20% across all portfolios to less than 10%. We are environmental impact of the buildings continuing to work to improve these assets and reduce this exposure into 2014. that we manage. Intrinsically linked to the EPC ratings, we are also actively reviewing our green lease Given the importance of responsible provisions and fit out specifications to ensure that we manage the impact of future tenant fit outs on our assets. This follows an update to our retail and office tenant investment to our business, this year we guides, which provide advice and suggestions to our managers across Europe. committed additional resources to the Working with industry property sustainability team. We This year, we have continued to work with the International Sustainability Alliance recruited a Head of Sustainability who is (ISA) and Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark (GRESB) on the development undertaking a full review of our global of benchmarking standards, expanding the number of funds and properties operations as part of the process to submitted into both of these indexes. We are also increasing our commitment to other relevant organisations, most recently becoming a member of The Institutional further integrate sustainability into the Investors Group on Climate Change (IIGCC), the aim of which is to influence public investment process and to set key policy on climate change at a national, European and international level, and the targets. The intention is to embed a Better Building Partnership, which works with commercial property owners to global framework across our core improve the sustainability of existing commercial building stock and encourages best practise in the market. In Europe we are members of a number of green functions – investment, asset building councils and sustainability alliances. management, property development and Key initiatives for 2014 property management – which can then We recognise the importance of having accurate and meaningful information on the be implemented regionally. environmental performance of our buildings and are therefore improving the data collection systems from manual meter readings, utility bills and SMART meters, across our European portfolio via an implementation of a global data collection platform. Through our energy management programme we intend to proactively monitor this data to reduce consumption. 14 Aberdeen Asset Management Corporate Responsibilty Report 2013 This year, we have made significant progress in reducing the environmental impact of many of the properties we manage. Below are just a few examples of what we have been doing in the Nordics: In Denmark, Ellebjergvej, one of our office blocks, was completely renovated in Copenhagen, Denmark. four months. Insulation plates were mounted onto the existing façade and window panes were replaced with soundproofed, low energy glass. Solar protection screens and awnings, LED lighting, daylight sensors, an energy saving ventilation system and groundwater heating and cooling were all implemented. PV solar panels were mounted onto the roof as well as being included as part of the building’s façade. These measures have resulted in total energy savings per year of 1,067,000kWh and also an improvement of the EPC rating from E to an A. As the property is not currently 100% let, we are providing temporary accommodation to a local housing charity free of charge, as part of our continuing commitment to the local community. In Finland, nearly 30 of the properties we manage have been involved in Helsinki, Finland. the Motiva’s Energy Efficiency programme which aims to reduce a building’s energy consumption by 6% by 2016 and 20% by 2020, against its 2010 base consumption levels. To date, energy audits have been undertaken on all of the properties and detailed action plans have been devised. Initiatives include changing the building management timings, using energy efficient lighting and switching to district heating. Overall over 200 measures were suggested, which would result in annual saving of 1,500 tonnes of CO2, 4,200 MwH of energy and 2,400 m3 of water per year. In Norway, the Jærhagen Shopping Centre has recently been certified as Bergen, Norway. achieving a level C in the Building Energy Classification System and is also part of the Eco-Lighthouse Certification System, Norway’s widely respected rating system for an organisation’s environmental and social achievements. We have engaged with the tenants to share environmental data and have concentrated on the key areas of energy management and emissions, procurement, transportation links to the centre and waste. We also upgraded the centre’s ventilation system and have switched to using district heating and the waste heat generated from one of the key retailers, as a means of improving efficiency. Aberdeen Asset Management Corporate Responsibilty Report 2013 15 Taking responsibility for our own environmental impact Many of the initiatives that our property teams have focused on this year to reduce the environmental impact of the properties we manage can also be applied to the 33 offices our employees occupy globally. With the exception of our headquarters in Aberdeen, we are tenants of these buildings and therefore we have needed, in many instances, to adopt a collaborative approach, working with building managers and other occupiers, to bring about change. Our environmental impact: focus areas Highlights We have identified that carbon emissions from our offices, emissions from business travel and waste generation are our most significant direct environmental impacts. INCLUDED IN This year we have undertaken a range of initiatives to reduce our negative THE CDP FTSE environmental impacts, improve our reporting capabilities and work with our 350 CLIMATE stakeholders. DISCLOSURE LEADERSHIP INDEX Environmental data Having reliable and detailed data is becoming increasingly important, especially in light of developments such as the new Greenhouse Gas emissions (GHGs) reporting ACHIEVED regulations required for companies listed on the London Stock Exchange. Last year CARBON TRUST we recognised that we needed to improve the way we measure, monitor and manage CERTIFICATION IN our footprint and therefore decided to upgrade our environmental management THE UK system. The system, which will be rolled out at the start of our new financial year, will be at least partially locally administered, thereby increasing group wide engagement on, and responsibility for, environmental issues. REDUCED OFFICE We also have a group wide environmental policy, which is reviewed by the global CARBON EMISSIONS environmental committee on a regular basis, and are certified to ISO14001 in the UK. BY 10%A* Carbon management Our carbon emissions principally come from the energy we use in our buildings and INCREASED VIDEOfrom business travel. CONFERENCING Carbon emissions from our offices USAGE BY 47% In June, we were accredited to the Carbon Trust Standard in recognition of the work we have done to reduce our office emissions. The initiatives we have adopted include a global rolling replacement programme of LED lights where economically feasible, REDUCED which will save £15,000 per year in the UK alone; increased purchase of renewable GENERAL WASTE energy and the installation of smart meters which improve our ability to monitor BY 5% IN THE UKB* energy usage. Carbon emissions from business travel Travel is a fundamental part of our business, but we recognise the detrimental impact WORKED WITH KEY that this behaviour has on the environment. As such, we have upgraded our videoSTAKEHOLDERS conferencing (“VC”) facilities so that employees can avoid travel where possible. We TO IMPROVE THE now have VC in operation in 14 offices worldwide and our promotion of this initiative ENVIRONMENTAL has led to usage increasing by 47% compared to the prior year. We have also installed MANAGEMENT Microsoft Lync which allows employees to share screens and so colloborate without OF OUR KEY the need for face to face meetings. SPONSORSHIP Waste management EVENTS We continue to focus on recycling initiatives and have increased our capabilities in many global offices. We have also benchmarked waste consumption in some of our A Relates to offices covered by our Environmental Management System which non-UK offices and are working towards a UK target of zero waste to landfill by 2015. represent over 75% of our operations by headcount In the UK this year, our recyclable waste increased by 18%* while our general waste Our UK offices represent over 40% of total headcount B * Per Full-Time Equivalency (FTE) reduced by 5%*. 16 Aberdeen Asset Management Corporate Responsibilty Report 2013 Stakeholder engagement This year, we worked with our sponsorship team to ensure that 2013 Cowes Week. environmental initiatives are implemented at our main events Cowes Week, the Scottish Open and the Aberdeen Dad Vail Regatta. At Cowes Week, some of the environmental initiatives adopted included: providing bow stickers made from recyclable materials and supplying application instructions to prevent the stickers falling into the water; encouraging our chartered boats to adopt environmental measures such as using fuel spill kits, and printing the pocket guides and daily schedules on recyclable paper. We are also in discussions with our global data centre to encourage an environmental awareness of their operations. Water use Given the nature of our operations, water consumption is driven by employees and facilities. Therefore, while limiting and reducing water usage is a consideration for our environmental committees, our consumption is not a material environmental issue for the business. However, in the year ahead, we aim to start collecting data on this metric. Performance against targets: 2013 Carbon Achieved target Achieved target Achieved target 10% 47% Carbon Trust Reduction in carbon emission for all Increase in video-conferencing usage certification in the UK offices covered by our EMS* 2012 target: 3% reduction 2012 target: 10% increase 2012 target: achieve certification Waste Achieved target Achieved target 5% Waste measurement Reduction in general waste in the UK* 2012 target: measure general and recyclable waste for our non UK offices 2012 target: 3% reduction Other As outlined above, we also achieved our targets relating to working with stakeholders on environmental matters and are in the process of implementing an automated system to collect and record our global environmental data. * Per Full-Time Equivalency (FTE) Aberdeen Asset Management Corporate Responsibilty Report 2013 17 Engaging with our stakeholders With continuing growth in the last decade and our arrival into the FTSE100 last year, we are increasingly aware of the role we play in the markets, economies and societies in which we practise. Our engagement with stakeholders – whether in the form of meetings with clients and shareholders, employee volunteering or participating on panels and boards – is integral to our business operations. We have outlined how we engage with stakeholders on responsible investing issues. In this section we therefore want to highlight some of the other work we have been doing, through our charitable foundation, on supply chain issues, contributing to public policy debates and our company rebrand. Engaging with the communities in which we operate Three years ago, six of the countries in which we have an office had a charitable giving strategy which had been locally defined. This year, in the Aberdeen Charitable Foundation’s first full year since launch, we made donations to more than 100 charities in 22 of the countries in which we are located, with all donations made in line with global guidelines. The Foundation has two core focuses – emerging markets and local communities, reflecting our ambition to give back to those areas which are a key strategic focus of the business and to the communities in which Aberdeen employees live and work. Emerging markets: helping to provide educational opportunities for young people Year 1 Brazil Year 2 Cambodia Action for Brazil’s Children’s Trust was the first emerging markets This year, the Foundation’s Board decided that our next long term charity we chose to support. The charity seeks to promote social project would be located in Asia Pacific, given our concentration of change through projects targeting education, shelter, care and advice, employees and investments in the region. SeeBeyondBorders, another helping street children and the most vulnerable young people of small but dynamic charity, was chosen by employees globally. Brazil to transform their lives. In the second year of our partnership, Our investment will help to provide access to a better education to employees from our São Paulo office have become increasingly over five thousand children and encourage best practice amongst local involved with the charity, including visiting two of the three projects teachers through a programme of training and mentoring. we are supporting – AA Crianca and ISMEP – donating gifts to a The Children Empowered by Education project, which is wholly teenage mums programme, working with one of the projects to funded by Aberdeen, will operate in the deprived Bavel district of improve its website and also introducing the charity to valuable Western Cambodia. new contacts in Brazil. Key metrics: £1.3m donated to charitable causes 15% of our global workforce £ globally in 2013A volunteered AAM 2013 2012: £0.6m 2012: 11% Give As You Earn (GAYE) Won Social Investment 2011: £0.5m 2011: 7% Gold Award in Scotland Award Scotland PLC awards 2013 A Note: This includes donations made by the Foundation (£700k), Aberdeen PLC (£400k) and GAYE employer contributions (£200k) but excludes unspent contributions made by the PLC to the Foundation. 18 Aberdeen Asset Management Corporate Responsibilty Report 2013 Local communities The Foundation’s Board decided that, since the Group’s local offices have different cultures and charitable priorities, each office would have the authority to select projects they would like to support, along the general theme of making a positive impact on the surrounding community. Employees also have the opportunity to take volunteering leave to provide additional support, in time and expertise, to the locally elected charities, so that our total contribution exceeds a monetary gift. Below are a few examples of the projects we have supported over the past year. Improving employability skills Providing food for thought London Aberdeen Envision is a charity which works with young people to help them In Aberdeen, the local committee made a donation to the Powis devise and implement projects focused on issues that are pertinent Gateway Community Centre to enable it to continue operating its to their local community. From 2012 to 2014, the London charity daily breakfast club for disabled and disadvantaged young people committee has chosen to support two teams from local schools in throughout the north-east of Scotland. Unlike other breakfast clubs, Tower Hamlets. Throughout the school year, Aberdeen mentors work the children’s parents are encouraged to attend and enjoy breakfast with the teams, facilitating discussions on how to implement the with them. This family ethos means parents take responsibility for social action projects and conducting employability skills training. getting their children to attend school as well as establishing a morning At the 2013 closing annual ceremony both our teams won awards routine for their mutual benefit. The People Powered Change and Most Talented Team awards. Frankfurt Hong Kong Sauerland is an area located near our German office which suffers from St James’ Settlement provides community services to those who multiple deprivation. Unemployment, crime and truancy are all rife need it most. Our Foundation supported a project which helps but Trafohaus is a youth centre which is trying to make a difference young people from the mainland integrate into Hong Kong society by providing a safe environment in which young people can develop by providing mentoring services, employability skills and support to skills, socialize and gain confidence. We are funding the provision of a enable the individuals to benefit fully in their new environment. daily warm and balanced meal for 20 children who attend the centre, Sydney helping to improve their health, development and concentration. The Australian committee continued to support the charity Whitelion Philadelphia which provides services for young people involved in the youth justice Mantua in Action: This partnership between the City of Philadelphia system or at risk of involvement. These services include: employment, Parks & Recreation Department, Drexel University and Aberdeen brings role modelling, specialist outreach support and education based after school opportunities to children in the underprivileged Mantua prevention programmes. In May, two Aberdeen employees spent the region of Philadelphia. One initiative adopted is to work with Triskeles night in a juvenile detention centre, learning more about the charity on their Food for All Programme. Ten Aberdeen volunteers helped and experiencing first-hand the realities faced by the young people to plant organic garden beds at Drexel University’s Dornsife Centre, Whitelion supports. which will provide food to those in need in the community. The garden has been named after our inspirational colleague Toby Wallace who championed this partnership and tragically died this year. Charitable activity outside of the Foundation For any major sponsorship event, we see supporting an associated charity and considering the environmental implications of the event as part of our obligation to encourage responsible business practices. At the Aberdeen Scottish Open at Castle Stuart, we were pleased to partner with Connecting Carers, a local charity working across the Highlands to provide information and support to users of health and community care services and carers. At Cowes Week, this was the last year of our three year support for Toe in the Water, a tri-service initiative which uses competitive sailing to re-inspire injured service personnel to see beyond their injuries, and perform to their limits regardless of their physical condition. Aberdeen Asset Management Corporate Responsibilty Report 2013 19 ENGAGING WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS CONTINUED Engaging with our supply chain When engaging with investee companies on ESG issues, their supply chains are frequently the focus of many questions. While as an office based business our risk exposure in this area is much less than for many of the industries in which we invest, notably retail, manufacturing and mining, we do recognise that good supplier relationships are fundamental to business performance and that our corporate responsibility extends to the indirect social, environmental and ethical impact that arises from our supply chain. This year we became a signatory of the Prompt Payment Code, a UK Government initiative to promote best practice between companies and their suppliers and have started working with the Living Wage Foundation (UK), which demonstrates that we are committed to paying both employees and contractors a rate that is required for a basic standard of living. Our approach to managing anti-bribery and corruption risks We follow a globally consistent approach to managing anti-bribery and corruption (ABC) at all levels of our business and in all regions in which we operate. Our ABC policy, which is available on our website, specifically states that we do not allow the giving or receiving of any bribes or facilitation payments. In order to ensure that this policy is implemented around the Group, all employees receive regular training on our policies and procedures in this area. Issues or queries can be raised by employees to the Global Head of Compliance, Financial Crime and any suspicions reported using the confidential whistleblowing email address. In 2013, our internal audit function reviewed our ABC policy, procedures and controls and no material issues were identified. There have been no breaches of our ABC policy in the past three years. In addition, we have a robust gifts and entertainment policy which is in place to monitor relations with third parties. Management information statistics on gifts and entertainment given, received or declined by employees are provided to the executive-level risk management committee on a quarterly basis. Agreements with third parties must also include a commitment to abide by relevant bribery legislation and any breach of such would initiate an immediate review of contract. As members of the Investment Management Association in the UK, we are also able to benchmark our policy and procedures against those of our peers by attending regular financial crime discussion groups. Engaging in public policy This year we have continued to have an active voice in public policy debate, both as a PLC in areas such as the UK’s Investment Management Strategy and pensions, and as an investor, for example on matters of corporate governance and long termism. In line with our global footprint, we are members of a range of trade bodies and take an active role in their technical and policy development work. We also took part in the European Capital and Markets Institute Task Force on long term investing and retirement savings and have joined the World Economic Forum, most recently contributing to their work in Europe and in the US on the future of social security systems. 20 Aberdeen Asset Management Corporate Responsibilty Report 2013 Refreshing our brand To date, there has been an encouraging response from the campaign, including: 10% This year, we refreshed our OUR REPUTATION AS brand, allowing us to articulate our core values of integrity, HAVING A CLEAR AND CONSISTENT quality, teamwork, ambition and INVESTMENT PROCESS INCREASED BY 21% challenge, in a way that makes us INCREASE IN BASE AWARENESS comprehensible across the different countries where we operate. RESPONDENTS’ The desire to be understood as PERCEPTION OF ABERDEEN AND a distinctive asset management AS HAVING A GLOBAL PRESENCE 22% business was sought through the strap line ‘Simply asset INCREASED BY 13% management’ which formed the basis of the advertising directive. ‘Simply asset management’ reflects RESPECTIVELY the independence and the focus that 47% guides our business. It states that our clients’ interests come first and without unnecessary complexity. OF SURVEY RESPONDENTS INDICATED THAT THE ADVERTS IMPROVE OR REINFORCE OUR REPUTATION Our global campaign launched in May with the aim of increasing public awareness and perception QUALITATIVELY, WE RECEIVED A NUMBER OF POSITIVE COMMENTS FROM of the brand. In 2014, we aim INDUSTRY PROFESSIONALS AND BUSINESS LEADERS. THE ‘SIMPLY’ STRAPLINE, to emphasise the extent our COMBINED WITH OUR REFRESHED IMAGE, REINFORCED THE “POSITIVITY, PROcapabilities across all asset classes. ACTIVITY AND POSSIBILITY” THAT UNDERLINES BUSINESS AT ABERDEEN. Aberdeen Asset Management Corporate Responsibilty Report 2013 21 Plans for 2014 Investing in our people Investing responsibly Over the coming year we will further expand Our investment teams will continue to engage with companies to our apprenticeship, intern and graduate encourage the strengthening of their governance practices as well as programmes, emphasising diversity across on environmental and social issues. In fixed income, the Pan-European gender, background and skills. team will further increase ESG coverage of its investible investment grade corporate universe and in property we will work to strengthen our Our talent management programmes will responsible investing capabilities and build our profile in this area, placing also be rolled out in 2014, together with the a particular focus on embedding a global framework and improving data implementation of the employee survey action collection and management. plans. We anticipate that the global survey will be undertaken biennially. Taking responsibility for our environmental impact We have found that setting targets for reducing the negative We will continue to promote equal environmental impact of our operations is very useful tool for making opportunities across the business and introduce progress. This year, are targets are: further training and communications on this matter. Training currently under consideration Carbon includes a culture awareness programme and unconscious bias coaching. 2014: 3% reduction* in carbon emissions on prior year for all offices covered by our EMS Engaging with our stakeholders 2014: Purchase energy from renewable sources where possible In 2014, we will work with our stakeholders 2014: 10% increase in VC usage spending time finding out what they think we do well and also about the areas in which we 2015: 20% reduction* in carbon emissions from a 2010 baseline in could improve. the UK 2020: Review opportunities for energy generated on site across all EMS Through the Charitable Foundation, we aim managed offices where the business case justifies the technology to increase the number of employees volunteering by 10% and build on the global Waste committee structure that we now have in place to ensure that all locations partake in 2014: 5% increase* in recycling in the UK Foundation activities. 2015: Zero waste to landfill in the UK We will continue to be an active voice in public Stakeholder engagement consultations and reassess the work we do with our suppliers to ensure that our 2014: Identify employee volunteering activities focused on responsible business practices extend past environmental improvement our own operations. 2014: Continue to work with the sponsorship team to ensure that environmental issues are considered for our flagship corporate events * Per Full-Time Equivalency (FTE) 22 Aberdeen Asset Management Corporate Responsibilty Report 2013 GRI Assessment Once again, we have chosen to align our report to the GRI G3 Sustainability Reporting KEY Framework Financial Services Sector, supporting our commitment to transparency. Yes This disclosure has not been externally assured by a third party and therefore the information No below is self-assessed based on a pragmatic interpretation of the guidelines. Partial Not material A. STANDARD DISCLOSURES: PROFILE Disclosure Profile (yes/partial/no) Reference / comments Strategy and analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision maker of the organisation (for example, CR report – Introduction by the Andrew Laing CEO, Chairman, or equivalent senior position) about the relevance of (Deputy CEO and Head of the CR Steering Committee) sustainability to the organisation and its strategy 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities CR report – Introduction, Our approach Organisational profile 2.1 Name of the organisation Aberdeen Asset Management PLC 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services Annual report 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation Annual report 2.4 Location of organisation’s headquarters Annual report 2.5 Number of countries where the organisation operates Annual report 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form Annual report 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of Annual report customers/beneficiaries) 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation Annual report 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or Annual report ownership 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period Annual report Reporting parameters 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided 1 October 2012 to 30 September 2013 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any) December 2012 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) Annual 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents csr@aberdeen-asset.com 3.5 Process for defining report content CR report – Introduction, Our approach 3.6 Boundary of the report We report on all aspects of the business. 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report We report on all aspects of the business. 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced All information relates to Aberdeen Asset Management PLC. operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organisations 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations Where possible we use international standards and measurement techniques. The techniques adopted have been disclosed within each section. 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier No restatement required. reports, and the reasons for such re-statement 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or No significant changes on prior year. measurement methods applied in the report 3.12 Table identifying the location of the standard disclosures in the report This GRI appendix. 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the Once again we have chosen not to have our report report independently assured given its limited length and data content and the extensive internal review process in place at Aberdeen. Aberdeen Asset Management Corporate Responsibilty Report 2013 23 GRI ASSESSMENT CONTINUED Disclosure Profile (yes/partial/no) Reference / comments Governance, commitments and engagement 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation, including committees under the Annual report – Corporate governance report highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organisational oversight 4.2 Indicate whether the Chairman of the highest governance body is also an Annual report – Corporate governance report executive officer 4.3 For organisations that have a unitary board structure, state the number and Annual report – Corporate governance report gender of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or Annual report – Corporate governance report direction to the highest governance body 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, Annual report – Remuneration report senior managers, and executives (including departure arrangements), and the Social and environmental performance does not impact organisation’s performance (including social and environmental performance) Board compensation. 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest Annual report – Corporate governance report are avoided 4.7 Process for determining the composition, qualifications, and expertise of the Annual report – Corporate governance report members of the highest governance body and its committees 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and CR report – Refreshing our brand principles relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance and the Our CR Super Policy covers all aspects of our responsible status of their implementation business practices. 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organisation’s The CR Steering Committee is chaired by Andrew Laing, identification and management of economic, environmental, and social Deputy CEO. The committee meets every two months to performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or discuss developments, achievements and issues faced. compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles Andrew Laing reports to PLC Board directly. 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, Annual report particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is We adopt a precautionary approach to environmental addressed by the organisation management, as set out in our group wide environmental policy (available on our website). We recognise that our activities have both direct and indirect impacts on the environment and the communities in which we operate and so accept our responsibility to identify and manage these impacts as effectively as possible. 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or We have been a member of the FTSE4Good Index since other initiatives to which the organisation subscribes or endorses 2002 and are a signatory to the UNPRI and UN Global Compact. We respond to the annual CDP survey and last year our UK business achieved ISO 14001 certification. We are also members of, and/or submit data to, a large number of other organisations globally including over 10 corporate governance associations, 6 global property organisations, Business in the Community (UK), the Carbon Trust and the UK Government’s Think, Act, Report initiative. Further details can be found in our Corporate Governance Equity Engagement Report. 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/ As above. international advocacy organisations 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation CR report – Our approach 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage CR report – Our approach 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by CR report – Our approach type and by stakeholder group 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, CR report – Our approach and how the organisation has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting 24 Aberdeen Asset Management Corporate Responsibilty Report 2013 B. STANDARD DISCLOSURES: PERFORMANCE INDICTORS 1. Financial services – sector specific guidelines Disclosure Performance indicators (yes/partial/no) Location of disclosure Product portfolio FS1 Policies with specific environmental and social components applied to business lines CR report – Investing responsibly FS2 Procedures for assessing and screening environmental and social risks in business lines CR report – Investing responsibly FS3 Processes for monitoring clients’ implementation of and compliance with CR report – Investing responsibly environmental and social requirements included in agreements or transactions FS4 Process(es) for improving staff competency to implement the environmental and CR report – Investing responsibly social policies and procedures as applied to business lines FS5 Interactions with clients/investees/business partners regarding environmental and CR report – Investing responsibly social risks and opportunities FS6 Percentage of the portfolio for business lines by specific region, size (e.g. micro/ This information is not currently available. SME/large) and by sector FS7 Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific social benefit CR report – Investing responsibly for each business line broken down by purpose FS8 Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific CR report – Investing responsibly environmental benefit for each business line broken down by purpose Audit FS9 Coverage and frequency of audits to assess implementation of environmental and Annual internal audits for CR and responsible social policies and risk assessment procedures investing policies and procedures. Active ownership FS10 Percentage and number of companies held in the institution’s portfolio with which CR report – Investing responsibly the reporting organisation has interacted on environmental or social issues FS11 Percentage of assets subject to positive and negative environmental or social CR report – Investing responsibly screening FS12 Voting polic(ies) applied to environmental or social issues for shares over which the This information is not currently available. reporting organisation holds the right to vote shares or advises on voting 2. Economic Disclosure Performance indicators (yes/partial/no) Location of disclosure Economic performance EC1 Economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, Annual report employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organisation’s CR report Taking responsibilty for our environmental activities due to climate change impact. EC3 Coverage of the organisation’s defined benefit plan obligations Annual report EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government None Market presence EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at CR report Engaging with our suppliers significant locations of operation EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the We operate in 26 countries and our workforce is local community at significant locations of operation represented by 45 different nationalities. Fifteen different nationalities are represented by our Country Heads. EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided CR report – Engaging with the communities in which primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement we operate Aberdeen Asset Management Corporate Responsibilty Report 2013 25 GRI ASSESSMENT CONTINUED 3. Environment Disclosure Performance indicators (yes/partial/no) Location of disclosure Materials EN1 Materials used by weight or volume As an office based company our operations do not consume significant quantities of raw materials. EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials Not material because Aberdeen does not use significant quantities of recycled materials. Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source This information is not currently available. EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source This information is not currently available. Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source As an office based company our operations do not have a significant impact on water consumption. Biodiversity EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected Not material to Aberdeen as our offices are located in areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas urban areas and therefore do not have a material impact on protected areas or areas of high biodiversity outside of protected areas. EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on As above. biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas Emissions, effluent and waste EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight 2,935 tonnes of CO2e EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight 3,254 tonnes of CO2e EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved CR report – Taking responsibilty for our environmental impact EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight As an office based company, Aberdeen does not have any activities that result in significant air emissions other than those incorporated within GHG reporting. EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight As above. EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination As an office based company, our operations do not result in significant water discharge. EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 39.5 tonnes of general waste 110 tonnes of recyclable waste EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills The only area where this may be relevant is in the refuelling of emergency generators. No significant spills took place in the reporting year. Products and services EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent CR report – Taking responsibilty for our environmental of impact mitigation impact EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by Not applicable to Aberdeen’s operations. category Compliance EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions Nil for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations 26 Aberdeen Asset Management Corporate Responsibilty Report 2013 4. Labour practices and decent work Disclosure Performance indicators (yes/partial/no) Location of disclosure Employment LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region, broken CR report – Investing in our people down by gender LA2 Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, CR report – Investing in our people gender, and region Labour/management relations LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements CR report – Investing in our people LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes, including Minimum notice periods, where applicable, are whether it is specified in collective agreements governed by state or local law. Occupational health and safety LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of CR report – Investing in our people work related fatalities by region and by gender LA8 Education, training, counselling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to CR report – Investing in our people. No employees are assist workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious involved in occupational activities which have a high diseases risk of specific serious diseases. Training and education LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee CR report – Investing in our people category LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued CR report – Investing in our people employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development CR report – Investing in our people reviews by gender Diversity and equal opportunity LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee CR report – Investing in our people category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other Given the global nature of our business it is not indicators of diversity possible to define minority groups on a worldwide scale. LA14 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by This information is not currently available. significant locations of operation 5. Human rights Disclosure Performance indicators (yes/partial/no) Location of disclosure Investment and procurement practices HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements and contracts This information is not currently available. that include clauses incorporating human rights concerns, or that have undergone human rights screening HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors and other business partners that This information is not currently available. have undergone human rights screening, and actions taken Non-Discrimination HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken This information is not currently available. Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining HR5 Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to exercise CR report – Investing in our people freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights Child Labour HR6 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for Given the nature of our business this is not a material incidents of child labour, and measures taken to contribute to the effective risk. abolition of child labour Aberdeen Asset Management Corporate Responsibilty Report 2013 27 GRI ASSESSMENT CONTINUED Disclosure Performance indicators (yes/partial/no) Location of disclosure Forced and Compulsory Labour HR7 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for Given the nature of our business this is not a material incidents of forced or compulsory labour, and measures to contribute to the risk. elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labour 6. Society Disclosure Performance indicators (yes/partial/no) Location of disclosure Local community SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact CR report – Engaging with the communities in which assessments, and development programs we operate Corruption SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to CR report – Anti bribery and corruption corruption All employees and business units are assessed. SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organisation’s anti-corruption policies and CR report – Anti bribery and corruption procedures All employees are trained in our anti-bribery and corruption policies and procedures. SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption CR report – Anti bribery and corruption No incidents of corruption took place in the past three years. Public policy SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying Aberdeen does not have a formal policy on lobbying practices. However, as one of the UK’s largest listed independent fund managers, we are asked from time to time to give house views on regulatory policy and business issues, and are invited to take part in an increasing number of public forums, whether conference, media or trade association related. We therefore have a formal policy committee in place which is chaired by the Head of Public Affairs. SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and It is the Group’s policy not to make contributions for related institutions by country. political purposes. Anti-competitive behaviour SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust, and No such actions were faced in the financial year. monopoly practices and their outcomes Compliance SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions In September 2013 the FCA announced that it had for non-compliance with laws and regulations fined two of Aberdeen’s UK operating subsidiaries, Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited and Aberdeen Fund Managers Limited, a total of £7.2m in relation to past and inadvertent failures with respect to UK client money regulations regarding naming conventions for client deposits and trust letter notifications to banks. No client money was lost and no clients were adversely affected as a result of the oversight. At no time were client funds mixed with Aberdeen’s proprietary assets. The issue was identified by Aberdeen and duly reported to the regulator. Aberdeen co-operated fully with the FCA and worked quickly to resolve the issues. 28 Aberdeen Asset Management Corporate Responsibilty Report 2013 7. Product responsibility Disclosure Performance indicators (yes/partial/no) Location of disclosure Customer health and safety PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are Due to the nature of the business our products and assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services services do not have significant health and safety categories subject to such procedures risks. Product and service labelling PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures and percentage of In most of the countries in which we operate there are significant products and services subject to such information requirements strict regulations which govern product and service information. We ensure that we comply with these standards. Marketing communications PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to All financial promotions and image advertising are marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship reviewed by the Compliance department via an internal database prior to distribution. We comply with the service information regulations in all jurisdictions in which we operate. PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes There were no such incidents in the financial year. concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes Customer privacy PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy There were no such complaints in the financial year. and losses of customer data Compliance PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations There were no such fines in the financial year. concerning the provision and use of products and services Aberdeen Asset Management Corporate Responsibilty Report 2013 29 UN Global Compact This year, to further demonstrate our support for the adoption of responsible business practices, we became a signatory to the UN Global Compact. The ten principles provide a framework against which we can benchmark our performance and work to improve our practices. The table below provides a reference to the relevant section in our CR report against which our progress on the principles can be assessed. Issue areas UN Global Compact Principles Relevant section Human rights Principle 1 Investing in our people & Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally Engaging with our stakeholders – proclaimed human rights supply chain Principle 2 Investing in our people & Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Investing responsibly Labour Principle 3 Investing in our people Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 Investing in our people Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5 Investing in our people & Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour Investing responsibly Principle 6 Investing in our people & Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of Investing responsibly employment and occupation Environment Principle 7 Investing responsibly Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8 Investing responsibly Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9 Investing responsibly Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Anti-corruption Principle 10 Engaging with our stakeholders – Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and anti-bribery and corruption bribery 30 Aberdeen Asset Management Corporate Responsibilty Report 2013 Contact Further information For more information please contact your local Aberdeen representative, or visit our website www.aberdeen-asset.co.uk Telephone: 0800 592 487 Aberdeen Asset Management Corporate Responsibilty Report 2013 31 Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited Bow Bells House, 1 Bread Street, London EC4M 9HH Telephone: +44 (0)20 7463 6000 Fax: +44 (0)20 7463 6001 aberdeen-asset.com Registered in Scotland No. 82015. Registered Office 10 Queen’s Terrace, Aberdeen AB10 1YG 121004407
