Our Responsibility Pentland Group Corporate Responsibility Review Contents About Pentland Group Our Portfolio and Global Reach 01 Our Approach Our Standards and Corporate Responsibility Priorities 09 Product Sustainability Materials, Design, Restricted Substances, Shipping and Surplus 17 Environmental Efficiency Energy and Emissions, Waste and Recycling, Water Consumption and Natural Resources 25 Ethical Trade Our Standards, Process and Collaboration 33 Our People Engagement, Talent, Diversity and Health and Safety 43 Community and Charity Charitable Giving, Fundraising, Volunteering and Product Donations 55 About Pentland Group Pentland Group plc is a privately owned, global brand management company with wholesale and retail businesses in sports, outdoor and fashion. 01 Founded in the 1930s in Liverpool by the current Chairman’s parents, Pentland started as a small Pentland has sales in shoe business and has grown into one of the largest private companies in the United Kingdom. nearly 200 countries Pentland is a member of the Institute of Family Business and the Unquoted Companies Group. across Europe, the In 2013 the business achieved consolidated global Americas, Asia, the turnover (excluding licensees) of $3 billion. Middle East, Africa and Australasia, and 19,000 employees. About Pentland Group 02 Portfolio Through our wholly-owned subsidiary Pentland Brands, we manage sports, outdoor and fashion brands including Berghaus, Boxfresh, brasher, Canterbury, ellesse, KangaROOS, Mitre, Prostar, Red or Dead, and Speedo. We also hold licenses to make footwear for Lacoste and Ted Baker globally, as well as the license for Kickers in the UK and Ireland. The Group holds a variety of other shareholdings, including a 57% controlling Our Brands stake in JD Sports Fashion plc, which operates a portfolio of retail fascias including: JD Sports, Bank, Blacks, Millets, Scotts, Size?, Champion, Chausport, Sprinter and Tessuti. Licensee Brands About Pentland Group 03 Global Reach Pentland Group’s headquarters are in London, UK. Within the UK, we also have offices in Nottingham, Reddish, Sunderland and Wakefield, and distribution centres in Blackburn, Sunderland and Wakefield. We maintain a significant presence in Hong Kong, where we formed a sourcing company in the early 1960s. Our other Asia Pacific bases include Auckland (New Zealand), Bangkok (Thailand), Brisbane and Sydney (Australia), Chennai (India), Jakarta (Indonesia), Ho Chi Minh City (Vietnam), Shenzhen (China), and Tokyo (Japan). In North America we have offices in New York (USA), Montreal and Toronto (Canada), and in mainland Europe we have a presence in Paris (France) and Bad Reichenhall (Germany). About Pentland Group 04 About this Review This Review presents Pentland Group’s approach to being a responsible business and an overview of our corporate responsibility activities during the 2013 calendar year. It covers the companies and brands wholly-owned This Review comprises our 2013 communication by Pentland Group. Where appropriate, it includes on progress to the United Nations Global Compact information relating to JD Sports Fashion, in (UNGC), an initiative for businesses that are which Pentland Group holds a significant stake committed to aligning their operations and but does not exercise direct management control. strategies with ten universally accepted JD Sports Fashion also reports separately on principles in the areas of human rights, labour, its corporate responsibility activities through the environment, and anti-corruption. As a its own Annual Report and Accounts. participant in the UNGC, we have committed to reporting annually on our progress in each of these areas. About Pentland Group 05 UN Global Compact: Ten Principles Businesses should: 1 Support and respect the protection of internationally Ethical Trade, Human proclaimed human rights. Page 33 Rights Our People, 2 Make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Page 43 3 Uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition Ethical Trade, of the right to collective bargaining. Page 33 4 Uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and Labour compulsory labour. Rights 5 Uphold the effective abolition of child labour. 6 Uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 7 Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Product Sustainability, 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater Page 17 Environment environmental responsibility. Environmental 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of Efficiency, environmentally-friendly technologies. Page 25 Anti10 Work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion Our Approach, Page 09 Corruption and bribery. About Pentland Group 06 Introduction “In this, our 2013 Corporate Responsibility Review, we give an overview of the work we are doing in our four priority areas: product sustainability, environmental efficiency, ethical trade and community, as well as our efforts to be a ‘great place to work’. Over  the past 18 months, factory accidents have served as a sad reminder of the importance of doing business responsibly, with partners we trust and that share our high ethical standards. As an industry we must collaborate to reduce the risk of such incidents happening again. We are proud to be a member of multilateral alliances such as the Ethical Trading Initiative, which brings together companies, trade unions and non-governmental organisations. By providing a forum for constructive discussion and debate on labour issues, ETI helps put its members in a good position to improve working conditions on the ground. About Pentland Group 07 We are also proud of our longstanding This Review constitutes our latest communication manufacturing partnerships – several of which on progress to the UN Global Compact, an exceed 10, 20, and even 30 years. A good organisation with a significant role to play in working relationship with our manufacturers raising awareness across the private sector of is absolutely vital for the success of our ethical the world’s prevailing social and environmental trade programme. issues. I am delighted to use this medium to once again renew our commitment to the UN Each of our brands and businesses takes Global Compact.” responsibility for their ethical and environmental performance, and we provide them with the R Stephen Rubin guidance and support necessary to meet our Chairman, standards. Within Pentland we have a fantastic Pentland Group plc network of product and supply chain professionals, and I am delighted to see increasing collaboration and knowledge sharing between our brands. About Pentland Group 08 Our Approach We believe in doing business responsibly, with respect for people and the environment, and we expect everyone who works for Pentland Group to do business the right way. 09 Our Standards During 2013 we developed a revised set of For Group companies where Pentland holds Pentland Group Standards which make clear our 50% or more of the share capital, we expect each commitments and expectations with regard to: company to develop and implement detailed policies and procedures that enable these standards to be met, and that reflect the specific character and requirements of their businesses The way we treat our people, and the way and the environment in which they operate. they behave. Pentland Brands will introduce these Standards across the business in 2014, as an update to The way we work with our customers and its existing Business Standards Policies. other business partners. The way our manufacturing partners treat the people who make our products. The environmental efficiency of our operations. Our way of doing business, ethically and with integrity. Our Approach 10 Corporate Responsibility Priorities We are committed Corporate Responsibility (CR) activities at Pentland Brands focus on four strategic to taking steps that areas: product sustainability, environmental efficiency, ethical trade, and support for charities and community organisations. improve working Product sustainability and ethical trade are our most material issues; that is, the areas in which conditions in our we can make the most significant contribution and that pose the greatest risk to our business. supply chain and reduce the impact of our activities on the environment. Our Approach 11 Overview of CR at Pentland Brands Objective Focus Area Materials sustainability Packaging sustainability Restricted substances Product To reduce environmental impacts management Sustainability across our products’ life cycles. Supply chain environmental footprint Product end-of-life Facilities energy use / carbon footprint Environmental To reduce the environmental impact Business travel Efficiency of our business operations. Water use Waste and recycling Robust ethical trade processes To conduct business honestly, Long-term manufacturer Ethical Trade fairly and with respect for people, relationships their dignity and their rights. Improving working conditions Charitable giving Community To contribute positively to the Fundraising and Charity communities in which we operate. Employee volunteering Product donations Our Approach 12 CR Management and Governance Pentland Brands’ CR team is based in London, Hong Kong and Shenzhen, and manages CR initiatives in collaboration with colleagues from across the business. Close partnerships with representatives from Pentland Group Chairman, Stephen Rubin, each brand and facility enable the team to ensure takes a strong personal interest in CR and is that Pentland standards are applied consistently, a recognised advocate for improving workers’ and that we share examples of good practice rights in the supply chain. He has oversight and information about new collaboration of all Pentland Group’s CR activities. Within opportunities. Pentland Brands, the Chief Operating Officer is responsible for CR-related issues. Our Approach 13 Engaging Employees on CR New starters receive an overview of CR as part of their Pentland Brands induction. Over 100 employees from the UK and Europe attended induction workshops at our London headquarters in 2013, with a further 52 new joiners receiving a CR induction at our Asian offices. Regular blog posts and a biannual internal newsletter provided employees with updates on our CR activities during 2013. These will be replaced in early 2014 by the new ‘MyPentland’ intranet for Pentland Brands employees, which has a dedicated CR area that provides up-to-date news on ethical and environmental activities within Pentland and in our industry more broadly. See Our People, page 43 for more on employee engagement. Everyone who works for Pentland has a role to play in meeting our corporate responsibility objectives, so it is important that we engage regularly with our employees to explain the steps we are taking and listen to their opinions on what we could do differently. Our Approach 14 External Stakeholders We have formed longstanding partnerships Academic collaborations with industry groups and non-governmental organisations that support CR progress Through our partnership with University at Pentland and within our industry more College London, we have long supported broadly. Collaborations are profiled in research and debate on human rights. relevant sections throughout this Review. Now, a new collaboration between Pentland Throughout the year, we receive enquiries and Lancaster University will support about CR-related issues from our business academic research on sustainability, partners and consumers. During 2013, ethical trade, and how business can have enquiries most frequently related to our a positive impact in a constantly changing ethical trade commitments and processes, environment. Launched in December the chemicals used in the manufacture of our 2013, an initial five-year partnership will products, and animal welfare in relation to establish a research hub, the Pentland the materials used to make our products. Centre, as well as a dedicated post to focus on sustainability in business. Drawing on expertise from across the university, including the Lancaster University Management School and the Lancaster Environment Centre, the Pentland Centre will be a hub that brings together the latest global views from across academic disciplines with business and economic perspectives to develop opportunities, understand risks and challenge the status quo. In Profile Our Approach 15 World Federation of the “There is a need for a new wave Sporting Goods Industry of thinking around sustainable The World Federation of the Sporting Goods Industry (WFSGI) is an independent, design and manufacturing. We non-profit association that represents the sporting goods industry on a global anticipate significant changes level, and supports and coordinates in how sports products are industry collaboration in areas such as CR, trade, physical activity and designed and manufactured – intellectual property. Pentland Group Chairman, Stephen Rubin, is Honorary including a shift towards a President of the WFSGI, and Pentland higher level of automation, Brands’ CEO is a Vice President and active board member. Pentland Brands sits on digital manufacturing several WFSGI committees – including the Corporate Social Responsibility technologies, customisation, Committee, of which it is a Vice Chair. and greater collaboration In December 2013, WFSGI brought the between brands and suppliers world’s leading sporting goods brands and manufacturers together in Taipei, Taiwan, to ensure products are to discuss the future of sporting goods manufacturing. Academic and industry ‘designed for manufacturing’.” speakers emphasised the importance of efficiency and sustainability, and discussed Robbert de Kock Secretary General, the role that innovative technologies such WFSGI as 3D printing might play. In Profile Our Approach 16 Product Sustainability Our Group’s products include footwear, apparel, sports and outdoor equipment, and accessories. We are conscious that manufacturing and transporting these products has an environmental impact, and encourage each of our brands to look for commercially-viable opportunities to reduce their footprint. 17 Materials and Packaging Sustainability Our products are primarily made using leather, For example: rubber, cotton and synthetic materials. We investigate ways to source these materials more • R  edesigning packaging can help to sustainably, as well as alternative materials that significantly reduce material use. may have a lower environmental impact but Mitre has reduced its sock packaging by that are still cost-effective, of a high quality, and 46%, while Speedo has slimmed down deliver the necessary technical performance. its watch and MP3 player packaging by 88% and 56% respectively. We are members of the Leather Working Group, an organisation that measures the environmental • M  itre has also redesigned its goalkeeping impact of tanneries and encourages them to glove packaging to double as protective reduce these impacts. Around a third of the storage that consumers can reuse to tanneries that supply Lacoste’s footwear factories prolong the life of their gloves. The – our largest leather user by volume – are Leather packaging also has heat-sealed seams Working Group members. Lacoste encourages that eliminate the use of glue. its other existing tanneries to join, and considers • B  erghaus packages all its footwear Leather Working Group membership a positive in 100% recycled and recyclable shoe factor when sourcing new leather suppliers. boxes that are printed with soya-based We also take steps to reduce the quantity inks. It is reducing the number of paper of pulp and paper required for packaging, swing tickets used on all products, by encouraging our brands to follow the and its retail stores provide customers ‘reduce, reuse, recycle’ principle. with 100% recycled paper bags. Product Sustainability 18 JD Sports Fashion stores used around 28 million Sustainable Apparel Coalition carrier bags in 2013. Around 31% of these are high quality, reusable drawstring duffle bags. All JD’s Formed in 2011, the Sustainable Apparel plastic bags are made from 33% recycled material, Coalition (SAC) is our industry’s leading and contain an oxo-biodegradable additive that collaboration on product sustainability. helps them break down more quickly after A trade organisation comprised of brands, disposal. JD stores in the Republic of Ireland retailers, manufacturers, government and use paper bags, and the business complies with non-governmental organisations, and the carrier bag charge scheme in Wales and academic experts, the SAC membership Northern Ireland. represents more than a third of the global apparel and footwear market. Its main focus is the Higg Index, a suite of tools that help brands to measure and compare the environmental and social impacts of apparel and footwear products. An updated version, Higg Index 2.0, was launched in December 2013. Pentland is a founder member of the SAC, and we have been involved in the development of the Higg Index. In Profile Product Sustainability 19 “With the Higg Index, Our members’ efforts we are working to to test and provide standardise the way feedback on each sustainability is iteration of the Index measured and talked is vital for this.” about across the Jason Kibbey Executive Director, apparel and footwear Sustainable Apparel Coalition value chain, and to help member brands scale up their product sustainability activities. Product Sustainability 20 Efficient Design and Manufacturing We take steps to make the design and In 2012, we were part of a Textile Industry manufacturing process more efficient. Sustainability Platform initiative to develop an energy efficiency guide for Chinese apparel When developing a new product, brands ask their manufacturers. Following the guide’s launch, in manufacturers to make a series of samples that 2013 we piloted the use of the guide with two can be reviewed and used to amend or approve the manufacturers – a Berghaus factory in Thailand design and materials used. Increasingly, we are and a Canterbury factory in China – to help them using 3D design and printing to make this process start implementing efficiency improvements. more efficient for footwear and equipment such as swimming goggles. This cuts down the number of physical samples that are manufactured and transported, reducing the resources and time required for sampling, as well as air freight. A significant portion of our environmental footprint is indirect: the result of activities in our supply chain. We do not have direct control over the environmental efficiency of our supply chain, but we do have a role to play in influencing our manufacturing partners to making their operations more efficient. Product Sustainability 21 Managing Restricted Substances The responsible use of chemicals in manufacturing To share restricted substances good practice and helps to protect the health of our consumers and discuss legislative changes, a working group our manufacturers’ factory workers, as well as comprising representatives from each Pentland the environment downstream from factories. brand comes together once a quarter. We are also a member of the Apparel and Footwear We give our product design teams and our International RSL Management Group (AFIRM), manufacturers the guidance they need to avoid and our brands use specialist testing centres the use of any potentially harmful substances. to ensure products comply with Compliance with our restricted substances list relevant requirements. (RSL), and relevant laws and regulations, is a condition of business with our manufacturers. We update our RSL and associated guidance documents regularly to ensure they are up-to-date. Product Sustainability 22 Shipping We ship our products by the most efficient means possible, predominantly by sea and rail. Air freight is used only when necessary, and must be signed off by senior management. See Enviromental Efficiency on page 25 for details of the steps we take to improve the environmental efficiency of our distribution centres. Product Sustainability 23 Prolonging the Life of Samples and Surplus We look for ways to avoid sending samples, surplus and unsaleable stock to landfill. This includes our longstanding collaboration with In Kind Direct, which provides us with a way to divert surplus products away from landfill and towards charities that can put them to good use, as well as regular sample sales for our employees. See Community, page 55, for more information about product donations. Product Sustainability 24 Environmental Efficiency Across the Group we measure, monitor and work towards reducing the environmental impact of our operations. Our priorities are to reduce our energy consumption, reduce waste and increase recycling, and use natural resources responsibly. 25 JD Sports Fashion’s retail operations account for the vast majority of our environmental footprint, and are the main focus of efforts to improve efficiency. In 2013, JD operated 860 retail stores in six European countries, covering 3 million square feet in total. Environmental Efficiency 26 Operational Energy Use and Greenhouse Gas Emissions We report on our carbon dioxide (Co2 ) emissions JD Sports Fashion through the UK government’s Carbon Reduction Commitment (CRC). In 2012/13, Pentland JD’s Carbon Management Programme aims to Group’s UK facilities were responsible for 46,251 ensure that relevant team members at all its tonnes of carbon dioxide emissions, of which retail operations understand and manage their 88% is associated with JD’s operations. The total site’s energy consumption and Co2 emissions. emissions are 22% higher than the previous year, The programme uses smart meters to help due to the inclusion of JD’s Blacks and Millets identify the causes of peak energy usage, operations (acquired in early 2012) for the full encourages the reduction of energy use during year, as well as changes in CRC reporting scope. non-trading periods, and uses training to raise staff awareness about the importance of energy efficiency. JD has installed smart meters in over 360 retail stores in the UK and Ireland, and plans to expand coverage further. In February 2013, JD reported a 7% reduction in like-for-like electricity use, with natural gas consumption remaining stable compared with the previous year. JD’s investment in environmental efficiency during 2013 included adopting energy-efficient LED lamps as standard in its retail stores across Europe following a trial in the UK, and continuing to replacing inefficient airconditioning systems in stores where necessary. Environmental Efficiency 27 Pentland Brands Energy saving features at our We enjoy the use of modern, energy-efficient UK facilities include: facilities and offices, and seek ways to reduce • M  otion-sensitive lights at our distribution our footprint through the use of more centres, which dim to 10% of their normal efficient technologies and raising employees’ light level in areas that are not in use. awareness about environmental issues and the simple steps they can take to save energy. • A  t Speedo’s office in Nottingham, which is For example, we promote energy efficiency by rated as ‘excellent’ by sustainable building participating in WWF’s annual Earth Hour. experts BREEAM, a ground-source heat pump that makes use of warmth from the ground outside. Since 2011, Four times a year, a team solar panels on the building’s roof have generated over 20,000 kWh of electricity. of facilities managers • S  kylights at Mitre and Prostar’s from all our UK offices distribution centre in Wakefield, which permit enough natural light and distribution centres to virtually eliminate the use of electric lights in summer. meet to share best practice • V  oltage optimisation technology at and collaborate on energy our London headquarters, which adjusts energy supply according efficiency projects. to demand and help reduce energy consumption and Co2 emissions. Environmental Efficiency 28 When refurbishing our offices in Hong Kong, Pentland Brands energy use in 2013 Bangkok and Ho Chi Minh City during 2012 and 2013, we looked for ways to make better Offices – Asia use of natural sunlight and reduce our reliance on electric lighting. The changes we made 3% helped the Hong Kong office to reduce its energy use by 15% per capita in 2013. Across Asia, we made energy savings of 8% per capita on average, compared with the previous year. We consumed around 16 million kilowatt hours of electricity and gas across our global facilities in 20131, approximately the same as last year. Just over half of our energy use is associated with our distribution centre facilities in the UK (see chart). Distribution Offices – UK centres – UK 42% 55% 1 Includes Pentland Brands offices and distribution centres in the UK, and offices in Asia. Environmental Efficiency 29 Emissions from Business Travel and Commuting As a global business, many of our employees’ roles require long-haul travel. To reduce our air travel footprint, we encourage the use of video conferencing to replace in-person meetings where possible. We promote the use of public transport and cycling to work, and many of our employees car share where practicable. Pentland Brands offers employees the opportunity to participate in the UK government’s Cycle to Work scheme, which allows employees to save on the cost of a new bike and accessories. Environmental Efficiency 30 Waste and Recycling JD Sports Fashion Pentland Brands JD’s primary UK distribution centre, Kingsway We aim to generate less waste and promote near Rochdale, achieved its target of sending zero recycling across the business. The facilities teams waste to landfill in 2012/13. Using a dry mixed at each Pentland Brands office and distribution recycling system enabled 87% of its waste to be centre are committed to ensuring that the waste recycled, with the remainder used to generate fuel. we generate is managed responsibly, and we JD is looking to introduce dry mixed recycling at partner with waste contractors that enable us to stores and offices across the UK and Ireland, send the minimum amount of waste to landfill. to divert as much waste as possible away from landfill. Pentland Brands’ Glover distribution centre – which meets the environmental standard JD saw a significant increase in its recorded ISO14001 – achieved its target of sending cardboard and paper waste during 2012/13, due to zero waste to landfill in 2013. Berghaus and the relocation of its distribution centre facilities to brasher’s office in Sunderland, UK, achieved Kingsway and the closure of older sites. The result zero waste to landfill for the first time in August was a one-off increase in cardboard recycling 2013. Across our UK facilities, around 87% of to 651 tonnes, compared with 465 tonnes the the 400 tonnes of waste generated during 2013 previous year, as well as nearly a four-fold increase was either recycled or used to produce fuel. in the recycling of shredded confidential paper waste. With the transition to Kingsway complete, these levels are expected to stabilise in 2013/14. Environmental Efficiency 31 Water Consumption Efforts to reduce waste and Across the Group we use relatively little water, increase recycling include: most of which is used for domestic purposes. We look for ways to reduce our water consumption • R educing our consumption of and improve how we measure our water footprint. cardboard – our largest waste stream – by reusing boxes where In 2013, the facilities team at Pentland Brands’ possible at our distribution centres. London headquarters began working with a water management company who are helping us better • I ntroducing new paperless systems understand and reduce our water consumption, for expenses and warehouse while at Speedo’s Nottingham office, boreholes management, which have cut paper supply groundwater to sanitary facilities. consumption across the business. In Hong Kong, sensor taps installed in bathroom • C ollecting wood, metal, photocopier and sinks during the office refurbishment helped printer cartridges, as well as electronic reduce water consumption by 29% per capita waste and office furniture. These in 2013 compared with the previous year. materials are either recycled or donated to organisations that can reuse them. We also make an effort to use other natural resources responsibly, and factor this into our procurement decisions where possible. Environmental Efficiency 32 Ethical Trade We have a longstanding commitment to responsible sourcing, and are committed to working only with manufacturers who respect the rights of the people who make our products. 33 Pentland Brands sources sports, outdoor and Our ethical trade programme focuses on assessing fashion products from factories in 19 countries. factories and making recommendations for how Around half of our manufacturers’ factories are they can improve working conditions. in China and nearly a quarter in Southeast Asia, We collaborate with others in our industry with the remainder in South Asia, Europe and the and expert not-for-profit organisations rest of the world. We source the majority of our to better understand the complex ethical products directly from manufacturers, with issues associated with global supply chains, a further portion made by business partners and to bring about sustainable change. under license. Pentland is a longstanding and active member of We believe that the best way to make ethical the Ethical Trading Initiative (see box). We value its trade progress is to foster long-term relationships tripartite nature, which gives us the opportunity with manufacturers that adopt our standards to share ideas and challenges with other brands, or have policies that reflect the same values. as well as non-governmental organisations and We are proud to have been working with nearly trade unions. two-thirds of our manufacturers for more than five years, and with some for over 20 years. Ethical Trade 34 Ethical Trading Initiative “This past year, the world The Ethical Trading Initiative (ETI) is a witnessed large scale factory leading alliance of companies, trade unions and non-governmental organisations that disasters that shone a spotlight promotes respect for workers’ rights around the globe. ETI harnesses the expertise, on working conditions in skills and resources of its members to global supply chains. These identify workers’ rights issues and develop innovative, long-lasting solutions. events have highlighted Pentland joined ETI shortly after its the need for even greater launch in 1998. We are one of more than 80 company members who together collaboration between brands, have a combined turnover of more than retailers, trade unions, NGOs £180 billion, and who are committed to upholding international labour rights and governments, in order standards across their global supply chains. In 2013, ETI’s company members’ ethical to drive lasting change for trade activities collectively touched the lives of more than 10 million workers. workers. Our members We report annually to ETI on our continue to play an important ethical trade strategy and performance, part in this change process.” and regularly attend meetings on pertinent ethical trade issues. Debbie Coulter Head of Programmes, Ethical Trading Initiative In Profile Ethical Trade 35 Our Standards Our Code of Employment Standards for Suppliers We have a series of guidelines and processes that is based on the Ethical Trading Initiative are designed to ensure robust management of Base Code and reflects International Labour ethical trade and support workers’ rights. Since Organization standards. We expect all factories becoming part of the Pentland Brands portfolio producing our brands’ products to comply in 2012, Canterbury has worked with Mitre to with our Code, and all relevant legislation. ensure consistent ethical trade management within the ball manufacturing supply chain. The Code requires manufacturers to ensure that: Living wages are paid. No discrimination is practised. Working hours are not excessive. There is no harsh or inhumane treatment. Freedom of association and the right Working conditions are safe and hygenic. to collective bargaining are respected. Child labour is not used. Regular employment is provided. Employment is freely chosen. Ethical Trade 36 Assessing Compliance with our Standards We visit factories regularly to monitor compliance with our standards. New factories must be evaluated and approved before purchase orders can be placed. Factory assessments are conducted by members of our in-house CR team, or by a nominated third party auditor where necessary. We regularly invite an independent, local interviewer to join our visits and speak directly to the factory employees about working conditions. Where we find areas for improvement in a factory’s ethical trade performance, we make recommendations, agree a timed action plan, and follow up to check on progress. We encourage Our standards apply equally to manufacturers manufacturers to include worker representatives that our licensees use to make Pentland Brands’ in the improvement process, by consulting products. Recognising the added complexity them on the changes they feel would make of working with third parties, we engage the biggest difference. with licensees to ensure they understand our expectations and have an appropriate system in place to monitor manufacturers’ compliance with our standards. Ethical Trade 37 Factory Assessments in 2013 Factory assessments by region: Factory assessments by type: South Asia Europe 14 % 10% Additional follow-up visit Potential new factory 29% assessment 35% 29%Regular review visit China 36% 48% Southeast Asia 28% Ethical Trade 38 Working with Others We see great value in collaborating with expert We work with local Red Cross organisations to organisations to improve working conditions in ensure the people making our products have the the factories we use. We mostly work with local first aid training they need to protect the health organisations that have in-depth knowledge of and safety of themselves and their colleagues. specific issues and good practice in that country or region. In 2013, we also provided training on fire safety and the safe use and storage of chemicals to a For example, we are a ‘buyer partner’ of the Better Ted Baker footwear factory in southern China. Work programme (see box), an International Labour Organization and International Finance Corporation initiative that aims to improve compliance with labour standards, as well as competitiveness, in global supply chains. In 2013, we collaborated with Better Work in four factories in Indonesia and one in Vietnam, as well as one in Cambodia with sister organisation Better Factories. In these factories, Better Work manages ethical trade assessments and capacity building projects on behalf of Pentland and other member brands, reducing the pressure on manufacturers to manage multiple assessments and corrective action plans, and avoiding duplication of effort by brands sourcing from the same factories. We continue to encourage our manufacturers in these markets to participate in the Better Work programme. Ethical Trade 39 Active in around 900 factories • I ndustry-specific, and culturally appropriate, training – for example in seven markets, Better with a focus on enhancing supervisory skills, occupational health and safety, Work has already helped and workplace cooperation – using improved working conditions innovative media such as comic books, soap operas and text messages. for 1 million people. • E fforts to positively influence labour law reform and enforcement in manufacturing markets. Better Work A collaboration between the International In Profile Labour Organization (ILO) and International Finance Corporation (IFC), the programme combines expertise in We partner with Better Work in six factories labour standards and private sector in Cambodia, Indonesia and Vietnam, and see development. Its activities include: real progress being made. At a Berghaus apparel • F  actory assessments that give a clear and factory in Indonesia, Better Work has helped to credible snapshot of working conditions. implement systems that use SMS messaging for workers to raise grievances and for management • G  iving factories guidance on how to to share company updates. They also run improve labour standards – including occupational health and safety training, and a increasing the ability for workers and programme to enhance the factory’s ability to hire management to solve problems together. and support disabled workers. In 2014, the factory will collaborate with Better Work to pilot a new environmental assessment. Ethical Trade 40 “At Better Work, our mission is to improve the lives of 3 million workers by 2017. We do this by engaging and ensuring accountability from brands, promoting supplier ownership of working conditions, and bringing worker voices to the table” Ayesha Barenblat Buyer Relations Officer, Better Work Ethical Trade 41 JD’s approach to ethical trade Visits are prioritised according to need, for example if a self-assessment indicates JD is committed to providing its customers that improvements are required, and with high quality, good value merchandise according to the volume of product being from manufacturers that comply with manufactured for JD’s brands at that internationally-accepted labour standards. factory. As part of a rolling programme, Nearly 500 suppliers, mostly in Asia and JD will have audited around half its supply Turkey, manufacture products for JD’s base in the year to February 2014. brands. All must commit to comply with JD’s Conditions of Supply, which include a Code of Employment Standards for Suppliers. Prior to purchase orders being placed, potential new suppliers must complete an ethical trade self-assessment, which existing factories then repeat annually. Third party auditors conduct factory visits on JD’s behalf, to check on performance and help improve working conditions. Ethical Trade 42 Our People Around 19,000 people work for Pentland Group companies. This includes nearly 17,0002 who work for JD Sports Fashion and almost 2,000 who work for Pentland Brands. 2 Equates to 10,400 Full Time Equivalent (FTE) JD employees. 43 Pentland Brands People For our business to The Chairman’s Awards: recognising achievements and long service succeed, we need Each December our Chairman, Stephen to attract, retain, Rubin, presents the ‘Chairman’s Awards’ for that year. develop and engage The Awards recognise our people’s a talented and creative achievements, and specifically focus on how employees live our values. In 2013, we global workforce. opened award nominations to everyone in the business globally, giving employees the opportunity to vote for a colleague from We engage regularly with our employees, any brand, team or location. We received offer a variety of development opportunities, 270 nominations, resulting in 49 award and focus on enhancing talent. We winners from 19 locations in 13 markets. support diversity and inclusion, and are committed to providing a supportive, safe We also recognise those with long and stimulating working environment. service to the business at an annual luncheon held in London. Our culture is underpinned by our company values: Always Learning, Courage, Creativity and Passion. To recognise those who notably demonstrate these values in their work, our Chairman hosts an annual awards ceremony (see box). Our People 44 Employee engagement We value employees’ feedback and ideas. Regular dialogue with our workforce gives us an insight into their needs and expectations, and provides a channel for people to suggest how we can improve as a business and as an employer. It enables us to make everyone aware of our business strategy and their role in ensuring we achieve our objectives, as well as any changes that might affect them. Our People 45 Our employee engagement channels include: • T he new MyPentland intranet, developed • Regular Q&A sessions with the CEO. during 2013 and launched in January 2014. • M  onthly company briefings given by senior Featuring a blog, newsfeed, team sites and management to their teams in Europe and personal profiles, this will be the primary tool North America, and a quarterly company for our employees to communicate with one update presented in person at each of another, and with the Pentland Executive. our Asian regional offices by a member • A n annual presentation by our CEO and of our Asia division’s Executive. other members of the Executive, delivered • A  confidential telephone line that in person at each of our global locations. employees can use to report any concerns It includes a review of the year and a look or suspected unethical behaviour. forward to priorities for the following year. In 2013 we introduced a new initiative in our • A n employee survey, which we ran globally Hong Kong, Bangkok (Thailand) and Ho Chi Minh for the first time in 2013 (see box). City (Vietnam) offices. The “I Heart” campaign is • I nduction sessions that give all new starters designed to encourage employees’ pride in their globally an introduction to Pentland on their workplace and our brands, and enhance first day. the feeling that they are part of a close-knit global organisation. • Q uarterly workshops that give recent joiners in the UK an opportunity to meet the CEO, hear the Pentland story, and receive an overview of topics such as the product development process, consumer insights, employee development opportunities, and corporate responsibility. Our People 46 Valuing our employees’ feedback Following the survey, we ran focus groups across Pentland to dig deeper Our people are integral to our business and get clarity on what our people success. We want every member of our think would make Pentland an even team to feel passionate about what they better place to work. In the UK alone, do, empowered and supported in their we ran over 40 such focus groups. development. We also want their feedback on what it’s like to work for Pentland, and We will be taking on board the feedback how we can improve as an employer. we received, and looking for opportunities to implement our employees’ suggestions. Having been named one of the UK’s Already in 2013, as a result of feedback we best employers in 2012, following our have increased the visibility of internal job inaugural Great Place to Work® survey, vacancies and opened up applications for in 2013 we invited all our people globally our leadership programmes, so that people to share their views on working at can nominate themselves rather than line Pentland. We received an outstanding managers being responsible for nominating response, with 93% of our employees members of their teams. taking part and 84% of them saying that Pentland is a “great place to work”. Our People 47 Talent and development We are passionate about giving our people the Our annual talent review process allows us to opportunity to develop themselves and their identify high potential employees and discuss the careers at Pentland, and we are proud that many ways in which we can support their development. of our leaders have come from within the business. One way in which we do this is through our three leadership programmes, which are designed to Every employee has access to a variety of training help high potential people at different levels of and development opportunities through our the business to stretch their thinking, challenge comprehensive people development programme, their ways of working, and learn from new Pentland Pathways. The programme comprises situations and experiences. In 2013, 24 recent masterclasses run by members of our leadership graduates, managers, and senior managers team, workshops on subjects such as stepping joined our Future Leaders, Emerging Leaders and into management, finance, and leading people Strategic Leaders programmes respectively. through change, as well as e-learning courses including ethics and integrity. Employees may also request time off and sponsorship to study for professional qualifications. During 2013, 2,400 participants attended training courses, around the same number as in 2012 (this includes individuals attending more than one course). The most popular courses included sessions on managing time effectively, communicating with credibility and confidence, and our CEO’s ‘Brand Building’ masterclass. Our People 48 Diversity and inclusion We are committed to treating all employees Our employees are based in 17 equally and with respect regardless of age, disability, ethnicity, gender, marital status, religion, social background or sexual orientation. A diverse workforce enhances innovation and creativity. It helps our brands understand countries across the needs and wants of different consumer groups, and supports the creation of the right products for different markets. five continents, and speak nearly 40 languages between them. Our People 49 Health, safety and wellbeing We offer a variety of benefits that help support employees’ wellbeing Our people’s health, and work-life balance. These include: safety and wellbeing • Competitive parental leave. is paramount. • A  subsidised nursery for children under five years old, at our London headquarters. At our offices, health and safety risks are relatively low and accidents are infrequent. Those that do • M  ore flexible working arrangements, occur are most commonly associated with slips, under our ‘smart working’ initiative. trips or falls. For employees whose roles involve potentially risky activities such as lifting heavy • C  omplimentary, state-of-the-art objects and working at height, including those recreation facilities at our London who work at our distribution centres, we take headquarters, including a gym, swimming additional health and safety measures as required. pool, and astroturf sports pitch. • Regular  visits by external finance and pensions advisors. • A  private and confidential employee assistance helpline, run by an external partner, to offer counselling, advice and other support. • A  24-hour travel and health advisory service, providing support to business travellers. Our People 50 Working at JD JD Sports Fashion is the largest of the Pentland JD is committed to equal opportunities and Group companies but is a separately listed to treating all employees and job applicants public company with outside shareholders. equally and with respect. It gives full and fair consideration to applications for employment Around 8% of JD’s workforce is based at the by people who have a disability, and continue JD Sports Fashion group headquarters and wherever possible to provide development distribution centre, both of which are located opportunities to staff who become disabled. close to Manchester, UK. The remaining The company also aims to provide opportunities 92% are employed at its Bank, Blacks, to people seeking flexible or part time work. Champion, Chausport, JD Sports, Millets, Scotts, Size?, Sprinter and Tessuti retail Training and development stores in the UK, Republic of Ireland, France, Spain, the Netherlands and Germany. JD recognises the importance of employee training and development in order to Employment and equal opportunities enhance performance, increase morale, improve staff retention and keep knowledge Large numbers of school leavers and university and skills within the business. graduates work for JD, and the company participates regularly in work experience schemes Training and development for employees across with schools and colleges. JD is also looking to all JD retail fascias in the UK and Ireland formalise its internship and graduate placement (as well as for the Managers and Assistant programmes to offer greater development Managers of JD stores in mainland Europe) opportunities for people early in their careers. is provided by JD’s dedicated training team at its Kingsway Distribution Centre, Rochdale. Our People 51 Retail employees are encouraged to seek During 2013 development opportunities that will help them progress, ultimately, to management level. 62 These include: People • A  twelve week Training Academy, held three attended times a year, designed to help retail supervisors Training develop management skills, with a focus on Academy communication, leadership, motivation and delegation. During 2013, 62 people attended 300 the Academy. Managers • W  eek-long induction programmes for new attended managers, held regularly throughout the year. week-long Nearly 300 managers participated during 2013. induction programmes • H  alf-day leadership skills workshops for junior managers. Around 600 people joined these 600 workshops during 2013. Junior managers In addition to the support it offers to the retail attended workforce, the training team also designs and leadership implements bespoke programmes for people who workshops work at JD’s headquarters and distribution centre. Our People 52 Employee engagement All new starters participate in a health and safety induction and training programme, JD’s large number of geographically-dispersed and JD also runs targeted safety awareness retail stores make employee communications campaigns throughout the year. In 2013, challenging, but even more essential. Regional this included a campaign to raise awareness and area managers communicate regularly about reporting ‘near-misses’ (incidents that with store managers and retail staff, while could have resulted in an accident) at its main the human resources department issues distribution centre. A monthly newsletter ensures team briefs with updates on the company’s that JD’s safety message is communicated financial performance. It also produces a consistently throughout the business. quarterly ‘People 1st’ newsletter for staff at its headquarters and distribution centre. In 2013, JD introduced a regular Q&A forum that gives employees the chance to speak directly with the Executive Chairman and ask questions. A summary of the discussions that take place at these sessions is distributed widely within the business. Our People 53 Health and safety JD is committed to protecting the health JD’s Health and and safety of its employees and retail store customers. The company saw health and safety improvements in 2013, including a 15% reduction Safety Committee in reportable employee accidents and a 4% decrease in the number of customer accidents. meets four times The health and safety team is responsible for ensuring high standards are maintained. a year, allowing every employee JD strengthened the team during 2013 to ensure correct health and safety procedures are established within its recently acquired companies. The team has input into the design of all new and retrofitted retail the opportunity stores, and audits stores for high safety standards during construction. to raise any safety concerns through their nominated representative. Our People 54 Community and Charity We are committed to supporting the good work done by organisations ranging from small, grass-roots community groups to large, international charities. 55 Charitable Giving Our support for communities and charities As a Group, we have several significant charity comprises charitable giving, fundraising, partners to whom we provide regular support. employee volunteering and product donations. This includes The Prince’s Trust, Young Some of this support is Pentland-wide Enterprise and TrainE-TraidE, all of which but much of it is given by our individual help young people start off in business. brands and offices to causes that are relevant to their activities and location. We are also a longstanding member of the Clinton Global Initiative, which convenes global leaders to create and implement innovative solutions to the world’s most pressing challenges. Community and Charity 56 Fundraising by Our Brands Our brands work closely with charities that resonate with them and their consumers, to raise awareness and funds. Community and Charity 57 In 2013: • Boxfresh teamed up with Teenage Cancer Trust to launch ‘Swich It Up’, a competition that invited people to create a new design for Boxfresh’s classic Swich hi-top. Picked by an expert judging panel, the winner saw their design sold at Schuh stores nationwide and on boxfresh.com. The winner also received a prize of £1,000. Boxfresh donated £1 for every entry, and 10% from the sale of each customised Swich trainer, to Teenage Cancer Trust. Boxfresh ‘Swich It Up’ • M itre partnered with the Bobby Moore Fund, part of Cancer Research UK, to raise funds for bowel and prostate cancer research. For every Mitre Pressure Jersey sold, £1 is donated to the fund. • C anterbury donated £5 from the sale of each new Royal Air Force (RAF) Rugby 7s Spitfires rugby shirt towards charities supported by the RAF, including a tag rugby project for disadvantaged Mitre Pressure Jersey Canterbury Rugby 7s children in India and the RAF Benevolent Fund. Community and Charity 58 Speedo supports ‘Swim N Survive’ Through demonstrations of basic life-saving to save lives in India skills (performed by RLSSI experts) and educational activities based on teaching In a country that loses more than 100,000 floating, sculling and object recovery, Swim people to drowning a year, the Swim N N Survive aims to equip children with the Survive programme is designed to bring swimming skills they need to ensure they life-saving swim skills to semi-urban and can survive, and save the lives of others, rural communities across the Indian state of should they fall into water. Bangalore. Safety and education are at the heart of the Launched in August 2013, Swim N Survive initiative, and Speedo hopes that the fun, is a joint initiative between Speedo, confidence-boosting activities also inspire Rashtriya Life Saving Society India a life-long love of swimming. (RLSSI) and International Inspiration, a charity chaired by Lord Sebastian Coe as part of the London 2012 Olympic Legacy Programme. Community and Charity 59 Employee Volunteering Volunteering provides our employees • I n October, team members from the Shenzhen with a way to give back to their local office organised a care visit to the Elderly Nursing communities, as well as an opportunity to Home of Shenzhen Society Welfare Centre. develop teamwork and leadership skills. The team donated three handcarts and three telephones to the nursing home, and brought Volunteering activities in 2013 included: boxes of fresh fruit to greet the residents. • I n February, 20 employees from our Hong • A lso in October, 16 Hong Kong office staff Kong office took part in the Standard Chartered took part in the Raleigh Challenge Wilson Marathon Corporate Challenge 10k race, Trail, a 78 kilometre, 24-hour relay hike to raising over HKD 21,000 (£1,600) for the raise funds for Raleigh Hong Kong, a local Hong Kong Paralympic Committee and Sports youth charity with an international focus on Association for the Physically Disabled. development and community projects. The • I n May and October, Berghaus and brasher team successfully completed the challenge, employees volunteered at the Cragside raising £2,300 including matching funds. Estate, Northumberland and at the Wildfowl • I n December, a team from the Bangkok office and Wetlands Trust, Washington, helping hosted a dinner at Baan Nontapum, a care to maintain footpaths and shrubs. home for children with disabilities who come • I n June, a team of 19 women from our from disadvantaged backgrounds. Employees London headquarters participated in the spent the afternoon helping care home staff Cancer Research Race for Life 5k, raising prepare the meal and socialising with residents. over £5,300. Other charities supported by The team also made a charitable donation London-based employees in 2013 include the and provided essential resources such as North London Hospice, Comic Relief, Jeans soap, shampoo, toothpaste and medicines. for Genes, and the Fashion and Textiles Children’s Trust. Collectively, we raised over £13,000 for these organisations in 2013. Community and Charity 60 Product Donations Each season, our brands are left with surplus, Our relationship with Reuseful UK (formerly useable samples and stock. Donating these Scrapstores UK), a network of independent items helps extend their life, and avoids charities, has enabled us to donate a variety of them being sent to landfill as waste. waste materials for creative reuse by community organisations, schools and performing art In 2013, we celebrated our 14th year of working groups. The charities accept items ranging in partnership with In Kind Direct, a charity from clothes to furniture and office equipment, founded in 1996 by HRH The Prince of Wales point of sale and marketing materials. In 2013, that provides an efficient way for businesses to working with Reuseful UK allowed us to find donate their products to good causes. During a new home for old mannequins and other the year, working with In Kind Direct enabled fixtures and fittings during the refit of the inour surplus stock to reach 384 charities in house retail store at our London headquarters. a variety of sectors, including child/youth We also made donations of stationery, office care, disability support and family welfare. supplies and old furniture throughout the year. Both Berghaus and ellesse have also donated footwear via Africa Shoes, a social enterprise that redistributes products to local entrepreneurs for resale across Africa. This helps boost the entrepreneurs’ livelihoods, and allows local people to buy merchandise that might otherwise be unaffordable. Community and Charity 61 Surplus office furniture finds Through its Global Hand initiative, which a new home in Thailand facilitates public-private partnerships by matching donors with organisations Moving to a new office in November 2013 in need, we identified an appropriate left our team in Bangkok, Thailand with community organisation in Chiang Mai. more than 100 items of good quality They arranged to transport all the furniture furniture that did not fit into the design or to northern Thailand and redistributed layout of the new workspace – including a it to more than ten non-governmental fridge, workstation, steel safe box, and organisations and community groups. large meeting room table. We are looking to expand our collaboration Rather than throw the unwanted furniture with the Crossroads Foundation in 2014. away, we looked for opportunities to give it to organisations that could benefit from a donation. We teamed up with the Hong Kong-based Crossroads Foundation to find a suitable charity partner in Thailand. Community and Charity 62 JD’s support for charities • A donation to the charity Kids Company, which provides practical, JD works with a number of charities and emotional and educational support community organisations, and in particular to vulnerable inner city children. those with a focus on children and sport. • Sponsoring 60 children at the Udavum In 2013, JD’s support included: Karangal orphanage in Coimbatore, India, with a monetary donation as well as • Raising funds for The Christie, an t-shirts, water bottles, footballs and caps. NHS Foundation Trust that is Europe’s largest cancer centre and treats 40,000 • Sponsoring a special needs school in patients a year. JD is helping The Coimbatore that educates 27 children. Christie raise £500,000 to build the As well as providing a monetary UK’s leading cancer treatment centre donation, a team from JD’s headquarters for young people. We are now very close sent the children gifts at New Year. to reaching that target, following the JD Diamond Charity Balls in February 2013 and 2014 that were generously supported by many of our key partners. • S ponsorship for the Once Upon a Smile celebrity football team. The team plays tournaments throughout the year to raise money for the charity, which offers support to families who have suffered the loss of a child or parent from a long term or terminal illness. Community and Charity 63 No Ordinary Shoes Limited is the worldwide Licensee for footwear under licence from Ted Baker plc and No Ordinary Designer Label Limited. Airborne Footwear Limited is the UK Licensee for apparel, footwear and accessories under licence from Kickers International B.V. Pentland Chaussures Limited is the worldwide Licensee for footwear under licence from Lacoste S.A. and its associated companies. BERGHAUS and are registered trade marks of Berghaus Limited. BOXFRESH and are registered trade marks of Boxfresh International Limited. BRASHER and are registered trade marks of The Brasher Boot Company Limited. CANTERBURY and are registered trade marks of Canterbury Limited. ELLESSE and are registered trade marks of Ellesse International S.p.A. KANGAROOS and are registered trade marks of Asco Group Limited. KICKERS is a registered trade mark of and used under licence from Kickers International V.C. LACOSTE and are registered trade marks and used under licence from Lacoste S.A. and its associated companies. MITRE and are registered trade marks of Mitre Sports International Limited. PROSTAR is a registered trade mark of Prostar Sports Limited. RED OR DEAD is a registered trade mark of Red or Dead Limited. SPEEDO and are registered trade marks of Speedo Holdings B.V. TED BAKER is a registered trade mark of and used under licence by Ted Baker plc and No Ordinary Designer Label Limited. PENTLAND is a registered trade mark of Pentland Group plc. Made with care. Pentland Group plc 8 Manchester Square London W1U 3PH For further information about CR at Pentland Group, contact: corporateresponsibility@pentland.com www.pentland.com © Pentland Group plc 2014. All rights reserved.
