Resilience Amid Change Our Engagement in North Africa ABOUT THE ABRAAJ GROUP 25+ The Abraaj Group is a leading private equity investor operating in the growth markets of Africa, Latin America, the Middle East, South Asia, South East Asia, Turkey and Central Asia. offices We employ more than 300 people in over 25 offices spread across our six regional hubs in Dubai, Istanbul, Mexico City, Mumbai, Nairobi and Singapore. This local presence gives us distinctive expertise, privileged transactional access and the ability to grow 6 partner businesses across borders. hubs 300+ employees Istanbul 140+ Mexico City Dubai Mumbai partner Nairobi Singapore companies US$4.2bn returned to investors Industry-leading returns A focus on sustainability We currently manage US$ 7.5 billion* across 20+ sectorWe are committed to high standards of health and safety, and country-specific Funds, encompassing private equity labor rights, human rights, corporate governance, the (with ticket sizes of US$ 10 million to US$ 100 million) and environment, and stakeholder engagement. Sustainable real-estate (primarily yield-generating) investments. capitalism results from investors and entrepreneurs, as critical components of the economic ecosystem, taking full We have set the standard for private equity investing in responsibility for their net impact on society. As a signatory growth markets, returning c. US$ 4.2 billion to investors to the UN-backed Principles for Responsible Investment, we and providing industry-leading returns across companies work with our ParCos to build businesses which are truly that have emerged as today’s regional champions and sustainable, commercial and impactful in their economies. tomorrow’s global challengers. In 2013, our founder, Arif Naqvi, was awarded the Oslo The Funds we manage have holdings in over 140 partner Business for Peace Award, one of the highest forms of companies (ParCos). These collectively employ over 200,000 recognition given to global business leaders for fostering people worldwide. In North Africa we have invested in 16 peace and stability through creating shared values between companies equating to 10,635 employees across the region. business and society. What’s more, through our social investing program we support organizations that are focused on entrepreneurship and job creation, healthcare, education and community engagement, aiming to have a deep-rooted and sustainable impact on our economic landscape. *as of 31st December, 2012. 2 Contents Impact of Our Partner Companies 4 Strong Fundamentals, Shifting Sands 6 Our Team and Investments in North Africa 10 The Rise of the Agile Business 12 Portfolio Diversification 14 Adding Value: The Abraaj Performance Acceleration Group 15 The Abraaj Sustainability Index 16 Sustainable Capitalism 17 Case in Point: Helping Enterprises Grow 19 Entrepreneur Profile: Dr Alya El Hedda 22 Our Impact in North Africa 24 1. Supporting Mid-Market Companies in North Africa 24 2. Regional Integration and Expansion 26 Entrepreneur Profile: Dr Hend El Sherbini 27 Case Study: IDH 28 3. Supporting the Growth of Healthcare Services in North Africa 29 Africa Health Fund 30 Case Study: Steripharma 31 Stakeholder Engagement Through ASSET 32 Disclaimer 34 3 Impact of Our Partner Companies US$ 91 million Cumulative tax contribution from North African ParCos between 2008 and 2013 US$ 24 million Spend on healthcare technology by Tunisia's Unimed over the past two years 97% of ParCo staff are full-time employees 72% 3.4x ParCos: organic of ParCos are committed to exceeding the 20% Increase in foreign exchange increase in minimum wage generated by our ParCos, led revenues by the outward-facing sales strategies of Tunisia's Opalia ParCo training and development takes off Morocco 1,400 Egypt 1,200 Tunisia Annual expenditure on training (US$ thousands) 1,000 800 600 400 200 0 4 44% 36% More female business owners Abraaj ParCos Regional average 20% 17% 2 Growing the female workforce Abraaj ParCos Regional average Moroccan 44% 36% Female 37% ParCos in 2013 Male 63% 20% 17% Female 63% Tunisian Male 37% ParCos in 2013 Female 22% Egyptian Male 78% ParCos in 2013 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Female employees have increased 12% 18% 16% 17% 47% 42% as a % of the workforce 5 Strong Fundamentals, Shifting Sands Three years on, the Arab Spring and its aftermath continue to unfold across North Africa. The social, economic and political sands are shifting across our core markets of Egypt, Tunisia, Morocco and Algeria. In Egypt and Tunisia, political change is ongoing. Morocco and Algeria are managing to sidestep the turmoil through a combination of pre-emptive pro-democracy measures in the former and strong economic fundamentals that are driving government spending in the latter. Our strategy has been one of investing for long-term sustainable growth. Revenue growth has been strong, growing at 18% year-on-year. Across the portfolio, total turnover and employment reached US$ 887 million and 10,635 employees respectively in 2013. 6 ecent political for the economic growth engine to start humming developments in Egypt and deliver more than the 2% GDP growth forecast have been largely for this year1. welcomed by the vast majority of the Egyptian Our experience in North Africa has shown that a population, especially two-tiered, nuanced approach is required to invest the business community, effectively in the region. While the region shares a following the exits of number of important similarities, especially around President Morsi and the demographics, under-penetration of goods and Muslim Brotherhood. services, aspirational populations, and strong growth The military-backed potential, there are distinct attributes and challenges transitional government has subsequently put in on a country basis. The dichotomy of outcomes post place a series of much-needed economic and Arab Spring in Algeria and Morocco versus Egypt social-reform measures. Along with these reforms, and Tunisia bears testament to these nuances. a new and inclusive constitution has been voted in through a national referendum as part of the A review of our ParCos in the region shows that it is country’s continuing and evolving march towards vital to identify well-managed companies in the right democracy. Gulf economic backing of US$ 12 billion sectors, as these are the ones which, in spite of the has been key in stabilizing foreign reserves at the challenging environment, will continue to grow. For Central Bank. Currency concerns have somewhat strong businesses in defensive sectors like health, abated and the stock exchange, which is often exit opportunities exist for the right assets. Our recent viewed as a leading indicator of economic sentiment, successful exit from our Tunisian ParCo Opalia has risen by more than 10% in the year to date. Pharma attests to the viability of exits. It attracted However, a sustained period of stability is required a European strategic buyer looking beyond the 1 United Nations Economic Commission for Africa 7 headlines that was seeking exposure to the fastIn addition, the consumer story in North Africa is growing pharmaceutical sector and, more specifically, one that is becoming more inclusive, as low-income access to the region via a tested business. families are expected to see rising income levels. This creates opportunities for businesses to have multiOur strategy has been one of investing for longtiered product differentiation and to provide goods term sustainable growth. This strategy has been and services which cater to a variety of price points consistently executed and has driven the results we for defined lowand middle-income consumers. have seen. Revenue growth has been strong, growing The consumer story is complemented by an exportat 18% year-on-year. Across the portfolio, total led growth story, given the region’s geographic turnover and employment reached US$ 887 million proximity to Europe, the Middle East and Sub-Saharan and 10,635 employees respectively in 2013. Africa (SSA). There is skilled-labor availability and competitiveness that is driving exports to Europe. A common challenge faced by companies in North We are seeing trade between SSA and North Africa Africa is access to capital, especially to fund their rising rapidly, especially with the Maghreb region of rapid expansion. In some markets there is some Morocco, Algeria and Tunisia. The increasing view availability of capital from the traditional providers such that North Africa is a gateway to access the African as commercial banks and capital markets. However, continent is being borne out in the opportunities being across the region, the market penetration of alternative seen in our ParCos. sources of capital such as private equity remains low. Funding is only one of the challenges faced by Those fundamentals are collectively creating companies. Scarcity of qualified human capital, poor opportunities across various sectors such as infrastructure, and inability to effectively scale-up in educational services, healthcare service provision, neighboring markets are additional challenges they transportation, logistics, food manufacturing and face. As private equity investors, we are positioned business services, which have the potential to scaleto go beyond simple provision of capital to help up into regional platforms. We have been privileged growing businesses efficiently and effectively expand to partner with fine entrepreneurs and strong teams their operations. In doing so, we bring the collective to grow truly regional North African businesses, networks and capabilities of the whole group to bear. which themselves form part of the economies driving the fundamentals mentioned above. The collective Despite near-term challenges caused by the aftermath benefits are clear: contribution to economic growth, of the Arab Spring, the long-term outlook remains increased provision of goods and services to a local robust beneath the headlines. This is underpinned population of varying income levels, and job creation. by four strong economic fundamentals including attractive demographics, with a population of 164.5 There is a seismic shift under way in North Africa, and million people and an average age of 28 ensuring a the view forward is one where we see resilience of low dependency ratio for decades to come2. North businesses and growth, even while the social, political Africa is the richest region in Africa, with income and economic landscapes evolve. North Africa is well levels projected to continue rising and a middle class on its way to becoming a trillion dollar economy by that is expected to double in size. The region is also 20174, up from US$ 606 billion in 2012 (GDP CAGR expected to triple its consumption over the next of 8.7%). We are looking forward to this next phase decade3, fueling a pent-up demand for products of investing in companies that are well positioned to and services. contribute to and reap the benefits of this seismic shift. Despite near-term challenges caused by the aftermath of the Arab Spring, the long-term outlook 2 Economist Intelligence Unit remains robust beneath the headlines. 3 Brookings Institute 4 Economist Intelligence Unit 8 There is a seismic shift under way in North Africa, and the view forward is one where we see resilience of businesses and growth, even while the social, political and economic landscapes evolve. Strong fundamentals Over the next five years, the North African economy is expected to grow by 4.2% The region's young population will allow for the labor force to increase at 1.5x the rate in developed markets The average age in North Africa is 28, ensuring a low dependency rate for decades to come Developed economies' average age is 40, which places a disproportionate strain on scarce government finances The region is expected to triple its consumption over the next decade, fueling a pent-up demand for products and services, including: IT services Healthcare Financials Utilities Consumer staples Ahmed Badreldin Partner, Head of Middle East and North Africa (MENA) The Abraaj Group 17years' experience 9 Our Team and Investments in North Africa Tunisia Morocco Algeria Libya Egypt Regional Head Algeria Tunisia Egypt Alexandre Adel Goucha Amr Helal Hamadouche Director Managing Director Director 18 years of experience 15 years of experience 12 years of experience Amine Allam Walid Bakr Associate Director Director 5 years of experience 18 years of experience Morocco Angie Helmi Anas Guennoun Unimed Director Healthcare 16 years of experience Director 13 years of experience Investment: Apr 2011 Omar Ezz Al-Arab Ahmed Badreldin Associate Director Partner, Head of MENA Emteyco Gallus 7 years of experience 17 years of experience Utilities Consumer staples Investment: Sep 2008 Investment: Dec 2009 Regional Value Creation & ECCO Exit: Jan 2014 Information Execution Resources Moulin d’Or technology Saham Finance Consumer staples Investment: Apr 2013 Financials Investment: Nov 2012 Investment: Jun 2012 IDH Opalia (Previously Al Borg) Oksa Healthcare Healthcare Utilities Investment: Apr 2009 Investment: May 2008 Investment: Jan 2009 Exit: Oct 2013 OMS Steripharma PEC Information Healthcare Consumer technology Investment: Jul 2013 discretionary Investment: Apr 2013 Investment: Jul 2012 Tarek Kabil Partner (Abraaj Performance Acceleration Group) 33 years of experience Hisham Moussa Director 13 years of experience Smiyet Belrhiti Associate Director 11 years of experience 10 16 investments 13 on-the-ground investment professionals, all local to their markets and bringing deep access and connectivity 6 nationalities, speaking the 3 languages prevalent in the region Additional value creation and execution resources at the regional level 11 The Rise of the Agile Business orth Africa is a region have seen their economic growth accelerating and with more than 164.5 unemployment rates falling over the past two years. million inhabitants and On the other hand, ailing domestic consumption in a total workforce of Egypt and Tunisia as they progress through their over 60 million. Sitting political transitions took its toll on their economic between Europe to the growth trajectory, foreign reserve levels and new job north and Sub-Saharan creation. Despite multi-billion-dollar aid packages, Africa to the south, its both the Egyptian pound and the Tunisian dinar have growing multi-linguistic, depreciated by more than 15% since 2011. skilled workforce is uniquely positioned to As a result, we are seeing opportunities in exportserve both markets, benefiting from the lower cost oriented businesses, benefiting from differential cost of labor versus Europe and a higher productivity advantages versus trade partners and the gradual than neighboring African countries, a trend that is recovery in European economies. Our plasticssupported by a number of economic zones and molding business in Tunisia, PEC, is one example of bilateral free-trade agreements within the region a business that benefited significantly from this trend. and with the rest of the world. In 2012, the region's A shift in consumption towards lower-cost substitutes exports crossed the US$ 200 billion mark, over 60% is also benefiting market participants with efficient of which found its way to Europe5. production and distribution processes. Moulin d’Or, our cake-manufacturing business in Tunisia catering Similarities between the four core countries in North to the needs of lowand middle-income groups, Africa are obvious: a well-educated young population managed to increase its market share by 10% speaking the same language, aspiring to move up between 2010 and 2012. Defensive sectors such as the income ladder and demanding their rights for FMCG, healthcare and education continue to benefit economic and political democracy. A large pent-up from the demographic dividend within the region, demand compared with other markets with similar as evidenced by the average 15% annual growth in income levels, and growing disposable income, revenue seen across our five healthcare investments are expected to drive the region’s gross domestic across North Africa in 2012. production to cross the trillion dollar mark by 20176. The middle class is expected to double in size and Beyond the macroeconomic opportunity, a number triple its consumption over the next decade7. of micro drivers are in play. The political transition created an inevitable drive towards institutionalization But differences cannot be ignored. The economies of medium and large businesses. The need for of the four countries have reacted differently to professional, highly qualified management teams the aftermath of the Arab Spring. Resource-rich is now recognized more than ever. Family Algeria has been directing a larger portion of its businesses, wanting to ensure the sustainability sustained high oil revenues inwards, while the of their operations, are seeking partnerships with Moroccan government has continued to push for institutional investors who can provide more than better quality, and more affordable social services, capital. Ability to accelerate their growth agenda, directed at the mass population. Both countries access to talented management pool, and driving As the region gradually emerges out of its historic transition, we see well-managed, more agile, medium5 Trade Map sized businesses emerging as clear winners. 6 Economist Intelligence Unit 7 Brookings Institute 12 good governance practices are a few examples of what business promoters are seeking from their partners, such as ourselves. The recent slowdown in consumption has also accelerated the need to explore alternative growth avenues. We are seeing a number of well-run businesses with healthy cashflows stepping up their efforts to expand into neighboring countries, either organically or through acquisitions, seeking further growth and risk diversification beyond their domestic markets. Across our ParCos, we saw Saham Finances, IDH and Opalia successfully expanding their share of revenue generated from outside markets. Expanding product portfolio is at the top of the agenda for all growth-oriented businesses and extracting operational improvement and scale efficiencies is taking a front seat in driving profitability growth. We spend a lot of our time here at Abraaj working closely with our existing and potential ParCos to identify these valuecreation levers and guide them through the execution phase. As the region gradually emerges out of its historic transition, we see well-managed, more agile, medium-sized businesses emerging as clear winners. These companies will present themselves as a natural entry point for global strategic players as they attempt to expand into African and Middle Eastern markets. Tarek Kabil Partner The Abraaj Group 33 years' experience 13 Portfolio Diversification Abraaj Investments in North Africa by country 33% Tunisia 27% Morocco 40% Egypt 7% 7% Investment in North 27% Africa by sector 7% Healthcare Information technology Utilities Financials Consumer staples 20% Consumer discretionary 13% Materials Industrials 6% 13% 14 Adding Value: The Abraaj Performance Acceleration Group W e believe resilient, The APAG mandate covers the following: long-term financial value can be > Support deal teams and ParCos with strategic and attained not only operational best practices and tools, through the central through governance APAG team (comprised of functional/sector experts), and reduced centers of excellence and regional deployment models environmental (i.e. local APAG resources on the ground in each region) impact, but also > Explicit involvement in the due diligence process, with through positive a focus on the strategic commercial operational (SCO) social change and inclusive business models. We have and ESG due diligence embedded our values into the business principles > Help assess target ParCo management’s strategic, upheld within the Group, and look to partner with competitive and commercial capabilities, including owners of businesses that share our values. areas around unforeseen or disruptive business risks and identification of strategic or synergistic value-add Abraaj has in-house operational value-creation from the wider Abraaj network capabilities that we believe are a true differentiator in > Build, ensure alignment on, and roll-out of the VCP the markets where the Firm invests. The Group insists and 100-Day Plan with operating KPIs to take the on the ability to drive the growth agenda of each business to its full potential business in which it invests. An emphasis on strategic > Participation in VCP and 100-Day planning and operational value-addition pervades the Group’s workshops investment approach, from due diligence to exit. > Selective resource deployment through the APAG direct-engagement model with ParCos on key strategic Abraaj’s dedicated operational resources form a part and operating initiatives, in partnership with deal teams of APAG, the dedicated portfolio-management team, > Leading the ParCo Review Committee process at which works alongside the investment teams who retain global and regional level ultimate responsibility for the investments they manage. > Board-level engagement through the well-defined APAG resources are based regionally in the Group’s Abraaj ParCo Governance Framework six hubs with centers of excellence in key areas such > Global and regional ParCo capacity-building through as marketing and ESG. Every investment involves a workshops and other skills-building programs, overseen and channeled through APAG, other than individual company-specific efforts > Synergy extraction through the PRC process and You cannot separate ESG from value creation through content and collaboration tools developed by in North African high-growth markets. It is not ESG is firmly embedded throughout the Group’s discretionary, rather it is integral to the longinvestment process from deal identification to active term sustainability of the private sector as it portfolio management to exit. contributes to the development of economies. Wahid Hamid, Partner We believe that through our sustainable investment strategy we preserve long-term shareholder value by detailed Value Creation Plan (VCP) whose execution is balancing rigorous financial analysis with ESG bestmonitored by a Portfolio Review Committee (PRC) that practices. The Group’s investment and operational staff meets quarterly. receive annual ESG training to ensure that the entire Group has a strong foundation of ESG practices. APAG is at the heart of Abraaj’s value-creation thesis, and its involvement is an embedded part of the APAG in partnership with the deal teams and ParCos investment process. APAG is formally involved in the continue to commercially apply ESG tools to preserve investment process from the moment the transaction is and create long-term value. Attribution analysis identified to the point of exit, applying tools, processes, conducted by the IFC shows that due consideration of benchmarks and its internal and external expertise. ESG can positively impact returns by as much as 13%. 15 The Abraaj Sustainability Index W e work in maintain high sustainability standards across multiple partnership with sectors and geographies allows for a rapid and the businesses in consistent spread of best practice. which we invest to realize mutual To accomplish ESG at scale, we have over time and inextricably developed and refined ESG tools that reflect valuelinked goals of enhancement principles aimed at creating tangible being commercially outputs in our ParCos that ultimately strengthen successful and the value of the investment. We further embed sustainable. sustainability in the heart of our own business – and have done so since inception – thereby making the We seek to transform our ParCos in MENA into practice of ESG formally a part of each deal team. inclusive businesses. These businesses function with sound corporate governance, uphold the international Measuring sustainability impact is not simple and labor convention, train and incentivize employees and measures are not always immediate or visible. are cognizant of global environmental challenges. To ensure that we can effectively track the sustainability progress in our ParCos, we work with The management teams realize the very real our bespoke proprietary development index, the implications of these challenges to their businesses. Abraaj Sustainability Index (ASI), to measure over 70 And there are many of our ParCos who seek to go quantitative and qualitative indicators. further, turning these challenges into opportunities through value creation. Such businesses we find yield The Abraaj Sustainability Index (ASI) allows us to direct benefits to their economies and give rise to capture the sustainability impact in our ParCos. It positive externalities. gives us the discipline to manage our engagement with them, firstly by benchmarking them to themselves Most of our ParCos, through our efforts and impetus, and secondly by seeing how they perform over time have integrated ESG decisions into their businesses. as compared with their sector peers elsewhere. They have done so through inclusive supply chains, inviting labor unions to set up offices on their This has been a unique approach in our industry, premises, and engaging in collective procurement where there is a strong practice of rigorous financial negotiations with formal and informal stakeholders. valuation but not much by way of looking at valuing sustainability. The ASI has aided us by giving us Private sector engagement a framework with which to help our ParCos and As a member of the private sector, we actively monitor their success. It further demonstrates our participate in the dialogue around sustainability. We dedication to the space and our ability to truly add a hold a unique position as a Group, with a long history multi-dimensional positive impact to growth-market of investing in over 200 businesses in highly diverse businesses. growth markets. Our perspective on sustainability is informed by this depth of investing experience Since inception, we have focused on consistency of when we participate as members of the Principles approach to embed core values in our business and for Responsible Investment (PRI) Private Equity in our ParCos. Justly so, our focus on ESG as being Committee, on the Global Impact Investing Network’s value accretive has been a guiding framework since Investors’ Council, on the United Nations Global inception and we will continue to identify and develop Compact Board, and as a Strategic Partner of the new quantifiable ESG value-added opportunities with World Economic Forum. our ParCos going forward. The private sector is essential to the development of sustainable economies and capable of generating outputs to sustain the needs and potential of a rapidly growing population. In this ecosystem, our ability to 16 Sustainable Capitalism A s a private equity firm, the Furthermore, the taxes of the growing businesses’ Abraaj Group is well placed create economic linkages that can benefit the country to play a key role in North through public expenditure. Since 2008, the taxes Africa by: paid by the North African ParCos have increased by over 8x to reach US$ 32.07 million from the 2008 1. Helping Enterprises level of US$ 3.42 million. The growing businesses also Grow create economic linkages through their expenditures We have observed a on local services and utilities. In 2013 our 12 ParCos number of important increased their expenditures on local services and similarities in North Africa, especially around utilities from US$ 1.13 million to US$ 15.09 million, demographics, under-penetration of goods and with Gallus increasing its expenditure by over services, aspirational populations, and strong growth US$ 2 million. potential. There are, however, distinct attributes and challenges on a country-by-country basis. There is 2. Increasing Employment room for small and mid-cap businesses to navigate Employment continues to be a concern for North through national and regional matters in order to Africa, with its high and fluctuating unemployment commercially grow while meeting a market need. figures that fell from 13.2% in 2000 to 8.9% in 2010 before increasing to 10% in 2012. In particular, A closer look at our North African ParCos paints a women and youth face consistently higher strong picture. For example, the total turnover for our unemployment compared with adult males. The North African portfolio has increased 3.4x since our International Labor Organization calculated that, in first investment in 2008 to US$ 887 million in 2013. 2012, male youth were faced with an unemployment Exit opportunities remain a challenge, however, good rate of 18.5%, 3x the male adult rate of 5.7%. exits can be achieved for the right assets as such as Similarly, while adult women faced an unemployment ANAF I’s recent exit of the Tunisian pharmaceutical rate of 11.7%, more than twice that of adult males, company Opalia to Milan-listed international female youth faced a staggering 37%8 (6x more than pharmaceutical group Recordati S.p.A. (Recordati). the adult male unemployment rate)9. During the Abraaj holding of the business, sales increased 2.5x with expansion into the region, while Within this context, the Group’s North African ParCos increasing its portfolio of affordable generic drugs have created over 8,000 jobs through organic growth. available. At the time of investment, the business Our regional impact through employment has grown employed 233 staff (of which 64% were women) and, 4x over the past six years from 2,066 (2008) to 10,635 at exit, the business employed 370 people (of which (2013) jobs, as we made investments and grew the 60% were women), having created 137 new jobs (a ParCos. More impressively, the number of women 59% uplift). The founder and entrepreneur Alya El hired by our ParCos has increased from 12% of the Hedda was a pioneer in the Tunisian market, and she workforce (2008: 248 women/two ParCos) to 42% of has remained CEO of the business following the exit. the workforce (2013: 4,483 women/12 ParCos). Of the new jobs created, 33% have been filled by women. Job creation in larger companies tends to be greater than in more rapidly growing small to mid-cap businesses, as stated by the IFC in 2013. The Abraaj Group recognizes the need to finance and grow the mid-cap businesses of today into the large companies that can significantly impact job creation. The economic ecosystem in the growth markets of North Africa need both the diversity of enterprise and the scale of businesses 8 African Development Bank Group to build resilience and accommodate the youthful 9 Economist Intelligence Unit, Abraaj Analysis demographics of the region. 17 3. Improving Corporate Governance Opalia A significant impact achieved by investing in small > Improved financial and ESG reporting by and mid-cap businesses through our investments In establishing monthly reporting done through the North Africa has been the enhancement of corporate Abraaj online reporting platform governance in these businesses. Given the rapid growth many of these businesses are experiencing, > Improved the quality of information available to the establishment of corporate governance structures the Board by developing a comprehensive Board is vital to their sustainability. ParCo achievements to pack containing financial, strategic, operational and date include: HR information ECCO > Working with the management team, over time > Improved the structure of the Board to create an improved the quality of information sent on a timely empowered Board of Directors, backed up by an fashion to Board members ahead of Board meetings authority matrix, with quarterly Board meetings to approve key action items and assess operational and > Improved the effectiveness of the Board, which financial performance started making capital budgeting decisions and evaluating every investment project, whereas such > Established a risk committee reporting directly to decisions were made by management in the past with the Board a passive Board. > Developed a template for monthly financial and KPI OMS reporting to shareholders and the Board. > Established a remuneration committee that meets on an annual basis in order to determine salary Unimed increases/bonuses for current employees and budget > Introduced for the first time non-family directors to for new employees the Board and increased frequency of Board meetings > Developed C-level management (COO, Head > Appointed Big Four accounting firm as an auditor of Sales) in order to move from an owner-led organization to a more institutionalized company. > Improved financial and ESG reporting by establishing monthly reporting done through the Abraaj online reporting platform > Improved the quality of information available to the Board by developing a comprehensive Board pack containing financial, strategic, operational and HR information > Working with the management team, over time improved the quality of information sent on a timely fashion to Board members ahead of Board meetings > Developed an employee stock ownership plan for senior management (some of which are not shareholders) in order to align their interest to the long-term success of the business. 18 Amid this turbulent landscape, the most important component, for whom this very technology exists, and for whom OMS works for – the people or 'peopleware', came to the forefront. At no other time in recent history has the human side of technology been so accentuated. Ahmed Kabeel CEO, OMS Case in Point: Helping Enterprises Grow ECCO with its BPO operations know-how, platform, Creating Synergies in an and infrastructure, and OMS with its deep IT expertise, Egyptian Partnership knowledge, and references. Abraaj introduced the two companies to each other and facilitated a dialog in mid2013. The respective CEOs immediately realized they had ECCO is a leading Egyptian call-center outsourcing a long-term strategic alignment and several immediate and business process outsourcing (BPO) services opportunities to work together. company. OMS, founded in 2002, is a regional IT consulting and services company also based in Egypt. As a result, OMS is currently working on an offshore Both companies have received investment from North outsourcing proposal with a global software firm that Africa. When Abraaj first came into contact with OMS, will see the development of an Egyptian on-shore the company was seeking to empower its IT solutions ITO excellence center supporting global clients; this value proposition through moving up the value chain center will be staffed by OMS staff, hosted on ECCO’s and expanding into the IT outsourcing (ITO) segment. platform and state-of-the-art facilities and supported One of Abraaj’s value-creation strategies is to leverage by ECCO’s operations team. ECCO is developing its its expansive and wide regional and global portfolio to ITO propositions in Saudi Arabia and other markets, drive value through synergies and collaboration among including its existing client base, and capitalizing on the ParCos. The Group recognized how it could facilitate OMS’s expertise as a technology partner to support collaboration between OMS and ECCO as OMS’s the delivery in its domain of expertise (including IT strategy was aligned with ECCO’s, which was seeking infrastructure, cloud computing). to augment its value proposition through the introduction of an array of IT services. Further, the companies have started exploring crossselling/sales-support opportunities. While still in its early In addition to the obvious synergies of both companies’ stages, the collaboration is helping endorse the respective growth trajectories, Abraaj recognized the value companies’ complementary commercial propositions in capitalizing on the respective strengths of each and have allowed two companies to transcend limitations organization to deliver on the proposed strategy – posed by their size as small and mid-cap businesses. 19 15.5% 4. Bridging the Gender Gap Bridging the gender gap is smart economics. We believe that the empowerment of women is good for businesses and can advance innovation, create positive consumer recognition for ParCos and increase productivity. Females in the full-time workforce (regional average) 42% The region’s female unemployment rate is 36%10, twice the male unemployment rate. According to the United Nations, the share of women employed outside of agriculture has increased to 40% globally, but to only 20% in North Africa11. Further, only 17%12 of the firms in North Africa (and the Middle East) are owned by women, compared with a global average of 35%13. Females in the full-time workforce in And yet the CEO of Integrated Diagnostics Holdings Abraaj's North Africa Portfolio (IDH) is female, as is the founder of Opalia, the Tunisian pharmaceutical ParCo that we successfully exited to According to another study by Booz & Co, the Italian pharmaceutical firm Recordati in 2013. achievement of equal male and female economic participation in Egypt would boost the country’s As of 2012, the percentage of females aged between GDP growth by as much as 34%. 18 and 64 years who are either nascent entrepreneurs or owner-managers of new businesses in North Africa Female-owned firms also have a larger share in stood at as low as 3.6%14. The low number will likely the total number of firms exporting to other countries, grow in the near future led by the combined efforts of signifying higher growth associated with firms owned various private players, the national governments, and by women. For example, in Egypt, more than 30% external agencies. of the total female-owned firms engage in exports, compared with only 20% of male-owned firms. Our strong beliefs, combined with our consistent Similar trends can be observed in Morocco, where efforts to tap the vast potential held by North Africa’s 65%of the total female-owned firms export their substantial female population of 81 million15, have products/services, compared with 50% of the total translated into remarkable outcomes. By investing male-owned firms16. in female owned and managed businesses such as Opalia and IDH, we have been able to help women While policy-makers, governments, and donors have gain access to capital, networks and expertise that paid much attention to promoting female entrepreneurs has ultimately strengthened the fundamentals of in the region, little has been done by the private their companies. sector. However, over the past decade, the region has achieved substantial success in gender gap reduction The benefits of integrating women into the economic in the education sector: the gender gap in the literacy sphere are well established. Reiterating this idea, rate for the 15–24 age-group population declined a recent study by the World Bank on women from 12% in 2000 to 7% in 201117. This decline has entrepreneurs in MENA revealed that femaleenabled the government as well as the private sector owned businesses in the region are fast growing, to promote frameworks and policies that would allow technologically savvy and as connected to global them to increase the overall entrepreneurial activity. markets as male-owned companies. The study further revealed that female-owned businesses, on average, created more jobs than male-owned businesses and World Bank Database 10 11 United Nations employed a higher share of skilled, professional and 12-13 World Bank female employees in managerial positions. GEM Consortium 14 15 World Bank Database 16 World Bank 17 World Bank Database 20 Cairo, Egypt 21 Entrepreneur Profile: Dr Alya El Hedda palia Pharma (Opalia) is a department to develop new drugs for registration. Tunisian pharmaceutical During the 2000s, she focused on maturing the company started in 1988 by company and increasing Opalia’s generic drug a remarkable entrepreneur, production. By 2007, she had consolidated the local Dr Alya El Hedda. position of Opalia through the expansion of its drug offerings, which had exceeded 150, and a new stateDr El Hedda has always had of-the-art facility 40 minutes outside Tunis. Following a passion for healthcare, the opening of the new facility, Opalia has been and this placed her on the experiencing double-digit growth, making it one of the path to receiving a PhD in top-three generic producers in Tunisia. Pharmacy with a concentration in industrial pharmacy from the University of Chatenay-Malabry in France. In 2009, Dr El Hedda realized she would need a growth Upon completion of her degree, she returned to Tunisia partner in order to become a regional player. Abraaj, to join the Central Pharmaceutical Department within which had monitored Opalia’s rapid expansion and the Ministry of Health. has a record of encouraging the empowerment of women, seized the opportunity to support a thriving There, she saw first-hand the significant unmet pharmaceutical company with a woman at the helm. medicinal needs of the Tunisian people, given their lack of access to affordable medicines. During the Working together, Opalia’s footprint across deregulation of the pharmaceutical sector in the 1980s, Francophone Africa has expanded to include 10 Dr El Hedda identified an opportunity in the market. countries with nearly the equal number of registered However, as a young entrepreneur she was faced drugs in these countries as in Tunisia. While doing with numerous challenges, ranging from prejudices to this, Dr El Hedda has also placed an emphasis on barriers to accessing financing – despite the increasing empowering women and, as a result, 60% of Opalia’s governmental support for the production of generic staff is female. drugs to bolster the underserved pharmaceutical market in Tunisia. Through Dr El Hedda’s skilful management, this ethical business has been and continues to be profitable, Despite these challenges, in 1988 she founded with those on low incomes now able to access quality Opalia Pharma with the help of Italian entrepreneur medication at an affordable price, from Libya to the Marco Montanari. Atlantic. In order for the company to continue growing over the next 20 years and become a strategic The growth of Opalia international player, Abraaj exited Opalia through a Dr El Hedda has grown Opalia diligently in stages sale to Milan-based Recordati, with Dr El Hedda over the past two decades. In the 1990s, she focused staying on as CEO. on nurturing Opalia’s research and development Opalia's portfolio of pharmaceutical products grew in line with its 1.5x increase in market authorizations 111 1.5x 170 2008 2013 22 Despite recession, political unrest, and general uncertainty, we stayed focused and saw these obstacles as an opportunity. It was an opportunity to reassess our future and not lose our singular focus on the only thing that matters – the people – be they our customers, our community, fellow citizens, partners, investors or our team. Dr Alya El Hedda CEO, Opalia Pharma 23 Our Impact in North Africa W e are long-term the development of skilled and semi-skilled workers. investors in North At the same time, MMEs foster inclusive growth Africa, having by reducing economic inequality and income invested in the gaps through: region for more than a decade. With > Their innovative and adaptive business models which locally embedded make them more flexible and responsive to changing teams in four offices market demand and supply conditions. In addition, across the region, these firms are quicker in delivering services locally, we have deployed more than US$ 1.8 billion to 16 which saves on costs and makes them more efficient companies in sectors as diverse as healthcare, retail, utilities and consumer goods. Moreover, through a > Their knowledge of local markets, which has proven robust value-creation process that has been executed to be extremely valuable for bigger corporations trying by our investment and operating professionals, we to enter new markets which have either established have focused on achieving long-term and sustainable joint ventures or entered into mergers and acquisitions impact in the markets and communities in which we with these local firms to leverage their knowledge are present. In the case of North Africa, this has been demonstrated through our support of mid-market > Their ability to create more equitable income companies, facilitating the growth of local businesses distribution; evidence suggests that economies with into regional champions, and creating the infrastructure higher income per capita tend to have high micro, for healthcare services to thrive in an environment that small and medium enterprise (MSME) density19. focuses on high-quality, relentless delivery and broad levels of accessibility. For example, MMEs in Morocco account for approximately 50% of private sector employment and 1. Supporting Mid-Market Companies in while accounting for 4% of total employment across North Africa the North African region. The majority of enterprises Mid-market enterprises (MMEs) play an important role in North Africa are MSMEs, which are estimated to within any economy, as they contribute significantly be 19–23 million (formal and informal) in number and to GDP and employment generation – especially comprise 80–90% of all private enterprises in most in growth markets. The contribution of MMEs countries, employing more than 4.8 million of the total to economic growth intersects with a broader population in North Africa20. social change, making it an indispensable tool for development in emerging markets such as North However, despite the widespread acceptance of the Africa. According to a World Bank study, formal view that these enterprises are critical to economic MMEs with small enterprises contribute up to development, North African countries remain among 45% of employment and up to 33% of GDP in the least effective at cultivating a MME-friendly developing economies18. business environment: MMEs often create economic benefits by associating > Access to finance is one of the main challenges with and assisting larger firms, by catering to niche faced by these enterprises across the globe, and markets and by building productive capacity through particularly in North Africa, where nearly 36% of MMEs At The Abraaj Group, we believe that three barriers are faced by entrepreneurs: access to talent, formalized and specialized best practices and access to markets. 18-20 IFC 24 25 identified access to finance as a major constraint, and economic diversification. The Abraaj Group is according to the World Bank Enterprise Survey not merely a supporter of entrepreneurialism; its professionals think and act like entrepreneurs first > There is variation in credit/loan uptake across and foremost, having experienced the highs and countries within North Africa; for example, the lows of growing businesses. We focus on long-term, percentage of firms with a bank loan/line of credit in sustained growth investment opportunities that Algeria is as high as 44%, while in Egypt it stands at can have a substantial socioeconomic impact on a nearly 14%21 region’s economy. Abraaj’s investment professionals adopt a pragmatic approach to building the capacity > As well as limited access to finance, MMEs face required to scale up the operations of an MME, which several other barriers to growth, such as unfavorable they combine with a local understanding of industries, regulatory environments, a lack of business markets and cultural dynamics acquired through management skills and market linkages needed to their local presence in each of the markets where grow and succeed. they are present. The significance of MMEs in the North African 2. Regional Integration and Expansion region should not be minimized, especially given the Regional integration is still in its infancy in North serious socio-economic challenges faced by the Africa. With intra-regional trade accounting for less region, such as high population growth, poverty, a than 4% of total trade, the region is one of the least high unemployment rate and a decline in the public economically integrated in the world, and below sector’s capacity as a viable employer. According the average of other parts of the continent. Political to World Bank data, unemployment in North Africa differences, diversity in economic performance, stood at 10.3% in 2010 – twice the global average and overlapping trade agreements have hindered of 5.9%22. Globally, there is a growing realization that regional integration efforts. According to the African the flaws of the existing system must be addressed Development Bank (AfDB), greater regional integration to help entrepreneurship and these MMEs to flourish, would add more than 2% to annual GDP growth. and countries within the North African region are exploring ways to address these challenges. Historically, integration among North African countries has been limited by opposing political ideologies Private players, especially private equity investors, are combined with strong bilateral interests in integrating in a position to play a critical role by deploying patient with Europe and, more recently, a drive towards SSA. capital, and therefore to assist MMEs in overcoming North Africa’s exports to Europe (the largest trading significant barriers and helping them mature. Private partner for North African countries) and SSA are 61% equity firms can deploy growth capital and work and 2% of the total exports respectively. While coming with partner companies to help them develop into from a low base, North African exports to SSA have enduring regional businesses that achieve high increased by 23% CAGR in the past decade to returns while positively impacting local communities, US$ 4.1 billion, with Egyptian exports growing employees and their various stakeholders. particularly rapidly at 49% annually23. At Abraaj, we believe that the MME sector provides Moreover, intra-regional trade is increasing between an opportunity to create successful entrepreneurial specific countries. For example, exports between businesses that can fuel innovation, job creation Tunisia and Algeria grew at an annual rate of 20% 26 Entrepreneur Profile: Dr Hend El Sherbini and at 35% between Egypt and Libya during the past decade. Businesses in North Africa – particularly in Egypt and Morocco – are well poised for regional expansion into SSA. The Abraaj Group has invested in a number of businesses undertaking such expansion. The trend of continued regional integration is expected to continue. Most recently, Egypt, Morocco, and Tunisia have signed agreements under the European Neighborhood Policy that include the adoption of international (EU-compatible) standards in many areas. The progressive adoption by individual countries of EU regulations, if extended to all countries in the region, will lead to the harmonization of rules across the North African countries, which would create increased opportunities for deeper economic integration. Free trade areas in the region will increase the opportunities for cross-border expansion. Dr El Sherbini brought together the initial At Abraaj we believe that market forces operating IDH team, with the merger representing through the private sector will continue to play an a milestone in the development of the important role in driving increased integration in the regional healthcare sector. As a result of region. We are increasingly seeing foreign companies the merger, IDH was positioned to realize using North Africa as a base for further expansion. its vision to become one of the largest Central to the Group’s investment strategy in North pure growth market diagnostic groups. Africa is to partner with mid-sized businesses with proven business models and the ability to grow into Dr El Sherbini was formerly President regional platforms. In particular, those that have the and CEO of Al Mokhtabar Medical capability to create value through a combination of Laboratories, a privately held medical organic expansion, add-on acquisitions, strategic tests and diagnostic company working repositioning and consolidation strategies, therefore to improve patient care by providing becoming regional champions. Evidence of this rapid and reliable point-of-care medical strategy in action can be seen in The Abraaj Group’s test information. Under her leadership, Al experience with ParCos in the region. Mokhtabar evolved into one of the most respected laboratory chains in the region, with a presence in Egypt, Sudan and Saudi Arabia. By leveraging our combined resources and specialist capabilities, we have created the largest medical diagnostics firm in the Middle East and South Asia. Together, we will continue to provide international best-practice services, invest in innovation and focus 21 World Bank Enterprise Survey on meeting the needs of all the 22 World Bank Database communities that we serve. 23 Trade Map 27 Case study: IDH Summary than three laboratory tests per capita were performed Integrated Diagnostics Holdings Limited (IDH) was annually in Egypt in 2008, well below the prevailing created in 2008 following Abraaj’s acquisition of Al Borg rates in peer states. The figure for most developed Laboratories (Al Borg) in a public tender offer on the nations was in the double digits. The burden of Egyptian Stock Exchange. Al Borg was established lifestyle diseases was expected to grow in Egypt, in 1991 by a group of doctors who sought to build where the prevalence of viral hepatitis B and C was a modern, unified network of medical diagnostic already high. At the time of Al Borg’s founding, most laboratories and bring Egypt’s chronically fragmented companies were single-lab operations and many healthcare network up to par with its regional peers. It doctors were still performing tests manually in their is currently one of the largest private medical laboratory own facilities. Al Borg became one of very few wellchains in North Africa with a 25% share of the Egyptian organized diagnostic laborat ory chains in Egypt, with private laboratory testing market. Al Borg was the first 63 laboratories nationwide, international certifications Egyptian laboratory to receive international accreditation and was the first company in the region to adopt the from the Swedish Board for Accreditation and innovative hub-and-spoke model. As the Egyptian Conformity Assessment (SWEDAC). market leader, it had clear potential to evolve into a regional powerhouse. The IDH story IDH illustrates the role Abraaj has played in taking a In July 2012, Al Borg merged with Al Mokhtabar dominant local player and creating a regional champion Medical Laboratories, to create IDH. Abraaj guided the in North Africa. The Al Borg investment was part of company through this delicate merger with its leading Abraaj’s efforts to move into the MENASA region’s Egyptian competitor. healthcare sector, which the firm expected to remain in a secular growth trend, particularly in Egypt – a nation When the merger was completed, IDH operated of 80 million people. Abraaj’s research revealed that less seven brands, 232 branches and four central labs. The company has achieved continuous growth by 3,275 adopting an organized, international-style approach to lab diagnostics, with a focus on automation, quality control and the hub-and-spoke business model, that enables them to benefit from economies of scale, thus reducing costs for clients and, ultimately, patients. 263 Employees (2013) Branches (2013) IMS Institute for Healthcare Informatics 24-25 IDH: NUMBER OF BRANCHES SINCE ACQUISITION 60 2008 263 2013 28 3. Supporting the Growth of Healthcare Services Abraaj has looked to also address the issue of in North Africa medication. Generic drugs are one way in which these Healthcare is a critical service and the changing needs can be addressed. In Morocco, patented drugs healthcare landscape of North Africa has created an cost locals significantly more than in Tunisia with ever-widening gap between availability of services and even France reports patent drug prices 70% lower medications and the accessibility and affordability of than Morocco’s25. Despite these prices, the growing them over recent years. middle class is expected to fund the growth in drug spending. Generic drugs, which use the same active In North Africa, the demographic transition from pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs) as patented drugs, youth to middle age has started the transformation of are cheaper versions that are equally effective. These healthcare costs. During the youth bulge, healthcare drugs have the ability to reach substantially more costs were kept down; however, as the young get patients as a result of its cheaper price. older, they are faced with lifestyle diseases, such as obesity and diabetics, which increases their health Furthermore, these pharmaceutical companies have risk factors. These increases in lifestyle diseases the opportunity to not only benefit North Africans, but predispose them to chronic diseases that will likely Sub-Saharan Africans as well. The pharmaceutical manifest as they approach their middle age, sending spending in Africa is expected to reach US$ 30 billion the demand for healthcare and its related costs by 2016, driven by a CAGR of 10.6% according shooting skywards. Between 2002 and 2011, Algeria to a report by IMS Health. Similar to North Africa, alone has seen its chronic to essential medicine ratio demographic changes, increased wealth and rising increase by 72%24. demand for drugs to treat chronic diseases are expected to support this increase in demand as a Additionally, rapid increases in healthcare spending result of a double disease burden. However, the SSA are anticipated in the medium term as a result of healthcare networks are currently ill-equipped to these chronic diseases. Despite the availability of handle these rising burdens. nominal subsidization of healthcare by governments, most patients pay out-of-pocket for services and Over the years, Abraaj’s belief in the potential of medication, which accounts for more than half of total pharmaceutical companies to produce commercial health spending by households. With the government returns while providing a social good has resulted in focused on budgets rather than incentivizing the Group adding two pharmaceutical companies to government-owned healthcare services, there is little its portfolio. The latest of this, with established intrainducement for them to improve quality or productivity. African trade, is Steripharma. As the countries within this region race towards non-communicable diseases and injury-related care needs, they will see their overall disease burden rise. Therefore, there exists a growing role for the private sector, within the healthcare sphere, which through increased productivity can provide quality goods and services at affordable prices. The Abraaj Group believes that the widening gap between supply and demand of services and medication in North Africa provides us with a unique and solid commercial opportunity to positively impact the quality of life of hundreds of thousands of individuals through employment and consumption. As a result, following the closing of its Infrastructure & Growth Capital Fund in 2007, Abraaj started actively seeking healthcare companies to add to its portfolio. 29 Africa Health Fund B acked by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation and the IFC, the Africa Health Fund (AHF) has a unique mandate: to invest in healthcare businesses across Africa with a view to improving and increasing access to the economically disadvantaged, reflecting the belief that a commercially driven investment fund could drive sustainable improvement in healthcare in one of the most impoverished regions of the world. To date, the AHF has deployed approximately US$ 30 million in nine transactions in SSA and North Africa. 30 Case Study: Steripharma Summary Steripharama’s focus on providing Headquartered in Casablanca, Steripharma affordable pharmaceuticals to the masses, is a manufacturer of pharmaceutical products has translated into 52% of its end-users and was created in 1999 following the coming from the bottom-of-the-pyramid acquisition of Pharmadent. (BoP) segment. This segment, which mainly depends on informal or subsistence Over the past decade, Steripharma has livelihood, is usually faced with a BoP penalty used the knowledge it has acquired working of higher prices for basics goods and service. with international companies to develop its Steripharma provides quality drugs without own generics to meet local unmet demand. charging a BoP premium for providing It has also sought to competitively price its much-needed drugs to a frequently products to be more accessible without overlooked market. compromising on quality – two of the key mandates of the AHF. Steripharma has A consistent theme throughout Africa is the been able to do this through its state-ofunavailability of quality healthcare goods the-art facilities and its production process, and services at accessible price points, which complies with Moroccan standards says Shakir Merali, Managing Director at and aligns with the European Good The Abraaj Group. This deficit presents Manufacturing Process. an opportunity to invest in solid companies to build scale, increase affordability and The Steripharma story achieve world-class quality. By doing so, a Steripharma is a young company with a high wide community of consumers touched by growth potential due to the expected growth these products or services benefits, while of medical expenses as a result of the aging robust commercial returns ensure that these population in the region. businesses remain sustainable and attractive Over the past few years, Steripharma has as investment opportunities in the long term. been increasing its share of the Moroccan The alignment of Steripharma’s BoP focus pharmaceutical market over, while pursuing with the AHF, its management alignment a balanced business model built with a with Abraaj and its well-developed and unique and diversified portfolio of drugs strategic plan to expand operations to and customers. It outpaced 11 other capture increased tender made this an ideal pharmaceutical companies between 2007 investment opportunity for Abraaj. and 2010 with one of the highest turnover growth rates in the sector, with a CAGR of 21% for this period. A consistent theme throughout Africa is the unavailability of quality healthcare goods and services at accessible price points. This deficit presents an opportunity to invest in solid companies to build scale, increase affordability and achieve world-class quality. By doing so, a wide community of consumers touched by these products or services benefits, while robust commercial returns ensure that these businesses remain sustainable and attractive as investment opportunities in the long term. Shakir Merali, Managing Director 31 Stakeholder Engagement Through ASSET W e believe engaging Supporting high-impact entrepreneurship a wide range of through endeavor stakeholders in any community where we invest or operate is a vital part of Endeavor Global is a pioneering organization that investing in growth identifies mentors and accelerates high-impact markets where many entrepreneurs. These entrepreneurs lead successful outcomes depend businesses and have generated US$ 4.5 billion in on collaboration between multiple stakeholders – revenues and created more than 156,000 high-quality specifically business, government and civil society. jobs. Our strategic partnership with Endeavor was At The Abraaj Group, our stakeholder approach to launched in 2010. doing business lies at the core of our values and culture. Through our Abraaj Strategic Stakeholder High-impact entrepreneurs, by becoming success Engagement Track (ASSET), we seek to both engage stories, can become role models to aspiring and collaborate with these actors, with the goal of entrepreneurs. In global growth markets entrepreneurs demonstrating our relevance and commitment to are central to making communities sustainable. the communities where we operate. We have increasingly focused this collaboration around What makes Endeavor unique is the way in which our core skill set – nurturing and supporting the it engages with these entrepreneurs. Endeavor entrepreneurial ecosystem. has worked to build a comprehensive network of investment and operational professionals whose A platform to empower entrepreneurs expertise can be accessed through requests depending on the needs of the entrepreneur. Each entrepreneur also has a unique advisory Board designed to meet their operational and strategic needs. Wamda, which means spark in Arabic, is a platform These needs are determined by the entrepreneur’s designed to empower entrepreneurs across the aspirations for his/her firm. Middle East and North Africa. It operates across four channels: Wamda.com, the largest entrepreneurship Endeavor has a network of over 3,000 pro bono website in the Arab world; the Wamda Capital Fund, entrepreneurs who can be accessed via the Global which invests in early-stage startups; a range of Mentorship Program or the Global Connection programs and products designed to help startups Program. Through these programs, entrepreneurs are set up, run and grow; and a think tank that produces able to meet with mentors on specific concerns that research papers about the state of the ecosystem. are beyond the scope of their advisory board. In many Wamda was established by Abraaj in 2011 to support cases, these one-time connections turn into long-term the entrepreneurial ecosystem beyond an infusion of relationships with mentors choosing to devote their capital. This meant creating and facilitating an open time to guide entrepreneurs. space for knowledge sharing and connection for entrepreneurs as they start, grow and sustain their Abraaj has played an active role in the expansion of businesses. Knowledge sharing and networking were Endeavor and its affiliates in Egypt through financial achieved through the formation of Wamda by bringing support, networks and the involvement of colleagues nascent and established entrepreneurs, business who sit on the national Endeavor Boards. Abraaj has leaders, mentors, investors, and knowledge partners leveraged its networks to provide Endeavor with Board such as academics, consultants, NGOs and thinkmembers and mentors in Egypt, Jordan, UAE and tanks together. Turkey. Our support has further enabled Endeavor’s expansion into Lebanon, Saudi Arabia, Morocco and Indonesia. 32 Further, our ability and track record in identifying through a combination of monetary value and time successful entrepreneurs was effectively utilized commitment. The model encourages employees to at Endeavor’s International Selection Panels held donate 5% of their annual bonus, and to set aside in Turkey, Dubai and London, where members of a minimum of five days a year (three of which are our senior management team were on a jury panel paid for by The Abraaj Group) to provide leadership to select and mentor a new cohort of high-impact and involvement to the strategic and community entrepreneurs. engagement programs. And 5% of the Abraaj Group’s top-line fee income revenue also goes to support these Education For Employment (EFE) initiatives and platforms. Operating through a network of locally run, non-profit organizations across the Middle East and North Africa, Academic partnership with the American EFE provides disadvantaged unemployed youth with University in Cairo (AUC) economic opportunity through world-class professional In May 2012 Abraaj invested US$ 1.1 million in and technical training that leads directly to jobs and launching The Abraaj Group Professorship in Private entrepreneurship support. EFE’s demand-driven Equity at the AUC’s School of Business, one of the approach starts with the needs of the private sector, leading universities and business schools in the Arab partnering directly with companies to understand world. The Professorship has been a cornerstone of their workforce requirements and secure job the University’s MSc in Finance, launched in the fall of commitments. EFE designs training programs tailored 2012. A US$ 100,000 endowment was also created to company needs, recruits and trains youth, places to support research in private equity, venture capital them in jobs, and provides alumni with continuing and investment management. The program has professional development and opportunities for civic been further enriched by the regular engagement of engagement. In 2013, The Abraaj Group supported The Abraaj Group’s management team, who the Maghreb Startup Initiative implemented by EFE have participated in guest lectures throughout the and local partners in Morocco, Algeria and Tunisia, academic year. and funded English language training for unemployed youth in Tunisia, helping to continue EFE’s 100% job placement rate for graduates of EFE-Tunisia’s job Abraaj’s Walid Bakr is an active member on SASCO’s placement program. In addition, Abraaj principals help advisory board and has been a big help in refining our to build EFE’s capacity at the local level through their strategy and planning our KPIs to achieve our targets. His participation on the board of directors of EFE affiliates experience and knowledge were invaluable. We needed in Egypt, Morocco and Tunisia. an expert like Walid to provide us with the feedback and advice we needed on how we could take our company to the next level, and his professional views helped us 5+5+5 greatly. Tarek Sryo, Founder and VP, SASCO. ASSET projects are resourced through our 5+5+5 SASCO is one of the largest manufacturers of stationery supplies model, which touches each and every employee. It in Egypt, and part of the Endeavor Network promotes a sense of responsibility and engagement 4,664 Jobs created by Endeavor entrepreneurs in North Africa 33 Disclaimer The information contained in this presentation is given derived from information provided by independent third without any liability whatsoever to Abraaj Holdings, any of party sources. Abraaj cannot guarantee the accuracy of its affiliates or related entities or their respective members, such information and has not independently verified the directors, officers or employees (collectively Abraaj ) for any assumptions on which such information is based. Abraaj loss whatsoever arising from any use of this presentation or disclaims any responsibility for any errors or omissions its contents or otherwise. in such information, including the financial calculations, projection, and forecasts in this presentation. Unless otherwise indicated, information presented here in is as of 31st December, 2013. This presentation includes descriptions of selected portfolio investments, including details on the transaction No representation or warranty, express or implied, is made or and investment thesis. The selected portfolio investments given by Abraaj as to the accuracy, completeness or fairness are solely intended to be illustrative of the types of of the information or opinions contained in this presentation. investments that may be entered into by funds managed In particular, no representation or warranty is made that any or sponsored by Abraaj. projection, forecast, calculation, forward-looking statement, assumption or estimate contained in this presentation should This presentation does not constitute or form part of, and or will be achieved. There is a substantial likelihood that should not be construed as, or relied upon in respect of, at least some, if not all, of the forward-looking statements any offer for sale or subscription of, or solicitation of any included in this presentation will prove to be inaccurate, offer to purchase or subscribe for, any interests in any of the possibly to a significant degree. funds managed or sponsored by Abraaj. Any such offer, subscription or solicitation will be made by means of an Unless otherwise indicated, references to “EBITDA” in this offering document to be issued by Abraaj in connection with document represent revenues and earnings before interest, any such offering and any decision to purchase or subscribe taxes, depreciation and amortization adjusted for one-time for such funds should be made solely on the basis of the expenses and other adjustments where deemed appropriate information contained in such offering document. to better approximate business earnings growth. This presentation is being made on a confidential basis In considering any performance data contained herein, and is intended for discussion purposes only and is solely each recipient of this presentation should bear in mind that for your information and may not be reproduced or further past performance is not indicative of future results, and distributed to any other person or published, in whole or in there can be no assurance that any future fund managed part, for any purpose. If you were provided with a copy of or sponsored by Abraaj will achieve comparable results. this presentation by a person other than Abraaj, then it is not Nothing contained herein should be deemed to be a intended to be read by you and you should destroy the copy. prediction or projection of future performance of any fund managed or sponsored by Abraaj. By viewing this presentation you agree to be bound by the foregoing limitations and restrictions and, in particular, will be The information contained in this presentation does not taken to have represented, warranted and undertaken that: (i) constitute investment, legal, tax or accounting advice. you have read and agree to comply with the contents of this Recipients of this presentation should conduct their own due notice including, without limitation, the obligation to keep this diligence and other enquiries in relation to such information presentation and its contents confidential; and (ii) you will not and consult with their own professional advisors as to the subscribe for or purchase any interests in any fund managed accuracy and application of the information contained in or sponsored by Abraaj except on the basis of information in this presentation and for advice relating to any legal, tax or the private placement memorandum for such fund. accounting issues relating to a potential investment in the regions described, including in respect of a fund managed or Abraaj Capital Limited is a license holding company within sponsored by Abraaj. This presentation does not constitute a The Abraaj Group and is regulated by the Dubai Financial recommendation to invest in the regions described, or in any Services Authority. such fund. Certain information contained in this presentation concerning economic trends and performance are based on or 34 35 Abraaj's North Casablanca, Morocco 3, rue Abou Zaid Eddaboussi Tunis, Tunisia Imb Matrix-Bloc B -1er étage Africa Offices 20100 Casablanca Rue du Lac constanceTel: +212 522 790 800 1053 Les Berges Du Lac Contact: Anas Guennoun Tel: +216 71 861 637 Contact: Adel Goucha Algiers, Algeria Cairo, Egypt 23 Rue Rouabeh Hocine (Ex Rue Abou El Feda Building parmentier) 16035, Hydra, Algiers 9th floor Tel: +213 21 484 557 3 Abou El Feda Street, Zamalek Contact: Alexandre Tel: +202 2737 1680 Hamadouche Contact: Amr Helal @abraajgroup The Abraaj Group www.abraaj.com
