PYROLL GROUP GLOBAL COMPACT, COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2014 STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT Dear Stakeholders, I’m pleased to confirm that Pyroll reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anticorruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business, strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Irene Isotalo CEO Pyroll Group Oy Malminsuontie 6 Kotipaikka / Municipality: Pyhtää Verkkolaskut / Electronic invoices: OVT / EDI 003720705366 FI-49220 Siltakylä ALV-numero / VAT Number: FI20705366 Operaattori / Operator: Itella Information Oy Tel. +358 (0)30 624 2400 Välittäjätunnus / Operator address: 003710948874 Fax +358 (0)30 624 2419 Paperilaskut / Paper invoices: PL 20206, FI-00021 Laskutus www.pyroll.com 2 HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of specific human rights issues for the company (i.e. based on assessment of human rights risk). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on Human Rights. Pyroll is one of the leading paper, cardboard, paperboard, and plastic converters in the Nordic countries. We are customer-oriented and responsible family-owned Finnish company that helps its customer prosper. Today we employ nearly 500 people and our turnover is about 90 million euros. Our operations are divided into three business branches: Pyroll Packages, Pyroll Paper Merchant, and Pyroll Converting. Pyroll Packages manufactures packaging at ten plants in Finland. Pyroll Paper Merchant’s premises are located in Tuusula in Finland. Pyroll Converting has two plants in Finland and one in Poland. Pyroll’s main market area is Finland. Products are also exported to, for example, Nordic countries, the Baltic countries, other countries in Europe, and Russia. We have integrated the principles of Global Compact in our operations in all areas and at all levels. We respect the protection of human rights, maintain the highest ethical and moral standards in our operations, and bear our social responsibility at all times. We support the rights of our personnel in our daily operations and continue to improve their well-being at work. We expect all our suppliers, in their own activities, to help us fulfil our commitment by supporting and respecting our responsibility principles, including international human rights. Implementation We have made a special “Responsibility by the suppliers for its operation” –form and send it to our main suppliers. In this form there are mentioned how we are acting in our daily business. In signing this form they will agree to adhere the same responsibility principles than we are doing. In the form there are mentioned for example: We respect the values defined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights We treat all employees fairly and equally, without discrimination. Measurement of outcomes All the main suppliers of us have signed the form and sent back it to us. 3 LABOUR Principle 3 – Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 – the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5 – the effective abolition of child labour; Principle 6 – the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of labour rights for the company (i.e. labour rights-related risks and opportunities). Description of written policies, public commitments and company goals on labour rights. Our employee policy is continuously developed, with the emphasis on equality, fairness, motivation, and common rules of the game. Pyroll opposes all kind of discrimination. We believe in motivating our personnel and taking good care of their occupational health. This way we will strengthen our competitive ability and through this help secure the future of our personnel. We also develop our working conditions, labour agreements, and reward systems, and monitor them with working environment and job satisfaction surveys. We believe in the importance of versatile training and the improvement of communications. Implementation We have made a special program to decrease in working related injuries. About 80 employee have been trained to carry this program out. Measurement of outcomes We have a decrease in working related injuries over 30 % in 2013 compared to 2012. ENVIRONMENT Principle 7 – Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8 – undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 – encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of environmental protection for the company (i.e. environmental risks and opportunities). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on environmental protection. We take the environment into consideration in our operations by using energy-efficient raw materials and production processes that impact the environment as little as possible. We also ensure that our environmental actions are in harmony with our customers’ ever more demanding environmental goals. 4 We take the environment into consideration, e.g. in the following ways within our business branches: Pyroll Packages develops and produced packages that protect the products from damage and contamination have been manufactured from certified materials minimize the total amount of raw materials can be recycled, composted or reused as energy. Pyroll Paper Merchant markets and distributes paper and paperboard for converting, which has been manufactured in accordance with the standards of sustainable development. This way, we ensure that also the paper/paperboard in the end product takes the environmental values in consideration. Pyroll Converting develops and provides paper and paperboard converting that reduce the waste of material during converting and enable the excess material to be reused in paper/paperboard manufacture minimize the transportation of “unnecessary” material. Implementation We have reused the plastic waste from other Pyroll’s plants in our Merikarvia plant for several years. We are producing plastic shopping bags there. Now we have heavily increased to use recycled plastic material bought from other companies. Measurement of outcomes We will use about 115 tonnes more recycled plastic in 2014 compared to 2013. By this way we will save the same amount virgin plastic material. ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10 – Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of anti-corruption for the company (i.e. anti-corruption risk assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on anti-corruption. The collaboration between Pyroll and its customers and partners is always based on openness, honestly, and mutual trust. We only work with partners who believe in these principles as strongly as we do. We comply with laws and regulations, and adhere to ethical business practices in all our operations. We do not accept any illegal or morally questionable activities in any operational environment. 5 Implementation We have made a special “Responsibility by the suppliers for its operation” –form and send it to our main suppliers. In this form there are mentioned how we are acting in our daily business. In signing this form they will agree to adhere the same responsibility principles than Pyroll is doing. In the form there is mentioned for example: Bribery and corruption will not be tolerated. Measurement of outcomes All the main suppliers of us have signed and sent back to us the form.
