THIRD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT MEXICO 2013 Table of Contents TABLE OF CONTENTS A Message from the Directors 4 1. Our Business 6 2. Community 18 3. Environment 25 4. Colleagues 29 Reporting Criteria 37 Awards, Recognitions and Partnerships 38 Contact Information 39 Appendixes: 40 • GRI Indicators • Global Compact 3 A MESSAGE FROM THE DIRECTORS 4 A MESSAGE FROM THE DIRECTORS We are very pleased to present the third Corporate Also, to foster an environmentally friendly way of Social Responsibility Report of Marsh & McLennan life, this year we promoted the use of bicycles. The Companies Mexico 2013. two MMC Rides were very well received by our colleagues, and we are sure that more and more We, as a group of companies comprising MMC people will choose this form of transportation. Mexico, implement our social responsibility through what we call “corporate citizenship.” This year, our contribution to the community was Being good citizens mean that, as part of a society, framed in an ambitious project: the construction of we seek transcendence in all our actions, La Casa de la Artesana (The Artisan’s House). With especially those having a long-term impact on this productive project we intend to contribute people we work with, on the community and on that craftswomen from the community of Hñahñu the environment. Batsi, from Cardonal, Hidalgo could have a steady source of income, which in turn promotes The global context in which we live today requires conservation of their customs. us to transform ourselves to achieve improvement. This year, we conducted an inside-out renewal We have reconfirmed our commitment to the process. Outwards, the refurbishment of our offices United Nations Global Compact, to which we are in Torre Mayor (Major Tower) offers more open party; its ten principles have been incorporated in spaces as well as comfortable and modern this Report as part of the Communications on workplaces. Progress for this period. Inwards, the change results in generating a Likewise, we would like to thank all the people who collective awareness where communication and make possible that Marsh & McLennan Companies collaboration among colleagues, responsibility, Mexico can be a responsible corporate citizenship networking, mobility and the development of and we welcome their thoughts and comments. synergies between the Group companies are favored. The change in organizational culture that we are carrying out is also reflected in our respect for the environment. Our new offices include more natural lighting, eco-efficient sanitary facilities and the use of recycled material. Remigio Noriega González de León Albert Fischl Sergio Torres Cross CEO CEO Director 5 1.OUR BUSINESS 6 1.1 MARSH & MCLENNAN COMPANIES GROUP Marsh & McLennan Companies is a global professional services firm providing consulting and solutions in risk, strategy and human capital, with annual income greater than 12 billion dollars. Through four leading market firms — Marsh, Guy Carpenter, Mercer and Oliver Wyman— and a network of 54,000 employees worldwide, our business helps organizations to identify, plan and meet their critical business needs in over 100 countries. Marsh & McLennan Companies Oliver Wyman Marsh Guy Carpenter Mercer Group NERA Oliver Wyman Economic Lippincott Consulting RISK AND INSURANCE MANAGEMENT CONSULTING 7 Our business 1.2. SERVICES OF MARSH & MCLENNAN COMPANIES IN MEXICO RISK AND INSURANCE MANAGEMENT • Marsh, Brockman y Schuh Agente de Seguros y de Fianzas S.A. de C.V. As the global leader in insurance brokerage and capital, health, benefits, retirement, risks and risk management, this company teams up with its bonds. For further information about the products clients to establish, design and deliver innovative and services of Mercer in Mexico please visit: www. solutions for the industry, thus managing to mercer.com.mx protect the future of our clients and to help them achieve success. For further information about the products and services of Marsh in Mexico please • Guy Carpenter México Intermediario de visit: www.marsh.com.mx Reaseguro S.A. de C.V. CONSULTING Being a risk and reinsurance specialist, this firm creates and executes reinsurance and risk management solutions for all manner of clients. It • Mercer Human Resource Consulting S.A. de C.V. provides reinsurance brokerage and financial modeling services, as well as consultancy for insurance and reinsurance companies throughout As a global leader in human resource consultancy, the world. For further information about the the firm works with clients to solve their most products and services of Guy Carpenter in Mexico complex human resource problems, designing and please visit: www.guycarp.com establishing management strategies in human • Cancún; Q. Roo. • Mexicali, B.C. • México, D.F. • Monterrey, N.L. • Cd. Juárez, Chi. • Nogales, Son. • Chihuahua, Chi. • Puebla, Pue. • Guadalajara, Jal • Querétaro, Qro. • Hermosillo, Son. • Reynosa, Tam. • León, Gto. • Tijuana, B.C. • Mérida, Yuc. • Torreón, Coah. OUR OFFICES IN MEXICO 8 Our business 1.3 OUR PHILOSOPHY OUR MISSION: INTEGRITY Marsh & McLennan Companies is a group of We will perform our activities in adherence with professional services firms committed to helping the highest ethical and professional standards, and their clients in the protection and creation of value we will not tolerate any conduct that may stray through advisory and solutions in risk, strategy from such standards. We will act with integrity, and human capital. honesty, courage and mutual respect. COLLEAGUES OUR VISION: We will make our company an excellent workplace for outstanding people, considering each of our • We will be widely recognized as a premier colleagues as valuable partners with a spirit of business firm worldwide and a preferred collaboration, commitment and inclusion. We will professional services provider within the risk, strategy and human capital areas. empower people, make them accountable for results, and reward them according to their • We will offer our clients more valuable ideas, performance as individuals, teams and employees. services y solutions. • We will offer our colleagues opportunities for EXECUTION growth, contribution and prosperity. • We will achieve sustainable and profitable We will concentrate our efforts to at all times growth. uphold the commitments made to clients, shareholders and colleagues. We will guarantee • We will achieve considerable and sustainable alignment with goals, discipline with respect to growth in returns for shareholders. costs, and responsibility with respect to earnings and losses. OUR VALUES: CLIENTS “Our customers and We will deliver exceptional value to our clients collaborators, our integrity and globally, while meeting or exceeding their expectations and innovating in order to satisfy a flawless execution are the clients’ emerging needs. This will be achieved pillars upon which we build a while increasing value for shareholders over time. strong company committed with its people and its community.” 9 Our business 1.4 BUSINESS ETHICS In Marsh & McLennan Companies ethics plays a key Thus, we ensure that all our colleagues strengthen role. This involves not only complying with the law our principles and values in any business in our operations but acting with integrity with all circumstance as representatives of the MMC family. our stakeholders and in line with our corporate philosophy. In Marsh & McLennan Companies we take extra care to prevent, identify and, where applicable, Our “The Greater Good” Code of Conduct helps penalize acts of corruption and bribery. Not only personnel to understand the legal, ethical and risk do 100% of employees complete recertification in issues that may arise in their work. The basic the Code of Conduct every year, but they also study responsibilities of our colleagues and additional at least one of the courses available through our responsibilities of managers are specified in this web-based learning platform. document, summarizing the key elements of the firm’s policies designed to ensure lawful and ethical In 2013 the following courses were offered: conduct. These standards are non-negotiable and apply to us all, regardless of the area of the • “The Greater Good” Certification in the company where we work. Code of Conduct The guidelines established are in full accordance Anti-bribery and Anti-corruption with human rights and include aspects relating to Workshop respect between colleagues, fair competition, Conflicts of Interest prohibition of corruption, integrity in conflicts of interest and action as corporate citizens. Compliance with Trade and Antitrust Practices If you wish to know more about our Code of Conduct and download a Spanish copy, please “Choose Your Path” visit: www.mmc.com/about/code.php There are many resources available to help our In order to continue spreading the essence of our colleagues identify potential problems and Code of Conduct this year, we launched the determine the right course of action. Our “Choose Your Path” program, which consists of a employees can express their concerns through two series of training courses and videos that exemplify mechanisms: cases and situations of risk present at work that guide our colleagues in making correct decisions in any of their daily work and that highlights our essence of doing business with transparency, HOTLINE honesty and respect. A secure service, provided free of charge, that operates 24 hours a day worldwide. All issues reported are referred to the appropriate areas within the organization for investigation and 10 10 Our business resolution. To access the system, one need only dial 01 800 288 28 72, then select the language in the options menu, and a specialist will deal with the call by asking certain questions, then sending a report to the area in charge. Also, there is the option to visit the website: https://mmceuhotline.alertline.com/gcs/ welcome?locale=es and complete the process there. DIME The communication channel consists of an electronic mailbox found on our local Intranet page; through this tool the colleague can express his/her proposals, complains and/or suggestions. It is completely anonymous. Additionally, colleagues at MMC have the option of talking directly with our Compliance Officer and Legal Department, reporting securely and confidentially any concern about illegal or unethical behaviors or conduct that may be in violation of our policies. In 2013, three claims were reported through these channels, which were resolved through institutional hierarchies. 11 Our business 1.5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Board of Directors of Marsh & McLennan In order to support their functions, the Board of Companies is committed to the highest standards Directors also has five committees: of ethics, integrity and professionalism, which are enshrined in the Corporate Governance Guidelines of the organization, which makes specific mention • Auditing Committee of the Board’s functions, structure, compensation, and other aspects. • Compensation Committee The Board is made up of managers and • Compliance and Risk Committee shareholders, who in turn elect the Director and the members of the Executive Committee who • Managing and Governance manage the businesses and governance of the company. In order to be selected, the terms and Committee standards of independence must be upheld, thereby ensuring that the selected persons have • Social Responsibility Committee no direct or indirect material bonds with the company. Cada uno de estos comités tiene sus propios Today, the Board is made up of 12 members, estatutos que regulan su funcionamiento. including the CEO. Each of these committees has its own bylaws The Executive Committee is responsible for the regulating their operations. corporate governance of our organization. This committee is made up by at least three If you wish to find out more about our Corporate independent Managers and meets at least four Governance, please visit: times annually. Its role is to advise the Board of http://www.mmc.com/about/governance.php Directors, to periodically report on the performance of the company and to support the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting. 12 Our business OPERATING STRUCTURE Dan Glaser President and CEO MMC Peter Zaffino Alex Moczarski Julio Portalatin President and CEO President and CEO President and CEO Ricardo Brockmann Aidan Pope Gaurav Garg Latin America and Latin America and Regional President Caribbean CEO Caribbean CEO Remigio Noriega Albert Fischl Sergio Torres CEO Mexico CEO Mexico Latin America CEO Executive Managements Executive Managements Executive Managements 13 Our business 1.6 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY STRATEGY STAKEHOLDERS The firms that make up Marsh & McLennan We divide and classify our stakeholders into Companies seek to be good corporate citizens. internal and external groups, according to the way This means that, as part of a society, we seek in which they influence or are influenced by our transcendence in all our actions, especially those business activities. In order to find out what they having a long-term impact on people we work think of us and to take action on this basis, we with, on the community and on the environment. utilize several communication mechanisms (see Table). Stakeholders of Marsh & McLennan Companies Dialogue and Communication Mechanisms INTERNAL Intranet, e-mail, internal meetings, mailbox, work Employees: We strive to offer a great place to work environment survey, internal communication boards, and to grow professionally. electronic boards, participation in social responsibility activities, CSR opinion survey. Service surveys, customer service interviews, everyday talks and meetings, e-mail, Marsh & McLennan Clients: We offer high-quality services with a Companies’ Annual Financial Report and Corporate spirit of service. Social Responsibility Report, website, social networks, on-site and online events, corporate magazine and press. Shareholders: We perform our business tasks Marsh & McLennan Companies' Annual Financial Report creating added value in a fair and transparent way. and Corporate Social Responsibility Report. EXTERNAL Business Partners / Providers: We contract and do Regular meetings, e-mail, participation in social business with local firms that help us to achieve our responsibility activities, Marsh & McLennan Companies' business goals. Corporate Social Responsibility Report. Community: We support and look for ways to Periodic meetings, on-site visits, joint projects and increase the quality of life of vulnerable groups through specialized organizations. nationwide. Regulatory bodies: We work hand in hand with governmental institutions in order to contribute to Weekly events, meetings, circulars and agreements. achieving and industry that works in an ethical and coordinated way. 14 Our business MATERIALITY AND RELEVANT ISSUES We conducted an assessment of the most relevant In 2013, we identified four relevant issues, from issues based on the opinion of our stakeholders which we have informed the actions we have taken and on the importance of such issues on our to include these issues in the management of the business. company throughout the report. MATERIALITY CHART 10 9 8 7 Importance for stakeholders 6 5 4 Insecurity Poverty 3 Water 2 Public transportation 1 0 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Importance for MMC 15 Our business MANAGEMENT SYSTEM FOR SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY At a group level, MMC has a Corporate In line with these three issues, in Marsh, Guy Citizenship Policy, which comprises three Carpenter and Mercer we developed, since 2010, our aspects: social responsibility strategy based on 6 pillars: a) Social Responsibility: our actions in communities and involvement of colleagues in CSR strategic pillars these efforts. b) Diversity and Inclusion: our commitment to 1 Business Ethics foster an inclusive and high-performance work 2 Quality of Life environment based on excellence, respect and dignity. 3 Environmental Preservation c) Sustainability: our commitment to friendly 4 Communication with and Engagement of practices with the environment both in our Stakeholders operations and in our work with clients to advise them on their environmental challenges. 5 Community Engagement If you want to know more about the Marsh & 6 Diversity and Inclusion McLennan Companies’ Corporate Citizenship Policy, please visit: (http://www.mmc.com/ The Social Responsibility Committee is CorporateCitizenship/index.php) responsible for designing, executing and evaluating the CSR strategy of Marsh, Guy Carpenter and Mercer. Being made up of groups of committed employees each subcommittee provides ideas and resources to implement programs and projects that affect our stakeholders and our business. 16 Our business STRUCTURE OF THE CSR COMMITTEE General Direction Human Resources Management Diversity and Communication Business Quality of Life Community Environment Inclusion and Engagement Ethics 2013 MMC SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY RALLY For the third consecutive year, on August 9, we organized the MMC Social Responsibility Rally. This event, organized by the Quality of Life Committee in collaboration with the other CSR committees, is an excellent opportunity to present our colleagues the work we do. This year there were 29 employees in 7 teams, who —besides learning more about Marsh and Mercer’s social responsibility— received awards and spent a fun morning. 17 2.COMMUNITY 18 Community At Marsh & McLennan Companies we have a long tradition of helping vulnerable people and communities, focusing our community participation initiatives and programs on education and childhood, aspects that reflect our colleagues’ interests and that are in keeping with our corporate strategy. Mexico is a signatory to the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child — incorporated in 1989— which, among other things, establishes its right to health, quality education and housing and food. However, according to the National Institute of Statistics and Geography (Instituto Nacional de Estadística y Geografía or INEGI), there are more than 18 million children living in poverty, representing 56.3% of all children living in the country (35.5 million). WE WORK HAND IN HAND WITH LA CASA DE LA ARTESANA (THE CHILDFUND MEXICO ARTISAN’S HOUSE) Since 2010, MMC established a partnership with Our main task this year was to build La Casa de la ChildFund Mexico to help marginalized and poor Artesana, an ambitious project that we began last children becoming adults who can create lasting year. It consists of creating a space where women and positive changes in their communities. from the Hñahñu Batsi community of San Andrés Daboxtha, as well as those from the surrounding As a result of this relationship, we have managed a communities in the Municipality of Cardonal, can social impact on the communities in which we develop a productive activity in an organized way. have involved into, on the staff of our company and in the organization itself. The goal is to achieve that La Casa de la Artesana becomes a social enterprise allowing Otomi women to earn a steady income to meet the basic needs of their family, thus contributing to the selfsustainability of the community. 19 Community STAGES OF LA CASA DE LA ARTESANA PROJECT STAGE 1 (2012) • Donation of a 9,570-yd2 (8,000 m2) land • Architectural design • Laying the foundation stone STAGE 2 (2013) • Construction: foundation, masonry and exterior painting STAGE 3 (2014) • Construction: finishes, blacksmithing and electricity and plumbing • Training • Furnishings FUNDRAISING In order to finance the construction of La Casa de la Artesana, in 2012 and 2013 several activities were made in Marsh and Mercer, such as the Daboxthatón, an iPad raffle, a cake sale and the donation of a day’s wage. Thanks to the contribution of our colleagues and managers we were able to raise MXN$281,726. Due to the significant progress we have achieved with this project, MMC’s corporate head office donated us US$15,000, which will allow us to work in stage 3 of La Casa de la Artesana next year. 20 Community DONATIONS IN KIND This year, due to the refurbishment of Marsh and Mercer corporate offices, we had the opportunity to donate the previous furniture to nonprofit organizations. Recipient organizations were: Child Fund México A.C., Clara Moreno y Miramón I.A.P. and Proeducación I.A.P. Marsh donated to the secondary school no. 0569 “José Martí” 18 computers in good condition. Meanwhile, Guy Carpenter, with the support of its employees, acquired a refrigerator for the dining hall of Pozo Mirador Elementary School located at the indigenous community of Ri-Xudi in Ixmiquilpan, Hidalgo. Also, 2 paintings and 2 tables were donated. There were also donations in kind for ChildFund: 11PCs, 8 laptops, 13 keyboards, 13 mice, 1 thermal fax, 1 photocopier, 1 typewriter, 1 acetate projector, 1 VCR and 1 comb binding machine. AID FOR PEOPLE DISPLACED BY INGRID AND MANUEL STORMS In solidarity with a colleague, whose family, like many Mexicans, suffered devastating effects after the natural disasters in Guerrero, Marsh and Mercer conducted a campaign donation in cash and in kind. Due to the generous contributions, we attained to collect hundreds of food and hygiene items, which were delivered to the Mexican Red Cross. Also, among Mercer’s colleagues $110,853 were raised, which the company doubled, amounting to a total of $221,708, which were given to Hábitat para la Humanidad México A.C. for the reconstruction of houses in the affected areas of Guerrero. 21 Community SPONSORSHIPS “LEAVING OUR MARK” (“DEJANDO Another way to contribute with ChildFund Mexico is through HUELLA”) VOLUNTEERING DAY children sponsorship by staff members. In 2013, 39 children As part of the Community Committee, I was invited to visit were sponsored at Marsh & the community of Daboxtha. This was one of the best McLennan Companies. experiences I’ve ever had. Honestly, at first there could be a lot of excuses for not coming to the activity, such as work, time and uncertainty of the unknown. Actually, I remember VOLUNTEERING that —even in my way there— I was worried about the things I For the companies that make up would stop doing as well as about outstanding issues I had to Marsh & McLennan Companies, complete when returning. However, by the time I got to this contributing to the community place and saw the faces of smiling children awaiting our implies more than an economic arrival I forgot all my worries and could focus on helping contribution. We have a them. I realized that when you dedicate a day in your life to workforce that also donates its this kind of activities you can experience a sense of time and talents to help other people. transcendence about what you’re doing. This year, Marsh and Mercer The experience of going to the community for helping volunteering day, which we purposes is unforgettable. It is not only a life experience, but called “Leaving Our Mark” you also learn to be grateful for what you have today and thus (“Dejando huella”), consisted of to contribute a little of your time. traveling to the community of Daboxtha, Hidalgo to paint the facade of La Casa de la Artesana. Gerardo Gordillo Vázquez Among friends and colleagues, a Mercer Marsh Benefits total of 56 people attended. 22 Community COMMITMENT TO PROVIDERS AND BUSINESS PARTNERS At Marsh & McLennan Companies we believe that social responsibility is not limited to just the company, but must consider the entire value chain. As such, we seek to involve our providers and business partners in our programs and social responsibility initiatives. NUMBER OF PROVIDERS, 2013 Guy Carpenter Marsh and Mercer 185 400 (1) 90% of our providers are from Mexico. Our first initiative to promote social responsibility in our value chain was the launch of the Code of Ethics for MMC providers, which dictates basic guidelines on three essential topics: ethical, social and environmental issues. To make it known, we held the first CSR Meeting for MMC Providers. 23 Community “For us, at Marsh, is a great Last year we held a second meeting with providers involving a larger number of SMBs, among which pleasure and pride that Logistics Assistance Group was selected, a Logistics Assistance Group has company that provides legal advisory focusing on fleets, logistics, and automotive transport. Our received the 2013 CSR Award work consisted of providing them with advisory to as part of our value chain. This consolidate their social responsibility strategy and assisting them in the process of obtaining the CSR motivates us greatly to Award, which said firm obtained satisfactorily in continue working closely with 2013 as value chain of Marsh. our providers to share with Also, in September we organized the first MMC’s them a little of what we are Corporate Social Responsibility Meeting, which was created as a meeting space to share the best developing in CSR”. practices of the most representative companies in the sector. On this occasion, the meeting was attended by our business partners: ACE Fianzas Gerardo Merino Monterrey, GNP and Metlife as speakers and by over 50 people. Leader of the Business Ethics Committee 24 3.ENVIRONMENT 25 Environment In Marsh & McLennan Companies we have adopted an Environmental Policy in which we shape our commitment to mitigate our impact on the environment in all our operations and promote environmental responsibility among all our stakeholders. MEASURING OF CO2 EMISSIONS According to the emissions classification of the Direct emissions: Greenhouse Gas Protocol, at MMC we have Vehicles owned by the company identified the following sources of emissions as the most significant: Indirect emissions: Electricity and air travel MMC CO2 EMISSIONS Emissions 2012 2013 Direct CO2 emissions (t) 1,158 854 Indirect CO2 emissions (t) 1,037 1,379 Total CO2 emitted (t) 2,195 2,233 Total CO2 per employee (t) 2.44 2.34 (1) (t) = metric tons Source: Headquarters of Guy Carpenter, Marsh and Mercer in Mexico City 26 Environment ECOEFFICIENCY PROGRAMS With the purpose of reducing the consumption of resources, especially electricity, paper and water, at Marsh, Guy Carpenter and Mercer we carried out various programs and initiatives. OFFICE REMODELING The strategy of remodeling the offices of Marsh and Mercer at Torre Mayor included ecological measures such as: • Installing toilets with water saving systems • Automatic lighting control systems • A/C leveling • A strategic position of workstations to allow greater passage of natural light • Use of recycled materials for the construction of offices Also, in Guy Carpenter reception lamps were replaced by energysaving lamps. SAVING OF PAPER In April 2013 the duplex or two-sided printing was implemented by default on all Marsh printers, therefore, a 25% paper saving was achieved versus the prior year. Meanwhile, Guy Carpenter installed trays in each printing station in order to reuse paper and foster a saving culture. MMC RIDE With the aim of creating a carpooling culture so that our colleagues may get to Torre Mayor, last year we launched the MMC Ride program. In the course of this year we carried out information meetings to encourage more people to join this new way of being transported responsibly. Due to its characteristics allowing it to be replicable, the MMC Ride was also implemented in our subsidiary in Colombia. 27 Environment Thanks to MMC Ride we are reducing fuel OTHER INITIATIVES consumption and vehicle traffic while also representing an opportunity for employee interaction. Marsh and Mercer The “Say No to Styrofoam” (¡No al Unicel!) MMC RIDE campaign was launched to raise awareness on its harm to the environment and to pursue environmentally friendly alternatives. In May 2013 we organized a bicycle tour to encourage our colleagues to ride. Because of the We recalled the World Environment Day with a great success that the MMC Ride had among the communication sent to our colleagues on food staff, we organized a second ride in November. This waste worldwide. event was an opportunity to spend a pleasant afternoon among colleagues, while they exercised In order to reduce the generation of waste, the use and —most importantly— they were motivated to of disposable plates in the dining hall was use the bicycle as transportation more frequently. eradicated. Through our “Green Events” (“Efemérides MMC RIDE verdes”) we kept our colleagues informed about the days when a topic related to the care of the environment is commemorated. “We carried out this event with the goal of promoting, more and Guy Carpenter more, the use of bicycles among Toner cartridges were recycled and provided to employees and to show their Canon, which disposed of them properly. benefits as a means of sustainable transportation; plus Again, we participated in the Barter Market (Mercado de Trueque) organized by the Secretariat you do exercise and it is an of Environment of Mexico City (Secretaría de Medio Ambiente del Distrito Federal), where excellent excuse to interact with beverage cans and used newspaper were exchanged for leafy greens. co-workers.” Remigio Noriega Marsh Mexico CEO 28 4.COLLEAGUES 29 Colleagues In Marsh & McLennan Companies we are continually transformed in pursuit of excellence. Our human capital approach seeks to develop in our colleagues’ knowledge, attitudes, values and skills leading them to exploit their full potential. “We planned the remodeling project of the offices considering that it could be an efficient space that also contributed to the quality of life of our colleagues. The most important characteristics are: • We increased the number of workstations in open areas and with street view, so that our colleagues could perceive much less closed or blocked spaces, with the purpose of making their daily work more enjoyable and lowering their stress levels significantly; • We created more collaborative spaces where colleagues have opportunity to socialize more on issues of work and to have better communication, which offers them the opportunity to create more direct business processes and spend less time repeating tasks that increase their stress levels; • The A/C system is controlled automatically and works through an energy strategy to provide standard levels of comfort for smart buildings; while having less temperature variations, exposure and likelihood of respiratory diseases decreases by more than 30%; • The furniture is made from materials that do not emit pollutants or radioactive waste, contributing to health by exposure. Additionally, the entire furniture design is 100% ergonomic and ensures occupational health since it do not cause any muscle or bodily harm; • Passageways exceed the requirements stated by civil protection regulations, so that if there is a need for evacuation, people can circulate more freely and leave the office in less time, which results in a more reliable and safe place to work. With these improvements we achieved that our colleagues work in a modern, pleasant and functional space, while maximizing collaboration, integration and teamwork.” Federico Velasco Real Estate Services LATAM 30 Colleagues DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION Marsh & McLennan Companies promotes a space Also, intranet communities and blogs for active that celebrates and incorporates all environments, communication and exchange of information on traditions, perspectives and needs of its topics of diversity among all MMC subsidiaries colleagues. This has led to the cementing of a were created. leading role in diversity worldwide. Locally, the Diversity and Inclusion Committee was We are a company made up by people, and then a created. This committee is responsible for diverse and talented workforce is essential to our generating initiatives to ensure equal employment success. Therefore, one of the key objectives of opportunities for men and women, nonMarsh & McLennan Companies is to attract, keep, discrimination in access to employment, as well as develop and motivate the best people in our sector occupational inclusion of minority groups, at all levels. Our philosophy of diversity and especially of people with disabilities. inclusion helps us to generate new ideas and create solutions that serve our customers, who are equally This year, three managers that are members of the diverse. Diversity Committee attended a “blind dinner,” organized by the Ojos que sienten (Sight of With the purpose of managing initiatives that Emotion) foundation in the Hotel Presidente in contribute to this goal, last year Marsh established Mexico City. During this event, guests dined in total a Global Diversity and Inclusion Committee, which darkness and were served by visually impaired is composed of senior managers of the group. On people. The result was a life experience to the other hand, this year in Mercer, the Global stimulate not only the senses of taste and smell, Diversity Council (GDC) and the Global Diversity but the condition in which many people live. Leadership Team (GDLT) were created with committed leaders who are experts in this field, strengthening the inclusion structure of the company. 31 Colleagues JOB CREATION MMC workforce in 2013 included 953 colleagues, the lowest level of which earns salaries ranging between three and six times the general minimum wage, as well as benefits in excess of those required by law. 2013 WORKFORCE BROKEN DOWN BY CATEGORY AND GENDER Marsh: Position Men 2011 Women Men 2012 Women Men 2013 Women 2011 2012 2013 Directors 21 5 28 5 24 5 Deputy Directors/ 86 55 93 64 83 66 Managers Executives/ Specialists/Heads 106 172 127 200 138 189 of Areas Analysts/Assistants 20 18 20 20 72 134 Total 233 250 268 289 317 394 Total employees: 475 Total employees: 557 Total employees: 711 Total turnover: 9.75% Total turnover: 0.13% Total turnover: 10% Guy Carpenter: Position Men 2011 Women Men 2012 Women Men 2013 Women 2011 2012 2013 Directors 4 2 4 3 4 3 Deputy Directors/ 10 5 9 10 10 9 Managers Administrative 15 19 14 22 14 19 personnel Total 29 27 27 35 28 31 Total employees: 56 Total employees: 62 Total employees: 59 Total turnover: Total turnover: 4.84% Total turnover: 1.69% 32 Colleagues 2013 WORKFORCE BROKEN DOWN BY CATEGORY AND GENDER CONTINUATION Mercer: Position Men 2011 Women Men 2012 Women Men 2013 Women 2011 2012 2013 Directors 8 6 10 17 10 6 Deputy Directors/ 11 18 25 20 7 19 Managers Consultants 96 131 118 90 26 23 Total 115 155 153 127 43 48 Total employees: 270 Total employees: 270 Total employees: 183 Total turnover: 11% Total turnover: 11% Total turnover: 0.15% TALENT MANAGEMENT Our Human Resources strategy is focused on creating human capital, so that we have the most qualified staff to offer quality service. At Marsh, Guy Carpenter and Mercer we offer professional and personal development programs, courses and activities beginning at initial hire. Each program provides growth and mobility opportunities throughout the company, which fosters a significant source of talent for each business, offering experiences that complement employees’ career plans. We value the intellectual ambition of our employees, supporting and rewarding their decision to take part in seminars, training courses, business events, and language classes, and providing scholarships for them to study certificate courses, postgraduate degrees and supplemental coursework. Likewise, we offer our employees on-site and online courses that will enable them to develop skills in teamwork, communication, client relations, scenario analysis, development of solutions, etc. 33 Colleagues AVERAGE OF HOURS OF TRAINING PER EMPLOYEE 2013 Position Marsh Guy Carpenter Mercer Directors 60 6.3 18 Deputy Directors/ 43 8.3 36 Managers Executives/Specialists/ 22 12.8 40 Consultants Administrative Employees/ 13 16.8 20 Analysts/Assistants Total Investment $1,938,358 (MXN) ND $1,694,089 (MXN) NOTE: At Guy Carpenter and Mercer we have online training tools and activities which belong to the United States office, for which we incur no investment costs, as these are paid by the head office, and thus are not shown in these tables. SUPPORT TOOLS FOR TRAINING CAREER LINK SUPERVISOR SOLUTIONS Marsh and Guy Carpenter have a training En Mercer we have a website called “Supervisor website where all employees can access online Solutions” that offers all our supervisors a suite courses with the purpose of supplementing of online tools, indicators, programs and their training at the firm. Over 100 courses in courses that help to professionalize their Spanish and approximately 1,800 courses in management of leaders within our company. English are offered. 34 Colleagues WELLNES The employee welfare program includes offering a Mercer has a voluntary Wellnes Plan called “Live safe working environment, fostering healthy More” (“Vive más”), which is focused on lifestyle habits and recreational spaces among encouraging a healthy lifestyle and promote a colleagues and their families. culture of prevention. In 2013 this plan included clinical tests to diagnose health risks of employees Our main program is called Beneflex, which and a general diagnosis of the health status of consists of a benefits model for all who work at participants in the program (number of smokers, Marsh & McLennan Companies. As its name percentage of employees with obesity, suggests, Beneflex offers the opportunity to build a hypertension, high blood sugar, etc.) to define a flexible benefits package according to the plan of action. The action plan included informative employees’ individual needs, starting with the talks on public health problems and early detection basic benefits that the company automatically of serious diseases (breast and prostate cancer). A provides, which employees may choose to expand. nutritionist was hired in the office to guide and care for employees who need to adjust their weight. Likewise, starting with their initial hire, employees undergo a basic medical exam to determine their Furthermore, we gave talks and conferences physical condition and to identify any risk factors related to health, safety and hygiene for all staff. with respect to their health. In our offices we offer This year we invited the ALE Foundation to give a Primary Care Medical Service, the main objective of talk about the importance of organ donation. On which is to prevent chronic/degenerative disease, the occasion of the International Women’s Day we organizing awareness campaigns, vaccination organized the “Climacteric and Menopause — programs, medical advice and health fairs. We also Myths and Realities” conference. We also had a have a Benefit Plan for affordable medical care visit from Bayer Laboratories who spoke about the available to all employees and their families. myths and realities of pregnancy. Finally, in commemoration of the International Day Against Breast Cancer, the CANIPEC organization gave a talk to prevent this disease. 35 Colleagues To encourage interaction and integration among colleagues and their families, as well as their personal development, we organized a number of events during the year. Some of the events held in 2013 were: • Chikimercer • Day of La Candelaria • Day of the Dead • New Year’s Eve party • Film screening • Marsh Kids • Rosca de Reyes (traditional Epiphany celebration); • Women’s Soccer Tournament MMC BLOOD DONATION CAMPAIGN On October 10 and 11 we organized the first MMC Blood Donation Campaign. In collaboration with the Red Cross and Fundación Únete y dona en vida (Join and Donate in Life Foundation), we arranged two rooms (floor 9 of Torre Mayor) and invited employees and visitors to donate blood and provide informative talks. In all 70 people participated from MMC and from neighboring firms such as Deloitte, Western Union and Cibard, from which —after several filters— 33 were eligible and donated. And most importantly, with this campaign we promoted the culture of blood donation, an act that can save a life. 36 REPORTING CRITERIA The 2013 MMC’s Corporate Social Responsibility Report is the third report of this nature that we have published, containing activities conducted by Marsh, Guy Carpenter and Mercer with respect to three dimensions: economic, social and Global Compact’s ten principles, to which Marsh environmental. and Mercer are party. SCOPE OF APPLICATION This is the third year in which we provide quantitative GRI indicators, and as such, there are EThis report covers the data, initiatives and some indicators for which we do not have an achievements of three companies: Guy Carpenter established methodology. México Intermediario de Reaseguro S.A. de C.V., Marsh, Brockman y Schuh Agente de Seguros y de The information was gathered by the Fianzas S.A. de C.V., Marsh & McLennan Servicios, Communication Committees of Marsh and Mercer, S.A. de C.V. and Mercer Human Resource Consulting as well as by the CSR Committee of Guy Carpenter, S.A. de C.V., which constitute the Marsh & with data provided by the business units involved in McLennan Companies (MMC) group established in their management, and was reviewed by experts in Mexico. the field in order to ensure that the contents sufficiently represent the activities and results of our The MMC’s Corporate Social Responsibility Report Corporate Social Responsibility. is prepared annually and covers the period from January 1 to December 31, 2013. We intend to prepare future reports on the progress made towards attaining our objectives to improve For its preparation, we decided to make a first our performance, in addition to more closely approximation to the guidelines of the Global reaching the standards established by the GRI. Reporting Initiative (GRI), which helped us define our content according to their principles and indicators. Likewise, we make reference to the UN 37 AWARDS, RECOGNITIONS AND PARTNERSHIPS MARSH: • CSR certification, Mexican Center for Philanthropy (Cemefi, in Spanish)) PARTNERSHIPS: • Mexican-German Chamber of Commerce and Industry (Cámara Mexicano-Alemana de Comercio e Industria) • Mexican-Japanese Chamber of Commerce and Industry (Cámara Japonesa de Comercio e Industria de México) • Industry Human Resources Association in Tijuana (Asociación de Recursos Humanos de la Industria en Tijuana) • Mining Chamber of Mexico (Cámara Minera de México) GUY CARPENTER: • CSR certification, Mexican Center for Philanthropy (Cemefi, in Spanish) • Reactions Latin America MERCER: • CSR certification, Mexican Center for Philanthropy (Cemefi, in Spanish) • 2013 Top Companies Ranking 38 CONTACT INFORMATION For any comments, questions or suggestions regarding the contents of this report please contact: MARSH GUY CARPENTER MERCER Claudia Ullivarri/Carlos Cervantes Sandra Romo/Guillermo Castro/ Laura Gómez/Ana Cecilia Dueñas Katiuska Hernández Paseo de la Reforma 505 piso 10 Av. Paseo de la Reforma 505 piso 11 Edificio Torre Mayor Insurgentes Sur 1898 Piso 9 Edificio Torre Mayor Col. Cuauhtémoc Col. Florida Col. Cuauhtémoc C.P. 06500 C.P. 01030 C.P. 06500 México D.F. México, D.F. México D.F. Tel. 5999 1900 Tel. 9140 7000 Tel. 5999 1900 claudia.ullivarri@marsh.com sandra.romo@guycarp.com Laura.Gomez@mercer.com carlos.cervantes@marsh.com guillermo.castro@guycarp.com anacecilia.duenas@mercer.com www.marsh.com.mx katiuska.hernandez@guycarp.com www.mercer.com.mx www.guycarp.com 39 APPENDIXES GLOBAL COMPACT Both Marsh and Mercer are party to the UN Global Compact, an international standard that guarantees our commitment to its ten principles, in order to integrate, support and implement a set of key fundamental values regarding: • Human Rights • Labor Standards • Environment • Combating Corruption We reconfirm our commitment to the Global Compact, the ten principles of which have been incorporated in this report as part of its Communications on Progress, pursuant to the cross-referenced table including these principles and the GRI indicators. 40 GRI Table GRI-G3.1 Index STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART I: Profile Disclosures 1. Strategy and Analysis If applicable, Profile Reason indicate the DiscloDescription Reported Cross-reference/Direct Answer for Explanation part not sures omission reported 1.1 Statement from the most senior responsible on the Fully 4 relevance of the sustainability for the organization and its strategy. 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. Fully 4 2. Perfil de la organización If applicable, Profile Reason indicate the DiscloDescription Reported Cross-reference/Direct Answer for Explanation part not sures omission reported 2.1 Name of the organization. Fully 37 2.2 Main brands, products and/or services. Fully 7,8 2.3 Operational structure of the organization. Fully 13 2.4 Location of organization's headquarters. Fully 39 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates. Fully 7,8 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. Fully 37 2.7 Markets served. Fully 7,9 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. Fully 7 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period Fully 5,37 regarding size, structure, or ownership. 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. Fully 38 3. Parámetros de la Memoria 3.1 Reporting period for information provided. Fully 37 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). Fully 37 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.). Fully 37 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its Fully 39 contents. 41 GRI Table If applicable, Profile Reason indicate the DiscloDescription Reported Cross-reference/Direct Answer for Explanation part not sures omission reported 3.5 Process for defining report content. Fully 37 3.6 Boundary of the report. Fully 37 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary Fully 37 of the report. 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, Fully 37 leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of Fully 37 calculations, including assumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. Explain any decisions not to apply, or to substantially diverge from, the GRI Indicator Protocols. 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of Fully 37 information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement (e.g., mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods). 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in Fully 37 the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report. 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Fully 41 Disclosures in the report. 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking Fully 37 external assurance for the report. 4. Gobierno, compromisos y participación de los grupos de interés If applicable, Profile Reason indicate the DiscloDescription Reported Cross-reference/Direct Answer for Explanation part not sures omission reported 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including Fully 12 committees under the highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance Totalmente 12 body is also an executive officer. 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, Totalmente 12 state the number of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or nonexecutive members. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide Fully 14 recommendations or direction to the highest governance body. 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the Fully It is regulated by the highest governance body, senior managers, and Guidelines on Corporate executives (including departure arrangements), and the Governance of Marsh & organization's performance (including social and McLennan Companies environmental performance). approved by the Board of Directors. The league's guidelines are available on p. 12 42 GRI Table If applicable, Profile Reason indicate the DiscloDescription Reported Cross-reference/Direct Answer for Explanation part not sures omission reported 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to Fully It is regulated by the ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. Guidelines on Corporate Governance of Marsh & McLennan Companies approved by the Board of Directors. The league's guidelines are available on p. 12 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise Fully It is regulated by the of the members of the highest governance body for Guidelines on Corporate guiding the organization's strategy on economic, Governance of Marsh & environmental, and social topics. McLennan Companies approved by the Board of Directors. The league's guidelines are available on p. 12 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, Fully 9,10 codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation. 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for Fully 16,17,40 overseeing the organization's identification and management of economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body's Fully 16,17 own performance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance. 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary Fully 5 approach or principle is addressed by the organization. 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and Fully 19,26,40 social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses. 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry Fully 38,40 associations) and/or national/international advocacy organizations in which the organization participates. 4.14 List of stakeholders engaged by the organization. Fully 14 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders Fully 14 with whom to engage. 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including Fully 14 frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholders. 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through Fully 16 stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. 43 GRI Table STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART II: Disclosures of Management Approach (DMAs) Disclosures of If applicable, Management Cross-reference/Direct indicate the Reason for To be Description Reported Explanation Approach Answer part not omission reported in (DMAs) reported Economic Dimension Economic Management Approach Economic Performance Partially 7 Aspect Market Presence Fully 7,8 Indirect Economic Impact Fully 18 Environmental Dimension Enviromental Management Approach Materials Fully 27 Energy Fully 27 Water No Not available All our offices are leased so we have no control over their operation. Biodiversity Fully All our offices are in urban land and therefore have no impact on biodiversity and Aspect protected areas. Emissions, Effluents and Fully 26 Waste Products and Services Fully 27 Compliance Fully No fines or penalties are reported for this item. Transport Fully 28 Overall Fully 26 Labor Dimension Labor Management Approach Employment Fully 32 Labor/Management Fully 32 Relations Occupational Health and Fully 35,36 Aspect Safety Training and Education Fully 34 Diversity and Equal Fully 31 Opportunity 44 GRI Table Disclosures of If applicable, Management Cross-reference/Direct indicate the Reason for To be Description Reported Explanation Approach Answer part not omission reported in (DMAs) reported Human Rights Dimension Human Rights Management Approach Investment and Fully 23 Procurement Practices Non-discrimination Fully 31 Freedom of Association Fully 32 and Collective Bargaining Aspect Abolition of Child Labor Fully 10 Prevention of Forced and Fully 10 Compulsory Labor Security Practices Fully 11 Indigenous Rights Fully 10 Social Dimension Social Management Approach Community Fully 18 Corruption Fully 10 Public Policy Fully No participation is reported for such activities. Aspect Anti-Competitive Fully 10 Behavior Compliance Fully No fines or penalties are reported for this item. Product Responsibility Dimension Product Responsibility Management Approach Customer Health and Partially 8 Safety Product and Service Partially 8 Labeling Policies for the fair design Partially 8 and sale of products and Aspect services. Marketing Partially 8 Communications Customer Privacy Partially 8 Compliance Fully No fines or penalties are reported for this item. 45 GRI Table ECONOMIC DIMENSION Disclosures of If applicable, Management Cross-reference/Direct indicate the Reason for To be Description Reported Explanation Approach Answer part not omission reported in (DMAs) reported Desempeño económico Direct economic value Partially 7 generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations EC1 and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. Financial implications and Fully 26 other risks and EC2 opportunities for the organization's activities due to climate change. Coverage of the Fully 18 EC3 organization's defined benefit plan obligations. Significant financial Fully MMC does not receive EC4 assistance received from financial help from the government. government. Market Presence Range of ratios of Fully 32 standard entry level wage compared to local EC5 minimum wage at significant locations of operation. Policy, practices, and Fully 23 proportion of spending EC6 on locally-based suppliers at significant locations of operation. Procedures for local hiring Fully 100% of our managers are and proportion of senior local, and like the rest of our management hired from colleagues are selected based EC7 the local community at on the Recruitment and significant locations of Selection Policy. operation. Indirect Economic Impact Development and impact Fully 20 of infrastructure investments and services EC8 provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. Understanding and Fully 20 describing significant EC9 indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts. 46 GRI Table ENVIRONMENTAL DIMENSION Disclosures of If applicable, Management Cross-reference/Direct indicate the Reason for To be Description Reported Explanation Approach Answer part not omission reported in (DMAs) reported Materials EN1 Materials used by weight No Not available There is no or volume. measuring system available. EN2 Percentage of materials No Not available There is no used that are recycled measuring system input materials. available. Energy Direct energy Fully 26 EN3 consumption by primary energy source. Indirect energy Fully 26 EN4 consumption by primary energy source. Energy saved due to No Not available There is no EN5 conservation and measuring system efficiency improvements. available. Initiatives to provide Fully 27 energy-efficient or renewable energy based EN6 products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. Initiatives to reduce Fully 27 indirect energy EN7 consumption and reductions achieved. Water Total water withdrawal by No Not available MMC has its source. corporate offices in urban lands which water supply is through the urban EN8 network; thus, without exploitation of natural sources by ourselves. Water sources No Not material MMC has its significantly affected by corporate offices in withdrawal of water. urban lands which water supply is through the urban EN9 network; thus, without exploitation of natural sources by ourselves. 47 GRI Table Disclosures of If applicable, Management Cross-reference/Direct indicate the Reason for To be Description Reported Explanation Approach Answer part not omission reported in (DMAs) reported Percentage and volume of No Not available All our offices are water recycled and leased so we have EN10 reused. no control over their operation. Biodiversity Location and size of land Fully MMC has its offices in urban owned, leased, managed lands thus they do not impact in, or adjacent to, on protected natural areas EN11 protected areas and areas and/or biodiversity. of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. Description of significant Fully MMC has its offices in urban impacts of activities, lands thus they do not impact products, and services on on protected natural areas EN12 biodiversity in protected and/or biodiversity. areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. Habitats protected or Fully MMC has its offices in urban restored. lands thus they do not impact EN13 on protected natural areas and/or biodiversity. Strategies, current No Not material MMC has its offices actions, and future plans in urban lands thus for managing impacts on they do not impact EN14 biodiversity. on protected natural areas and/ or biodiversity. Number of IUCN Red List No Not applicable MMC has its offices species and national in urban lands thus conservation list species they do not impact EN15 with habitats in areas on protected affected by operations. natural areas and/ or biodiversity. Emissions, Effluents and Waste Direct and indirect Fully 26 EN16 greenhouse gas emissions by weight. Other relevant indirect No Not applicable MMC does not emit EN17 greenhouse gas other greenhouse emissions by weight. gas emissions. Initiatives to reduce Fully 27,28 greenhouse gas EN18 emissions and reductions achieved. Emissions of ozoneFully In MMC offices no ozoneEN19 depleting substances by depleting substances are weight. used. 48 GRI Table Disclosures of If applicable, Management Cross-reference/Direct indicate the Reason for To be Description Reported Explanation Approach Answer part not omission reported in (DMAs) reported NOx, SOx, and other No Not material MMC services do significant air emissions not emit significant EN20 by type and weight. emissions of NOx and SOx. Total water discharge by Fully MMC has its offices in urban quality and destination. lands thus the discharge is EN21 made through the urban network. Total weight of waste by No Not available We have no EN22 type and disposal measurement method. methods. Total number and volume Fully MMC has its offices in urban of significant spills. lands thus the discharge is EN23 made through the urban network. Weight of transported, No Not applicable MMC services do imported, exported, or not produce waste treated waste deemed deemed hazardous under the hazardous. EN24 terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. Identity, size, protected No Not applicable MMC has its offices status, and biodiversity in urban lands thus value of water bodies and they do not impact related habitats on protected EN25 significantly affected by natural areas and/ the reporting or biodiversity. organization's discharges of water and runoff. Products and Services Initiatives to mitigate Fully 27,28 environmental impacts of EN26 products and services, and extent of impact mitigation. Percentage of products No Not material MMC services do sold and their packaging not generate EN27 materials that are significant reclaimed by category. amounts of waste. Compliance Monetary value of Fully No fines or sanctions are significant fines and total reported for this item. number of non-monetary EN28 sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations. 49 GRI Table Disclosures of If applicable, Management Cross-reference/Direct indicate the Reason for To be Description Reported Explanation Approach Answer part not omission reported in (DMAs) reported Transporte Significant environmental Fully 27,28 impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the EN29 organization's operations, and transporting members of the workforce. Overall Environmental protection No Not available This item has not EN30 expenditures and been recorded. investments by type. SOCIAL DIMENSION Disclosures of If applicable, Management Cross-reference/Direct indicate the Reason for To be Description Reported Explanation Approach Answer part not omission reported in (DMAs) reported Employment Total workforce by Fully 32,33 employment type, LA1 employment contract, and region. Number and rate of Fully 32,33 employee turnover by age LA2 group, gender, and region. Benefits provided to Fully 35,36 full-time employees that are not provided to LA3 temporary or part-time employees, by major operations. Labor return rate and No Not available This item has not withholding for parental been recorded. LA15 leave after the birth of a child, by gender. Labor/Management Relations Percentage of employees No Not applicable MMC does not covered by collective have any collective LA4 bargaining agreements. bargaining agreement. Minimum notice period(s) No Not applicable MMC does not regarding significant have any collective operational changes, bargaining LA5 including whether it is agreement. specified in collective agreements. 50 GRI Table Disclosures of If applicable, Management Cross-reference/Direct indicate the Reason for To be Description Reported Explanation Approach Answer part not omission reported in (DMAs) reported Occupational Health and Safety Percentage of total Fully MMC has a Civil Protection workforce represented in Committee representing all formal joint managementemployees of the company. worker health and safety LA6 committees that help monitor and advice on occupational health and safety programs. Rates of injury, No Not material MMC services do occupational diseases, not represent lost days, and significant health LA7 absenteeism, and number and safety risks for of work-related fatalities its employees. by region. Education, training, Fully 33,34 counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist LA8 workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. Health and safety topics No Not applicable MMC does not covered in formal have any collective LA9 agreements with trade bargaining unions. agreement. Training and Education Average hours of training Fully 34 LA10 per year per employee by employee category. Programs for skills Fully 34 management and lifelong learning that support the LA11 continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings. Percentage of employees Fully 33 receiving regular LA12 performance and career development reviews. Diversity and Equal Opportunity Composition of Fully 32,33 governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category according to LA13 gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. Ratio of basic salary of Fully In the same position, men LA14 men to women by and women receive the same employee category. salary. 51 GRI Table HUMAN RIGHTS DIMENSION Disclosures of If applicable, Management Cross-reference/Direct indicate the Reason for To be Description Reported Explanation Approach Answer part not omission reported in (DMAs) reported Investment and Procurement Practices Percentage and total Fully 23,24 number of significant investment agreements HR1 that include human rights clauses or that have undergone human rights screening. Percentage of significant Fully 24 suppliers and contractors HR2 that have undergone screening on human rights and actions taken. Total hours of employee Fully 34 training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights HR3 that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. Non-discrimination Total number of incidents Fully No incidents of this nature HR4 of discrimination and were reported. actions taken. Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Operations identified in No Not applicable MMC does not which the right to exercise have any collective freedom of association bargaining HR5 and collective bargaining agreement. may be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. Abolition of Child Labor Operations identified as Fully Our business activity requires having significant risk for highly qualified staff so that incidents of child labor, the risk of child labor is HR6 and measures taken to virtually zero. contribute to the elimination of child labor. Prevention of Forced and Compulsory Labor Operations identified as Fully 10 having significant risk for incidents of forced or HR7 compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor. 52 GRI Table Disclosures of If applicable, Management Cross-reference/Direct indicate the Reason for To be Description Reported Explanation Approach Answer part not omission reported in (DMAs) reported Security Practices Percentage of security Fully 10 personnel trained in the organization's policies or HR8 procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. Indigenous Rights Total number of incidents Fully No incidents of this nature of violations involving were reported. HR9 rights of indigenous people and actions taken. SOCIAL DIMENSION Disclosures of If applicable, Management Cross-reference/Direct indicate the Reason for To be Description Reported Explanation Approach Answer part not omission reported in (DMAs) reported Community Nature, scope, and Fully 19,20 effectiveness of any programs and practices that assess and manage SO1 the impacts of operations on communities, including entering, operating, and exiting of the company. Percentage of operations Fully 19,20 with the local community engagement, impact SO1 (G3.1) assessment and implemented development programs. Operations with Fully 19,20 significant negative SO9 impacts in local communities either potential or real. Preventive and mitigation Fully 19,20 measures implemented on operations with SO10 significant negative impacts in local communities. Corruption Percentage and total Fully 10,11 number of business units SO2 analyzed for risks related to corruption. 53 GRI Table Disclosures of If applicable, Management Cross-reference/Direct indicate the Reason for To be Description Reported Explanation Approach Answer part not omission reported in (DMAs) reported Percentage of employees Fully 10 trained in organization's SO3 anti-corruption policies and procedures. Actions taken in response Fully 11 SO4 to incidents of corruption. Public Policy Public policy positions Fully No participation is reported and participation in public for such activities. SO5 policy development and lobbying. Total value of financial and Fully These kinds of contributions in-kind contributions to are not reported. SO6 political parties, politicians, and related institutions by country. Anti-Competitive Behavior Número total de acciones Totalmente No se reportan esta clase de por causas relacionadas acciones. con prácticas monopolísSO7 ticas y contra la libre competencia, y sus resultados. Compliance Total number of legal Fully These kinds of actions are not actions for antireported. competitive behavior, SO8 anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes. PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY DIMENSION Disclosures of If applicable, Management Cross-reference/Direct indicate the Reason for To be Description Reported Explanation Approach Answer part not omission reported in (DMAs) reported Customer Health and Safety Life cycle stages in which Partially 8 health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for PR1 improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures. Total number of incidents Fully These kinds of incidents are of non-compliance with not reported. regulations and voluntary codes concerning health PR2 and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. 54 GRI Table Disclosures of If applicable, Management Cross-reference/Direct indicate the Reason for To be Description Reported Explanation Approach Answer part not omission reported in (DMAs) reported Product and Service Labeling Type of product and Partially 8 service information required by procedures, and percentage of PR3 significant products and services subject to such information requirements. Total number of incidents Fully No non-compliances of this of non-compliance with nature are reported. regulations and voluntary PR4 codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes. Practices related to No Not available This information is customer satisfaction, considered PR5 including results of confidential. surveys measuring customer satisfaction. Marketing Communications Programs for adherence Partially 8 to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing PR6 communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. Total number of incidents Fully No non-compliances of this of non-compliance with nature are reported. regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing PR7 communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. Customer Privacy Total number of Fully No non-compliances of this substantiated complaints nature are reported. PR8 regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data. Compliance Monetary value of Fully No non-compliances of this significant fines for nature are reported. non-compliance with laws PR9 and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services. 55 Argentina Mexico Australia Netherlands Austria New Zealand Belgium Norway Brazil Peru Canada Philippines Chile Poland China Portugal Colombia Saudi Arabia Czech Republic Singapore Denmark South Korea Finland Spain For any comments, questions or suggestions regarding the contents of this report please contact: France Sweden Germany Switzerland Marsh Guy Carpenter Mercer Claudia Hong KongUllivarri/Carlos Cervantes Sandra Romo/Guillermo Castro/ Taiwan Laura Gómez/Ana Cecilia Dueñas Paseo de la Reforma 505 piso 10 Katiuska Hernández Av. Paseo de la Reforma 505 piso 11 India Edificio Torre Mayor Thailand Insurgentes Sur 1898 Piso 9 Edificio Torre Mayor Col. Cuauhtémoc Col. Florida Col. Cuauhtémoc Indonesia Turkey C.P. 06500 C.P. 01030 C.P. 06500 México IrelandD.F. México,Arab United D.F. Emirates México D.F. Tel. 5999 1900 Tel. 9140 7000 Tel. 5999 1900 Italy claudia.ullivarri@marsh.com United Kingdom sandra.romo@guycarp.com Laura.Gomez@mercer.com carlos.cervantes@marsh.com guillermo.castro@guycarp.com anacecilia.duenas@mercer.com Japan www.marsh.com.mx United States katiuska.hernandez@guycarp.com www.mercer.com.mx Malaysia www.guycarp.com Venezuela
