UN Global Compact CSR report SFK FOOD A/S 2014 Statement of continued support UN Global Compact ‐ by SFK Food A/S Chief Executive Officer SFK Food A/S reaffirm our support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress report (COP), SFK Food A/S describes our CSR strategy and our activities to improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our daily operations. We also commit to share this information with the main company stakeholders using our annual report as well as our primary channels of communication. Specific policies, including The Ten Principles of The United Nations Global Compact, have been defined for human rights, labour rights, occupational health and safety, environment and climate and anti-corruption. SFK Food A/S wishes to promote and develop its Corporate Social Responsibility with respect to human rights, social matters, environmental and climate matters and combating corruption. Statement of continued support UN Global Compact Past year During the past year 2013/2014 SFK Food A/S have been working intensively on optimizing our company, building and taking into work new productionfacility. The new one-site structure simplyfies logistics and reduces internal transportation. At the same time new processing equitment installed reduces energy consumption and reduces handling by workers. On the purchasing side of our business we have recieved commitment from major suppliers that they comply with SFK Food A/S Code of Conduct. Comming year The process of working with our suppliers in respect to the UN Global Compact will continue in the comming year. SFK Food A/S will focus on futher reduction of our CO2 footprint by optimizing transportation and internal energy consumption. SFK Food A/S will actively work on improvement of health for our employees and safe working environment. Casper Sørensen Vice President SFK Food A/S Company profile: SFK Food A/S is a food producing and trading company situated in Denmark and has been selling primarily ingredients, utensils, packing materials to the food industry for more than 50 years. • Our production handles production of more then 3,000 blends and liquid marinades • SFK Food employ approx 110 people. From October 2014 SFK Food A/S is part of the Solina Group. The fusion strengthens our position worldwide with a broader knowledge of the market and giving better possibilities to work with suppliers on issues like social responsibility and environmental behavior. •SFK Food A/S purchases products in many countries around the world and operate in accordance with International standards and relevant laws of the countries in which we operate. •Purchasing of approx. 1000 ingredients from more than 300 suppliers. SFK Food A/S is committed to conduct its business in a transparent as well as socially and environmentally responsible manner. Specific policies including The Ten Principles of The United Nations Global Compact have been defined and incorporated in our Code of Conduct. Company profile: HISTORY SFK FOOD A/S SFK OTZ 1931 SFK is established as purchasing cooperation with 80 1919 W. Oschätzchen Aarhus A/S (OTZ) is established. members in the Danish meat industry. 1960 Own production of mixed spices. 1970 New SFK head quarter with own production, mills and 1973 The business is moved to Viby J. warehouse is established. 1994 Investment in marinade production facility. 1991 First foreign activities in Hungary and the Czech Rep. 2003 Kjeld K. Danielsen and Casper Sørensen acquires the 2001 SFK change name to SFK FOOD A/S and a new strategy business OTZ. with focus on food ingredients is made. Head quarter is moved to Viborg. 2006 SFK/OTZ is formed through a merger of SFK and OTZ. 2004 Merger of SFK Food A/S with Dat-Shaub A/S spice activities. 2012 New owner Odin Kjeld K. Danielsen Casper Sørensen. 2006 SFK FOOD A/S sold to Kjeld K. Danielsen & Casper Sørensen. Acquisition of subsidiary India Nor in Norway. 2012 New owner Odin Kjeld K. Danielsen & Casper Sørensen. Acquisition of subsidiary India Nor in Norway. SFK FOOD A/S 2013 ONE COMPANY ONE SITE 2014 –SFK Food A/S part of SOLINA GROUP CSR strategy SFK Food A/S acknowledges the increasing focus from the market on sustainability and social responsibility and the consumers positive interest in buying products with a good history throughout the supplchain from primary producer to final product. It is the company strategy to work actively with issues related to Cooperate Social Responsibility. SFK Food A/S encourages our business partners to act accordingly by following the Principles laid down in UN Global Compact 10 principles and carry this message on to their business partners, eventually join and support UN Global Compact. SFK Food A/S sees it important for ourselves and our clients / costumers, that the basic principles of UN Global Compact is respected throughout the supply chain in order to respect our fellow human beings and prevent bad will. In order to communicate our message, SFK Food A/S has set up a Code of Conduct for suppliers with a registration and approval. It is the company policy to immediately take appropriate action in case of non-compliance with our Code of Conduct, ultimately withdraw from the assignment. SFK Food A/S ‐ UN Global Ten Principles. Human Rights ( Principles 1-2) Assessment, policy and goals Human rights and workers' rights are defined as priority areas for SFK Food A/S. This relates to the fact that SFK Food A/S generally respects the principles as laid down in UN Global Compact and Danish legislation demands compliance with basic human rights. As a leading Nordic player, SFK Food A/S has therefor taken an active role in this work and compliance with human rights as described in UN Global Compact is part of company Code of Conduct. Implementation SFK Food A/S has implemented the principles in our Code of Conduct and has developed questionnaires / self-assessment to be completed by our suppliers. Measurement of outcomes Through our Code of Conduct system, we will are able to monitor our suppliers regarding the Human Rights area, and based on our evaluation of the response from our suppliers. Our Code of Conduct is tested through physical audit when visiting the suppliers. We have so far found no breaches regarding the Human Rights principles. SFK Food A/S ‐ UN Global Ten Principles. Labour Principles ( Principles 3-6) Assessment, policy and goals Our employees are SFK Food A/S's most important resource. Therefore a good working environment is an important foundation stone in the company business strategy. Implementation SFK Food A/S is working strict according to Danish legislation that implements all issues related to labour rights as described in UN Global Compact. SFK Food A/S is working continuously to prevent discrimination on the grounds of gender, ethnicity or disability. SFK Food A/S prioritizes the provision of equal opportunities for all employees, regardless of gender. Measurement of outcomes SFK Food A/S has received no grievances or complaints from employees or others in relation to (potential) labour rights violations, nor was the organization involved in any labour rights incidences during the reporting period. SFK Food A/S conduct on a regular basis interview with all employee to determin status and need for education. In cooperation between employee and external parts, SFK Food A/S has changed production proces to reduce the handling of heavy product. SFK Food A/S has initiated a program for employees to measure general health and help improve on individual basis. In general SFK Food A/S has succeeded reducing absence due to sicknes with more than 50 % Furthermore, our organization has through our Code of Conduct informed our suppliers on our demands / expectations regarding labour rights. SFK Food A/S ‐ UN Global Ten Principles. Environment ( Principles 7-9) Assessment, policy and goals SFK Food A/S environmental policy is to follow governmental rules and monitor and look for possibilities to reduce energy consumption and emissions of greenhouse gases and other environmentally damaging substances. We work continuously at preventing and reducing the environmental effects of our own activity. Implementation Measuring key figures in relation to energy consumption. In accordance with our action plans we have carried out work on packaging, pallet utilization and cooperation with suppliers to reduce costs and emissions in connection with transport. Measurement of outcomes The trend is in the context of targeted work to improve the utilization of load carriers in the transport system. The building of new factory (production and warehouse) have reduced both the need for internal transportation as well as the overall energyconsumption (heating / cooling, more energyefficient machinery, better utilization of equipment. SFK Food A/S ‐ UN Global Ten Principles. Anti-Corruption ( Principles 10) Assessment, policy and goals Corruption is forbidden according to Danish law and is therefore a fully integrated part of SFK Food A/S business strategy. SFK Food A/S does not accept any use of bribery nor to participate in business transactions where bribery takes place. Implementation Terms for anti-corruption is implemented in SFK Food A/S through Danish legislation. SFK Food A/S Code of Conduct also include the “non-acceptance” of corruption. Measurement of outcomes There have been no cases of corruption in the line of our work over the course of the organization’s existence. If such a situation might arise, SFK Food A/S Code of Conduct requires us to take appropriate action and ultimately withdraw from the assignment. The situation will be evaluated afterwards. MISSION VISION CORE VALUES Mission We provide value added solutions to our customers, which guarantees optimal production of safe food products. Vision The preferred partner. Core values We strive for and reward the best achievement. Niels Bohrs Vej 55 DK-8660 Skanderborg Denmark Tel. +45 89 26 78 88 info@sfkfood.dk www.sfkfood.dk
