Deutsche Bank Building for the future Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 The year at a glance Agriculture Annual General After a comprehensive Meeting review finds that financial Sensitive topics are in instruments are not the spotlight at the Annual responsible for higher General Meeting. staple food prices, ­Shareholders­ voice their Deutsche Bank elects concerns regarding to continue offering ­environmental and social products based on ­­­ issues such as soft agri­cultural commodities. commodities and cluster munitions. Page 25 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Carbon neutrality Integrity The Management Board Committee decides to renew The Supervisory Board Deutsche Bank’s intensifies its oversight commitment to c ­ arbonof ethics and creates an neutral operations. Integrity Committee. Page 82 Page 19 Deutsche Bank KunstHalle Award for banking The bank’s new KunstHalle services in Berlin opens with the The German newspaper city’s biggest-ever free art Handelsblatt names event, attracting more Deutsche Bank ”Best than 12,000 visitors in just Client Advisory.“ 48 hours. Page 78 The year at a glance New class of Green Bond ­apprentices ­Principles About 360 young We join a consortium of professionals begin investment banks in vocational training NGO Dialogue supporting the Green with Deutsche Bank We host a dialogue session Bond Principles – voluntary in Germany, increasing between NGOs and various guidelines to encourage the number of young European banks to discuss transparency, disclosure professionals training controversial topics and integrity in the at Deutsche Bank including the approaches development of this and Postbank to 2,100. banks take to analyzing environmental finance Page 59 the potential environmental market. Page 41 impacts of client activities. Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec ESG investing Legacy issues We create a new ESG We strengthen our control Head Office to intensify framework and confront and align ESG efforts legacy issues, including across our entire asset significant legal matters and wealth manage­ment Deutsche Bank such as the European platform. Page 51 Prize in Financial Commission’s probe into Economics Interbank Offered Rates. The Center for Financial Studies awards the fifth Deutsche Bank Prize in Financial Economics to Raghuram G. Rajan, later Global ­Volunteer nominated Governor of Values and Beliefs the Reserve Bank of India, Award We launch new Values and for his extensive work on We roll out the Volunteer Beliefs in line with our banking, corporate finance Award across all regions. Strategy 2015+ to restore and the role of finance in 16,000 employees take part trust in our organization and economic development. in voting for the winners. meet the expectations of Page 75 Page 67 our stakeholders and society at large. Page 12 The year at a glance How we see responsibility Through our economic success and competitive­ international presence, we create value for our ­ shareholders, our clients, our employees and society at large while up­holding stringent environmental and social norms to support a sustainable future. Applying high standards of ethics and integrity, we strive to be a reliable partner to our stakeholders at all times. We also engage in open dialogue with the public in order to f­oster understanding on topics of mutual interest. To continuously improve our environmental performance,­ we seek to use resources efficiently and to utilize the most ­environmentally friendly technologies. We value the diversity of our employees. We support their talents and offer an attractive work environment that provides for the best possible work-life balance. We believe that our responsibility extends beyond our core business. Therefore, we invest in the socie­ties­in which we operate – and thus in our own future. We build social capital by enabling talent, promoting equal opportunity and driving social change. In keeping with our corporate culture, our employees actively support a vast number of community projects around the world. This is how we combine our performance culture with a ­culture of responsibility. Contents 02 About Deutsche Bank 04 Strategy 2015+ 05 Letter from the Chairmen of the Management Board 08 Introduction 1 Our Controls 17 Control framework Embedding high standards 25 Environmental and social risks Balancing positive and negative impacts 2 Our Business 37 Business with companies Providing sustainable products 42 Business with retail clients Considering diverse stakeholder interests 50 Managing assets for our clients Focusing on ESG 3 Our Commitment 59 Employees Driving cultural change 72 Corporate citizenship Tackling key social challenges 82 Environment Operating sustainably Supplementary Information 90 About this report 91 Independent Assurance Statement 92 GRI index 95 UN Global Compact 96 Corporate citizenship units and foundations 98 Imprint /Publications Deutsche Bank Corporate Profile 2 Corporate Responsibility 2013 About 98,254 Deutsche employees Bank 71 countries We aspire to be the leading client-centric global universal bank. Deutsche Bank’s businesses encompass a wide range of products and services in investment banking, private and commercial banking, transaction banking as well as in asset and wealth management. The Group operates in all regions of the world. Deutsche Bank is the leader in its German home market and enjoys an ­outstanding position in Europe. The bank also has a strong competitive position in North America as well as in key emerging markets, particularly in Asia. With Strategy 2015+, Deutsche Bank is reinforcing its ­com­mitment to the universal banking model, to its home ­market of Germany and to its global positioning. The strategy emphasizes the need for organic growth of its capital base, the further reduction in risk and higher ­operating performance. Deutsche Bank aims to be at the forefront of cultural change in the financial services sector. Deutsche Bank Corporate Profile 3 Corporate Responsibility 2013 ﻿ Corporate Divisions // Private & Business // Global Transaction ­Clients (PBC) Banking (GTB) provides banking and other financial services to ­private provides domestic and cross-border payments, risk customers, self-employed clients as well as small and mitigation and international trade finance for corporate medium-sized businesses in Germany and internationally. clients and financial institutions across the globe. PBC’s product range includes payment and ­current GTB also provides trust, agency, depositary, custody account services, investment management and ­retirement and related services. planning, securities as well as deposits and loans. PBC is a leading retail bank in Deutsche Bank’s home market Germany with a profitable franchise in Italy, Spain, ­Belgium, Portugal, Poland and India. // Non-Core Operations Unit (NCOU) // Deutsche Asset & Wealth was established in late 2012 and is responsible for ­selling capital-intensive assets that are not core to ­Management (DeAWM) the bank’s strategy, thereby reducing risk and capital demand. This also allows management to focus helps individuals and institutions worldwide to preserve on strategic core operations and, at the same time, and increase their wealth. DeAWM offers traditional and increases the transparency of external reporting. alternative investments across all major asset classes as well as tailored wealth management solutions and private banking services to high-net-worth clients and family offices. DeAWM clients can draw on Deutsche Bank’s // Central entire range of wealth and asset management capabilities as well as a comprehensive selection of first-class Infrastructure ­products and solutions. comprises the Corporate Center departments Finance, Legal & Compliance, Group Audit, Tax, Risk, Investor Relations, Communications, CSR & Public Affairs, Human // Corporate Banking & Resources, Group Strategy, Corporate Insurance and DB Research. These support the Management Board Securities (CB&S) through their strategy, risk management and control functions. Most of the processes required for this consists of the Markets and the Corporate Finance are globally integrated into the business divisions, but ­business divisions. Markets combines the sales, trading have their own independent reporting lines. and structuring of a wide range of financial market ­products, including bonds, equities and equity-linked products, exchange-traded and over-the-counter ­derivatives, foreign exchange, money market instruments, securitized instruments and commodities. Corporate Finance is responsible for mergers and acquisitions as well as debt and equity advisory and origination. Regional and industry-focused teams ensure the delivery of the entire range of financial products and services. Deutsche Bank Corporate Profile 4 Corporate Responsibility 2013 ﻿ Strategy 2015+ Strategy 2015+ reflects Deutsche Bank’s dedication to high performance and responsibility. We are driving profound cultural change and reinforcing our commitment to the universal banking model, to our home market of Germany and to our global positioning. Five levers are key to delivering Strategy 2015+. 1 // Clients Our clients are at the center of everything we do. Only through providing sustainable benefits for them can we create sustainable value for our shareholders. We place emphasis on our home market, ­Germany, the Asia Pacific region and the Americas. 2 // Competencies Our business is built on the best people, best processes and consistent improvement. We will provide high-­ quality advice and first-class service with absolute integrity and teamwork, including closer collaboration across our corporate divisions and central functions. 3 // Capital We are committed to further strengthening our capital ratios through organic capital growth and by ­reducing risk-weighted assets in order to establish a strong capital base and rigorous risk-adjusted capital allocation. Thereby we contribute to making the financial system more stable and secure. 4 // Costs We are implementing disciplined cost management and promote consistent productivity gains through building outstanding infrastructure functions and eliminating duplication and organizational complexity. 5 // Culture We aim to be at the forefront of cultural change in our industry. We recognize the need for profound cultural change that places client relationships and integrity at the heart of all our initiatives. Incentivizing sustainable performance helps us to create a culture that reflects societal values and benefits all stakeholders. Deutsche Bank Letter from the Chairmen of the Management Board 5 Corporate Responsibility 2013 ﻿ Jürgen Fitschen and Anshu Jain Co-Chairmen of the Management Board Ladies and Gentlemen, Eighteen months ago, we launched Deutsche Bank’s Strategy 2015+. Our strategy defines a clear path toward our aspiration: to be the leading client-centric global universal bank. As one of the key elements of this strategy, we committed ourselves to placing Deutsche Bank at the ­forefront of cultural change in our industry. Restoring the bond of trust with society is a top priority – for the banking industry and for Deutsche Bank. We are under no illusions. We recognize that deep cultural change is a process of years, not months. During 2013, we laid important foundations for sustainable, long-term change. We defined a new set of Values and Beliefs, which define the type of institution Deutsche Bank aspires to be. We developed these after seeking the views of some 52,000 of our staff, and launched them in our organization in July with the help of the bank’s top-250 leaders. Together with our colleagues in the Group ­Executive Committee, we personally presented and discussed the new Values and Beliefs with more than 11,000 of our people. Deutsche Bank Letter from the Chairmen of the Management Board 6 Corporate Responsibility 2013 ﻿ Our priority now is to embed these Values and Beliefs in everyday ­behaviors. To achieve this, we have changed the way we measure and manage performance. For example: Adherence to our Values and B ­ eliefs now plays a significant role in determining the pay and prospects of Deutsche Bank staff. The path to cultural change also involves reinforcing our internal controls. During 2013, we significantly strengthened our Legal and Compliance capabilities and enhanced our risk management mechanisms. In addition, we are further reinforcing our control model across businesses, control functions and Group Audit – our “three lines of defense” against potential problems. As we strengthen Deutsche Bank for the future, we are also decisively dealing with litigation matters arising from the past. In 2013, we settled some of the most significant cases relating to legacy issues and successfully defended the bank in others. As part of our commitment to a strong risk culture, we developed and ­refined the ways in which we assess environmental and social risks. We seek to provide products and services that create value for society and respond to global challenges such as climate change. In 2013, we established new mechanisms for investing according to clear ­environmental, social and governance criteria. We introduced new ways of ­assessing the balance between clients’ and shareholders’ needs. We were also one of the leading financiers of renewable energy projects. We know that this is an area of much debate, covering different opinions, ­attitudes and interests. We seek to play an active role in that debate by engaging in lively and wide-ranging dialogue with stake­holders who have different perspectives. These commitments are also reflected in our continued support of the UN Global Compact. Once again, Deutsche Bank and its foundations were active corporate citizens during 2013. Some 19,500 employees devoted their time and ­energy to many worthwhile causes and organizations. To recognize their efforts, we have rolled out our Volunteer Award on a global basis. Deutsche Bank Letter from the Chairmen of the Management Board 7 Corporate Responsibility 2013 ﻿ » We act as responsible » During 2013, we laid partners in serving important ­foundations the wider interests of for sustainable society.« ­long-term change.« Jürgen Fitschen Anshu Jain This remains a time of change for our industry, and we anticipate further challenges on the road ahead. However, as we approach the mid-point of Strategy 2015+, we can look back on important progress during 2013. We reaffirm Deutsche Bank’s cultural and strategic objectives and we look forward with confidence. In this report, you will find more details describing our many activities during 2013 as we strive to fulfill our responsibilities to all our stakeholders.­ We invite you to consider our achievements so far, and we welcome your feedback. Yours sincerely, Jürgen Fitschen Anshu Jain Co-Chairman of the Management Board Co-Chairman of the Management Board Deutsche Bank AG Deutsche Bank AG Frankfurt am Main, Germany, March 2014 Deutsche Bank Introduction 8 Corporate Responsibility 2013 ﻿ Creating value for all stakeholders Corporate responsibility For Deutsche Bank, conducting business responsibly means serving the interests and Balancing the dimensions of sustainability meeting the needs of all our stakeholders. Our products and services, which form the basis of our financial return, must address the global economic, social and ­environmental challenges that are shaping the 21st century. We recognize both the risks and opportunities associated with developments such as demographic change, Economics the rise of emerging economies and the pressing issues of environmental protection and climate change. Not only do we seek to address these issues in our core ­business, we also contribute to tackling pressing social challenges through our commitment as a corporate citizen – we focus on furthering equal opportunities and supporting People access to education. Environment and Society The Values and Beliefs we introduced in 2013 underpin our approach to corporate responsibility. They define how we will operate our business while focusing on ­sustainable performance, client centricity, discipline, partnership, innovation, and – above all – integrity. We will create long-term value for all stakeholders, including our clients, shareholders, employees and society at large as well as the environment, by doing what is right, rather than merely what is legally allowed. Succeeding in this will enable us to win back trust. Creating value for all our stakeholders, however, is often a delicate balancing act, as the interests and priorities of various groups are not always identical. Our products and services must primarily meet clients’ financial needs and objectives and also ­provide adequate financial return for the bank. At the same time, they should create benefits rather than risks for society or the environment. At times, it is difficult to fulfill these criteria all at once. Still, we consistently strive to increase the importance of non-financial factors in our core business. The overall benefit of our business is clear: it facilitates capital flows and fuels ­economic development. This, in turn, supports reaching global goals, such as increased resource productivity and greater use of clean technologies. It is our responsibility to further strengthen these benefits while also taking into consideration and curbing the possible negative consequences of our business. We have pursued this approach through a variety of activities in 2013. Deutsche Bank Introduction 9 Corporate Responsibility 2013 ﻿ RobecoSAM sustainability Driving cultural change rating 2013 Financial services companies Index ceiling = 100 Changing our corporate culture is one of the five levers of our Strategy 2015+. Our goal is to create a corporate culture in which performance is rewarded equitably and sustainably. With clear leadership from senior management and input from employees, we took various steps to develop and reinforce the new Values and Beliefs as a basis 100 for long-term cultural change. To evaluate and understand our employees’ attitudes towards the implementation of the cultural change program, we are aligning our 2014 People Survey with the Values and Beliefs. Page 59 76 72 68 69 57 Balancing stakeholder interests and needs 50 44 37 Our Environmental and Social Reputational Risk Framework (ES Risk Framework) 35 ­supports our efforts to respond to the sometimes conflicting interests of our various stakeholders. It enables us to integrate non-traditional criteria into our financial ­analyses – for example, if a profitable transaction could cause harm to communities or the environment. In 2013, the number of transactions reviewed under the Framework increased significantly, further reflecting the growing awareness of environmental 0 and social risks among banking teams. EcoEnvironSocial Total nomic mental criteria criteria criteria We continued to develop the Framework in 2013, providing additional guidance for Global Average Deutsche Bank business units to help them identify whether the environmental and social risks Source: RobecoSAM AG ­asso­ciated with a transaction are unacceptable or require specific mitigating action. New guidance agreed upon this year included a requirement for enhanced due ­diligence of any potential transaction involving fracking technology for extracting shale gas. The bank’s position on critical issues is informed by recognized standards, principles or guidelines such as the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and through dialogue with experts and other financial institutions. For example, we work with the Banking Environment Initiative, which analyzes ways to support efforts by the Consumer Goods Forum to drive deforestation out of consumer goods companies’ supply chains. Page 25 Ensuring client centricity Developments in our private client relationships demonstrate how we balance the needs of shareholders and clients while creating value for both. We have been ­implementing a responsible approach to meeting private clients’ needs since 2008, aiming to ensure that our products are appropriate for our customers’ financial objectives. Deutsche Bank Introduction 10 Corporate Responsibility 2013 ﻿ As the latest building block of this responsible banking initiative, we implemented our FairShare™ concept in 2013. FairShare™ requires our advisors to offer solutions that benefit customers and shareholders equally. New management processes and incentives such as Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) to track the performance of our branches support the FairShare™ principle. Page 42 Strengthening ESG investments Interest in investment products that integrate environmental, social and governance (ESG) factors has continued to grow for private customers and among institutional ­clients. Portfolio managers are expected to actively demonstrate commitment to driving positive change – for example through participating at the annual general meetings of companies that do not perform well in ESG assessments. €5.1 At the end of 2013, we managed around €5.1 billion in assets incorporating ESG criteria and themes. Although this currently represents less than 1% of our total assets under management, we aim to continue growing this area. We strongly believe that an ESG approach contributes to better investment decisions, because taking non-financial ­factors into account helps to identify the future prospects of individual companies and billion the business environment as a whole. Taking these factors into consideration, we established our new ESG Head Office in 2013, which is not only responsible for the managed in assets coordination, development and strengthening of our ESG investment capabilities, but ­incorporating ESG also the implementation of our new ESG strategy across our entire asset and wealth criteria and themes management platform. Page 50 Supporting climate protection and the energy transition We also foster sustainability in our business with corporate clients through providing financing and advisory services in support of the growth of low-carbon businesses and sustainable energy projects. In 2013, we helped finance renewable energy projects with a total volume of over US $3.6 billion and a generating capacity of more than 1,185 MW, making the bank one of the top three private-sector project financiers in the renewables sector. Page 39 Throughout the year, we also worked with other financial institutions to develop the Green Bond Principles. These support a common, voluntary framework for disclosures, ensuring transparency and integrity of this emerging market. Deutsche Bank Introduction 11 Corporate Responsibility 2013 ﻿ In our own operations, we continually seek to minimize our carbon footprint and have renewed our commitment to carbon neutrality. For the second consecutive year, our operations contributed zero net emissions to the atmosphere as a result of our investing in energy efficiency, relying on renewable energy sources and offsetting remaining emissions by buying and retiring high-grade offset certificates. Our focus on ­environmental sustainability has earned Deutsche Bank a place in the CDP Climate Performance Leadership Index two years running. Page 82 Supporting our employees Responsibility begins at home and with our employees. It is our goal to attract talented people, provide employees with rewarding careers and remunerate performance fairly. We therefore continued to develop an inclusive corporate culture and introduced a new diversity strategy. The strategy reflects our dedication to building a pipeline of future female leaders. In 2013, we increased the share of female senior managers to 18.7% and grew the share of female Officers to 31.1%. We have thereby come one step closer to fulfilling the ­voluntary commitment we made alongside other DAX companies in 2011 to ensure that 25% of our Managing Director and Director positions as well as 35% of Officer positions will be held by women by the end of 2018. To support employees in pursuing new professional opportunities at the bank, we launched our “Career Mobility” campaign this year. We also realigned our remuneration and rewards, focusing on a differentiated system that rewards ­people fairly. Page 59 Helping communities to prosper More than Our corporate citizenship programs tackle key social challenges. We support projects around the world that enable talent, drive social change and provide access to art and music. In 2013, we invested €78.2 million in social projects, remaining one of the world’s 2 million most active corporate citizens and reaching more than 2 million beneficiaries. Page 72 people As part of our corporate volunteering programs, over 19,500 bank employees around the world provided a total of 25,000 days of volunteer work this year, sharing their benefitted from time and expertise to support 2,900 projects and non-profit organizations. To honor Deutsche Bank’s our employees’ own volunteering, even beyond the bank’s programs, we launched the corporate citizenship global Volunteer Award in 2013. Employees nominated 200 projects, and more than initiatives 16,000 colleagues voted for their favorites. Page 67 Deutsche Bank Introduction 12 Corporate Responsibility 2013 ﻿ Our Values and Beliefs Our Values Integrity S  ustainable  lient C ­Performance Centricity Our Beliefs We live by the We drive value for We earn our clients’ ­highest standards shareholders by trust by placing of in­­tegrity in putting long-term them at the core of ­everything we say success over ­shortour organization and do term gain We will do what We encourage We deliver true value is right – not just ­entrepreneurial spirit by understanding what is allowed that responsibly and serving our ­balances risks and clients’ needs best returns We communicate We pursue lasting We strive to pursue openly; we invite, performance by mutually beneficial provide and respect ­de­­veloping, nurturing client relationships challenging views and ­investing in the in which the value best ­talent and by created is shared ­managing based on fairly merit Deutsche Bank Introduction 13 Corporate Responsibility 2013 ﻿ Innovation Discipline Partnership We foster ­inno­vation We protect the We build diverse by valuing intellectual­ firm’s resources teams to generate curiosity in our people by always thinking better ideas and acting like and reach more owners ­balanced decisions We enable our We live by the rules We put the common clients’ success by and hold ourselves goals of the firm before constantly seeking accountable to “silo” loyalty by suitable solutions deliver on our trusting, respecting to their problems ­pro­mises – no excuses and working with each other We continuously We achieve o ­ perational We act as ­respon­sible ­im­­prove our excellence by striving partners with ­processes and to “get it right the first all our ­stakeholders p­latforms by time” and regulators and in em­bracing new serving the wider ­ and better ways interests of society of doing things 1 Our Controls »A strong risk culture depends as much on attitudes and behaviors as it does on effective controls. My team develops and implements initiatives aimed both at raising awareness and at understanding risk across the bank as well as creating­a strong link ­be­­tween behavior and compensation. This helps drive a culture in which employees take responsibility for their actions.« Doerte Gerlach, London  She is Head of Risk Culture Initiatives in Deutsche Bank’s department for Risk Management. 1 17 Control framework Embedding high standards 25 Environmental and social risks Balancing positive and negative impacts // Reinforcing responsible behavior A strong control framework must be accompanied by a culture that encourages employees to do the right thing, although it may not be mandated by rules, ­regulations or legislation. We have strengthened our ­compliance ­program and are further building a strong risk-focused culture, for example through expanding our Red Flags Initiative. It has become increasingly important for banks to understand and respond to the potential environmental and social risks associated with business activities. We analyze these risks carefully and are optimizing the risk framework we implemented to minimize harm to people and the environment as well as the reputations of the bank and our clients. Deutsche Bank 1 – Our Controls 17 Corporate Responsibility 2013 Control framework Control framework Embedding high standards — We have laid strong foundations for long-term cultural change by significantly tightening our control environment. — The Supervisory Board intensified its oversight of ethics through the creation of an Integrity Committee. — Our Risk Culture Initiatives program reinforces the ­importance of employee behaviors. — An enhanced Reputational Risk Management Program emphasizes individual responsibilities and provides ­guidance for business managers. Drawing on the recent experiences in the banking sector, we seek to strengthen our control framework and to continually drive cultural change across the bank. Targeted Risk Culture initiatives bring our Values and Beliefs to life and drive a culture in which everyone takes responsibility for their actions. Managing non-financial risks, including reputational risks, is intrinsic to our control framework, supplementing more traditional risk management such as credit and market risks. As global challenges evolve, we also increasingly analyze and mitigate ­environmental and social (ES) risks that may arise in our business. Page 25 Employees are our first line of defense against unethical or inappropriate business practices. We require all employees to act according to the highest standards of ­integrity in everything we say and do. Compliance with all applicable laws and ­regulations is a minimum requirement, but we expect our people to go beyond ­simply what is allowed and do what is right. Guiding interactions with stakeholders All employees are expected to act honestly, responsibly and with integrity, abiding by the letter and spirit of the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. In line with our Values Further information and Beliefs, the Code describes the minimum standards for ethical business conduct db.com/code-of-ethics and guides all our interactions with internal and external stakeholders. Deutsche Bank 1 – Our Controls 18 Corporate Responsibility 2013 Control framework Our commitment to international standards and initiatives Our policies and guidelines reflect our commitment to a wide range of external ­standards, principles and initiatives, including: —U  N Guiding Principles on Business —O  ECD Guidelines for Multinational and Human Rights Enterprises —U  N Principles for Responsible — Principles of the UN Global Compact ­Investment — Wolfsberg Principles — World Bank standards — OFAC Standards — IFC Performance Standards — Transparency International’s — Oslo Convention on Cluster Munitions ­Corruption Perceptions Index — Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil — Financial Action Task Force on — German Corporate Governance Code Money Laundering — International Labor Organization —G  erman Sustainability Code ­standards — ISO 14001 Employees with completed Any material issues or concerns about conduct must be reported and addressed. We ­compliance trainings maintain an open and supportive environment that encourages employees to raise In % questions and concerns, which can be discussed with supervisors or contacts in the bank, including the Compliance, Anti-Money Laundering, Anti-Bribery and AntiCorruption, Legal or Human Resources teams. Employees also have access to a ­hotline to report potentially unethical or inappropriate business practices anonymously. We operate an anti-retaliation policy regarding whistleblowers. Extensive training reinforces our standards. During 2013, 97% of the global bank ­population completed Compliance, Financial Crime and Risk Culture trainings. Over 300,000 assignments were completed by 83,223 staff across 70 countries and in 97%* ten languages. *Based on ­85,696 employees within scope of trainings. Deutsche Bank 1 – Our Controls 19 Corporate Responsibility 2013 Control framework Ensuring robust corporate governance We ensure the responsible, value-driven management and control of Deutsche Bank through our system of corporate governance. Our system functions in accordance with high international standards, including the German Stock Corporation Act and the German Corporate Governance Code, the rules of the US Securities and Exchange Commission and the New York Stock Exchange. In 2013, our Supervisory Board intensified its oversight of ethics through the creation of an Integrity Committee. The committee advises and monitors the Management Board on its measures to ensure the economically sound, sustainable development of the company while protecting the resources of the natural environment, maintaining social responsibility and observing the principles of sound, responsible management Further information and corporate governance. It is also concerned with the integration of these aspects db.com/corporate-governance into corporate culture. In particular, the committee deals with: // Monitoring the Management Board’s measures to ensure the bank’s compliance with legal requirements, authorities’ regulations and the company’s own in-house policies. // Regular review of the bank’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics with a view to fostering ethical and moral conduct within and outside the bank. // Precautionary monitoring and strategic analysis of the bank’s legal and reputational risks that could place the entire bank at risk or lead to material claims for damages Further information against current or former Management Board members and regularly advising and Annual Review page 11 monitoring the Management Board with a view to avoiding such risks. Acting against money laundering, bribery, corruption and other criminal activities In 2013, we enhanced the governance, resources and processes of the Anti-Money Laundering (AML) function. Anti-Fraud, Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption were ­consolidated within the existing global AML function, and the new Head of AML & Financial Crime reports directly to the Management Board. The consolidated ­division is tasked with reinforcing policies, procedures and controls as well as ­communicating our zerotolerance stance on bribery and corruption to all employees, clients and third parties. Deutsche Bank 1 – Our Controls 20 Corporate Responsibility 2013 Control framework Deutsche Bank is dedicated to complying with all applicable anti-fraud, anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws and regulations of the countries in which we operate. We do not tolerate fraud, bribery or any form of corruption, and we do not provide or accept improper inducements in the course of our business dealings. All of our employees as well as third parties that act on Deutsche Bank’s behalf are strictly prohibited from having any involvement in acts of fraud, bribery or corruption. If we cannot obtain or retain business without improper conduct, then we do not engage in that business. The Anti-Fraud, Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption program is strengthening policies, procedures and controls to address operational business risks. As part of this initiative, we have ­commissioned an assessment of global fraud, bribery and corruption risk in all ­divisions. Approximately 180 risk assessment workshops have taken place across all our major hubs, and the outputs will enhance our fraud, bribery and corruption risk management framework. Adherence to anti-money laundering regulations is absolutely fundamental to all Deutsche Bank entities regardless of geographic location. Each entity is required to adhere to minimum standards based on the German Banking Act, the German AntiMoney Laundering Act and the current guidelines of the German Federal Financial Supervisory Authority as well as further guiding principles on anti-money laundering. To familiarize staff with the relevant laws and regulations, as well as our policies and procedures to detect money laundering, we conduct training courses, including those stipulated by the German Anti-Money Laundering Act. All new employees receive this training and take refresher courses at least every two years. The 2013 training program concentrated on information protection and interest rate submissions as well as creating new training modules on sanctions, anti-money ­laundering, anti-bribery and anti-corruption. We are rolling out training on financial crime to all staff globally in 2014. Knowing our customers Effective action against money laundering relies on adequate and up-to-date ­information on client relationships. Know-Your-Customer (KYC) is an ongoing process, from the adoption of the client throughout the life of the relationship. Deutsche Bank’s KYC policies cover new client adoption as well as regular reviews and screening of existing client relationships against internal and external lists of negative information. These policies provide a framework for governance, management oversight, risk assessment and escalation of potential risks to senior management. Deutsche Bank 1 – Our Controls 21 Corporate Responsibility 2013 Control framework As part of a group-wide KYC program, we performed a detailed assessment of existing KYC standards across business divisions and infrastructure functions in 2013 to identify effective measures to further strengthen the bank’s defenses. We have begun an ­in-­depth review of the adherence of operations in 48 countries to Deutsche Bank ­principles. We will also establish a KYC Center of Excellence as a dedicated unit within the Anti-Money Laundering organization. This will bring together relevant subjectmatter expertise and will provide central oversight and advice, including guidance on KYC best practices. Building a strong risk culture Our Risk Culture Initiatives program reinforces the importance of employee behaviors for the bank’s long-term success. This program emphasizes five behaviors that ­employees need to demonstrate: — Being fully responsible for the bank’s risks — Being rigorous, forward-looking and comprehensive in assessing risk — Inviting, providing and respecting challenge — Trouble-shooting collectively — Placing Deutsche Bank and its reputation at the heart of all decisions The importance of adhering to these behaviors is communicated through a variety of channels across all levels of the organization. 82,028 The program also identifies and supports the implementation of mandatory Risk ­Culture training for all employees. In 2013, 82,028 employees enrolled in at least one Risk Culture course, covering topics such as fraud awareness, risk awareness and MaRisk (minimum requirements for risk management). employees enrolled in Risk Culture training courses Using “Red Flags” to monitor risk-related behavior The Risk Culture program’s Red Flags initiative uses objective measures to assess employees’ adherence to risk-related policies and processes. It allows senior managers to address risks more effectively and creates a stronger link between behavior and reward. Employees in breach of an applicable policy or process receive a Red Flag. All Red Flags are risk-weighted depending on the severity and frequency of the incident. Aggregated Red Flag scores are taken into account in reviews of performance, pay and promotion. Deutsche Bank 1 – Our Controls 22 Corporate Responsibility 2013 Control framework Since its inception, the Red Flags process has been rolled out to Corporate Banking and Securities, Global Transaction Banking, Deutsche Asset and Wealth Management, Risk and the Non-Core Operations Unit. Further roll-outs are planned throughout 2014. Some Red Flag categories, such as overdue mandatory training and unauthorized employee trading, are relevant to all divisions and functions. Other categories, such as unauthorized crossings of “Chinese walls” or credit limits are specific to each division’s risk profile. Red Flag categories are reviewed on a regular basis – new indicators may be added, old ones retired or existing ones amended as appropriate. The system is designed to promote compliance, and where possible we help ­employees to avoid Red Flags. For example, employees receive automated e-mail reminders when they are enrolled in mandatory training or when they need to take mandatory time away. Supervisors are also able to access information on risks and policy breaches in their business areas. Since introducing Red Flags, the number of breaches has decreased steadily, indicating a positive change in risk-related behaviors. Ensuring new products are appropriate We are committed to providing only products and services that create value for clients and shareholders through meeting the clients’ needs. Our New Product Approval (NPA) processes provide the scrutiny necessary to achieve these aims and to ensure that we can confidently offer clients our products and services. NPA processes apply to all new product offerings, including variations to existing products. All product developments must be approved by key control functions, including Compliance and AML. NPA committees at the regional and divisional levels must approve developments considered “material,” including new risk factors or ­businesses. In addition, any features causing concern, such as potential reputational impact on the bank, are escalated to the relevant management approval committees, such as the Regional or Group Reputational Risk Committees. Web-based training is provided to ensure that all employees understand the NPA p ­ rocesses and is required for all relevant staff members. Failure to comply with these processes is covered by the Red Flags initiative. Deutsche Bank 1 – Our Controls 23 Corporate Responsibility 2013 Control framework Managing reputational risk Operating responsibly while serving diverse stakeholder interests also means weighing the risks against the value created. Our business model is built on public trust, so it is essential that in addition to standard risk inherent to our business, we avoid risks that can undermine trust. Effective risk management fundamentally stems from employees internalizing their responsibility for the bank’s success and its reputation. We provide guidance and ­procedures to help employees meet this responsibility, such as the Reputational Risk Management Program Policy (RRMPP). The RRMPP lays out consistent standards for dealing with reputational risk issues that may arise from transactions with our clients. It requires reputational risks to be ­adequately identified, addressed and escalated to a more senior level when necessary. As part of the RRMPP, a reputational risk analysis guide provides specific questions for business managers to consider regarding the client profile, the nature and terms of the transaction and any potential reputational impact. Reputational risk escalation Group Reputational Risk Committee Regional / Divisional Reputational risk issues that cannot be resolved at level 2 are escalated Review to the Group Reputational Risk Business Review Committee (GRRC) for final decision. (supported by If no consensus-based solution is reached at level 1, the issue is escalated Control Groups) to the respective regional/divisional Reputational Risk Committee. A potential reputational risk is initially to be reviewed by our Control Groups as well as local management of the business division affected. Overall risk framework Deutsche Bank 1 – Our Controls 24 Corporate Responsibility 2013 Control framework The guide includes questions such as: — Is there any negative market intelligence relating to this client, the client’s ­management team or principals? — Could the transaction be viewed as having no valid business purpose or economic substance? — Could the transaction be viewed by some as promoting activities considered ­contrary to the “public good”? — Are there any non-standard terms, or terms inconsistent with market norms? — Does the transaction raise any actual or potential conflicts of interest? — Does this transaction pose any significant environmental, health or safety risks? If our business managers identify any reputational risk, a further evaluation is required with more senior-level input. G ­ uidelines for specific sensitive topics or industries (such as defense equipment, porno­graphy, betting and gambling) support this evaluation. The bank’s control groups (e.g. Compliance, AML & Financial Crime, Group Sustainability, Legal) are available for consultation and have a say on whether it is reasonable for the bank to pursue the business. Doing the right thing leaves room for discretion and may result in a variety of views. Thus, a case can ultimately be escalated to the Group Reputational Risk Committee (GRRC). The GRRC is a subcommittee of the bank’s Risk Executive Committee and is co-chaired by two members of the Management Board. Page 32 Reputational risk management in practice One of our teams in the EMEA (Europe, Middle-East and Africa) region had the ­opportunity to purchase an interesting portfolio of non-performing real-estate loans (NPL) in a country that suffered from the real-estate crisis. The banking sector was heavily criticized by the public for ­mismanagement during the crisis. The transaction itself would have provided a meaningful revenue opportunity for Deutsche Bank, was well structured and would have increased the bank’s market share in that region ­significantly. The NPL transaction was reviewed, however, due to strong ­concerns regarding public perception and regional reputation, the transaction was not approved. Deutsche Bank 1 – Our Controls 25 Corporate Responsibility 2013 Environmental and social risks Environmental and social risks Balancing positive and negative impacts — Our Environmental and Social Reputational Risk Framework helps us to ­evaluate risks in our core business. — We engage with our clients on environmental and social issues. — Dialogue with civil society organizations, industry experts, our clients and peers in the financial sector helps us to improve our understanding of key issues and to define ­appropriate standards. Strengthening internal frameworks Taking risks is part of our business model. As we lay out in our Values, we are committed to doing what is right, not only what is legally allowed. Thus, we must consider risks that go beyond the traditional financial risks intrinsic to our business, such as credit and market risk. We evaluate potential environmental and social (ES) risks that could arise from transactions or interactions with our clients. When assessing ES risks in certain cases, the answers are clear-cut. For example, Further information Deutsche Bank will not finance pornography or weapons such as cluster munitions db.com/cr/cluster-munitions or key components thereof. Most ES risk issues, however, are more complex. As a global bank, we serve all sectors of the economy. It is therefore not always ­feasible to eliminate all ES risks from our business. We avoid business, however, that could have negative impacts on ecosystems and society. If impacts are unavoidable, they should be mitigated as much as possible through implementing the appropriate improvement measures. We have several mechanisms in place to thoroughly consider the possible ES risks arising from transactions or client relationships. Based on these evaluations, we determine the best course of action. Implementing guidance for ES risks To support our business units in assessing the ES risks that result from client ­relationships or transactions, we have implemented the Environmental and Social ­Reputational Risk Framework (ES Risk Framework) and continually supplement it with a set of ­Environmental and Social Impact Assessment Guidelines for critical sectors. These guidelines help business units to identify whether a transaction is likely to trigger ES risks that are either entirely unacceptable or require specific ­mitigating action. We also developed a training concept to build awareness regarding ES risks in our core business and to further detail the appropriate evaluation processes. The trainings will be rolled out in 2014. Deutsche Bank 1 – Our Controls 26 Corporate Responsibility 2013 Environmental and social risks Beyond these tools, business units are encouraged to consult our sustainability team for advice on complex issues. The team is prepared to review relevant transactions and clients to ensure compliance with our ES Risk Framework and alignment with our broader sustainability commitments and goals. Accordingly, the team offers guidance on whether a client relationship or transaction is justifiable from an environmental and social perspective. In 2013, the number of transactions reviewed by the team under the ES Risk Framework increased by a further 78% as compared to 2012, reflecting the increased awareness of these risks within the business units. Page 32 Identifying risk-prone sectors Through our ES Risk Framework, we define critical sectors that are especially connected with potential ES risks. When transactions or clients relate to these sectors, internal sustainability experts must be consulted throughout the corresponding due diligence and approval processes. We currently see the following sectors as critical: — Pulp, paper and forestry — Chemical industry — Aerospace and defense — Infrastructure — Metals (e.g. steel) and mining (e.g. copper, coal) — Oil and gas — Utilities — Other activities with high carbon intensity We continually scan global developments across markets, regions and industries in order to detect arising environmental or social pressure points. We research issues we consider to present potentially significant ES risks as a basis for developing specific guidance for transactions. In 2013, we analyzed the controversially discussed “fracking” technology for extracting shale gas. This led to an enhanced due diligence requirement for any potential transactions in this sector. Deutsche Bank 1 – Our Controls 27 Corporate Responsibility 2013 Environmental and social risks In developing our position on certain environmental and social topics, we refer to ­recognized standards, principles or guidelines such as the World Bank/IFC ­Performance Standards and the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. We also review existing sectoral standards and industry best practices to help with our decision­making on topics such as nuclear power, palm oil or shale gas. As sustainability is a rapidly evolving field, standards may not always be available or adequate to deal with pressing issues such as climate change, in which case we also consult internal and external experts. Page 33 Shale gas Background The issues The potential to extract shale gas through fracking has — Fracking may result in depleted and contaminated doubled estimated global gas reserves and is improving water supplies, disruption to local communities and energy security. An increase of shale gas production has earth tremors. reduced energy prices, benefitting global economic growth. — Shale gas can reduce total CO2 emissions by replacing Shale gas is the least carbon-intensive fossil fuel and more carbon-intensive fuels, but this benefit could be remains an important bridging fuel as lower-carbon energy reduced or even eliminated by methane leakage. sources are established. Nevertheless, fracking also raises — Fracking may impede growth of renewable energy. specific local environmental and social concerns. — Increased energy security in the US would have major geo-political implications. Our conclusions Many of the implications are still unconfirmed and await the outcomes of current independent research, including the potential impact of methane leakage. We believe, however, that prudent industry practices can manage many risks without significantly adding to costs. A cautious approach is therefore essential. This requires due diligence on well construction, water handling, community ­engagement and other key issues as well as transparency in offer documents for capital market transactions. Deutsche Bank 1 – Our Controls 28 Corporate Responsibility 2013 Environmental and social risks Stakeholder engagement Our understanding and management of ES risks is also greatly informed through our engagement with civil society organizations, industry and academic experts, research institutions, our clients and peers in the financial sector. Conducting wide-ranging dialogue allows us to work with these groups to define or improve standards and voluntary commitments and to discuss ways to apply them in the financial sector. It also supports mutual learning, develops an appreciation of the significance and complexity of the issues, and helps to identify potential solutions. As a result of such dialogue, we can work constructively and communicate openly with our critics, articulating our position on key issues and explaining the limitations inherent to banking products and services. Palm oil In 2013, an important international NGO contacted Deutsche Bank regarding a large Asian company active in the palm oil sector. The NGO called on us to terminate any business ­relationship with this client. While complying with our legal obligation to treat information on clients and client relationships confidentially, we agreed to meet with representatives of this NGO and discuss the issues in the palm oil sector in more detail and learn about the situation in several countries, especially Indonesia. The ­representatives explained the changes they wanted to see, both with this specific ­client and in the sector more broadly. We explained our views, the nature of our client relationships in general, how we have dealt with the issues so far and that we had decided to seek dialogue with the client before any ­further action. The meeting with the NGO did not result in agreement, but we made clear that we are aware of the importance of this issue and helped the NGO to understand our business, our role and the limitations of our influence in the short term. Further information db.com/cr/palmoil Deutsche Bank 1 – Our Controls 29 Corporate Responsibility 2013 Environmental and social risks Engaging with civil society We seek constructive discussions and exchanges with non-governmental organizations (NGOs) – although we do not necessarily agree with certain conclusions that NGOs draw, we value their input. In 2013, meetings with individual NGOs revolved around topics such as monocultures, land grabbing and palm oil. In October 2013, we hosted the eighth dialogue session within the forum Bankendialog. The event was organized by an environmental NGO at our company headquarters in Frankfurt. During the session, representatives of various European banks discussed with NGOs how well banks know their clients, their approach to analyzing the potential environmental and social impacts associated with clients’ activities and whether exclusion or engagement is the best way to help clients who exhibit negative ­sustainability performance. We are open to continuing these discussions in 2014. Collaboration with financial institutions We believe that our impact is stronger if we collaborate with other banks – both ­individually and within groups – as well as interested organizations on ES topics in general or on transaction-specific issues. Deutsche Bank is a member of the Banking Environment Initiative (BEI), which examines how to support efforts by the Consumer Goods Forum (CGF) to drive deforestation out of companies’ supply chains. This initiative covers palm oil and other commodities such as timber, soy and beef, which together account for about half of global carbon emissions arising from deforestation. Member banks work with the CGF committee on supply chains, aiming to bring all high-risk operations to verify that they are ­consistent with zero net deforestation by 2020, as based on the standards that the CGF is promoting. We also collaborate with other banks to improve disclosure of environmental and social risks in offer ­documents for capital markets transactions. The initial effort has focused on the extractive sector. The aim is to help investors make more informed decisions by encouraging issuers to be clear about material environmental and social issues and management plans to mitigate the risks. While many offer documents already include comprehensive disclosure, others fall short – for example by avoiding Further information discussion of risks such as climate change or failing to include adequate management db.com/cr/stakeholderdialogue responses to identified ES risks. Deutsche Bank 1 – Our Controls 30 Corporate Responsibility 2013 Environmental and social risks We also conducted extensive dialogue with banks active in the Thun Group, which is composed of banks interested in a better understanding of the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and how they can be best implemented in the banking business. The group was supported by the University of Zurich Competence Center for Human Rights, a member of the Swiss Center of Expertise for Human Rights in developing a Discussion Paper that focuses on supporting the integration of key ­Guiding Principles into the policies and practices of banking institutions. We will use the proposed guidance to improve our own implementation of the Principles. Engaging with clients As a leading global bank, we inevitably have relationships with some companies that are involved in activities with potentially significant environmental or social risks. We monitor developments in these industries and aim to engage with clients in these ­sectors. Following initial analysis, we seek dialogue with clients to promote transparency and mutual understanding and to address difficult environmental and social issues over the medium term. We believe that conducting constructive dialogue best serves the transformation to a more sustainable future. In 2013, we examined the textile industry in great detail following the Rana Plaza factory fire in Bangladesh. We found that the companies that assign production to such factories have appropriate policies in place, have made commitments and support relevant standards. In practice, however, these principles and standards were not always fully implemented. To understand the reasons behind this, we initiated discussions with specific clients in this sector. The lessons we drew from this dialogue will inform our ES risk assessments going forward. Deutsche Bank 1 – Our Controls 31 Corporate Responsibility 2013 Environmental and social risks Monocultural farming Coal mining Background Triggered by alleged environmental and social issues linked Deutsche Bank was invited to participate in a share offering by to deforestation and ­community conflicts reported by NGOs, a large coal company operating in Asia as part of a consortium we reassess a business relationship with a client active in of other banks. ­agribusiness, especially palm oil production in Asia. ES risk Apply specific guidance we established for monoculture Evaluate the client’s environmental and social management ­farming. system through our ES Risk Framework. Evaluation includes: evaluation — Emissions abatement mechanisms Take various aspects into consideration, including: — Measures to reduce impact on water and biodiversity — Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) membership — Health and safety of workers and communities and certification — Respecting human rights, including rejection of child labor — Commitment to non-deforestation and protection of forests with high conservation value and no fire usage Collaborate within the consortium of banks regarding: — No land grabbing activities — Definition of operating and disclosure practices requiring — Approach for community engagement in-depth analyses and discussions with the client — Ongoing dialogue with the client, focused on selected Initiate the collaboration with a group of peers in the critical ES topics financial industry. — Identification of improvement areas, and definition of resolution measures Deutsche Bank Asia Reputational Risk Committee discusses findings and potential mitigation measures. Findings and Client has sound management system in place that includes: Irrespective of recent progress and initiatives in place, client — RSPO membership with target to complete the certification needs to improve some areas, e.g.: actions in Asia by 2015/2016 — Operations in certain mines despite expiry of licenses or —A  n implemented set of policies pertaining to sensitive topics without environmental clearances — Workplace safety issues, especially a high number of fatalities Despite some efforts by the client to increase sourcing volume — Lacking comprehensive strategy to face climate change, of sustainably grown palm oil from local third-party suppliers, though some initiatives are already in place, e.g. carbon issues exist, e.g.: footprint evaluation supported by independent expert — Lacking control over supply chain — Insufficient policy roll-out/implementation outside of Asia Positive progress regarding disclosure: — Establishment of a Sustainability Report as per Global­ Deutsche Bank and other banks with substantial business Reporting Initiative standards that covers, e. g. ties to the client agree to collaborative engagement. Key areas ­environ­mental and health and safety aspects of operations, of engagement include: subject to a third-party validation. — RSPO application and monitoring mechanisms — Management of supply chain High awareness by client of yet unresolved issues along with — Implementation of new policies a constructive dialogue with consortium. Discussion with NGOs on the topic as well as broader Engagement with the client resulted in a series of dialogue with research ­institutions and academic experts specific c ­ ommitments that were publicly disclosed on on issues associated with palm oil production. Page 26 client’s website, e.g.: —T  hird-party certification (ISO 9001, ISO 14001, OHSAS 18000) across all operations by 2016 — Addressing child labor issue, including in the supply chain — Enhancing safety measures and disclosure — Greenhouse gas measurement and reporting — Broadening stakeholder engagement — Strengthening timely regulatory compliance Decision and Maintain the business relationship but continue to engage Decision to proceed with the transaction in light of the ­client with our peers and maintain broader discussions on agreed upon specific commitments. Consistent monitoring follow-up issues associated with palm oil production. of the implementation progress. Deutsche Bank 1 – Our Controls 32 Corporate Responsibility 2013 Environmental and social risks Facts and figures Transactions escalated due to reputational risks Number 2013 2012 2011 To regional/divisional Reputational Risk ­Committees 98 95 96 thereof with environmental and social issues 7 15 9 To Group Reputational Risk Committee 8 7 3 thereof with environmental and social issues 0 1 0 Total 106 102 99 thereof with environmental and social issues 7 16 9 Transactions assessed within ES Risk Framework Number In %, per sector 21% 800 Metals 721 and mining 19% Other 3% Chemicals 400 406 6% 21% Pulp, paper Oil and gas and forestry 13% Utilities 17% Aerospace 70 and defense 0 2011 2012 2013 Deutsche Bank 1 – Our Controls 33 Corporate Responsibility 2013 Environmental and social risks Key positions Issue Position Agricultural Speculation has been cited as a cause for Financial products are essential to efficient markets. The evaluation of numerous studies commodities increased food prices, adding to hunger and conducted by experts resulted in no convincing empirical evidence that financial activities poverty. have led to higher prices or increased price volatility for agricultural commodities. We therefore decided to lift the temporary ban on agricultural hedging products we self-imposed on our business in January 2013. Nevertheless, we support increased transparency and appropriate regulation. Coal Coal-fired power plants are the most Deutsche Bank supports a well-balanced, future-oriented overall energy mix that takes ­carbon-intensive and polluting energy economics as well as ecology into account. We believe that coal power is still needed sources and therefore strongly affect c ­ limate to close the energy gap as renewable energy sources are not yet sufficient to meet change. Coal mining is criticized for its demand in most economies. Therefore, we do not generally avoid doing business with ­negative impact on the ecosystems and the coal industry. Instead, we require that companies: ­communities as well as poor labor conditions. — meet sustainability criteria such as the IFC Performance Standard — have certifications such as ISO 14001 — use the latest technologies to limit environmental impacts Cluster Cluster munitions are of particular Deutsche Bank has not provided direct funding for cluster munitions since 2009. An munitions ­humani­tarian concern because they expanded Cluster Munitions Policy has been in effect since Autumn 2011 and prohibits are not tar­geted weapons and leave doing business with conglomerates that manufacture or distribute cluster munitions, a large amount of exploded material including key components banned under the Oslo Convention on Cluster Munitions. behind, which can harm civilians. As a result, we have exited relationships with several conglomerates. Although we might fulfill existing contracts, we do not extend them. We may consider doing business with clients in this sector only if we obtain a written statement confirming the termination of its cluster munitions-related business. Human Human rights abuses include poor working Agreements such as the UN Global Compact, which Deutsche Bank has signed, explicitly rights conditions such as child labor and forced require respect for human rights. We have integrated human rights considerations in labor, conflicts between communities the due diligence processes required by our ES Risk Framework, and we aim to continually­ and security forces and infringement of improve guidance on human rights issues, for example through involvement in the water rights. ­discussions of the Thun Group. Hydro Hydro power projects can have negative We evaluate adverse social and environmental impacts of hydro power projects through power social and environmental impacts, including­ our ES Risk Framework. We also check the project background, developers and financial involuntary community resettlement, institutions involved to ensure that the appropriate sustainability standards are in place ­degradation of water quality, destruction before making the decision whether to reject, escalate or approve the transaction. of sensitive sites (environmental, religious) and loss of wildlife habitat. Monocultural Deforestation destroys habitats, threatens Although we are aware of the issues inherent to monocultural farming in general and farming/ extinction of some species, contributes ­especially the palm oil industry, we recognize that this industry positively affects economic Palm oil to greenhouse gas emissions and climate development in certain countries and that there is currently no suitable alternative to palm change and creates conflicts with local oil for most uses. As a minimum, clients in this sector are required to provide a certification communities whose land may be taken plan for their plantation or mill in accordance with the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil over (land grabbing). (RSPO) criteria. Nuclear Opposition to nuclear power stems from In spite of public doubt, Deutsche Bank views nuclear power as an important source of power the dangers inherent to the industry, such energy as we transition to a more sustainable energy mix. We therefore support nuclear as pervasive radioactivity due to nuclear power financing in the civil sector. Our internal guideline defines countryand projectaccidents and improper nuclear waste specific criteria such as: ­disposal. Attention on the nuclear power — signing international agreements and treaties relating to the sector sector has increased significantly since the — proof of adherence to health and safety, environmental and social standards Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster in 2011. — evaluation of seismic activity and flood risks — plans for community resettlement db.com/cr/in-focus 2 Our Business »Moving to a green economy will ­require US $1 trillion per year in clean energy investment by 2030 – four times the current investment­ volume. Innovative financing ­solutions are thus called for. That’s why I am proud to actively apply my ­financial expertise to renewable ­energy investments.« Bhaswar Chatterjee, New York  He leads Deutsche Bank’s Americas Energy and Infrastructure Finance team. 2 37 Business with companies Providing sustainable products 42 Business with retail clients Considering diverse stakeholder interests 50 Managing assets for our clients Focusing on ESG // Driving sustainable ­business We integrate sustainability criteria into our core business to capture new opportunities. Our products and services must not only meet the demands of the economy, but also contribute to meeting social and environmental ­challenges. We seek to ensure that they provide value for clients, shareholders, employees and society at large. To achieve that goal, we have introduced initiatives and processes to balance the interests of private clients and investors, enhanced our approach to environmental, social and governance investing and we allocated more than US $1.2 billion to renewable energy projects. Deutsche Bank 2 – Our Business 37 Corporate Responsibility 2013 Business with companies Business with companies Providing sustainable products — We enhanced our services to approximately 900,000 clients in the German “Mittelstand.” — We were involved in financing more than 1,185 MW of renewable energy projects worth more than US $3.6 billion. As a global bank, we maintain relationships with a wide range of corporate clients operating all over the world and across various industry sectors. Clients use our ­products and services along their complete value chains, from resource exploration and extraction to post-consumer waste management and recycling as well as all ­business and consumer services in between. These relationships connect us indirectly with the positive and negative impacts on society and the environment associated with our ­clients’ spectrum of economic activity. As a result, the majority of cases we evaluate through our Environmental and Social Risk Framework stem from our business with corporate clients. Page 25 Supporting businesses worldwide More than ever, the needs of our clients are central to our discussions of what products and services are appropriate and necessary in today’s economy. We continually strive to provide the solutions that best suit our respective clients and meet their needs. In 2013, we provided first-time capital market access to 190 companies from 35 countries and connected 7,000 financial institutions from 110 countries to global debt and equity markets. We help our clients to manage financial risks, ranging from fluctuating interest and foreign exchange rates to commodity, equity and credit prices. In 2013, our teams supported 7,000 companies and institutions in their risk management. We were named “Bank Risk Manager of the Year” by Risk Magazine and won the Euromoney “FX Poll” for the ninth year in a row. Restructuring our SME business One of our core client groups are smalland medium-sized enterprises (SMEs). In our home market of Germany, an estimated 3.7 million SMEs – also known as the “Mittelstand” – generate nearly 55% of the total economic output.1 Our clients include 900,000 of these firms, making us the market leader in Germany. 1 Source: Institut für Mittelstandsforschung, Bonn. Deutsche Bank 2 – Our Business 38 Corporate Responsibility 2013 Business with companies We aim to expand the products and services we offer to this sector, which we have segmented into four groups: corporate clients, family-run companies, self-employed clients and business clients. This differentiated approach will help us to provide ­suitable solutions for each type of client. In 2013, we restructured the banking services we provide to SMEs to combine local ­services with the expertise and reach of a global, universal bank. We created 180 additional advisory centers that are well connected in their local markets and have increased decision-making powers in order to meet the needs for closer client contact and to provide access to the services of a global, universal bank. Many smaller businesses are still primarily interested in classic bank loans, but the increase in global trade has rendered other services, such as international money transfers, trade finance and risk management much more important. In partnership with the European Investment Bank (EIB), we instated a €400 million global loan this year, which can be accessed to provide low-interest credits with midto long-term financing to SME clients in Germany, Italy, Poland and Spain. Through the interest rate advantage gained by refinancing through the EIB, Deutsche Bank is able to provide low-interest loans to SME clients. The transition to low-carbon growth Governments, companies and investors are increasingly These actions, however, are not yet sufficient to reduce the acting on environmental issues such as climate change risks of climate change according to official expert bodies. by instating legislation, changing business models and The International Energy Agency concluded that no more policies and by revising investment processes. For instance: than one third of proven fossil fuel reserves can be used if global warming is to be limited to 2˚C. — 138 countries have renewable energy targets and 66 countries have feed-in tariffs The non-diversifiable nature of climate change risks – such — Over 40 national and 20 sub-national jurisdictions as restrictions on fossil fuel use – is of increasing concern ­covering 20% of global emissions have either to major pension funds, insurance companies and other ­implemented or are considering mechanisms that investors. Investors with nearly US $3 billion in assets wrote price c ­ arbon emissions to major oil and gas companies, citing their concerns — The EU proposed changes to its carbon market about the viability of their current capital expenditure plans, as well as a 2030 emissions reduction target to potential stranded asset risk and their risk exposure to the address the oversupply in carbon allowances physical impacts of climate change.1 caused by the recession 1 Data based on information collected from Climate Strategies, World Bank, European Commission, International Energy Agency and Ceres. Deutsche Bank 2 – Our Business 39 Corporate Responsibility 2013 Business with companies Financing a transforming energy landscape To support clients developing low-carbon businesses or acquiring and selling related companies and assets, we provide customized financing and advisory services. This includes structuring financial solutions for the development, construction and operation of renewable energy projects. US $1.2 In 2013, Deutsche Bank allocated more than US $1.2 billion to clients’ renewable energy projects. This makes us one of the top three private-sector project financiers in billion clean energy globally.1 We advised and provided financing to facilitate the construction of solar, wind and run-of-river hydro power as well as waste-to-energy projects with a total capacity of more than 1,185 MW, worth more than US $3.6 billion. allocated to clients’ ­renewable energy projects We continue to work with clients to support Germany’s transition towards renewable energy in spite of strong headwinds. According to Bloomberg New Energy Finance, renewable energy investment in Europe fell 41% to US $57.8 billion due to policy ­uncertainty or as countries reduced relevant subsidy payments. Solar technology cost reduction also contributed to the lower investment levels as the volume of solar installations increased by 20% globally. The German cleantech sector, in particular, has faced slowing demand for solar and wind investments in Europe. Throughout the year, we supported several German cleantech companies. For example, we acted as joint lead arranger and bookrunner in extending a €29 million syndicated credit line for the wind and solar project developer WKN AG. We also had a major role in a 13-member consortium that provided a €252 million credit line to the German renewable project developer Juwi Group. Beyond our core business activities, we hosted client briefings on policies and Further information ­developments and held meetings with policymakers to offer feedback on policy db.com/cr/energy-transition proposals. 1 Bloomberg New Energy Finance. Deutsche Bank 2 – Our Business 40 Corporate Responsibility 2013 Business with companies Our trade and export finance services also help companies to expand into new markets. We supported €74 billion of trade finance activity with letters of credit and €1.95 billion of loans assisted by export credit agencies in 2013. In the energy sector, we provided export credit loans for: — Connecting a 300 MW wind farm in Kenya to the power grid through a transmission line project — Refurbishing a power plant in southeastern Europe to reduce emissions and improve efficiency — Upgrading a pipeline compressor station to improve energy efficiency in Eastern Europe Renewable energy also remains an important sector for our Trust & Agency Services group. In total, we supported 15 renewable energy projects with a project size of 1,250 MW worth €2.3 billion. For example, we are providing various services to a ­consortium buying the transmission line for the UK Greater Gabbard offshore wind farm, the second largest offshore farm globally. In the US, we offer a variety of services for significant energy efficiency upgrades for a wide range of public-sector clients. Our work begins when project financing is funded into an escrow account and then continues after the energy efficiency upgrade project is completed. We manage the project’s cash flow, paying out the value of energy ­savings to the lending bank, project developer and building owner. We supported 71 major US projects in 2013, including installing efficient windows, lighting and heating systems in public housing in New York, replacing streetlights in Oakland and retrofitting buildings at multiple Department of Defense installations to reduce energy costs and improve energy security. Deutsche Bank 2 – Our Business 41 Corporate Responsibility 2013 Business with companies Deutsche Bank also took on the role of trustee and paying agent for California’s San Bernardino County’s Property Assessed Clean Energy (PACE) program. The program provides an innovative way to finance energy efficiency and renewable energy upgrades to buildings by enabling property owners to pay for improvements at no personal cost as the loan is repaid through property taxes. Over the past two years, California’s PACE program has supported over 6,000 property owners in making energy efficiency upgrades to their homes, which will reduce their annual energy consumption by over 67 GWh and reduce annual CO2 emissions by 17,000 t. Green Bonds Green Bonds raise funds for projects that benefit the We supported the development of the Green Bond ­environment and are a fast-developing addition to ­Principles in 2013. The Principles will help the market the fixed income market – using the debt capital m ­ arkets to develop by creating a common, voluntary framework is a priority to finance the low-carbon transition. and standard disclosures. They support transparency and integrity, providing guidance to issuers on the necessary components for a Green Bond issue, including: — The project selection process — The use and management of proceeds — Reporting requirements Deutsche Bank was one of two other lead managers for one of the first Green Bonds, supporting the European Investment Bank in raising CHF350 million for renewable energy and energy efficiency projects. We also acted as joint bookrunner for Unibail-Rodamco, a European ­commercial property company, which raised a €750 million, ten-year Green Bond. Deutsche Bank 2 – Our Business 42 Corporate Responsibility 2013 Business with retail clients Business with retail clients Considering diverse stakeholder interests — We introduced further measures to support the FairShare™ principle. — Results of our annual client satisfaction survey showed ­continued improvement. — We provided €769 million in financing for energy-efficient buildings and renewable energy in Europe. As one of the leading banks for private and business clients in Europe, we continued to face the aftermath of the financial crisis throughout 2013. We therefore focused on topics such as the ongoing uncertainty regarding the future development of ­capital markets, stricter regulations to protect consumers and regaining clients’ trust. At the same time, more is expected of financial institutions. Clients are better informed and question the costs associated with products and services. Given this new reality, we strive to best meet our clients’ demands and expectations. Our FairShare™ principle Creating value for clients as well as shareholders is essential to responsible banking, and we continually seek ways to anchor this concept in our business. This understanding is at the core of the FairShare™ principle, which has been anchored in our private and business client division since 2012. The FairShare™ principle reflects the culmination of developments since 2008 to foster a client-centric approach. These developments include transparent product information Further information sheets to provide clear facts about our products, software to help sales staff meet our db.com/cr/advisory quality standards and a broader Responsible Banking Initiative. Deutsche Bank 2 – Our Business 43 Corporate Responsibility 2013 Business with retail clients Product Code and Product Principles As part of FairShare™, we implemented a Product Code and Product Principles. These commit us to creating long-term value for clients and shareholders through Further information products that are transparent, part of the real economy and beneficial to individuals db.com/cr/code-of-values yet not harm­ful to the general public. In line with this commitment and the bank’s overall approach to reputational risks Page 23, we will not advise on or offer products directly connected with: — Wagers on death, illness, invalidity or insolvency — Production and sale of nuclear weapons, cluster munitions or land mines — Speculation on commodity scarcity1 — Encouragement or use of child labor — Criminal activities, including illegal drugs and money laundering — Human rights violations The Responsible Banking Committee of senior executives supervises compliance with these principles. In 2013, we reviewed our worldwide credit product offering (mortgages, consumer finance and business products) to ensure compliance with FairShare™. Measuring performance for clients In 2013, we introduced new key performance indicators (KPIs) to measure the value creation for our clients within the FairShare™ principle. Client performance indicators include the volume of net new business, results of the client quality survey and client performance. // Net new acquisition client volume: We measure the development of our performanceadjusted client volume because we believe that only satisfied clients will recommend us to others or expand their banking relationship with us. // Client quality index: In calculating this index, we take into consideration the results of client satisfaction surveys, mystery shopping and personal feedback from clients who are contacted by phone after an advisory meeting that resulted in a transaction. Page 44 // Client performance: We compare the development of client portfolios with results from model allocations, taking into consideration our clients’ investment goals and risk appetite. 1 Except for hedging business clients’ trading activities. Deutsche Bank 2 – Our Business 44 Corporate Responsibility 2013 Business with retail clients We regularly communicate our FairShare™ approach to our employees and consistently provide relevant material on our intranet platform. Our online trainings also include ­targeted modules on client centricity, underlining the importance of responsible banking and supporting the implementation of FairShare™. Client satisfaction In 2013, around 410,000 clients participated in our client satisfaction survey. Their responses show us how they perceive our services, how loyal they are to Deutsche Bank and how they rate the quality of our advice. Despite the difficult market situation, we were able to improve the results in these fields in comparison to the year before. The client loyalty index rose from 67.0 to 68.4 points in 2013; the quality of advice also improved, increasing from 68.7 to 70.7 points.1 We use mystery shopping, a control mechanism that entails a third-party auditor acting as a client, to check compliance with our quality and advisory standards. In 2013, we carried out circa 8,600 test purchases and conducted approximately 7,500 telephone interviews with clients following an advisory meeting. Our mystery shopping index is based on the results of these test purchases and client interviews. This index increased from 82% to 83% in 2013. The results of our client satisfaction survey, test purchases and client feedback contribute to the objectives we set for our branch offices. Product responsibility and consumer protection In line with our principles, we aim to promote products that provide capital for the real economy and offer solutions customized to our clients’ needs. Before granting loans or approving lines of credit, we analyze our clients’ financial situation. We carefully proof that the duration of our credits is appropriate as compared to the financing ­purpose and do not finance if there is a danger of debt overload. We do not offer incomprehensible product bundles or products that do not include clear benefits for the client. 1 Calculation based on TRI*M methodology on a scale of –66 to +134. Deutsche Bank 2 – Our Business 45 Corporate Responsibility 2013 Business with retail clients In addition to our exclusion criteria, some products are not available to certain client groups. For example, products with long-term and limited tradability will not be actively sold to people over the age of 70. Employees must be sure that clients understand the characteristics, functions and risks inherent to a product. Product information and marketing materials must be understandable and must provide all relevant information, including costs and price. Sustainable products We also aim to contribute to the development of a sustainable economy. In all our European operations, we provide financing for energy-efficient buildings and ­renewable energy. Additionally, we extended our cooperation on these products with KfW bank in Germany to Italy and Poland in 2013. €388 Our network of branches in Europe also sells sustainable investment funds. In 2013, these funds attracted around €388 million from retail clients (2012: €450 million). Page 48 We also serve around 900,000 entrepreneurs, freelancers, business owners and million ­companies – many of them family-run. This year we consolidated our competences for ­private clients, business clients and smalland medium-sized enterprises that are not in sustainable primarily oriented towards the capital market. Page 37 investment funds Accessible banking We aim to make our banking services accessible to all clients and we make provisions for special needs. Since 1995, Deutsche Bank has strongly supported the “Ein Konto für Jedermann” ­initiative to make a current account available to everyone, regardless of financial ­status. The principles of this initiative are explicitly stated in our account opening Further information guidelines, and we already meet the standards of the EU Directive on Basic Accounts, db.com/cr/accessibility which are currently in discussion. Deutsche Bank 2 – Our Business 46 Corporate Responsibility 2013 Business with retail clients The products and services we offer are tailored to the specific needs of certain ­customer groups. For example, we have equipped new ATMs in Germany with ­headphone jacks for a voice menu and lettering in braille to enable access for people with visual impairments. As we remodel branches worldwide, we aim to improve access for the disabled through measures such as eliminating steps, adjusting the width of doors and creating more maneuvering space for wheelchair users. Our telephone and online banking services enable customers to access banking ­without visiting a branch. In 2013, we introduced the “elektronisches Postfach,” an online service that enables our clients to order securities statements, credit card ­statements and account balance statements via phone or internet. We will continue to expand these services in 2014. Promoting financial literacy The amount of debt incurred by young people in Germany has quadrupled over the past ten years, increasing the need for students to understand personal finance. Through our financial literacy initiative in the German ­market, Deutsche Bank employees make their expertise available to schools. They provide practical guidance to help students manage their money better and discuss ­topics ranging from the history of money and banking to the global financial markets in order to improve students’ understanding of the economic system. In other countries, we also promote financial understanding via print and online media in order to maximize the reach of these initiatives. Deutsche Bank employees volunteer in schools Further information db.com/cr/financial-literacy-initiative Deutsche Bank 2 – Our Business 47 Corporate Responsibility 2013 Business with companies and retail clients Facts and figures Business with companies Corporate Banking & Securities: Renewable energies and cleantech* In € m. 2013 2012 2011 Public merger and acquisition – 2,200 5,435 Equity and debt 5,512 231 2,290 Project finance 2,595 1,916 2,117 The volume of renewable energy and cleantech deals reported is strongly affected by the number of confidential deals (which are excluded from the reported numbers) and sector activity. *Excluding undisclosed transactions and secondary deals. Renewable energy and clean technology, selected deals Advisory Siemens’ €2.5 billion initial public offering (IPO) spin-off of its lighting company subsidiary Osram – the first major German spin-off transaction since 2005 that will facilitate Osram’s and the lighting industry’s transformation to energyeffi­cient LEDs. Deutsche Bank role: lead financial advisor Equity issues A US $250 million follow-on offering for the US solar technology company SunEdison. Deutsche Bank role: left bookrunner A £238 million IPO for Infinis Energy, the largest corporate renewables IPO in Europe, in 2013, for a leading independent renewable energy generator. Deutsche Bank role: joint global coordinator and joint bookrunner Debt issues A US $1.2 billion convertible senior notes offering, raising 35% of the company’s market capitalization, facilitated by a US $320 million bridge financing. Deutsche Bank role: lead bookrunner and advisor A US $300 million in senior convertible notes for the market-leading integrated solar company SunPower. Deutsche Bank role: left bookrunner Project finance A £55 million in senior loan facility for an innovative biomass-powered ­combined heat and power plant in London, UK. Deutsche Bank role: mandated lead arranger, sole underwriter, security and facility agent, hedge counterparty, account bank and letter of credit issuing bank Financing of the US $346 million Copper Mountain Solar 2 project, a 150MW thin-film solar PV project in Nevada, US. Deutsche Bank role: one of the Mandated Lead Arrangers in a group of seven banks to finance the project; Deutsche Bank also acted as letter of credit ­issuing bank as well as hedging bank Trust and A £300 million project bond for the transmission line for the Greater Gabbard agency offshore wind farm in the UK. ­services Deutsche Bank role: principal paying agent, common depositary, account bank, bond trustee and security trustee Deutsche Bank 2 – Our Business 48 Corporate Responsibility 2013 Business with companies and retail clients Business with retail clients Client loyalty index Private & Business clients (TRI*M value 1) 70 62 54 2011 2012 2013 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Source: Private & Business Clients, Client Survey, TNS Infratest Financial Research Institute. 1 TRI*M (Measure, Manage, Monitor) is the globally-leading system for stakeholder management and client loyalty. It is tailored to the individual needs of companies in order to incorporate information from all stakeholder groups into the decision-making process. Sustainable products for private and business clients In € m. 2013 2012 2011 KfW loans granted to private and business clients in Germany 623.0 578.5 624.6 thereof KfW green loans to private clients in Germany 501.0 470.0 507.8 thereof KfW green loans granted to SMEs in Germany 122.0 108.5 116.8 Green loans granted to private and business clients in Europe (excl. Germany) 146.0 178.5 132.0 Volumes in sustainable investment funds in private and business clients accounts in Germany 319.0 320.0 353.0 Volumes in sustainable investment funds in private and business clients accounts in Europe (excl. Germany) 69.0 130.0 144.0 Deutsche Bank 2 – Our Business 49 Corporate Responsibility 2013 Business with companies and retail clients Barrier-free branches ATM and banking terminals with braille Number, Germany Germany 5,000 4,450 487* Barrier-free branches in Germany 4,020 3,984 2,500 0 2011 2012 2013 *Total number of branches, Germany: 734 Best client Mandated advisory Lead Arranger of the year for renewable / German energies ­newspaper / Infrastructure Handelsblatt Journal Awards Deutsche Bank 2 – Our Business 50 Corporate Responsibility 2013 Managing assets for our clients Managing assets for our clients Focusing on ESG — We created a Head Office for environmental, social and ­governance (ESG) investing to further drive ESG integration in our asset and wealth ­management activities. — We internationalized proxy voting guidelines to ­ strengthen our approach to corporate governance issues at portfolio companies. — At the end of 2013, we managed and advised on €5.1 billion assets integrating ESG criteria and themes. Individuals and institutions increasingly view environmental, social and governance risks and opportunities as significant for long-term returns. Interest in dedicated drivers of ESG services such as inclusion of ESG factors in the investment processes, exclusions of specific activities such as cluster munitions and participation at companies’ annual general meetings in particular is growing. This interest also extends to our high-net-worth clients, family offices, churches and foundations. Responding to these ­developments, we are expanding on our previous involvement in the ESG field. As a responsible investor, we believe that the integration of ESG into our investment processes is part of our fiduciary duty. Not only do we analyze the ESG per­formance of companies we invest in, but we also support projects that tackle climate change or improve food security through our advisory mandates for impact investment funds. Globally, the ESG market accounts for nearly US $14 trillion, which indicates that approximately one fifth of all professionally managed assets incorporate ESG factors. Of these assets, 89% are comprised of institutional assets while retail assets make up the remaining 11%.1 At the end of 2013, we managed and advised on €5.1 billion assets incorporating ESG criteria and themes (2012: €4.5 billion), representing less than 1% of total assets under management, or €923 billion. Factors that contributed to this increase include intensified Further information consulting and advisory services for churches and foundations regarding sophisticated db.com/cr/sustainable-investments ESG-mandated solutions. 1 Global Sustainable Investment Review 2012, GSIA. Deutsche Bank 2 – Our Business 51 Corporate Responsibility 2013 Managing assets for our clients Anchoring responsibility in asset and wealth management ESG assets under management In 2013, we restructured our asset and wealth management activities to create a In € bn. ­platform that integrates our active, passive, alternative and wealth management ­businesses. In line with the bank’s commitment to sustainability and in order to ­intensify and align our ESG efforts across this new platform, we also established an ESG Head Office. The Head Office unifies our ESG expertise and supports 0.2 research and product development in a dedicated unit with an expanded team Passive investments of ESG specialists. 1.1 The ESG Head Office is not only responsible for the coordination, development and Alternative investments strengthening of our ESG investment capabilities, but also the implementation of our new ESG strategy across the entire Asset and Wealth Management division. Three ­pillars define this strategy: // Risk management: produce in-depth ESG research to support investment decisions and to reduce investment and business risks. 3.8 Active management // Governance: roll out consistent ESG policies and procedures for all asset and wealth management to ensure that all employees are aware of available information and comply with processes. // Value creation: identify existing product gaps and develop new, responsible ­products and services. To demonstrate our commitment to responsible investing, our asset management business signed the United Nations’ Principles for Responsible Investing (PRI) in 2008. We report our activities and progress towards implementing the Principles according to the PRI Framework. As required by PRI, our 2013 report will be publicly available for the first time. Based on the historically greater prominence of responsibility as an investment theme in Europe, we have mainly focused on applying the Principles in our European activities. Going forward, we seek to apply them in other regions as well. Incorporating ESG analysis into investment processes We strongly believe that an ESG approach contributes to better investment decisions. It adds an extra dimension to investment analysis, helping us to better understand ­individual companies and the business environment they operate in. Further information rreef.com We provide our equity and bond analysts and portfolio managers with ESG ratings db.com/cr/sustainable-investment data in our research portals, alongside conventional financial and market data. Page 52 Deutsche Bank 2 – Our Business 52 Corporate Responsibility 2013 Managing assets for our clients Our ESG research process Our analysts and portfolio managers are provided with raw ESG data and detailed reports on more than 4,000 listed companies and on 130 countries by external research ­providers. Company data covers topics such as environmental management, workers’ rights and quality of reporting and disclosures. Country data includes social standards and treatment of natural resources. In addition, our staff receives carbon-specific data on 2,500 companies from an external research firm. We use this raw data to create ratings based on companyspecific priorities. Each company is rated on a scale from A to F as compared to the median for the respective regional investment universe. The rating therefore indicates how well a company is managing the ESG risks and opportunities compared to its regional peers. Active ownership Our US and European entities have participated in proxy voting for our retail and i­nstitutional equity funds for more than a decade. In 2013, we internationalized our European proxy voting policy so that it accounts for the global exposure of our ­European mutual and institutional fund entities. For the corresponding US entities, we apply similar guidelines to all investee companies, which are tailored to regional requirements. As part of enhancing our ESG commitment, we have increased our focus on governance issues in our proxy voting activities. We also provide portfolio managers and analysts with guidance on ESG issues to be raised at company meetings, including key questions on the role of ESG in ­company strategy and the supply chain, social and environmental policies as well as other areas of stakeholder interest. We encourage constructive, active verbal and written dialogue with companies on any matters of corporate governance and control that could be subject to interpretation. We focus our engagement on companies that are below average in our rating system Further information or contravene internationally agreed standards like the UN Global Compact. All voting dws.com results (“proxy voting”) of our Europe-based funds are now published on our website. Deutsche Bank 2 – Our Business 53 Corporate Responsibility 2013 Managing assets for our clients Advancing ESG implementation Within the investment industry, we actively seek to advance ESG implementation – especially in Europe, where we participate in the activities of some of the most ­influential bodies regarding ESG investments such as Eurosif and EFAMA. This year, we contributed to Deutsche Börse’s recommendations for capital market communication on sustainability and worked with the International Integrated Reporting Council, which published its reporting framework at the end of 2013. To broaden understanding of ESG investing, we published the White Paper ­“Environmental, social and governance (ESG) data: Can it enhance returns and reduce risks?” The paper explains the concept of ESG investing and highlights ­investment benefits. The author recommends full consideration of ESG by any ­institutional or private investor, viewing it as a longer-term strategy that can Further information enhance investment returns and reduce risks by capitalizing on insights into the db.com/cr/esg-white-paper business relevance of specific ESG factors. We also encourage companies to position sustainability at the heart of their business, continuing to jointly award the German Investor Prize for Sustainable Business (Deutscher Investorenpreis für verantwortliches Wirtschaften) with the DuMont-Verlag publishing house. The award recognizes companies that demonstrate outstanding success in incorporating ESG matters into their core business activities. Volkswagen and the packaging and bottling machine manufacturer Krones won the awards in 2013 thanks to their environmental commitment and human resource performance. Pursuing ESG mandates In addition to integrating ESG into our retail and institutional investments, we also offer ESG-specific investment opportunities based on criteria such as best-in-class or low-carbon technology as well as tailored investments to meet investors’ specific requirements. In addition, we manage impact investment funds for institutional clients. Further information A dedicated team of portfolio managers advises these funds, which include, but aatif.lu eeef.eu are not limited to, three public-private partnerships focused on sustainable energy gcpf.lu in emerging economies, energy efficiency in the EU and food security in Africa. In 2013, we launched two new retail equity funds. DWS Invest II ESG Equity Europe has a special focus on considering ESG factors alongside fundamental analysis. We also repositioned the DWS Klimawandel in order to take the continually increasing exposure of the fund to the water sector into account. Now known as DWS Water Sustainability, the fund invests globally into companies operating along the value chain of the water sector, including infrastructure, water technology and resource management. The fund also focuses on companies with traditionally high water consumption that are actively reducing their water footprint. Both funds aim to invest in companies with at least average ESG ratings, but can include lower ratings followed by active engagement with these companies on critical issues. Deutsche Bank 2 – Our Business 54 Corporate Responsibility 2013 Managing assets for our clients Empowering individuals and communities In addition to the ESG strategy in our asset management business, Deutsche Bank has a long record of using its expertise to channel capital to projects that would not receive the financing they need based on purely commercial criteria. Whenever possible, we partner with others and involve our employees as pro-bono consultants to empower the social sector. Page 67 “Outstanding” rating Our experience of public-private partnerships includes more than 20 years’ support awarded by the Federal for affordable housing initiatives in the US. Our commitment goes well beyond the Reserve Bank over the requirements of the Community Reinvestment Act (CRA) – the Federal Reserve Bank course of the past has consistently rated Deutsche Bank “outstanding” for this performance. 20 years Launched in 2011, at a time of public-sector spending cuts, the Impact Investment Fund (IIF) has helped to close a financing gap for social enterprises in the UK. In 2013, the IIF invested £1 million in the Social Impact Accelerator (SIA), the first pan-European publicprivate partnership supporting social enterprises. The SIA is a pilot project backed by the European Investment Fund to address the growing need for equity capital for social enterprises, which promote alternative sources of employment for marginalized groups. At the end of the year, two additional investments by the IIF in the Impact Ventures UK and the Social Venture Fund II were confirmed and will be finalized in 2014. In addition to providing finance, the IIF helps to develop the existing market infrastructure for social impact investing. An estimated We were the first global bank to launch an investment fund supporting the micro­ 3.8 finance sector in 1997, and since then we have pioneered standards to promote ethical behavior in the industry and protect its clients. We have lent a total of US $305 million to 125 microfinance institutions in 51 different countries, seeding an estimated 3.8 million loans for micro-entrepreneurs – worth US $1.67 billion. This includes US $100 million through the Global Commercial Microfinance Consortium II, which million supports ­micro­finance institutions with loans and technical assistance grants. In 2013, Deutsche Bank also secured US $75 million from institutional investors for the microloans have been facilitated Microfinance Enhancement Facility (MEF), a public-private initiative with US $469 million by Deutsche Bank from the public sector and development banks. MEF provides funding to microfinance since 1997 institutions worldwide, improving access to financial services for micro-entrepreneurs who are running productive small businesses, thus stimulating growth, creating jobs and reducing poverty. Deutsche Bank’s Community Development Finance Group launched a US $4 million not-for-profit loan fund in 2013 to support the Global Alliance for Clean Cookstoves. The Alliance aims to replace traditional stoves and open fires in developing countries, which create indoor air pollution that is responsible for four million deaths a year. The Clean Cooking Working Capital Fund will provide finance and loan guarantees to Further information designers, distributors and fuel suppliers, who have previously struggled to access db.com/cr/microfinance funds for early-stage development. Deutsche Bank’s Community Development Finance db.com/cr/community-development Group will manage the fund and invest up to US $500,000. Page 96 Deutsche Bank 2 – Our Business 55 Corporate Responsibility 2013 Managing assets for our clients Facts and figures ESG assets under management In € m. 2013 2012 2011 Active management Retail and institutional investments, including best-in-class funds and themed funds as well as Wealth Management, Private Banking services for High-Net-Worth individuals and institutional clients 3.787 3.413 2.843 Passive investments Exchange traded funds in accordance with ESG criteria 163 32 31 Alternative investments Impact investing, including funds with environmental or social objectives that are sponsored by governments and/ or institutions 1.128 1.017* 110 Total 5.078 4.462 2.984 *Due to a change in basis of calculation, data has been revised. In 2013, Deutsche Asset & Wealth Management (DeAWM) managed assets with a volume of €923 billion (December 31, 2013). Microfinance Estimated cumulative financing to micro-borrowers Estimated cumulative number of microloans financed since 1997, in US $ bn. since 1997, in m. 2.00 4.0 3.8 1.67 3.2 1.49 2.8 1.26 1.00 2.0 0 0 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 Best Private Bank Germany – Ranked 2013 1st / Euromoney in the “Fuchs report 2013 – Stiftungsver­mögen im Test” / Fuchs report 3 Our Commitment »As soon as I began earning a salary,­ I started to contribute to society.­ ­Because I wanted to get involved in my neighborhood, I decided to offer my hands-on assistance at the ­Sagrada F ­ amilia’s Social Civic Centre in Barcelona four years ago. Winning the Volunteer Award has reinforced my motivation to continue this work.« Alex Marzo, Barcelona  He is the regional winner of Deutsche Bank’s Volunteer Award and Relationship Manager in the Private & Business ­Clients division. He helps families that cannot afford to cover all their children’s education costs and volunteers to foster social integration. 3 59 Employees Driving cultural change 72 Corporate citizenship Tackling key social challenges 82 Environment Operating sustainably // Realizing our ­commitments Our commitment to our employees, society and the ­environment is vital to our corporate responsibility approach. It includes our determination to develop a ­culture that encourages desirable employee behaviors and rewards responsible and sustainable performance. With our corporate citizenship programs, we tackle key social challenges – we enable talent, drive social change and promote art and music. Corporate volunteering has become an integral part of our corporate culture. In 2013, our volunteers supported 2,900 projects around the world. We also continually seek to reduce our global operations’ impact on the environment and have renewed our commitment to carbon neutrality. Deutsche Bank 3 – Our Commitment 59 Corporate Responsibility 2013 Employees Employees Driving cultural change — We are laying the foundation for cultural change through implementing our new Values and Beliefs. — Training and developing our employees remains a priority to ensure that we have talented people to secure the future of the bank. — Sustainability criteria are included in our performance and compensation practices. — We launched our Diversity Strategy 2.0 to develop a more inclusive and diverse organization. Employee commitment index In 2013, we laid the foundation for long-term change with the release of our new Values In % and Beliefs, placing Deutsche Bank at the forefront of a profound cultural change in our industry. By living these Values and Beliefs in daily interactions with our stakeholders, employees have a critical role to play in helping us to restore the trust lost during the 100 financial crisis, which is also at the heart of our Strategy 2015+. Page 4 72 74 73 Establishing our Values and Beliefs 62 Throughout the year, we undertook an intensive process of internal consultation and 50 collaboration to establish the Values and Beliefs that underline our cultural change. We conducted our most comprehensive dialogue exchange to date, engaging with employees and management immediately after our strategy review. We gathered ­feedback from more than 52,000 employees, representing over half of the bank’s ­global population. This feedback was used by senior management to identify the ­cultural themes that needed to be developed to support the delivery of Strategy 2015+. These include: fully focusing on our clients, observing the highest levels of integrity 0 n/a* across all our ­client relationships, maintaining operational discipline and collaborating 2011 2012 2013 more effectively across departments. Index Response Rate Our Group Executive Committee took a strong lead in developing and interpreting *Not conducted in 2013, due to review in line with Values and Beliefs. Scheduled for 2014. our cultural themes as well as the Values and Beliefs. Extensive sessions were held with the bank’s top 250 leaders to ensure that these Values and Beliefs were fully endorsed by our most senior employees. CoCEO -led Managing Director Culture Forums across key regional locations focused on the definition of good conduct from the perspective of our employees and society at large. The collective feedback received was ­acknowledged at the 2013 Senior Management Conference, during which the bank’s top 250 leaders endorsed the new Values and Beliefs. Page 12 Deutsche Bank 3 – Our Commitment 60 Corporate Responsibility 2013 Employees Measuring change We are integrating our Values and Beliefs into people management tools such as objective setting, performance management, leadership, management assessment and people development tools. We are developing organizational metrics and systems to support the measurement and adoption of desired behaviors. This will be achieved through the use of client management information systems, client satisfaction metrics and performance ­measurement systems, including the creation of a scorecard with financial and nonfinancial metrics. Managing operational transformation In 2013, we started a comprehensive project to better serve clients, tighten controls and improve cost-efficiency. The project not only includes the streamlining of our ­processes and the introduction of new technologies or ­systems, but also requires all employees to be open to new ways of thinking, which will lead to new habits and a very different approach to daily work. In the past, we may have underestimated the potential emotional effects of change. We have therefore developed a series of measures to support leaders and employees throughout the transformation. These include: guidelines on managing change; surveys to assess how employees are processing the change both mentally and emotionally; and coaching, workshops and trainings on how to increase efficiency. Recruiting top talent The attraction and selection processes for new employees are key to the successful implementation of our Values and Beliefs. This affects not only new hires, but also our processes for internal mobility. Our approaches to recruiting talent are tailored to our Group-wide programs, divisions and regions as well as the requirements of the respective target groups. Social media has proven very successful in our recruitment. In 2013, our German Facebook careers Further information page was ranked as the No. 1 page among Facebook career pages of the financial facebook.com/DeutscheBankKarriere ­services industry in Germany.1 1 Based on November 2013 analysis by the portal Karrierebibel.de. Deutsche Bank 3 – Our Commitment 61 Corporate Responsibility 2013 Employees Deutsche Bank as an attractive employer 28 th Despite the current image challenges of the banking industry and our limited profile in some countries, Deutsche Bank was ranked the 28th most attractive employer in the world and is the first non-US bank to be ranked in Universum’s World’s Most Attractive Employers Survey Business Ranking. The ranking is based on a survey of 200,000 students from around the world that assesses career expectations and most attractive employer ­perceptions of employers. Our strong positioning as an employer is reflected in our in the world ­graduate acceptance rate: 81% of employment offers made to recent graduates were accepted in 2013. Talent acquisition In headcount 2013 2012 2011 Graduates hired globally 501 653 713 Female share of hired graduates in % 33.7 35.5 33.3 Hires by major job categories In k FTE1 2013 2012 2011 Officers2 2.9 3.1 3.8 Non-Officers 5.0 5.3 7.3 Total 8.0 8.3 11.1 1 Full time equivalent = total headcount adjusted proportionately for part-time staff, excluding apprentices and interns. Officers comprise all employees with corporate titles, including: Managing Directors, Directors, Vice Presidents, 2  Further information Assistant Vice Presidents and Associates. db.com/careers Excluding Postbank, Sal. Oppenheim, BHF, DB Investment Services; corporate titles not implemented. Developing our employees In 2013, we translated Strategy 2015+ into a development approach that incorpor­ates our Values and Beliefs by: — Building capability across the organization and developing managers into future leaders — Creating an environment that encourages sustainable performance in line with the bank’s strategy — Investing in the professional and personal development of our employees and managers to motivate them and maximize their capabilities Deutsche Bank 3 – Our Commitment 62 Corporate Responsibility 2013 Employees We aim to cultivate a broad pipeline of talent. We therefore invest in the professional and personal development of all our employees. In 2013, we launched the Career ­Mobility campaign, which is designed to encourage employees to explore opportunities within the bank. Our intranet provides access to resources and information on open positions – all open positions for the Vice President level and below are posted ­internally for two weeks. Only if no suitable candidate is found are positions then posted externally. Appointing senior talent A Group-wide approach to the bank’s senior talent is crucial to building a strong ­pipeline of future leaders who can guide sustainable performance, growth and the right culture in the long term. To this end, a People Committee was formed in 2013. The Committee is a formal body that steers and governs bank-wide strategic talent prac­tices. It is chaired by our CoCEOs. Senior appointments are centrally coordinated to ensure that the most qualified talent from across the bank is quickly identified for critical open positions. This is closely linked to succession planning and supports cross-divisional mobility, development, retention of key talent and greater progress on senior female appointments. Managing performance Differentiating performance and letting our employees know where they stand is essential to rewarding them fairly and motivating them. We review employees’ ­performance based on both what they have achieved (performance objectives) and how they have achieved this (Values and Beliefs). Employees typically have two formal reviews with their direct manager each year – a mid-year review and a year-end review. Supported by ongoing informal conversations throughout the year, these formal reviews present a coaching and feedback opportunity to discuss performance and develop employees’ career goals. Performance evaluations conducted by managers also inform compensation and promotion decisions. We ­support employees in reaching higher levels of performance by developing new skills and capabilities through appropriate training and development programs. In 2013, more than 95% of employees in scope completed a performance review using the bank’s system for supporting employee performance and development. Deutsche Bank 3 – Our Commitment 63 Corporate Responsibility 2013 Employees Aligning compensation with sustainable performance Public perceptions of compensation in the banking sector were generally very critical in the wake of the financial crisis. Redesigning our compensation and benefit schemes is therefore important to our strategic employee initiatives. In 2012, we commissioned an Independent Compensation Review Panel to assess management compensation practices at Deutsche Bank. The panel’s review included benchmarking the bank’s compensation systems against industry best practice as well as current and expected regulatory requirements. The Panel’s findings, published in 2013, noted that “governance processes around the bank’s compensation structure, decision-making and related disclosures are of a high standard.” The panel went on to state that such processes should still, however, be evaluated regularly. We are in full agreement with this and have made changes to compensation governance aspects in 2013. In accordance with local data protection and labor laws, we initiated a process to compile a list of all employees (currently excluding non-managerial staff in Germany) who had received a disciplinary sanction during the year. The information collected as well as the examination of the general context are considered when deciding on individual compensation. We also include data from our Red Flags Initiative in this process. Page 21 Further information Furthermore, our Deferred Compensation Plans allow for forfeiture of certain db.com/reports ­compensation components in cases of policy breach. Deutsche Bank 3 – Our Commitment 64 Corporate Responsibility 2013 Employees Driving diversity To be successful in the long term, we must have the right mix of skills and talents. Diversity is therefore anchored in our Values and Beliefs. This year, we launched Diversity Strategy 2.0 to encourage and develop a more inclusive and diverse culture and organization through concentrating on five key elements. Diversity Strategy 2.0 Key elements Increasing leadership & Delivering transparency accountability — Review facts and develop — Enhance leadership training ­strategy based on those facts — Learn from other organizations — Use facts to overcome myths — Develop a pipeline of diverse future leaders Establishing governance Maximizing communication — Strengthen links between with stakeholders the global and regional — Aligning communication diversity councils ­processes — Showcasing “best practice” examples Setting minimum global diversity standards Enhancing training Our leaders’ attitudes towards diverse points of view strongly influence team motivation, results, innovation and collaboration. Educating our leaders on diversity aspects is therefore an essential element of our Strategy 2015+. In September 2013, we rolled out a new e-learning module, “Great minds don’t think alike – The power of different perspectives,” to all employees globally. This module presents employees with the opportunity to challenge their own assumptions and outlines ways to make fact-based decisions. The topic is also covered in half-day ­leadership seminars that all Managing Directors and Directors in Germany are required to attend. To date, 33% of Managing Directors and Directors have completed the training. Deutsche Bank shares in diversity best practice and is eager to learn from our peers. The bank is a founding member and signatory of the Charter de la Diversidad in Spain, the Charte de la Diversité in Luxembourg and the Charta der Vielfalt in Germany. Deutsche Bank was elected to the Board of the German charter in January 2013. Deutsche Bank 3 – Our Commitment 65 Corporate Responsibility 2013 Employees Promoting women Although the Management Board and the Group Executive Committee currently have no female members, we are committed to increasing diversity within these bodies. We are therefore building a pipeline of senior talent to ensure better female representation in our senior succession planning. This year, the third cohort of women took part in the award-winning ATLAS (Accomplished Top Leaders Advancement Strategy) program and the fourth cohort took part in the Women Global Leaders program. Both programs have proven to be effective in increasing the number of women in leadership positions. More than 50% of the participants are now in positions with new or greater responsibilities. Delivering transparency Along with the other DAX (German share index) companies, Deutsche Bank signed a declaration in 2011 to increase the proportion of female senior managers to 25% (Managing Director and Director levels) and for all officer titles to 35% by the end of 2018, as subject to applicable laws worldwide. We made further progress towards these targets this year. We increased the proportion of female senior managers to 18.7% by the end of 2013, and of all officer titles to 31.1%. Further information Through our Women on Boards initiative, we have increased the female membership db.com/cr/diversity on our subsidiaries’ supervisory boards and on our regional advisory boards. Female staff Based on global corporate titles, in FTE 2013 2012 2011 Female members on Supervisory Board 7 8 8 Share in % 35.0 40.0 40.0 Female members on Management Board 0 0 0 Female Managing Directors and Directors 1,724 1,702 1,680 Share in % 18.7 18.0 17.1 Female Officers 13,777 13,627 13,150 Share in % 31.1 30.8 29.7 Female Non-Officers 18,664 18,845 19,833 Share in % 55.8 56.0 55.6 Total female staff* 32,441 32,472 32,983 Share in % 41.7 41.7 41.2 *Total not including female members on Supervisory Board. Excluding Postbank, Sal. Oppenheim, BHF and DB Investment Services; corporate titles not implemented. Deutsche Bank 3 – Our Commitment 66 Corporate Responsibility 2013 Employees Looking out for the health and well-being of our employees We regard the development of Deutsche Bank’s health management as an integral part of our corporate culture. We offer employees worldwide a wide range of health benefits such as medical checkups, an employee assistance program, flu vaccination, occupational health services and worldwide emergency services on business trips. These are complemented by a variety of programs and initiatives. We introduced a health portal in Germany as a new feature to our system. Work-life balance We aim to empower employees to work and manage their family commitments ­effectively. Where possible, we provide flexible working arrangements for parents that include opportunities to work from home, shared jobs or part-time employment. Worldwide, we have set up around 400 childcare spaces near workplaces. In Germany, Part-time employment the UK and the US, we provide more than 5,700 emergency care days for children every In %, headcount year. Our college planning scheme in the US supports parents in the process of their children’s college applications. In the UK, we offer tax-efficient childcare vouchers to employees. 13.2% Workshops and other advisory services for parents returning from maternity or paternity leave are also provided in many locations. In 2013, Spain launched a new maternity coaching program, and in the US, Deutsche Bank was named one of the 2013 “Working Mother 100 Best Companies” for the 14th time since 1996. Our efforts in Germany have paid off – approximately 80% of employees return to work after their parental leave. Part-time employment by region 86.8% In headcount Americas APAC EMEA Germany UK Part-time employees 44 52 1,259 12,584 281 In % of total staff 0.4 0.3 7.5 23.1 4.3 Full-time employment  Part-time employment A family-friendly company In 2013, Deutsche Bank was re-certified by the Hertie Foundation as a family-friendly company for the third time since 2007. The certification is awarded to companies that enable employees to balance their work and family life and is a renewed confirmation Further information of our family-friendly ­policies, which are consistently implemented in our day-to-day ghst.de operations and embedded in leadership behavior. Respecting labor rights We respect the rights of our employees and adhere to local labor laws wherever we operate. We interact closely with employee representatives and works councils in line with legal regulations. Employees affected by changes are kept informed in accordance with these requirements. In all communication with employee ­representatives and works councils, we seek solutions and provide full transparency and ­information-sharing. Prior to any further restructuring, for example, we present a comprehensive overview of our plans to the works council. Deutsche Bank 3 – Our Commitment 67 Corporate Responsibility 2013 Employees Engaging employees 19,562 Deutsche Bank has supported employee volunteering and fundraising for non-profit organizations for more than 20 years. This is how we connect the commitment of individual employees with the bank’s responsibility agenda. Employee engagement has become integral to our corporate culture, and in 2013, more than 19,500 employees employees (25% of global staff) volunteered over 25,000 days of their time. volunteered more than 25,000 days in 2013 Representative employee surveys prove that our colleagues appreciate the bank’s Corporate Volunteering offer and are eager to get involved: 58% of non-volunteers and 93% of current volunteers state that they are likely to participate again in the future. Page 81 To celebrate employees’ own volunteering, even beyond the bank’s programs, we launched the global Volunteer Award in 2013. Employees nominated more than 200 projects and more than 16,000 colleagues voted for their favorites. The 18 regional Further information winning projects each received a donation – one of them is VIS De La Sagrada Familia, db.com/volunteering Alex Marzo’s initiative in Barcelona. Page 56 Deutsche Bank encourages employees to get involved in three different ways: 774 // Offering hands-on support: Employees give their time to non-profit organizations,­ often working together in team challenges. Deutsche Bank supports these efforts through donations and paid leave and covers costs for materials needed. These ­volunteering opportunities are an integral part of the curriculum for the bank’s team challenges ­apprentices and interns. involved more than 12,500 employees in 2013 To celebrate the 10th anniversary of Deutsche Bank Asia Foundation, employees were invited to volunteer across the Asia Pacific region. The theme – ”10 years, 10,000 hands“ – spelled out the program goal, and in total, more than 6,600 employees spent 44,854 hours on 435 projects. // Acting as mentors: Nearly 1,600 Deutsche Bank employees made their knowledge and experience available to young people and immigrants, who needed guidance or tried to start their career in a new country. Fourteen of them volunteer as mentors on the German National Scholarship program, which provides support for talented and ambitious scholarship students from underprivileged families. In Sweden, Deutsche Bank launched a partnership with Mentor Sverige, encouraging employees to help young people to prepare for independent living. // Providing pro-bono support: The expertise of our employees in fields such as finance, project management and marketing helps organizations to improve their performance. This is why we encourage our employees to make their professional skills available to schools and charitable organizations, microfinance institutions, social businesses or foundations. Deutsche Bank 3 – Our Commitment 68 Corporate Responsibility 2013 Employees 698 Globally, we extended our Corporate Community Partnership (CCP) program, which sends Deutsche Bank managers on short-term assignments to non-profits in developing countries. In Germany, the Partners in Leadership initiative matches our managers with school administrators who are increasingly facing human resources, project employees management and other organizational challenges. The schools and organizations benefit passed on their from our employees’ expertise, while our corporate leaders gain useful new perspectives ­professional skills to for their own work. community partners In 2013, 110 employees volunteered as jury members or consultants to help kick-start social enterprises. Whether they work with the “startsocial” network or support the Investment Readiness Initiative, they empower entrepreneurs to develop new solutions and drive social change forward. In India, Lakshya (which means ”goal“) is a capacity-building program for small and growing NGOs that improves their effectiveness and impact. Lakshya creates strong networking opportunities, and the 2013 workshop in Mumbai brought together approximately 120 NGO representatives and sector experts to explore the corporate €9.9 responsibility requirements in the Indian Companies Act 2013. Fundraising for charities Last but not least, Deutsche Bank employees also support selected charities through ­fundraising campaigns. The bank’s Matched Giving programs generated a total of million €9.9 million in 2013. The UK Charities of the Year program raised an all-time high of more than £1.8 million in 2013 for both Elephant Family, which protects elephant habitats is the total sum of the in Asia; and the Helen Bamber Foundation, which supports victims of extreme cruelty Matched Giving programs and human rights abuses. And initiatives such as One Day/Donate-a-Day in the UK and (added donations by Singapore appeal to employees to donate a day’s salary to charitable causes. In 2013, ­employees and the bank) they raised a total of approximately €818,000. Deutsche Bank 3 – Our Commitment 69 Corporate Responsibility 2013 Employees Facts and figures FTE* development by division In k FTE 2013 2012 2011 Corporate Banking & Securities 8.4 8.6 10.1 Global Transaction Banking 4.1 4.3 4.3 Deutsche Asset & Wealth Management 6.1 6.5 7.0 Private & Business Clients 37.9 38.0 39.0 Non-Core Operations Unit 1.4 1.5 1.8 Infrastructure/Regional Management 40.2 39.3 38.9 Total 98.3 98.2 101.0 * Full time equivalent = total headcount adjusted proportionately for part-time staff, excluding apprentices and interns. FTE breakdown by region FTE development by region In k FTE In k FTE 2013 2012 2011 Germany 46.4 46.3 47.3 Europe (excluding Germany), Middle East and Africa 23.4 24.0 24.3 Americas 10.3 10.3 11.1 10.3 Asia Pacific 18.2 17.6 18.3 Americas Total 98.3 98.2 101.0 46.4 18.2 Germany Asia Pacific Internal staff structure by major job categories Based on global corporate titles, in k FTE 2013 2012 2011 Officers* 43.1 43.0 42.8 23.4 Non-Officers 33.2 33.2 35.4 Europe (excl. Germany), Middle East and Africa Total 76.3 76.2 78.1 * Officers comprise all employees with corporate titles, including: Managing Directors, Directors, Vice Presidents, Assistant Vice Presidents and Associates. Excluding Postbank, Sal. Oppenheim, BHF and DB Investment Services; corporate titles not implemented. Workforce by contract In %-share, FTE 2013 2012 2011 Permanent work contracts 98.3 98.4 97.7 Temporary work contracts 1.7 1.6 2.3 Permanent work contracts for hires 93.9 89.7 86.4 Temporary work contracts for hires 6.1 10.3 13.6 Voluntary staff turnover rate In %, based on FTE 2013 2012 2011 Voluntary staff turnover rate 6.4 6.2 7.2 Deutsche Bank 3 – Our Commitment 70 Corporate Responsibility 2013 Employees Employee qualification Age of employees In % of total number of employees In %, headcount 2013 2012 2011 Up to 29 years 18.9 19.8 21.0 30–39 years 29.2 29.4 29.4 40–49 years 30.6 30.8 30.7 18.4% Over 49 years 21.3 20.0 18.9 Average age by region 17.4% In years, headcount 2013 2012 2011 Germany 43.9 43.2 42.9 Europe (excluding Germany), Middle East and Africa 39.5 39.0 38.6 64.2% Americas 40.3 39.9 39.5 Asia Pacific 33.0 32.9 32.6 University degree  High school degree Length of company service  Other education degree In % of headcount 2013 2012 2011 Up to 4 years 33.2 34.9 37.8 5–14 years 30.7 30.0 28.0 More than 14 years 36.1 35.1 34.2 Average length of company service by region In years, headcount 2013 2012 2011 Germany 18.1 17.6 17.4 Europe (excluding Germany), Middle East and Africa 10.3 9.8 9.6 Americas 7.9 7.8 7.3 Asia Pacific 4.7 4.5 4.0 Training expenses Vocational training expenses In € m. In € m. 150 60 56 54 122 46 109 85 75 30 0 0 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 Implementing our Learning 2015+ strategy provided the opportunity to streamline our portfolio of learning offerings and move towards an environment that provides more self-service learning options combined with instructor-led training, and an increase in internal leader-led sessions. We saw a 10% increase in online e-learning courses, which enables more targeted, focused development with shorter duration. This strategy combined with increased organizational and governance enhancements ensures that employees receive the training they need at the appropriate times in their careers. Deutsche Bank 3 – Our Commitment 71 Corporate Responsibility 2013 Employees Working days lost* In days, Germany 2013 2012 2011 Work accidents 774 669 905 Travel/commuting 1,138 1,141 1,941 Sports 234 190 105 Bank robbery 3 50 45 *Deutsche Bank AG and Private & Business Clients. Employee participation in our Global Share Purchase Plan Enrollment rate in % 2012 2013 35% 55% 36% 56% Overall In Germany Overall In Germany 2013 2012 2011 Total number of participants 20,068 20,500 22,000 Participating countries 31 37 30 Further information about employee facts and figures online db.com/cr/facts-and-figures Further information about corporate volunteering facts and figures Page 81 Ranked Ranked Third 9th 28th certification out of 100 most attractive of the World’s 50 Most as family-friendly employers in Italy among Attractive Employers company by Hertie students according to a survey ­Foundation since 2007 of 200,000 students / IDEAL Employer ­worldwide / Hertie Ranking ­Foundation / Universum Deutsche Bank 3 – Our Commitment 72 Corporate Responsibility 2013 Corporate citizenship Corporate citizenship Tackling key social challenges — Our business can only prosper if society around us is prospering. For Deutsche Bank, investments in society are therefore investments in our own future. — In 2013, more than 2 million people benefitted directly from our c ­ orporate citizenship programs. Corporate responsibility Through our corporate citizenship programs, we tackle key social challenges. We focus ­investments on removing barriers to education and personal development, driving change to improve Regional split, €78.2 million in total, in % the condition for people and communities and to help overcome structural inefficiencies. In addition, we make cultural ­experiences accessible to a wider audience and provide a platform for young talent in art and music. This is how we build social capital. To increase the impact of our programs, we often partner with non-profit organizations, 10% 42% Europe/ Germany renowned institutions or the public sector. Middle East/ Africa With a total investment of €78.2 million in 2013, Deutsche Bank – together with its 14% foundations – continues to be among the world’s most active corporate citizens. More Asia Pacific (incl. Japan) than 19,500 employees volunteered over 25,000 days of their expertise, knowledge, and skills to strengthen community programs. Our strong commitment to corporate citizenship for more than a century demonstrates how the bank and its employees combine a culture of performance with a ­culture of responsibility. Page 67 14% UK Representative surveys consistently show that people not only expect banks to embrace 20% the highest ethical standards, but also to live up to their responsibility for society Americas at large. More complex analyses we have undertaken deliver convincing testimony that these aspects are critical when it comes to reconnecting with society, boosting ­employee and client loyalty and (re-)establishing trust among key stakeholders. Responsible business conduct, transparency and the support of the disadvantaged are core drivers of trust in Deutsche Bank across targets, and the bank’s efforts to ­promoting equal opportunity in education is especially relevant when it comes to Further information engaging our clients. Our corporate citizenship initiatives thus raise the profile of our db.com/cr/society brand and contribute to Deutsche Bank’s long-term business performance. Page 79 Deutsche Bank 3 – Our Commitment 73 Corporate Responsibility 2013 Corporate citizenship Enabling talent In Europe, 5.5 million people under the age of 25 are unemployed, and worldwide around 250 million children cannot read or write. But a modern society cannot afford to neglect the talents of young people. Unemployment and access to education remain major global challenges. Deutsche Bank believes every individual, regardless of socioeconomic or cultural background, should have the opportunity to achieve his or her full potential. That is why we support all levels of education, from improving access to schooling in emerging markets to helping young talent pursue a university education in the more established markets. Born to Be Everyone is born to be someone, and together with our non-profit partners, we are engaged in a range of initiatives to inspire and equip young people around the world expects to reach to make the most of their abilities. In 2013, more than 400,000 children and young people participated in our educational programs worldwide. Our Born to Be program, 160,000 launched in 2013, provides a framework for these initiatives, focusing on six ­pillars: young people // Equality of opportunity: Young people from disadvantaged backgrounds often lack the confidence and support to pursue higher education. Deutsche Bank and in the UK over the next its foundations back programs that aim to inspire young people and broaden the four years ­opportunities available to them. Around 90% of the young people who we s ­ upport Further information through initiatives such as College Ready Communities in the US or COMPASS OF db.com/borntobe STUDIES in Germany, go on to pursue a university degree. Our employees often db.com/cr/equality-in-education ­accompany these programs as mentors. // Work ready: To help tackle youth unemployment, we enable projects that develop­ young people’s vocational skills and help them to get a job. In South Africa, for example, we cooperate with Sparrow Schools Educational Trust to help young people with learning disabilities make the transition to employment. In 2013, we worked with partners in the fast-moving consumer goods industry to offer young people a course to qualify as an Assistant Chef, and all those who completed the course had gained full-time employment by the end of the year. Deutsche Bank 3 – Our Commitment 74 Corporate Responsibility 2013 Corporate citizenship // Enterprise skills: Starting your own business can be daunting. We support aspiring entrepreneurs through training and competitions that provide a platform for their ideas. As in the past, many Deutsche Bank employees volunteered to coach and train aspiring entrepreneurs and nurture the next generation of leaders. A prototypical proof point for this commitment is our partnership with the Egyptian Junior ­Business ­Association, which offers university students practical guidance to develop their ­economic understanding. In Germany, Poland, Portugal, and the US, Deutsche Bank ­promotes financial literacy and actively contributes to students’ early understanding of basic economics. 19,798 // Cultural learning: Cultural experiences positively influence children’s development, but such experiences are increasingly found only outside of school or are not accessible­ at all. This is why in Manila, Rock Ed invites homeless children to encounter music, song, students and dance. As a result, they gain self-confidence and are motivated to achieve more. And Playing Shakespeare guided more than 19,000 students through the works of the author with special live performances, workshops and online learning resources. took part in Playing ­Shakespeare with // Social initiatives: Deutsche Bank cooperates with local partners in emerging markets ­Deutsche Bank in 2013 to provide effective support and educational opportunities for the disadvantaged. For example, several programs in South Africa and Asia focus on early childhood development­ for vulnerable children, and our employees regularly volunteer to assist orphanages, schools and hospitals. In South Korea, our Dreaming Butterfly program, in partnership with the Arts and Community Network Association, has provided 100 orphaned young Further information people with guidance on their career paths, helping them to find their place in society db.com/cr/perspectives-for-youth and teaching them to live independently. // Sports for development: Participating in sports can help to build confidence, ­foster integration and develop skills. We partner with community organizations to create­ new perspectives for young people from disadvantaged backgrounds. In the UK, the sporteducate program provides young people between the ages of 11 and 18 with the ­extra-curricular support, skills and focus to stay in school and later ­pursue ­employment. In 2013, our support of the Palestine Association for Children’s ­Encouragement of Sports (PACES) improved access to sports and education for more than 5,700 children in Palestine, Jordan and Lebanon, and provided employment for around 321 coaches. Deutsche Bank 3 – Our Commitment 75 Corporate Responsibility 2013 Corporate citizenship Promoting talent in sports Top athletes invest about 60 hours per week in training and education. Their average income is €626 per month. 872 Through the Stiftung Deutsche Sporthilfe (German Sports Sporthilfe Aid Foundation), Deutsche Bank provides scholarships athletes for collegiate athletes that enable them to combine their supported by education with their athletic achievement. Since the Deutsche Bank beginning of the partnership in 2001, we have supported have won a total 872 young athletes. In 2012, we doubled the monthly of 1,566 medals – 595 of them gold funding for each of the 300 collegiate Sporthilfe athletes supported by the Deutsche Bank Sports Scholarship. Martin  Häner, As part of initiatives like Sprungbrett Zukunft (Springboard h ­ ockey player and to the Future – Sports & Career), which provides t­ he athletes medical student: with g ­ uidance, internships and professional training, our Sports Fellow of employees also volunteer as mentors. the Year 2013 Further information db.com/cr/supporting-top-athletes Encouraging interdisciplinary dialogue As a global player with a presence in 71 countries, Deutsche Bank relies on effective cross-cultural and interdisciplinary cooperation. The bank is committed to ­strengthening the ties between academia and business, and works closely with ­recognized universities, for example with Bocconi in Milan or the Luxembourg School of Finance, to develop interdisciplinary research that creates benefits well beyond our own business. The Deutsche Bank Prize in Financial Economics was awarded for the fifth time by Deutsche Bank Prize in Financial Economics the Center for Financial Studies in cooperation with Goethe University Frankfurt to ­inter­nationally renowned economists with a substantial influence on macroeconomic and financial research and practice. In 2013, the prize went to Raghuram G. Rajan, Professor of Finance at the University of Chicago’s Booth School of Business, who was later appointed Governor of the Reserve Bank of India. Two previous winners of the Deutsche Bank Prize in Financial Economics, Eugene F. Fama and Robert J. Shiller, Further information were awarded the Sveriges Riksbank Prize in Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred db.com/cr/promoting-science Nobel 2013 for their groundbreaking work in analyzing trends of asset prices. Deutsche Bank 3 – Our Commitment 76 Corporate Responsibility 2013 Corporate citizenship Driving social change Around 2.4 billion people worldwide live on less than US $2 per day. And many social entrepreneurs and non-profit organizations who work to improve this situation lack the access to capital markets needed to kick-start their sustainable business. We use our global networks and expertise as a financial services provider to improve the opportunities available to individuals and communities, helping them to overcome unemployment, lift themselves out of poverty and lead an independent life. In addition, Further information 698 of our employees volunteered last year to make their core skills and expertise d  b.com/cr/microfinance available to charitable organizations, schools, universities and social entrepreneurs. db.com/cr/perspectives-for-youth Page 67 Through our microfinance program, we have enabled an estimated 3.8 million ­microloans for entrepreneurs, delivering clear social and economic value since 1997. In the UK, the £10 million Impact Investment Fund continues to empower social enterprises with the capital needed to pursue their social agenda. Page 54 Deutsche Bank is also committed to supporting the disadvantaged. In the UK, we partner with StreetSmart, an initiative that raises awareness and funds for ­homelessness charities across the country and that has received total donations of £3.9 million since 2006. In total, almost 440,000 people were beneficiaries of the social programs we supported around the world in 2013. Providing disaster relief €2.6 Around 260 million people are the victims of natural disasters each year. The ­respon­sibility for supporting these people does not just fall to governments and NGOs. ­Companies and individuals can also play a decisive role. Along with our ­foundations, employees and clients, Deutsche Bank is committed to offering ­emergency relief in the immediate aftermath of disasters, most recently for the million flood in Germany and Typhoon Haiyan in the Philippines. We also help the rebuilding of communities over the longer term, such as reconstruction in Haiti and donated to disaster in the Tohoku region. In Japan, NADIA and Second Harvest engaged Deutsche Bank relief efforts volunteers from all over Asia. Page 67 Further information // Relief efforts after Typhoon Haiyan: On November 8, 2013, Typhoon Haiyan hit  b.com/cr/disaster-relief d the Philippines, causing immense damage and affecting almost 4.3 million people. team-nadia.org Thousands of lives were lost and communities were devastated. Immediately after the event, Deutsche Bank Asia Foundation assessed the needs of people on the ground to form the most effective response. Deutsche Bank committed €300,000 to immediate­ relief efforts. Clients and employees showed strong support for those affected. The total donation from our foundations, clients and employees reached more than €1.4 million. Deutsche Bank 3 – Our Commitment 77 Corporate Responsibility 2013 Corporate citizenship The future of cities More than half the world’s population lives in cities, and by In 2013, we awarded the sixth Deutsche Bank Urban Age 2050 this will rise to more than 70%. It is critical to consider Award to recognize projects that contribute to improving how cities should be designed to overcome the social, the quality of life in urban settings – this year in Rio de economic and environmental challenges of the future. Janeiro. In Germany, Deutsche Bank has been the National Sponsor Rio de Janeiro: A new cable car connects of the annual “Landmarks in the Land of Ideas” competition the favelas with the city’s center since 2006. In 2013, it recognized and championed 100 inno­vative concepts for cities and towns that are ­providing solutions to key challenges. For the third time, ­everyone was invited to join the vote for a Public Champion, which turned out to be the city of Siegen. In collaboration with the Cities Programme at the London School of Economics and Political Science, Deutsche Bank’s Alfred Herrhausen Society launched a series of conferences investigating solutions to the ­challenges that cities face in the 21st century. “Urban Age – The Future of Cities” analyzes the problems of megacities, bringing together academics, architects, city planners, mayors and NGOs to learn from each other. Further information alfred-herrhausen-society.org dbuaaward.com db.com/ideas Deutsche Bank 3 – Our Commitment 78 Corporate Responsibility 2013 Corporate citizenship Promoting art and music The cultural sector is growing fast and accounts for 3% to 4% of global GDP, employing one in eleven people globally. Despite this, the arts are often seen as the preserve of the few. At Deutsche Bank, we work with partners to make contemporary art and exceptional music experiences accessible to more and more people, provide a platform 392,000 for talented artists and musicians, and encourage young people to discover their own creative potential. ­visitors Deutsche Bank aims to help overcome the geographical, social and economic barriers that often make it difficult for people to access classical music. The 2013/2014 season have signed up for marks the 25th anniversary of Deutsche Bank’s partnership with the Berliner the ­Digital Concert Hall ­Philharmoniker. Since 2002, 33,250 young people have participated in projects as since 2009 part of the Education Programme. Following the first ten successful years, in 2013 we launched a new initiative, known as Vokalhelden (Vocal Heroes), that encourages young people from disadvantaged backgrounds in three districts of Berlin to take part in a choir led by renowned choral conductor Simon Halsey. Art inspires people and is a source of innovation and growth. For more than 35 years, the Deutsche Bank Collection has provided access to contemporary art at more than Our 2013 art initiatives 900 locations around the world, through exhibitions, targeted educational programs reached more than and partnerships. 800,000 people Deutsche Bank KunstHalle In April 2013, we launched a unique platform for ­inter­national contemporary art: Deutsche Bank ­KunstHalle. ­Berlin’s biggest-ever free art event, MACHT KUNST, marked its opening. A total of 2,135 artworks were submitted and displayed in two 24-hour shows. They attracted more than 12,000 visitors. The first ­KunstHalle exhibition was dedicated to Imran Qureshi, Deutsche Bank’s Artist of the Year 2013, who is followed by Victor Man in 2014. Everyone was invited to submit a work of art Further information db.com/cr/berlinerphilharmoniker db.com/cr/experiencing-culture deutsche-bank-kunsthalle.com db-artmag.com db.com/art Deutsche Bank 3 – Our Commitment 79 Corporate Responsibility 2013 Corporate citizenship Measuring impact O  ur annual Global Impact Tracking (GIT), rolled out in 2012, evaluates whether our investments are aligned with our goal of building social capital. The tool was set up to assess the impact of our programs and systematically ­collect feedback from our community partners. In 2013, it was extended from monitoring only flagship ­programs to all central and regional corporate citizenship investments (65% of total). The analysis shows that our projects generate a lasting impact on the beneficiaries. Core targets are children and young people. And a large share of our initiatives involve corporate volunteers. Page 80 Motivation of contribution In % How we assess the focus and efficiency of our programs Step 3 Impact 1% 52% On beneficiaries Commercial Community — Satisfaction with the project ­initiative investment — Knowledge/attitude shift On project partners 12% — Achievement of objectives Charitable — Satisfaction with the cooperation donation On society Step 2 Output — Level of information — Relevance of problem/issue — Beneficiaries/project partners Step 1 Input — No. of workshops, publications For the company — Awareness/relevance of the project 35% — No. of partner organizations/ — E xternal benchmarking Mandatory — Cash, in-kind of supporters contribution — Time — No. of corporate volunteers For employees (CRA investments, US only) — Knowledge, expertise, (inside/outside of office hours) — Awareness/relevance of the project contacts, networks — Leverage — Brand-building potential Source: GIT project database, based on London Benchmarking Group (LBG) ­categorization. Corporate responsibility is a key driver of trust Trust in Deutsche Bank highly correlates with the assessment of the following Deutsche Bank … … conducts its business responsibly … applies strict ethical standards to its business … supports the underprivileged and socially challenged to help them lead a self-supporting life … is transparent Particularly … promotes educational projects important to improve equality of opportunity for clients Further information 0 0.25 0.50 0.75 1.00 db.com/cr/impact-tracking Source: Representative tracking in Germany. Deutsche Bank 3 – Our Commitment 80 Corporate Responsibility 2013 Corporate citizenship Facts and figures Input: Corporate responsibility investments Output: Beneficiaries per area of activity in 2013/2014* €78.2 m. in total, in % 2,062,251 in total 34% 800,287 Social Art Investments 7% 411,121 Employee Education engagement 28% Education 411,208 Music 31% 439,635 Art & Music Social Investments Impact: Key insights of Deutsche Bank Global Impact Tracking* In % Deviation vs. global average CC projects (global average) Education Social Investments Art Music Core targets: <18 years of age 60 23 –4 –15 –19 or students Life of beneficia­ries­ improved or changed 64 6 5 –27 –1 Corporate volunteers involved 39 –2 8 –14 –29 Project duration >3 years 33 20 –19 3 48 Deutsche Bank as exclusive or 39 5 –10 37 2 main supporter *Base: All centrally and regionally managed projects (65% of total investments). Deutsche Bank 3 – Our Commitment 81 Corporate Responsibility 2013 Corporate citizenship Share of volunteers Corporate volunteering time invested in 2013 In % 25,030 days in/outside of office hours, in % 61% 63% Active as Outside of volunteers office hours 37% During office hours 25% Corporate volunteers (included in 61%) Source: Representative employee survey 2013. Source: Representative employee survey 2013. Internal perception of Deutsche Bank’s volunteering offer In % I feel proud that Deutsche Bank supports the volunteering work of its employees I feel proud that Deutsche Bank takes on responsibility for the community at large Corporate volunteering helps to combine our performance culture with a culture of responsibility (My) corporate volunteering has helped to enhance Deutsche Bank’s reputation Corporate volunteering improves (my) job-related skills Deutsche Bank is good at communicating its corporate volunteering programs towards external stakeholders In my daily business life, it would be/is easy to find time for corporate volunteering 0 25 50 75 100 Source: Representative employee survey 2013. (Top 2 on 5-point scale: agree strongly/slightly.) Deutsche Bank 3 – Our Commitment 82 Corporate Responsibility 2013 Environment Environment Operating sustainably — The Management Board renewed our commitment to carbon neutrality. — Our workplace standards cover a wide range of ­environmental factors. — We track our environmental performance through a ­comprehensive data management system. Neutralizing our carbon footprint We maintained carbon neutrality for our operations in 2013. We manage this in three ways: // Investing in projects that either reduce energy needs or improve energy efficiency in our buildings and IT equipment, such as the db New Workplace initiative // Purchasing and generating electricity from certified renewable sources – mostly hydro and wind power – making up 79% of total electricity purchases in 2013 // Buying and retiring high-grade offset certificates (CERs) to neutralize any remaining carbon emissions Climate Performance Leadership Index For the second consecutive year, our commitment to environmental sustainability has earned Deutsche Bank a place in the CDP Climate Performance Leadership Index (CPLI). CDP (formerly: Carbon Disclosure Project) is a non-profit organization that asks the largest stock-exchange-listed companies worldwide to publish their greenhouse gas emissions and the measures taken to reduce these every year. The results show how effectively companies tackle the issue of climate change and how transparent they are in reporting their results. These results are reflected in the CPLI. Our score of 91 of 100 disclosure points (2012: 90) and an A rating for performance (2012: A) Further information ­ laces us among 57 companies in the CPLI, demonstrating a strong approach to climate p cdp.net strategy and emissions reduction. Deutsche Bank 3 – Our Commitment 83 Corporate Responsibility 2013 Environment Working in eco-efficient buildings Most of the direct impact on the environment from our operations is through our ­buildings, which account for 83% of our carbon footprint. We aim to increase eco-­ efficiency throughout our portfolio of around 5,000 offices, retail premises and other real estate. We intend to gain a minimum of Silver in Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) certification for all major new spaces we occupy and for major building projects. Thirty-seven out of 38 of our sites fulfill this criterion. Of this total, eight sites Further information have obtained silver, 20 gold and nine platinum certifications. Together, LEED -certified db.com/cr/green-buildings buildings represent approximately 16% of our total space (2012: 25%).1 Improving existing buildings We are targeting improvements across our existing buildings based on the detailed data we collect for each location. For example, we are … // … investigating opportunities to install solar energy generation at more than 100 sites identified through renewable energy feasibility studies. For example, solar panels in ­Parsippany, New Jersey, began operating in 2013 and will generate nearly 2,000 MWh a year. // … identifying buildings that may be suitable for a range of existing energy and water saving initiatives through energy and water master plans. As a result, we are on track to exceed our 1 billion liter, water saving challenge by 2015 with more than 300 water saving projects around the world, including installing more efficient aerators, which save more than 42 million liters of water at 44 sites annually. // … raising the maximum temperature in our computer rooms to save energy by ­preventing unnecessary cooling. This is currently being implemented at about 700 sites. NYC Carbon Challenge In 2013, we became one of the first companies to join the New York City Mayor’s Carbon Challenge for Commercial Offices. Deutsche Bank is one of five inaugural companies that have pledged to reduce emissions from our New York City offices by 40% in the next ten years as compared to the level in 2007. Further information nyc.gov/carbonchallenge 1 To fully account for office, retail and other spaces, we changed the way we measure the proportion of space in 2013. Deutsche Bank 3 – Our Commitment 84 Corporate Responsibility 2013 Environment Green leases 23 In addition to the buildings we own, we lease workplaces across the world. Leased properties account for 96% of all the buildings we occupy. Our green leasing criteria ensure that sustainability standards apply to the buildings we use but do not own or control. The green lease terms and conditions require the landlord to meet a range of eco-friendly measures such as indoor environmental quality; energy, water and waste green leases management; green transport options; and green housekeeping. By the end of 2013, we signed 23 green leases, covering around 143,300 square meters. Approximately signed by the end of 2013 half the properties signed with green leases are LEED certified. Our global standard for green lease contracts includes the landlord’s agreement to measure energy use in tenant space using direct metering or submetering, which is necessary to gather data on our own energy use. In 2013, we secured submetering or better for 92% of our green leases. Changing the way we work Throughout 2013, we continued to implement our global standard, db New Workplace, the basis for energy savings and increased productivity of our corporate offices. It includes criteria for the design of offices and flexible work patterns and introduces the latest technology. At the end of 2013, db New Workplace covered approximately 22,000 work­places in eleven countries – around 17% of all our workplaces. 4.4 New desktop technologies use on average 75% less power than previous equipment, resulting in a total savings of 4.4 million kWh from db New Workplace to date. Upgrades to data centers also contribute significant energy savings: server efficiency increased by 30% in 2013 as compared to 2012. million kWh We also launched a pilot of an energy management information system that measures and controls energy consumption of our IT infrastructure centrally. Initial results suggest less power consumed potential energy savings of more than 30% per computer. by new equipment as compared to old We also introduced “bring your own device” as part of a global awareness campaign technologies to cut paper use, putting in place appropriate security and technology to enable employees to use their own mobile devices to access e-mails, documents and intranet pages rather than printing. Deutsche Bank 3 – Our Commitment 85 Corporate Responsibility 2013 Environment The use of video conferencing as an alternative to travel continues to expand, increasing by more than 35% in 2013, while the total distance of all flights decreased by 1.28%. When employees do have to travel, we encourage them to use Green Hotels wherever possible. A Green Hotel must score 80% or higher on our Green Hotel scorecard, which addresses issues such as carbon offsetting, energy efficiency, water conservation, waste management and green product sourcing. Around 45% of our preferred hotels meet this standard. Passion for the Planet Beyond our efforts in eco-efficiency for our operations, we provide our employees with opportunities to participate in volunteering activities that address environmental issues. In Hong Kong, for example, employees work with a local NGO on the eco-paddy program, which promotes ­traditional rice farming to help conserve agricultural wetland – a natural habitat for several endangered ­species. Deutsche Bank employees and their families help with farming activities and learn about eco-paddy farming and conservation. In Germany, more than 3,400 employees have volunteered with Trinkwasserwald, an organization that promotes ­diversity in forests to protect drinking water sources. In the past four years, they have planted a total of 45,000 trees to provide an additional 12 million liters of Employees increase fresh drinking water. water resources by planting trees Further information db.com/volunteering Deutsche Bank 3 – Our Commitment 86 Corporate Responsibility 2013 Environment Key eco-efficiency data Variance from Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 1 previous year In t of CO2e (unless stated differently) in % 2013 2012 2011 Total gross GHG emissions 2, 3 –1 614,323 618,040 665,996 Emissions from energy use –0.3 501,161 502,645 529,936 Emissions from business travel –3 102,107 105,604 128,375 Scope 1, direct GHG emissions 4 3 96,858 94,025 99,256 From natural gas consumption 10 19,748 17,883 14,822 From liquid fossil fuels 6 45,193 42,832 49,162 From HFCs 13 11,055 9,806 7,627 From owned/leased vehicles –11 20,862 23,503 27,645 Scope 2, indirect GHG emissions 4 –1 436,220 441,915 466,009 From electricity consumption –2 366,475 374,647 397,436 From steam, district heating and cooling 4 69,745 67,268 68,573 Scope 3, other indirect GHG emissions 4 –1 81,245 82,100 100,730 From air travel –1 78,156 79,048 96,954 From rented vehicles and taxis 1 2,030 2,004 2,698 From rail travel 1 1,059 1,048 1,078 Emissions reductions Net GHG emissions (incl. RECs, renewables)5 –10 348,678 385,571 396,266 Offset of net GHG emissions by retired CERs (Certified Emissions Reductions) in % 6 0 100 100 80 Net GHG emissions (incl. renewables, excl. CERs)/rentable area per sqm –4.3 0.089 0.093 0.105 Net GHG emissions (incl. renewables, excl. CERs) per FTE –12.2 3.32 3.78 3.98 Total energy consumption in GJ 7 –5 5,030,447 5,293,289 5,622,982 Total energy consumption in GWh 8 –5 1,397 1,470 1,562 Electricity consumption –2 769 783 834 Energy from primary fuel sources (oil, gas, etc.) 7 316 296 315 Delivered heat and cooling 4 312 300 307 Electricity from renewables 15 607 528 614 Space-normalized energy consumption in kWh per sqm 0.3 355 354 413 FTE-normalized energy consumption in kWh per FTE –8 13,320 14,432 15,691 1  ll data reported as 2013 is from October 1, 2012 to September 30, 2013. A 2 The GHG reporting boundary is defined according to GHG Protocol’s operational control approach and includes businesses and sites where Deutsche Bank staff hold executive positions in the company, and Deutsche Bank’s operational policies are implemented. Where data center operations are outsourced, emissions from hardware owned by Deutsche Bank within a facility are within scope. Scope 1 GHG emissions are combustion of fossils fuels, owned and leased vehicles, and refrigerant leakage from cooling equipment; Scope 2 are delivered energy, e.g. electricity, district heating; Scope 3 are from purchasing goods or services where emissions sources are controlled by others, e.g. air travel. 3 Total emissions are based on actual, estimated, or extrapolated data. All assumptions and calculation methodologies are in line with the ISO 14064 Standard Guidelines with supporting documentation. The most appropriate emission factors have been used for each activity data type, all from internationally recognized sources e.g. DEFRA, GHG Protocol and IEA. 4 Germany emissions cover Deutsche Bank and Postbank operations. Postbank emissions are: Scope 1: 25,528 t CO2e; Scope 2: 76,209 t CO2e; and Scope 3: 970 t CO2e. 5 The net GHG emissions include renewable electricity with zero emissions factor from the purchase of renewable electricity in Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Spain, Switzerland, the UK and the US and exclude CERs. 6 For 2013, carbon neutrality was accomplished by the retirement of 400,000 CERs. 7 Calculated electricity and heating intensities are used to extrapolate electricity and heating demand where data is not ­available. Where these are more than 20% higher or lower than comparable industry benchmarks, the benchmark figure (from CIBSE) is used. 8 Total energy consumption in gigawatt hours comprises all sources used in Scope 1 and 2: natural gas, liquid fossil fuels (mobile and stationary), renewable and grid electricity, district heating, cooling, and steam. Deutsche Bank 3 – Our Commitment 87 Corporate Responsibility 2013 Environment Variance from Distance travelled previous year In km in % 2013 2012 2011 Total air travel 1 –1 705,637,232 714,788,600 875,865,483 Short-haul air travel –12 27,241,211 30,896,544 36,842,583 Medium-haul air travel –6 79,032,850 84,288,858 98,565,750 Long-haul air travel –0.04 599,363,171 599,603,198 740,457,150 FTE-normalized air travel in km per FTE –4 6,727 7,016 8,799 Total rail travel 2 9 65,306,093 60,035,569 57,725,362 Total road travel 3 –9 130,602,578 143,071,726 169,025,944 FTE-normalized total distance travelled in km per FTE –5 8,594 9,009 11,076 Total –2 901,545,903 917,895,895 1,102,616,789 1 D  omestic and international air travel data covers 96% of all flights; total includes an additional 4% extrapolated based on cost. 2 Rail travel data covers 91% of all rail travel; total includes an additional 9% extrapolated based on cost. ­Germany rail travel is carbon neutral. 3 Taxi data reported covers only the UK. Variance from Waste and paper previous year In t in % 2013 2012 2011 Waste Waste disposed 1 –24 5,821 7,646 8,887 FTE-normalized waste disposed in t per FTE –25 0.06 0.08 0.09 Waste produced 9 24,964 22,953 21,021 FTE-normalized waste produced in t per FTE 4 0.24 0.23 0.21 Waste recycled 47 14,393 9,812 8,833 FTE-normalized waste recycled in t per FTE 40 0.14 0.10 0.09 Waste recycled in % 35 58 43 42 Paper Copy/print paper consumed 1, 2 –7 5,020 5,383 5,900 Recycled paper –13 909 1.043 1.350 Recycled content in % –5 18 19 23 FTE-normalized paper consumption in kg per FTE –9 48 53 59 1 W  aste data is extrapolated based on FTEs from the ISO 14001-certified sites in Germany, the UK, and the US, covering 67% of FTEs. Waste data does not include project waste, e.g. from refurbishments. Waste data has not been included in the scope of 2013 data verification. Copier paper data is extrapolated based on consumption per FTEs from ten countries including Germany, the UK, the US, 2  Mexico, Peru, Canada, Japan, Philippines, Singapore, and Thailand, covering 72% of FTEs. Deutsche Bank 3 – Our Commitment 88 Corporate Responsibility 2013 Environment Variance from Water previous year In cbm in % 2013 2012 2011 Total water consumed (potable)* 3 1,412,833 1,368,737 1,502,938 FTE-normalized water consumption in cbm per FTE 0.3 13.47 13.43 15.10 Space-normalized water consumption in cbm per sqm 9 0.359 0.329 0.397 *Actual water consumption data is based on meter readings and invoices, and covers 52% of total rentable floor area. Water figures are extrapolated on a site level, based on rentable area, and refer to potable water only. Variance from previous year Key performance references in % 2013 2012 2011 Full Time Equivalents (FTEs) 3 104,903 101,881 99,547 Total rentable area in sqm –5 3,939,815 4,156,464 3,784,005 Data collection process Data on energy consumption, greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, waste, paper, and water consumption are consolidated in a global database that systematically analyses data using tens of millions of data points covering the past seven years. Tools in the database enable analysis of environmental initiatives and performance, for example highlighting how renewable electricity has reduced carbon emissions. The system monitors and estimates key indicators based on present data and trends, so that annual carbon emissions can be forecast and offsets purchased at the appropriate level to meet our neutrality targets. Data covers all locations, presently with more than 70% of our energy use from actual metered or invoiced data. On the basis of these data, consumption is extrapolated for non-reporting sites and to get our total energy consumption and GHG emissions. These data are quantified and reported in line with the international GHG standard ISO 14064. Waste, paper, and water data are also captured in this database. The data for waste comes from locations with ISO 14001 certification in Germany, Japan, London, and New York. The figures for consumption of copier paper are collected in ten countries including Germany, ­Singapore, the UK, and the US, and cover more than 70% of employees. The water consumption data is extrapolated based on floor area and covers 52% of floor area across the globe. The GHG data collection, internal reporting processes, and Certified Emission Reduction (CER) purchases have been reviewed by ERM Certification and Verification Services (ERM CVS). Page 91 Supplementary Information 90 About this report 91 Independent Assurance Statement 92 GRI index 95 UN Global Compact 96 Corporate citizenship units and foundations 98 Imprint/Publications Deutsche Bank Supplementary Information 90 Corporate Responsibility 2013 About this report About this report This report shows how we have implemented corporate Materiality responsibility as an integral part of our work during the The reporting guidelines of the GRI include dialogue year under review. We compile a balance sheet for our with stakeholders and materiality. We have taken those ­sustainability initiatives and explain what impact our requirements into account with the aid of multilevel ­business has on the environment and society. We present materiality analysis. We regard conducting a dialogue our commitment as an employer and as a responsible with our stakeholders and tailoring our sustainability ­corporate citizen, illustrating our motivation as well as reporting to their information needs as a continuously the impact of our activities. ongoing task. We can only feature a selection of our global activities Report limits due to space-related constraints. However, we attach We regard this report as a supplement to the Review and importance to an accurate reflection of the principles and the Financial Report of Deutsche Bank AG. In addition cornerstones that guide our work. to the information in this report, you can obtain basic ­corporate information as well as our key economic figures Period under review and frequency of publication from our latest Annual Review and Financial Report as The period under review corresponds with our business well as our Annual Financial Statements and Management year, extending from January to December 2013. We have Report. published a Corporate Responsibility Report every year since 2002. The next report will be published in March 2015. Data validation and transparency Our corporate responsibility websites and regional Our business divisions and infrastructure functions ­publications provide more in-depth information as well ­meticulously collected the data that is relevant for as regular updates. their sectors. Employees from the Communications, db.com/responsibility CSR & Public Affairs department gathered those data and ­integrated them into this report. On behalf of Report criteria Deutsche Bank AG, ERM Certification and Verification The criteria of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) serve ­Services, a verification and certification company that is as our orientation for the weighting of thematic areas and based in London, reviewed and verified the systematics collection of key figures. This international multi-stakeholder for data generation and aggregation of our greenhouse initiative has developed recognized standards for gas emissions figures. Our sustainability management ­sustainability reporting that provide transparency and system has been certified according to DIN EN ISO 14001 comparability. Since 2002, Deutsche Bank – as an and recertified up to and including 2015. ­“organizational stakeholder” – has worked on refining the guidelines for reporting in feedback discussions Feedback and suggestions together with business representatives, NGOs and analysts. Feedback from our stakeholders is of special significance globalreporting.org for further development of our CR reporting. That is why we look forward to getting new inspiration and hearing This report fulfills the requirements of the third generation your opinions. For this purpose, you can use the contact (G3) of the GRI Guidelines. The GRI has verified compliance information in the imprint. with its guidelines and – on the basis of a scale from A+ to C – Deutsche Bank received an A+. The index on pages 92–95 shows how we have implemented the GRI requirements in concrete terms. If no information was available for an ­indicator, we provide the reason for that. Our corporate responsibility reporting also serves as a progress report (Communication on Progress) in ­conjunction with the UN Global Compact. As a member, we continuously report on how we are putting the ten Principles of the Global Compact into practice. An overview of this is provided in table form on page 95. Deutsche Bank Supplementary Information 91 Corporate Responsibility 2013 Independent Assurance Statement Independent Assurance Statement to Deutsche Bank AG ERM Certification and Verification Services (ERM CVS) was engaged by Deutsche Bank AG (“Deutsche Bank”) to p ­ rovide assurance in relation to the information set out below and presented on pages 86–88 of Deutsche Bank’s 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report (“the CR Report”). Engagement summary Scope Whether the data (Oct 2012 to Sep 2013) for the following indicators are fairly presented, in all material respects: — Scope 1 Direct GHG emissions from natural gas combustion, liquid fossil fuels, refrigerant gases and emissions from company-owned and leased vehicles (tonnes CO2e) — Scope 2 Indirect GHG emissions from imported electricity, steam, district heating and district cooling (tonnes CO2e) — Scope 3 Other Indirect GHG emissions from global air travel (excluding private jets), rented vehicles, rail travel, and taxis (UK only) (tonnes CO2e) — Retirement of Certified Emission Reductions (tonnes CO2e) — Total water consumed (m3) — Total paper consumed (tonnes) Reporting — ISO14064-1:2006 and the WBCSD WRI GHG Protocol (2004) for the Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 GHG emissions. criteria used — Internal indicator criteria developed by Deutsche Bank and described on pages 86–88 of the CR Report. Assurance — ERM CVS’ assurance methodology, based on the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE 3000). standard used — ISO 14064-3:2006 for the Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 GHG emissions. Assurance level — Limited assurance Respective — Deutsche Bank is responsible for preparing the CR Report and for the collection and presentation of the information within it. responsibilities — ERM CVS’s responsibility is to provide conclusions on the agreed scope based on the assurance activities performed and exercising our professional judgement. Our conclusions The limitations of our engagement Based on our activities, nothing has come to our attention to indicate that The reliability of the assured data is subject to inherent uncertainties, the 2013 data for the indicators listed under “Scope” above are not fairly given the available methods for determining, calculating or estimating presented, in all material respects, with the reporting criteria. the ­underlying information. It is important to understand our assurance ­conclusions in this context. This includes GHG emissions based on ISO 14064-1:2006 and the GHG Protocol: Our observations — Scope 1 Emissions: 96,858 tonnes CO2e We have provided Deutsche Bank with a separate detailed management — Scope 2 Emissions: 436,220 tonnes CO2e report. Without affecting the conclusions presented above, we have the — Scope 3 Emissions: 81,245 tonnes CO2e following key observations: — A consistent methodology is in place for extrapolation where data are Our assurance activities unavailable; however, in some cases this is based on relatively small We planned and performed our work to obtain all the information and amounts of actual data; explanations that we believe were necessary to provide a basis for our — The full process of integrating Postbank’s GHG inventory data reporting, assurance conclusions. A multidisciplinary team of GHG and assurance calculation and review processes is still under development specialists performed the following activities: — Interviews with relevant staff to understand and evaluate the data management systems and processes (including IT systems and internal review processes) used for collecting and reporting the data; — A review of the internal indicator definitions and conversion factors; — Site-level assurance activities at Deutsche Bank regional centres in London and Frankfurt and the Postbank centre in Bonn to review the alignment of data management and reporting processes with corporate Melanie Eddis objectives and reporting requirements; Head of Climate Change — Corporate-level assurance activities at offices in London to review data 14 March 2014 management systems and processes and selected investigation of the source and consolidated data; ERM Certification and Verification Services, London — Evaluation of GHG data and reporting processes to establish conformance www.ermcvs.com of Deutsche Bank’s GHG inventory data and associated systems and E-mail: post@ermcvs.com controls with ISO14064-1:2006 and the GHG Protocol; — Reviewing the presentation of information relevant to the scope of our work in the Report to ensure consistency with our findings. ERM CVS is a member of the ERM Group. The work that ERM CVS conducts for clients is solely related to independent assurance activities and auditor­ training. Our processes are designed and implemented to ensure that the work we undertake with clients is free from bias and conflict of interest. ERM CVS and the staff that have undertaken work on this assurance exercise provide no consultancy-related services to Deutsche Bank in any respect. Deutsche Bank Supplementary Information 92 Corporate Responsibility 2013 GRI index GRI index Strategy and analysis Governance, commitments, and engagement 1.1 Letter of the Chairmen of the pp. 5–7 4.1 Governance structure, including pp. 3–4, pp. 5–7, pp. 8–11, p. 19, Management Board ­responsibility for sustainability p. 23 1.2 Sustainability: effects, risks, and pp. 8–11, pp. 15–31 db.com/cr/sms ­opportunities db.com/cr/environmentaldb.com/cr/responsible-­ and-social-risks governance db.com/cr/measuring Organizational profile db.com/corporate-­ governance-reports 2.1 Name of the organization Cover page AR p. 24, FR pp. 476–479 2.2 Primary brands, products, and services p. 3, pp. 38–39, p. 45, pp. 47–48, db.com/corporate-governance p. 55, FR pp. 9–12, FR pp. 13–16, 4.2 Independence of the chair of the highest pp. 5–7, FR pp. 476–479 Form 20–F pp. 29–35 governance body db.com/cr/responsible-­ 2.3 Operational structure of the organization pp. 2–4, pp. 36–55, FR pp. 9–16, governance pp. 402–403, AR pp. 19–23 db.com/cr/­measuring 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters p. 98, FR p. 9 4.3 For organizations without a highest Not relevant, because 2.5 Number of countries where the FR p. 9 ­governance body: independent and/or Deutsche Bank has a Supervisory ­organization operates db.com/global-network non-executive members Board, two-tier board structure 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form p. 98, Form 20–F pp. 29–30 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and p. 9, pp. 59–60, FR pp. 63–72 2.7 Markets served p. 2, p. 8, FR pp. 9–16, FR p. 325 ­employees to provide recommendations or db.com/global-network direction to the highest governance body 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization Inside of back cover 4.5 Linkage between compensation for p. 63, FR pp. 226–263 2.9 Significant changes during the FR pp. 318–321 ­members of the highest governance body, db.com/cr/compensation reporting period regarding size, senior managers, and executives, and the structure, or ownership organization’s performance 2.10 Awards received p. 49, p. 55, p. 71 4.6 Processes in place to ensure conflicts of p. 17 db.com/awards interest are avoided db.com/cr/measuring db.com/cr/managementand-organization Report parameters db.com/cr/compliance 3.1 Reporting period Cover page, p. 90 db.com/code-of-ethics p. 5 3.2 Date of most recent previous report p. 90 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications p. 19 3.3 Reporting cycle p. 90 and expertise of the members of the db.com/cr/measuring 3.4 Contact points p. 98 ­highest governance body in the field of db.com/cr/responsible-­ sustainability governance 3.5 Process for defining report content pp. 9–16, pp. 28–30 d  b.com/cr/stakeholderdialogue 4.8 Statements of mission or values, codes of Front flap, pp. 2–4, pp. 5–7, db.com/cr/materiality conduct, and principles pp. 8–11, pp. 12–13, pp. 17–24, p. 27, p. 29, p. 33, p. 51, p. 52, 3.6 Boundary of the report p. 90 pp. 59–60, p. 64, p. 66 3.7 Specific limitations on the scope p. 90 db.com/cr/measuring or boundary of the report db.com/corporate-­governance 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, etc. FR pp. 289–318, p. 325 db.com/cr/international-­ 3.9 Data collection and calculation methods p. 88, p. 90 standards 3.10 Restatements or changes in the Back cover db.com/cr/sms ­presentation of information db.com/cr/labor-rights 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting No significant changes 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance pp. 17–24, pp. 96–97 periods in the scope, boundary, or body for overseeing the organization’s db.com/cr/responsible-­ ­measurement methods applied in the report identification and management of governance 3.12 GRI Content index pp. 92–95 ­economic, environmental, and social db.com/cr/measuring opportunities and risks db.com/cr/sms 3.13 Verification of external third parties p. 91, pp. 92–95 db.com/cr/labor-rights db.com/cr/sms db.com/cr/compliance db.com/cr/international-­ standards db.com/code-of-ethics 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest p. 19 ­governance body’s sustainability db.com/cr/measuring ­performance db.com/cr/responsible-­ governance db.com/corporate-­governance db.com/supervisory-board db.com/terms-of-reference 4.11 Implementation of the precautionary p. 4, pp. 17–33, pp. 37–55 approach or principle db.com/cr/climate-strategy db.com/cr/sustainablecredit-products db.com/cr/sustainable-­ investments db.com/cr/es-risk-­ management FR = Financial Report 2013; AR = Annual Review 2013; Form 20–F 2013. Deutsche Bank Supplementary Information 93 Corporate Responsibility 2013 GRI index Ecological performance indicators 4.12 Participation in and support for external pp. 5–7, pp. 17–20, p. 27, p. 29, Management approach disclosure pp. 86–88 initiatives p. 33, p. 40, p. 51, p. 52 EN1 Materials used by weight or volume pp. 86–88 db.com/cr/memberships EN2 Percentage of materials used that are pp. 86–88 db.com/cr/international-­ recycled input materials standards EN3 Direct energy consumption p. 84, pp. 86–88 4.13 Memberships db.com/cr/memberships db.com/cr/green-it 4.14 Stakeholder engagement p. 8, pp. 28–30 EN4 Indirect energy consumption pp. 86–88 db.com/cr/memberships d b.com/cr/stakeholderdialogue EN5 Energy saved as a result of conservation p. 84, pp. 86–88 db.com/cr/materiality and efficiency improvements db.com/cr/green-it 4.15 Basis for the selection of stakeholders db.com/cr/memberships EN6 Initiatives for the creation of products and pp. 82–85 d b.com/cr/stakeholderdialogue services with increased energy efficiency db.com/cr/green-it db.com/cr/materiality db.com/cr/desertec db.com/cr/get-fit 4.16 Stakeholder dialogue pp. 5–7, pp. 8–9, pp. 28–30, pp. 59–68 EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy pp. 82–85 db.com/cr/memberships consumption, and reductions achieved db.com/cr/green-supply-chain db.com/cr/stakeholderdialogue db.com/cr/green-it db.com/cr/materiality EN8 Total water withdrawals pp. 86–88 4.17 Statements addressing stakeholders’ pp. 5–7, pp. 8–11, pp. 28–31, EN11 Location and size of land in or adjacent to Not relevant, because there is no key topics and concerns p. 33, pp. 64–65, p. 66 protected areas land owned in protected areas db.com/cr/memberships EN12 Impacts of activities, products, and pp. 25–33, p. 85 db.com/cr/stakeholderdialogue services on biodiversity in protected areas db.com/cr/environmentaldb.com/cr/materiality and-social-risks EN14 Strategies, current actions, and pp. 25–33, p. 85 Economic performance indicators future plans for managing impacts on db.com/cr/environmentalManagement approach disclosure p. 2, p. 4, pp. 5–7, pp. 8–11, biodiversity and-social-risks pp. 47–48, p. 55, pp. 96–97 EN16 Direct and indirect greenhouse pp. 86–88 EC1 Economic value generated and distributed p. 47, p. 54, p. 80, pp. 96–97, gas emissions inside of back cover, rear flap, EN17 Other greenhouse gas emissions pp. 86–88 FR pp. 282–288 EN18 Initiatives aimed at reducing greenhouse pp. 82–85, pp. 86–88 EC2 Financial implications of climate change pp. 10–11, pp. 25–30, pp. 37–41, gas emissions db.com/cr/green-supply-chain pp. 47–48, p. 82 db.com/cr/green-it EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined p. 63, p. 66, p. 71, FR pp. 267–270 db.com/cr/carbon-neutrality benefit plan obligations db.com/cr/our-people EN19– Emissions, waste, and wastewater Not reported; because the db.com/cr/working-­ 23, 27 amount is insignificant, (EN19–22) environment there is no uncontrolled release EC4 Financial assistance received from Not reported to ensure protection of substances (EN23), and no ­government of proprietary information packaging ­materials required EC6 Local hiring of suppliers db.com/cr/green-supply-chain (EN27) EC7 Local hiring of staff pp. 61–62, pp. 64–65 EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental pp. 25–31, p. 33, pp. 37–41 db.com/cr/green-supply-chain impacts of products and services db.com/cr/project-finance db.com/cr/diversity db.com/cr/sustainable-­­ credit-products EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure p. 46, p. 54, pp. 67–68, pp. 72–79, investments and services provided pp. 80–81, p. 85, pp. 96–97, EN28 Sanctions for non-compliance with legal None ­primarily for public benefit inside of back flap requirements in the environmental sector EC9 Understanding and describing significant pp. 5–11, pp. 25–30, pp. 37–55, indirect economic impacts, including the p. 54 extent of impacts FR = Financial Report 2013; AR = Annual Review 2013; Form 20–F 2013. Deutsche Bank Supplementary Information 94 Corporate Responsibility 2013 GRI index Product responsibility Management approach disclosure pp. 37–55, p. 45, p. 49 LA11 Programs for skills management and p. 46, pp. 61–62, pp. 64–65, p. 85 PR1 Life-cycle stages in which health and p. 43, pp. 44–45, p. 52 ­life-long learning db.com/cr/recruitingsafety impacts of products and services db.com/cr/sustainable-­­ and-retention are assessed credit-products LA12 Percentage of employees receiving p. 63 PR3 Basics/techniques of product labeling p. 19, p. 40, pp. 42–43, p. 45, p. 52 regular performance and career db.com/cr/sustainabledevelopment reviews credit-products LA13 Composition of governance bodies p. 54, pp. 64–65, pp. 69–70, db.com/cr/sustainableand breakdown of employees (age, FR pp. 476–479 investments gender, etc.) db.com/cr/organizationPR4 Total number of incidents of non-­ FR pp. 371–376, and-responsibility compliance with regulations and Form 20–F pp. 23–25, pp. 65–72 db.com/cr/compliance ­voluntary codes concerning product LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women Not reported due to bank-­ and service information and labeling, by employee category specific regulatory limitations by type of outcome and internal guidelines PR5 Practices related to client satisfaction pp. 36–55, p. 44, p. 48 db.com/cr/sustainableHuman rights credit-products Management approach disclosure pp. 24–25, p. 30, p. 33, pp. 37–55 db.com/cr/advisory HR1 Investment agreements that include pp. 23–33, p. 32 PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, In terms of advertising, measures human rights clauses or that have db.com/cr/compliance ­standards, and voluntary codes related are regulated by German law ­undergone human rights screening db.com/cr/environmentalto advertising (consumer protection laws, etc.). and-social-risks We adhere to these laws, which db.com/cr/labor-rights is reflected in the policies and HR2 Suppliers and contractors who have db.com/cr/green-supply-chain regulations of the bank (e.g. Code ­undergone screening on human rights of Ethics, p. 7). HR4 Total number of incidents of Several instruments to prevent p. 45, p. 80 discrimination and actions taken discrimination and to support db.com/cr/sustainabl e-­creditaffected employees (pp. 64–65); products Deutsche Bank Code of Conduct db.com/cr/advisory and Ethics for Staff at db.com/code-of-ethics db.com/code-of-ethics; PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for FR pp. 371–376, not reported to ensure protection ­non-compliance with laws and Form 20–F pp. 23–25, pp. 65–72 of employees regulations concerning the provision HR5 Freedom of association/collective p. 66, FR p. 268 and use of products and services ­bargaining db.com/cr/labor-rights HR6–7 Prevention of child/compulsory labor; pp. 17–31, p. 33 Labor practices and acceptable working conditions ­principles and measures taken db.com/cr/labor-rights Management approach disclosure pp. 17–24, pp. 59–71 db.com/cr/responsible-­ LA1 Data on total workforce p. 66, pp. 69–71 governance LA2 Data on rate of employee turnover p. 65, pp. 69–71, inside rear flap db.com/cr/environmentaldb.com/cr/our-people and-social-risks db.com/cr/working-­ environment Society LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees pp. 59–71 Management approach disclosure pp. 17–24, pp. 28–30, p. 54, that are not provided to temporary or db.com/cr/our-people pp. 67–68, pp. 72–81 part-time workers SO1 Programs/procedures which assess pp. 23–30, p. 54, pp. 72–78, p. 79, LA4 Percentage of employees covered by p. 61, p. 69 and regulate the effects of business pp. 80–81, pp. 96–97 collective bargaining agreements db.com/cr/labor-rights operations on the public good d  b.com/cr/stakeholderdialogue LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding According to par. 111, 112 of the db.com/cr/materiality operational changes German Labor Management db.com/cr/environmentalRelations Act, the works council and-social-risks must be thoroughly and promptly SO2 Percentage and total number of pp. 19–21 informed of any company business units analyzed for risks related db.com/cr/compliance changes. The notice period is to corruption db.com/cr/responsible-­ three months in normal practice. business LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented FR pp. 267–268 db.com/code-of-ethics in formal joint management-worker health SO3 Percentage of employees trained in the p. 18 and safety committees that help monitor ­organization’s anti-corruption policies db.com/cr/compliance and advise on occupational health and and procedures safety programs SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents pp. 17–22 LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, p. 71 of corruption db.com/cr/compliance lost days, etc. db.com/code-of-ethics LA8 Programs in place to assist workforce p. 64, p. 66 SO5 Public policy positions, and participation in pp. 28–30 members, their families, or community db.com/cr/our-people public policy development and lobbying db.com/cr/public-and-­ members regarding serious diseases db.com/cr/work-life-balance regulatory-affairs LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal p. 66 db.com/cr/memberships agreements with trade unions db.com/cr/our-people d  b.com/cr/stakeholderdialogue db.com/cr/health SO8 Sanctions for non-compliance with laws Form 20–F pp. 24–25 and regulations LA10 Average hours of training and education p. 19, p. 70 per employee per year db.com/cr/recruiting-andretention FR = Financial Report 2013; AR = Annual Review 2013; Form 20–F 2013. Deutsche Bank Supplementary Information 95 Corporate Responsibility 2013 GRI index, UN Global Compact UN Global Compact Communication on progress Financial services sector indicators FS1 Policies with specific environmental pp. 23–27, p. 33, pp. 37–55 By participating in the UN Global Compact, we have and social components applied to d  b.com/cr/es-risk-management ­committed ourselves to preserving internationally business lines db.com/cr/sustainable-­ products ­recognized human rights, creating socially acceptable FS2 Procedures for assessing and screening p. 10, pp. 17–33 working conditions, protecting the environment, and environmental and social risks in business d b.com/cr/es-risk-management lines fighting corruption. FS3 Processes for monitoring clients’ pp. 17–33, pp. 37–55 ­implementation of and compliance with d b.com/cr/es-risk-management environmental and social requirements included in agreements or transactions The UN Global Compact’s ten Principles FS4 Process(es) for improving staff competency pp. 9–10, pp. 17–18, pp. 19–22, to implement the environmental and pp. 42–44, pp. 51–53, p. 61, p. 64 Examples of implementation social policies and procedures as applied d b.com/cr/es-risk-management Human rights to business lines Principle 1: Businesses should support and p. 5, pp. 23–33, pp. 31–32, p. 51 FS5 Interactions with clients, investees, pp. 9–10, pp. 25–31, p. 33, respect the protection of db.com/cr/environmental-andand business partners regarding pp. 37–40, pp. 47–48, p. 54, p. 55 ­internationally proclaimed social-risks ­environmental and social risks and d b.com/cr/stakeholderdialogue human rights, and p. 43 ­opportunities db.com/cr/code-of-values FS6 Percentage of the portfolio for business FR pp. 9–16, AR p. 20 Principle 2: ensure that they are not complicit p. 66 lines by specific region, size (e.g. micro, in human rights abuses. db.com/cr/labor-rights SME, or large), and sector p. 18 FS7 Monetary value of products and services pp. 47–49, p. 54, p. 55, pp. 96–97, db.com/cr/international-­ designed to deliver a specific social inside of back cover standards ­benefit for each business line, broken Labor standards down by purpose Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the FR pp. 268–269, pp. 64–65, p. 66, FS8 Monetary value of products and pp. 47–49, p. 55, pp. 96–97, ­freedom of association and p. 20, pp. 17–31, p. 33 services designed to deliver a specific inside of back cover Principle 4: the effective recognition of the right db.com/cr/labor-rights ­environmental benefit for each to collective bargaining, db.com/cr/responsible-­ business line, broken down by purpose Principle 5: the elimination of all forms of forced governance FS9 Coverage and frequency of audits to pp. 23–24, p. 90 and compulsory labor, db.com/cr/environmental-­ assess implementation of environmental db.com/cr/measuring Principle 6: the effective abolition of child labor, and-social-risks and social policies and risk assessment d b.com/cr/es-risk-management and the elimination of discrimination procedures db.com/cr/sms in respect to employment and FS10 Percentage and number of companies pp. 17–33 ­occupation. held in the institution’s portfolio with d b.com/cr/es-risk-management which the reporting organization has Environment ­interacted on environmental or social Principle 7, Businesses should support pp. 82–87 issues Principle 8, a ­precautionary approach to db.com/cr/environment Principle 9: ­environmental challenges, db.com/cr/climate-strategy FS11 Percentage of assets subject to positive pp. 17–33, pp. 50–55 ­undertake ­initiatives to ­promote db.com/cr/carbon-neutrality and negative environmental or social d b.com/cr/es-risk-­management greater ­environmental pp. 37–41, p. 47 screening db.com/cr/sustainable-­ ­responsibility, and encourage db.com/cr/sustainable-­ investments the development and diffusion products FS12 Voting polic(ies) applied to environmental pp. 17–33, pp. 50–55 of environmentally friendly db.com/cr/sustainable-­ or social issues for shares over which the d  b.com/cr/es-risk-management ­technologies. investments reporting organization holds voting shares db.com/cr/sustainable-­ p. 18, pp. 24–33 or advises on voting investments db.com/cr/international-­ db.com/cr/sustainablestandards asset-management db.com/cr/green-supply-chain FS13 Access points in low-populated or pp. 10–11, pp. 45–46, p. 48, db.com/cr/memberships ­economically disadvantaged areas by pp. 54–55 type db.com/cr/sustainableAnti-corruption credit-products Principle 10: Businesses should work against pp. 17–22 db.com/cr/alternative-­ corruption in all its forms, including db.com/cr/compliance investments extortion and bribery. db.com/cr/en/responsibledb.com/cr/get-fit business FS14 Initiatives to improve access to financial pp. 45–46, p. 49, p. 54 db.com/code-of-ethics services for disadvantaged people db.com/cr/sustainablecredit-products db.com/cr/accessibility FS15 Policies for the fair design and sale of pp. 42–45 financial products and services db.com/cr/client-satisfaction FS16 Initiatives to enhance financial literacy by p. 46 type of beneficiary FR = Financial Report 2013; AR = Annual Review 2013; Form 20–F 2013. Deutsche Bank Supplementary Information 96 Corporate Responsibility 2013 Corporate citizenship units and foundations Corporate citizenship units and foundations Deutsche Bank’s corporate citizenship Deutsche Bank activities are brought to life in its regional units ­Americas Foundation and endowed foundations. Their initiatives Founded1999 ensure that social capital is built in all regions Commitments 2013 €6.5 m. in which the bank operates. The Americas Foundation coordinates CR activities in the entire Americas region. db.com/responsibility Its program of loans, investments and philanthropic grants is designed to ­encourage sustainable community d­evelopment, promote wider access to quality education and provide steadfast support for the arts. The foundation’s ­resources are complemented by the work of the Community Development Finance Group (CDFG), which makes loans and Corporate ­investments within lowand moderate-­ income communities. It is the center of Citizenship UK competence for Deutsche Bank’s global Founded1989 social finance work. For over 20 years, the Federal ­Reserve Bank has consistently Commitments 2013 €3.7 m. rated Deutsche Bank “outstanding” for The year 2013 marked the launch of the its c ­ ommunity reinvestment initiatives. bank’s global youth engagement program, Born to Be, which in the UK focuses on 4,950 underprivileged breaking the cycle of youth unemployment through early intervention. It targets students Deutsche Bank 11to 18-year-olds at risk of exclusion were supported by College Ready ­Communities since 2009 with education-led projects that aim Foundation to ­increase achievement, develop db.com/usa/cr Founded1986 ­employability skills and raise aspirations. Endowment funds €140.0 m. Corporate Citizenship UK expects to reach 160,000 young people through Born to Be Commitments 2013 €4.4 m. over the next four years. Volunteering The Deutsche Bank Foundation focuses its support on educational, social and cultural and fundraising activities for charities are another focus of the commitment. Deutsche Bank projects. The main objective of the £1.8 million South Africa ­foundation is to encourage young people to realize and develop their full ­potential, were raised by employees and the bank ­Foundation and to promote equality of o ­ pportunity for the “Charities of the Year 2013” Founded  2001 for the disadvantaged. The foundation’s db.com/uk/cr Endowment funds  €16.9 m. db.com/borntobe Alfred Herrhausen Fund s­ upports initiatives Commitments 2013 €0.6 m. aimed above all at ­improving the career prospects of disadvantaged young people. Deutsche Bank South Africa Foundation’s launch of the global youth engagement Over €1 million program Born to Be aims to enable young were donated by Deutsche Bank people to realize their full potential. Early ­Foundation, Deutsche Bank, its clients, education interventions, social ­investment and employees for victims of the floods projects and art and music programs in Germany ­deliver impact in two focus a ­ reas: Early deutsche-bank-stiftung.de Childhood Development (ECD)/teacher ­trainings and High School Learner ­Development (HSD). More than 6,800 people benefit from the education program ­Bulungula Incubator Two local foundations in Germany (Deutsche Bank Düsseldorf/Niederrhein Stiftung and db.com/southafrica/cr Deutsche Bank Köln/Bonn/Aachen Stiftung) support regional social projects. Deutsche Bank Supplementary Information 97 Corporate Responsibility 2013 Corporate citizenship units and foundations Deutsche Bank ­Donation Fund Founded  1970 Historical Association Deutsche Bank Endowment funds  €10.6 m. of Deutsche Bank Asia Foundation Commitments 2013 €4.3 m. Founded  1991 Founded2003 The Deutsche Bank Donation Fund Number of members in Stifterverband für die Deutsche Commitments 2013 €2.7 m. (end of 2013) 2,041 ­Wissenschaft e. V. (Donors’ Association The Deutsche Bank Asia Foundation is for German Science) promotes scientific The Historical Association of Deutsche Bank committed to improving and sustaining ­research and teaching at both the was founded as a non-profit organization the livelihoods of vulnerable communities ­national and international level. The dedicated to draw attention to the history in Asia. Working in partnership with non­primary focus is on intensifying of Deutsche Bank and the political, government organizations and foundations, the dialogue between the worlds of ­economic, and cultural environment in and in concert with community leaders, ­research and practice. which banks operate. Via publications, project facilitators and staff volunteers, lecture series and excursions, it pinpoints a variety of educational and innovative €150 million the ­interrelation between banking and outreach programs have been have been invested in science and ­pioneering innovations that sustainably ­success­fully implemented across ­research since 1970 influenced economic and social changes. the region. stiftungsfonds-deutsche-bank.de 140th anniversary 10 Years, of Deutsche Bank in London 10,000 Hands banking-history.com More than 6,600 employees from 16 countries volunteered to celebrate the tenth anniversary of Deutsche Bank Alfred Herrhausen Asia Foundation db.com/asiapacific/cr Society Founded1992 Commitments 2013 €3.2 m. Deutsche Bank The non-profit Alfred Herrhausen Society is the international forum of Deutsche Bank. Transatlantic Outreach Middle East Foundation In focus are new forms of governance Founded2008 as a response to the challenges of the 21st Program (TOP) century. It works with international partners Founded  2001 Commitments 2013 €0.3 m. and future decision-makers, including Endowment funds  €2.4 m. The Deutsche Bank Middle East Foundation p­ olicy, academia and business, to organize Commitments 2013 €0.15 m. celebrated its fifth anniversary in 2013. forums for discussion worldwide that are It focuses on funding investments in also accessible to a wide public audience. TOP is a public-private initiative of ­education, community development, ­­ The society is dedicated to the work of ­Ger­many’s Department of Foreign Affairs, sustainability and volunteering in the ­Alfred Herrhausen, former spokesman of the Goethe Institute, Deutsche Bank and ­Middle East and North African countries. the Deutsche Bank Management Board, other corporate partners, targeted at The foundation also carries out cultural who advocated the idea of corporate North American social studies educators events and is a great supporter of the ­responsibility in an exemplary manner and curriculum supervisors. TOP promotes ­regional art scene. u ­ ntil his assassination by terrorists in 1989. ­education about Germany, encourages ­international dialogue and offers study 4th consecutive award 4,500 attendees tours that enable participants to for Deutsche Bank as “Patron of the Arts” have been present at Urban Age ­experience modern Germany in person. db.com/mena/cr ­conferences since 2005 alfred-herrhausen-society.org Almost 30,000 dbuaaward.com ­teaching materials were distributed in 2013 goethe.de/top In 2014, Fondazione Deutsche Bank will be launched in Italy to support social and educational projects. db.com/italia/foundation Deutsche Bank Supplementary information 98 Corporate Responsibility 2013 Imprint / Publications Imprint / Publications Deutsche Bank Aktiengesellschaft Contact Photos Taunusanlage 12 Deutsche Bank AG Matthias Ziegler, cover and 60262 Frankfurt am Main Corporate Responsibility pages 14/15, 34/35, 56/57 corporate.responsibility@db.com fotolia.com/vschlichting, front flap Germany db.com/responsibility Deutsche Bank KunstHalle/­ Telephone: +49 69 91 00 0 Mathias Schormann, front flap and deutsche.bank@db.com page 78 Publications relating to the Mario Andreya, front flap and page 85 Management /responsible for content financial statements Center for Financial Studies, front flap Dr. Sabine Miltner Annual Review 2013 iStock.com/RoPXL, front flap (German/English) Andreas Pohlmann, page 5 Project coordination Financial Report 2013 fotolia.com/Trueffelpix, page 27 Heike Hilbig, Christina Burmeister, (German/English) fotolia.com/Jörg Lantelme, page 40 Pia Engel, Edith Pürschel, Tanja Haselmann Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 Tim Wegener, page 46 (German/English) iStock.com/STEEX, page 52 Annual Financial Statements Center for Financial Studies, page 75 Design and Concept and Management Report of Tuca Viera, page 77 HGB Hamburger Geschäftsberichte Deutsche Bank AG 2013 GmbH & Co. KG (German/English) Rentzelstraße 10a List of Advisory Council Members © 2014 Deutsche Bank AG 20146 Hamburg (German) Reproduction in full or in part only Germany with the publisher’s prior written How to order approval. Photos and copy to be credited Order number: 003 83304 2513 to Deutsche Bank AG. Editorial Context Europe E-mail: service-center@bertelsmann.de C26 Jack’s Place Internet: deutsche-bank.de/13 6 Corbet Place Telephone: +49 1805 80 22 00 London E1 6NN Fax: +49 1805 07 08 08 UK Postal address: arvato logistics services Bestellservice Deutsche Bank Editorial comment Gottlieb-Daimler-Straße 1 All the information in this report has been 33428 Harsewinkel compiled in good faith and with the Germany ­greatest care from various sources. To the best of our knowledge, the ­information Online and data contained in this report reflect All publications relating to our the truth. Nevertheless, we cannot financial reporting are available at assume liability for the correctness or www.db.com/13. ­completeness of the information provided herein. Climate neutral The publisher has made an effort The greenhouse gas emissions of 31 t of to clarify all reproduction rights. We CO2 equivalents caused by production kindly request that any possible and distribution of this publication have retroactive claims be directed to been offset by investing in the Cruz Alta corporate.responsibility@db.com. Bagasse Cogeneration Project, Brazil. Insofar as the masculine form is used in the content of this report, it is assumed that this refers to both genders on equal terms. We would like to thank all colleagues and external partners for their friendly support in making this report possible. This Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 is also available in German. Facts / figures Selected goals Goals 2012–2015 Progress 2013 ES risk management Strengthen management of ESG risks by — A series of meetings with critical stakeholders ­intensifying engagement on ESG issues with clients — Numerous interactions with clients involved in sensitive sectors Proactive shaping of relationships with critical — Enhanced collaboration with various infrastructure functions stakeholders with reference to controversial topics — Improvement of established ES risk escalation processes Optimization of ESG risk coverage in MIS and ­external reporting Private and corporate clients Improving the governance structures within our — The Responsible Banking Committee continued to play a crucial Private & Business Clients division to strengthen our role in the definition and monitoring of new products approach to sustainable and responsible banking Asset management Establish ESG steering committee in Europe with — Formation of ESG Head Office responsible for all ESG activities for working groups to: DeAWM, internationalized proxy voting guidelines, and published — Strengthen clients’ knowledge of ESG topics a White Paper on ESG — Further implement ESG factors into the investment — Proxy voting meeting results are now reported one day after the process annual general meetings on our website — Establish framework conditions through policies, anticipatory examination, and realization of relevant directives — Communicate ESG activities Wealth management Extension of assets under management with — Goal reached in June 2013 responsible investments up to €650 million by 2015 — Assets under management with responsible investments have (base €400 million as per September 30, 2011) reached a volume of €823 million within PWM business in Germany Human resources Increase the commitment towards ­ — We manage the performance of employees in line with our Values sustainability; integrate aspects of sustainability and Beliefs, ensuring the future success of our business and into the ­performance management process the availability of diverse senior leaders to take the bank forward Continued commitment for DAX 30 declaration — In 2013, the proportion of female senior executives increased (more women in senior management positions; to 18.7%, and the proportion of women of all o ­ fficer titles rose to be achieved by 2018) to 31.1% Sustainable operations Continuation of low carbon strategy; continue — Maintained carbon neutrality integration of sustainability into standard operating — 5% reduction in total energy consumption procedures — 35% increase in global recycling ratio of total waste — 7% reduction in office paper consumption Corporate citizenship Strategic review and strengthening of high impact — Monitoring of all centrally and regionally managed CC programs corporate citizenship (CC) projects via the Global Impact Tracking Increase stakeholder involvement in — Public votings to select champions of the year (e.g. Land of Ideas, Deutsche Bank’s corporate citizenship programs Sporthilfe, Volunteer Award) Strategic bundling of youth engagement programs — Following the launch in the UK, alignment of Asia Pacific’s and under the Born to Be umbrella South Africa’s portfolio Foster social entrepreneurship — Three new commitments via the Impact Investment Fund, launch of the Investment Readiness Initiative in Germany Enhance visibility of corporate volunteers — Global roll-out of Deutsche Bank’s Volunteer Award Further extend reach of art programs — Opening of Deutsche Bank KunstHalle with a record of 12,000 visitors in 48 hours Facts / figures Deutsche Bank The Group at a glance 2013 2012 Share price at period end €34.68 €32.95 Share price high €38.73 €39.51 Share price low €29.41 €22.11 Basic earnings per share €0.67 €0.28 Diluted earnings per share €0.65 €0.27 Average shares outstanding, in m., basic 997 934 Average shares outstanding, in m., diluted 1,025 960 Book value per basic share outstanding €53.24 €57.37 Tangible book value per basic share outstanding €39.69 €42.26 Pre-tax return on average shareholders’ equity 2.6% 1.3% Pre-tax return on average active equity1 2.6% 1.4% Post-tax return on average shareholders’ equity 1.2% 0.5% Post-tax return on average active equity 1.2% 0.5% Cost/income ratio 89.0% 92.5% Compensation ratio 38.6% 40.0% Noncompensation ratio 50.3% 52.5% In € m. 2013 2012 Total net revenues 31,915 33,736 Provision for credit losses 2,065 1,721 Total noninterest expenses 28,394 31,201 Income before income taxes 1,456 814 Net income 681 316 In € bn. Dec 31, 2013 Dec 31, 2012 Total assets 1,611 2,022 Total Shareholders’ equity 54.7 54.0 Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio 12.8% 11.4% Tier 1 capital ratio 16.9% 15.1% Number Dec 31, 2013 Dec 31, 2012 Branches 2,907 2,984 thereof in Germany 1,924 1,944 Employees (full-time equivalent) 98,254 98,219 thereof in Germany 46,377 46,308 Long-term rating Dec 31, 2013 Dec 31, 2012 Moody’s Investors Service A2 A2 Standard & Poor’s A A+ Fitch Ratings A+ ​A+ 1 We calculate this adjusted measure of our return on average shareholders’ equity to make it easier to compare us to our competitors. We refer to this adjusted measure as our “Pre-tax return on average active equity.” However, this is not a ­measure of performance under IFRS, and you should not compare our ratio based on average active equity to other companies’ ratios without considering the differences in the calculation of the ratio. The items for which we adjust the average shareholders’ equity of €56.1 billion for 2013 and €55.6 billion for 2012 are average dividends of €646 million in 2013 and €670 million in 2012, for which a proposal is accrued on a quarterly basis and which are paid after the approval by the Annual General Meeting following each year. Corporate responsibility Key figures Stakeholder feedback 2013 2012 2011 Sustainability ratings CDP Climate Performance Leadership Index 2013 (on a band from A to E) 91/Band A 90/Band A 82/Band B 1 OEKOM research (on a scale from A+ to D–) C/Prime C/Prime C/Prime RobecoSAM (on a scale from 0 to 100) 72 78 75 Sustainalytics (on a scale from 0 to 100) 61 59 66 Employee commitment index n/a 2 73 72 External perception of Deutsche Bank as a responsible corporate citizen 3 in % Global 51 49 54 Germany 76 82 76 Our Controls Pages 17–33 Employees with completed compliance training in % 97 87 97 Number of transactions escalated to regional/divisional or Group Reputational Risk Committee 106 102 99 thereof due to environmental and social criteria 7 16 9 Our Business Pages 37–55 Assets under management integrating environmental, social, and governance factors in € bn. 5.07 3.72 2.98 Estimated cumulative financing to micro-borrowers since 1997 in US $ bn. 1.67 1.49 1.26 Cumulative number of microloans financed since 1997 in m. 3.8 3.2 2.8 Sustainable investment funds in private and business client accounts in € m. Europe (excl. Germany) 319 130 144 Germany 69 320 353 KfW green loans granted to private clients in Germany in € m. 501 470 507.8 Green loans granted to private and business clients in Europe (excl. Germany) in € m. 146 178.5 132 Volume of infrastructure and energy asset financing in € bn. 2.5 1.9 2.1 Our Commitment Employees Pages 59–71 Gender diversity in % Female staff in total 41.7 41.7 41.2 Female staff (Officers) 31.1 30.8 29.7 Female Managing Directors and Directors 18.7 18.0 17.1 Female members on Supervisory Board 35 40 40 Female members on Management Board 0 0 0 Voluntary staff turnover rate in % 6.4 6.0 6.9 Training expenses in € m. 85 109 122 Employees participating in the bank’s volunteering programs in % 25 24 24 Total employee donations and matching by Deutsche Bank in € m. 9.9 11.4 8.7 Corporate citizenship Pages 72–81 Total investments in € m. 78.2 82.7 83.1 Participants in education projects 411,121 1,322,026 4 296,505 Beneficiaries of social projects 439,635 710,898 n/a People reached with Deutsche Bank’s art and music programs 1,211,495 n/a n/a Visitors at Deutsche Bank KunstHalle, Berlin 125,000 153,702 5 123,737 5 Participants in the Education Programme of the Berliner Philharmoniker 4,222 6,235 5,019 Environment Pages 82–88 Net GHG emissions in t CO26 348,986 386,021 369,330 Renewable energy as % of total energy use 79 67 74 1 CDP rating. 2 Not conducted in 2013 due to review in line with Values and Beliefs. 3 Representative global B2B survey in 16 countries; top 2 ratings on a 5-point scale. 4 Due to innovative Web-based educational projects with a substantially higher reach. 5 Visitors at the Deutsche Guggenheim, Berlin. 6 Net GHG emissions include RECs and renewables. Fully offset by retired CERs (Certified Emissions Reductions) since 2012. Corporate annual reporting The Corporate Responsibility Report is part of Deutsche Bank’s annual reporting publications presenting the bank’s performance and initiatives in 2013. It complements the Annual Review and the Financial Report and focuses on how we provide value for our stakeholders: share­holders, clients, employees and society – and describes how we are making our business more sustainable. Corporate Responsibility Annual Review 2013 Financial Report 2013 Report 2013 Deutsche Bank Building for Building for Building for the future the future the future Corporate Responsibility Annual Review 2013 Financial Report 2013 Report 2013 003 83304 2513 Print version Print version Print version PDF download PDF download PDF download Online version: Online version: Web special: www.db.com/13 www.db.com/13 www.db.com/cr
