STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT Our clients are one of our top priorities and in this way we are connected to their clients and in turn, connected to the world around us. It is with this ideology that we have embraced the principles of the United Nations Global Compact. This interconnectivity of the world is what makes our company relevant and we believe is the reason why the Global Compact is so important. I am pleased to announce that Verbio Technologies S.L. reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe Verbio’s actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and it’s principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. Verbio Technologies S.L. is a privately held technology firm that is focused specifically on speech technologies; acting as a software development firm as well as a consultancy in this area. We work with clients around the world and understand the reach that a business can have; even small and medium sized enterprises. It is for this reason that all businesses need to build more than an outstanding product or service, but also they need to invest in the environment, sound practices and humanity. We aspire to lead by example in these aspects. Sincerely, Antonio Terradas Galan Owner and Managing Director 1 HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS Description of the relevance of human rights for the company (i.e. human rights risk-assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on human rights. Verbio Technologies S.L. actively supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and ensures that all our employees are treated fairly and with respect. All health and safety regulations required by the labour laws, employee acts and other work acts in the countries that it operates in are strictly adhered to for the benefit of the employees and the company as a whole. Furthering this, Verbio Technologies S.L. has strict policy against harassment and abuse of all kinds and supports gender equality in the workplace. Along this tract, women employees are provided maternity leave as per local applicable laws and flexible working hours are available to accommodate employees with extenuating circumstances. IMPLEMENTATION Description of concrete actions to implement Human Rights policies, reduce Human Rights risks and respond to Human Rights violations. Verbio Technologies S.L. strives to create a workplace conducive to employee welfare and development. Currently Verbio has implemented a program where they take anonymous feedback from employees on workplace conditions and they adapt to the results of this. Any violation of human rights is treated immediately and taken extremely seriously, with the result of dismissal and the intervention of local authorities where necessary. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. In the area of professional development activities, Verbio Technologies S.L. regularly offers courses focused on personal and professional development. This is reflected in the satisfaction of the employees in our internal feedback. Verbio Technologies S.L. continues to take feedback in this area to improve upon and adapt where necessary. LABOUR LABOUR PRINCIPLES Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and 2 Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS Description of the relevance of labour rights for the company (i.e. labour rights-related risks and opportunities). Description of written policies, public commitments and company goals on labour rights. In respect to labour rights, Verbio Technologies S.L. complies with current legislation in all regions which Verbio Technologies S.L. operates and collective agreements in the areas and has a long-standing tradition of good relations between management and employees and with the trade unions. This is embedded in The Verbio Technologies S.L. Human Resources Policy, Health and Safety at Work Policy and Policy of Diversity, among others. IMPLEMENTATION Description of concrete actions taken by your company to implement labour policies, reduce labour risks and respond to labour violations. The activities of Verbio Technologies S.L. in this area in 2013 were concentrated on ensuring labour rights and social responsibility through our hiring process. We have an open door policy for all workers and all feedback that helps to ensure we are going above and beyond what is required by law. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. By 2013, the average amount of time an employee has remained with the company is 4 years; this measure reflects the good relationship between workers and Verbio Technologies S.L. ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS Description of the relevance of anti-corruption for the company (i.e. anti-corruption risk-assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on anti-corruption. Verbio Technologies S.L. is committed to counteracting corruption in all its forms and has adopted policies on confidentiality, gifts and conflicts of interest, personal relations and insider information. The policies apply to all employees. 'Guidelines on confidentiality, gifts and conflicts of interest' have been drawn up in accordance with legislation in all regions which Verbio Technologies S.L. operates, containing guidelines on gifts, lunches/dinners and courses/events. The guidelines on personal relations include close relations as well as other relations that may have an impact on the company’s policies. IMPLEMENTATION 3 Description of concrete actions to implement anti-corruption policies, reduce anti-corruption risks and respond to incidents. All employees of Verbio Technologies S.L. are encouraged to report an incident regarding corruption. All reported incidents will be received and monitored by an external lawyer. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES Description of how the company monitors and evaluates anti-corruption performance. Verbio Technologies S.L. regularly evaluates whether the Group's policies and guidelines in this area comply with the laws in all regions which Verbio Technologies S.L. operates. ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS Description of the relevance of environmental protection for the company (i.e. environmental risks and opportunities). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on environmental protection. In accordance with the Global Compact's environmental principles, Verbio Technologies S.L. has an ongoing commitment to reducing the company's energy consumption and carbon footprint where possible. Efforts to that end are naturally focused on operations, procurement and transportation behaviour. IMPLEMENTATION Description of concrete actions to implement environmental policies, reduce environmental risks and respond to environmental incidents. Verbio Technologies S.L. reinforces that all employees use public transport or carbon neutral transportation, and it also takes into account environmental engagement of providers in any single procurement. Furthermore, Verbio Technologies S.L. is a software company where very little to no paper is used in the office, significantly reducing our environmental footprint. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES Description of how the company monitors and evaluates environmental performance. The company measures the ratio of employees using public transport during work trips and commutes. The current ratio is 75% and this number is a benchmark for our performance in this aspect. We also closely monitor the amount of paper used in the office and although this is not strictly measured, the purchasing of paper remains low. 4
