SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 CONTENTS 2 A year in the sustainability business OUR APPROACH 6 What is Outotec 8 CEO’s message 10 Megatrends giving us tailwind 12 Megatrends, risks and opportunities 14 Strategy 16 Building an engaging workplace 18 Our value chain 22 Interaction with stakeholders 32 Sustainability vision and targets OUR WAY OF WORKING 38 Materiality analysis 40 Developing solid governance 44 Values and Code of Conduct 46 Compliance across the board 48 People 50 Professional growth 52 Labor practices 56 O’Share and share alike OUR IMPACT 60 More sustainable technologies 62 Technologies for energy production SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 64 R&D and innovation 66 Hands-on learning EXPERTS THINKING AHEAD 68 Ecological footprint of our operations 74 76 Product safety Impact of our supply chain OUR HANDPRINT Experts are Outotec’s most valuable asset. That’s why this report is primarily about our people. GRI IS LARGER Expertise demands thinking. Whether engineering a solution, planning a delivery, or anticipating 80 About the report THAN OUR customer needs… thought is the key. It’s what Outotec’s people do best, regardless of their role. 82 GRI index and UN Global Compact FOOTPRINT Ahead of the curve, and looking to the long-term future, Outotec’s people consider the entire life 86 88 Independent assurance Contact information cycle. We’re future-oriented, and our first priority is making that future a sustainable one. OUTOTEC OYJ / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 A YEAR IN THE SUSTAINABILITY BUSINESS A YEAR IN THE July 22 Sep 5 Outotec Chile awarded Employee survey 2013 for Safety Management – results and next steps. 2013. SUSTAINABILITY Q3 Sep 12 Outotec included in the Dow July 18 Outotec awarded Jones Sustainability Index. June 26 ”Safety and Respect Compliance helpline BUSINESS for the Environment” introduced. award in Morocco. Sep 19 Outotec participated in the UN Global Compact Leaders Summit in New York. Sep 30 3 million accident-free working Q2 hours at the Cristal Global ilmenite smelter site. June 18 Employee share savings plan wins GEO April 24 global award. Oct 6 Outotec joined initiative UNEP report about metals to establish the Indusrecycling published – Outotec’s trial Waters Excellence Prof. Markus Reuter is lead Center in Russia. author. Oct 8 April 11 Outotec recognized Code of Conduct launched – in the Nordic Carbon defining sustainable Oct 10 Disclosure Leadership behavior at Outotec. Aspiring for excellence Index. – 30 of our locations attain QEHS certification ahead of schedule. March 8 Outotec Brazil awarded Oct 17 Q4 “Outstanding Company Outotec initiated efficiency in Health and Safety” improving measures targeting up by Samarco. to EUR 50 million annual savings. Feb 14 Dr Ilkka Kojo nominated as a member of the Executive Oct 24 Committee of the European Jan 9 Outotec has third best 34% of employees reputation and our CEO sixth Association of Metals, Q1 participated in best in a survey evaluating EuroMetaux. the employee share Finnish listed companies. savings plan. Nov 12 Outotec arranged Jan 10 a sustainability seminar Jan 30 Outotec to deliver gasfor rare earth element Outotec to provide cleaning plant for LKAB a renewable energy in Sweden. producers in China. Dec 4 Capital Markets solution for a bio-ethanol Day in London. facility in USA. Nov 7 Nov 14 Outotec’s sustainability report Outotec organizes a seminar for awarded by investors and stuMongolian authorities and customers dents in Finland. about sustainable mining and metals processing. 2 3 OUR APPROACH 6 What is Outotec 8 CEO’s message 10 Megatrends giving us tailwind 12 Megatrends, risks and opportunities 14 Strategy 16 Building an engaging workplace 18 Our value chain 22 Interaction with stakeholders 32 Sustainability vision and targets OUR APPROACH Our approach to sustainability is guided by our mission, sustainable use of Earth’s natural resources. OUTOTEC OYJ / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 OUR APPROACH OUTOTEC’S HANDPRINT Through providing industry benchmark technologies and life cycle solutions to our customers, we consider ourselves to have a significant positive handprint towards sustainable use of resources. WHAT IS OUTOTEC We support our customers in reducing the ecological footprint of their operations. Summary of key figures 2013 2012 2011 Sales, EUR million 1,911.5 2,087.4 1,385.6 Reported operating profit, EUR million 141.9 184.3 111.9 → Outotec is a technology company that Outotec has a strong market position designs and delivers tailored solutions across the entire value chain from ore to Research and development expenses, EUR million 48.7 41.6 33.5 for minerals and metals processing, wametal and we also intend to strengthen Priority applications, pcs 101 70 41 METALS ter treatment, and producing energy from our technology leadership through acquiNational patents granted, pcs 419 286 326 biomass and wastes. There is no othsitions. In 2013, Outotec acquired ScanCAN BE PRODUCED er company that can deliver such a wide alyse, a software technology company Number of employees on average 4,927 4,456 3,516 SUSTAINABLY range of applications: a unique position providing services for process equipment Wages and salaries, EUR million 385.8 362.6 284.4 founded on a century of scientific and opcondition and performance monitoring. Total greenhouse gas emissions, 15.9 15.2 18.8 erational knowledge. With our mission Outotec, headquartered in Finland, tonnes of CO2 /EUR 1 million sales of ‘Sustainable use of Earth’s natural rehas employees in 27 countries and sales Greenhouse gas emissions avoided through the use 5,400 4,600 4,800 sources’, Outotec works to guarantee the to over 80 countries. As of July 2013, the of Outotec technologies, thousand tonnes of CO2-e best return on the customer’s investment company structure was changed and opTotal energy consumption, TJ 156.8 164.9 141.5 with minimal ecological impact. erations were clustered into three regions: The benefits of this approach include the Americas, EMEA (Europe, the Middle conferring the license to operate, maxiEast and Africa), and APAC (Asia Pacific), Read more about our performance in Financial Statements 2013 at www.outotec.com/investors. mizing recovery, and reducing emissions providing our customers with full support as well as energy and water consumption. for project implementation, deliveries and Outotec’s most significant impact on service. The two new business areas, sustainability occurs indirectly through Minerals Processing and Metals, Energy our customers’ operations. The majority & Water, are dedicated to developing OUR APPROACH of our customers operate in the minersustainable technology solutions and als and metals industries (83% of sales), Our approach to sustainability is guided by our mission: sustainable use of Earth’s natural resources. life-cycle services. Our service business We want to create value both for our shareholders and the society around us by finding solutions to some and increasingly in the renewable energy is included in the figures of the business of the challenges our modern lifestyle pose towards the planet and the generations to come. sector, chemical industry and industrial areas. The change is intended to strengthwater treatment. These companies are en Outotec’s market presence and comCommitment to sustainability is also our core value. It means that sustainability not only guides what we looking to improve their energy efficienpetiveness of our solutions as well as do, but also how we do it. We want to integrate sustainability not only into all our operations, but also into cy and reduce CO2 and other emissions, supporting the rolling out and running of our thinking and behavior. as well as water consumption. We beglobal business processes and tools. Because of the nature of our business, our most significant contribution to abating climate change and lieve that with modern technologies and In May 2013, Outotec opened an ofother environmental challenges is made through providing sustainable technologies and services to our life-cycle solutions, metals and materifice in Jakarta, Indonesia. Approximately customers, thus enabling them to run environmentally sound, profitable and socially acceptable businessals can be produced resource-efficienthalf of Outotec’s sales are generated in es. It means that our handprint, the positive effect in terms of sustainability, is bigger than our footprint: ly and sustainably. Innovative research emerging markets. the impact of our own operations to the environment is tiny compared to what we can achieve by providing at 18 in-house R&D and competence Outotec has been listed on the NASinnovative solutions to our customers. This is also how we measure our success. Our long-term target is centers and continuous development DAQ OMX Helsinki since October 2006. all about our handprint: we must be able to offer more sustainable technologies and services to our cuswork with customers has made us the tomers with less harmful impact on the environment. leading developer of technology in the Read about Outotec’s legal entities in In our everyday life, we are guided by our values, Code of Conduct and our policies. We strive to report minerals processing and metallurgical openly about our activities and progress as well as the areas that need development. This report is our Financial Statements 2013, page 64. industry. fourth, and it describes our performance in 2013 while setting targets for 2014 and beyond. The report complies with the accounting standards and voluntary reporting guidelines issued by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), and is independently assured. Read more about our approach to economic, environmental and social sustainability on page 40. 6 7 OUTOTEC OYJ / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 CEO’S MESSAGE “Outotec was ranked GREAT PEOPLE, the third most sustainable company on Corporate GREAT TECHNOLOGIES Knights’ Global 100 list.” Pertti Korhonen President & CEO, Outotec → When I received the news that Outotec I place my trust in our great peoUnited Nations Global Compact initiawas ranked the third most sustainaple and great technologies. Our tive and principles on human rights, the ble company in the world on Corporate green-hearted engineers and all our environment, labor, and anti-corruption, Knights’ Global 100 list, I must admit that green collar workers, who aspire for exwe introduced our new Code of Conduct, I was left a bit puzzled. I know that suscellence in everything they do. I work and 40 percent of our employees have altainability is truly in our core and that hard to ensure that we are the leaders ready completed the obligatory training. we have done a lot of work to get such in innovation, so that our offering can be We hoped to achieve a larger audience, recognitions. Of course I felt very hapthe best in the industry when it comes but the learning tool launch was unfortupy and proud. But at the same time I to resource efficiency, energy efficiennately delayed. The work continues, and also know that there is a lot to be done. cy, water usage, minimizing emissions we now have a full-time Chief Compliance When it comes to sustainability, a compa– all in all, reducing the ecological footOfficer. We also opened a compliance ny can never be complete or perfect. Afprint wherever possible, and making our helpline available both to our employees ter a while I realized how great this was: handprint as large as possible. and to our partners. We more than douit gives my colleagues and I great motivaOur core competences come from the bled our target of signed supplier policies. tion to continue our steady work towards knowledge of our people, and it is thereAnd we also made it to the Dow Jones becoming even more sustainable! fore important that we attract and retain Sustainability Index for the first time. Like every well-informed person, I the best talent in the industry. We rely Yet, with all our efforts, 2013 was am concerned about our global dilemma. on our experts and their ability to think financially challenging for us. The unOur mission, sustainable use of Earth’s ahead. I believe that our values and miscertainty in the world economy reduced natural resources, obliges us to seek sion statement have an important role to mining and metal companies’ investsolutions to this challenge: our modplay, because they give our people a sense ments. After several years of strong ern way of life and the economic growth of purpose in their work. Since our people growth, we experienced a slower than it requires must be decoupled from their are the focus of this year’s report, we deanticipated market, and were able to win When I walk around in our offices, I am impact on the environment. The world cided to publish a new long-term target: less business than planned. This forced constantly face-to-face not only with my is demanding that natural resources are we want to see 5% improvement in emus to take unpleasant decisions to recolleagues, but also our shareholders. used in a more efficient and sustainaployee engagement and performance enduce our workforce as part of the effiIt adds to my personal feeling of responble manner. Our customers face increasablement indices by 2020. ciency improvement program, to presibility. ing demands for environmental perforSo what else have we done in 2013? pare the company for possibly continuing I am optimistic about our future. mance; regulation is getting tighter and We have systematically developed our market slowness and shrinking sales. The global megatrends all bring us more they need to be able to meet new standpolicies and processes as well as harDespite of the challenging year, I feel that opportunities than threats. I believe that ards. The social license to operate is anmonized our quality management sysour spirit is strong and we are making when we act and behave with integrity other crucial issue in many countries. For tems and sustainability reporting to improgress in building success together as and think about the longer term, taking our customers, we want to be the kind prove our performance. One remarkable one Outotec. The fact that as much as one sustainability into account, we are able of partner that allowing them to comply milestone was when we received the One third of our employees are also Outotec to deliver better business performance. with current and upcoming requirements Outotec integrated QEHS management shareholders through a new employee In this way, I see sustainability as a vital while guaranteeing their operations to be certification for most of our global locashare savings plan, in the beginning of contributor to shareholder value creasustainable in every sense of the word. tions. To support our commitment to the 2013, shows our people’s commitment. tion. I feel proud of our handprint. 8 9 OUTOTEC OYJ / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 MEGATRENDS, RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES MEGATRENDS In 2013, Outotec revisited the strategy we defined in 2010, together with the megatrends impacting our industry. The world seems to be changing even faster than we thought. For example, the urgency in fighting climate change has increased. The most important mega­ GIVING US TAILWIND trend for Outotec, however, remains the same: the demand for minerals and metals continues to grow. Overall, these megatrends seem to bring us more opportunities than risks. → As the proportion of the world’s popnatural resources at the rate of 1.5 times customers, and society at large are of tomers and capture more value from our ulation living in cities increases, so does what the planet can sustain. This makes increasing importance to Outotec’s cusunique process technologies. Outotec has the need for vital resources such as metresource efficiency imperative. Better tomers’ investments. We are in a good strong expertise in analyzers and automaals and water. The growth in the demand and less polluting processing technology, position to deliver solid solutions that tion; advanced control software; remote for minerals and metals is estimated increased energy and material-efficienare safe, environmentally sound and monitoring and diagnostics; and process to be between 4 and 7 percent annualcy, as well as more recycling and re-procan be accepted and embraced by the design modeling, simulation and control, ly on average. This is mainly based on cessing of tailings and wastes are absolocal community, ensuring social liand the company is continuing to develop the assumption that by 2050 there will lute musts to decouple economic growth cense to operate for our customers. Fiits offering in this area. be three billion new middle-class conand the ecological footprint. The strong nancers (the World Bank for example) A more volatile macro economy with sumers. This trend, combined with the demand for metals combined with reare increasingly setting environmental shorter cycles requires a flexible busifact that ore grades are declining, means quirements for resource efficiency drives standards for investments into mining ness model. Outotec has been developthat more production capacity and more Outotec’s business and provides opportuoperations, which can be higher than loing its operating model and improving its resource-efficient technologies will be nities for advanced technologies. For excal legislation and emission limits. For scalability since 2010. We continue to dineeded in future, despite short-term imample, LKAB in Sweden is building a new example, Kansanshi Mining in Zambia versify our business portfolio from equipbalances in the market. Outotec gas-cleaning plant in connection selected Outotec technology for its rement and project deliveries to include Increasingly the world is demandwith its iron ore pellet plant to meet the cent sulfuric acid plant in order to meet more service components and complete ing that natural resources are used in a European Union’s new higher environthe World Bank’s standards. life-cycle solutions. Furthermore, the exmore efficient and sustainable manner, mental legislation requirement, which Digitalization of the world is a megapansion into the renewable energy and i.e. resource productivity has to be inwill be in place as of 2016. trend that provides many opportunities water treatment businesses helps us to creased and circular economy enhanced. Social aspects, such as health, safety for Outotec to leverage our core capabiliadjust our capacity according to the cyAt the moment, mankind is overusing and social responsibility for employees, ties in the solutions we design for the cuscles of the business. 10 11 OUTOTEC OYJ / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 MEGATRENDS, RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES MEGATRENDS AND THEIR Megatrend Opportunity for Outotec Risk for Outotec DECOUPLING Advanced solutions for emission reduction, water Overly strict laws and regulation can result in treatment and recycling, as well as efficient use of unprofitable operations, and if the customer cannot WEALTH IMPACT ON OUR BUSINESS biomass and waste are needed. meet these it may lose its license to operate. This AND ECOLOGICAL Outotec’s technologies including sealed processwould reduce Outotec’s opportunities to offer techFOOTPRINT es, gas cleaning, efficient sulfur capture and effluent nologies and services to the plant in question. treatment guarantee sustainable operations and If Outotec fails to design and provide competitive long-term profitability. With modern technologies solutions for the customer, it may lose business. metals and materials can be produced sustainably. Megatrend Opportunity for Outotec Risk for Outotec DRIVE FOR SOCIAL Health, safety and social responsibility for emThe metals industry annually emits millions of URBANIZATION AND The growing demand for minerals and metals reIf Outotec fails to develop new technologies or keep ployees, customers and the local community are tonnes of SO2, which has a significant local impact. THE GROWING quires more processing technologies and creates its portfolio competitive, it may lose market share. SUSTAINABILITY becoming increasingly important. Emerging econoFine particulate matter emissions to air cause business opportunities for Outotec. Customers’ operations require sufficient amounts MIDDLE CLASS Outotec’s technologies enable efficient ore of water, coal and other fossil fuels, power and mies are taking action to secure resource access. health problems. Heavy metals in hazardous dusts Outotec’s advanced technology and service and fumes can cause occupational exposure. processing and higher yield thanks to advanced mineral resources. Any changes related to the solutions ensure social license to operate for its Eco-toxic substances from metallurgical operaprocess control. There are increased business availability or the price of these commodities has customers. Outotec has a globally integrated QEHS tions impact air quality, water, and soil. opportunities when customers replace inefficient financial implications. The operational costs (enermanagement system and an excellent track record If not gaining social acceptance or complying processes with new technologies and energyand gy and water) may become too high for customers for its safety performance in large customer prowith regulations, customers may be forced to close water-efficient solutions. and they may need to close down some operations, jects. This helps Outotec to win large projects. down their operations, which may reduce Outotec’s which could also reduce Outotec’s business. business. If environmental regulation tightens to the degree that new mining projects are not allowed or are RESOURCE Maximized recovery through advanced processing As ore grades decline, ores become more complex economically unfeasible, Outotec may lose business. technologies as well as recycling and processing of and more difficult to process. If Outotec fails to EFFICIENCY tailings and waste are required for efficient use of develop new technologies or keep its portfolio IMPERATIVE resources. competitive, it may lose market share. DIGITALIZATION Digitalization, automation and systems inteIf Outotec’s own development of new advanced gration offer new possibilities to capture value software, remote monitoring and diagnostics, and Outotec’s vast knowledge of mineralogy and Mineral and metal processing is very enerOF THE WORLD with Outotec’s unique process technologies. Full automation systems is not fast enough, Outotec process technologies, and comprehensive R&D gy-intensive. For example, grinding mills alone automatization of the product life cycle opens up may lose market share. facilities, enable the company to develop new protake up 10% of Australia’s total energy consumpnew opportunities for developing sustainable prodcess solutions for low-grade and complex ores. tion. Price changes prompted by resource scarcity, ucts, systems and services. Digitalization enables Metals are almost 100% recyclable, and this potenenergy shortages, and changes in consumer low-cost, flexible and highly responsive interactive tial is not yet fully taken advantage of. Outotec can attitude and politics imply high financial risks for partnership models. grow its business by selling more solutions for the Outotec’s customers and subsequently for Outotec. production of metals from secondary materials, Overly high energy prices due to carbon taxasuch as electronic waste, metallic scrap, cabling, tion and emission trading schemes can cause our and battery paste/scrap. clients to lose their competitiveness and cease to Outotec is balancing the cyclicality through diverIf Outotec fails to grow the share of its service busiMORE VOLATILE Several Outotec technologies are renowned operate. sifying its business portfolio, growing the share of ness and its energy and water treatment business, for their energy efficiency and low CO2 emissions. MACRO ECONOMY service business in its sales and further developing it will be vulnerable to the cyclicality of the mining Through Outotec’s technology solutions, the impact its scalable and adaptive operating model. and metals industry. of carbon taxes upon our customers are cushioned In uncertain market conditions customers may and their competitiveness secured. not be able to get financing for their investments, Outotec has technologies which lead to which will reduce Outotec’s business. On the other significant reductions in fresh water consumption hand, expanding the operation and maintenance by recycling of process water, and thus decreased service business may impose Outotec to larger water loss. The company is also developing new risks in terms of health and safety. Conditions, like applications for industrial effluent treatment and emerging market currency rates or the availability cooperating with Kemira in developing solutions of financing, may rapidly change and lead customfor water-intensive industrial applications. ers to postpone orders or cancel projects. 12 13 OUTOTEC OYJ / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 STRATEGY common business processes and tools Sustainability approach in mergers Sustainability issues are carefully conwith the ‘One Outotec’ approach, and the and acquisitions sidered when deciding upon business insixth program is dedicated to our people Acquisitions support Outotec’s long-term tegration and future business plans. and professional growth. strategy. We take environmental, ecoOutotec has acquired 13 compaIn 2013, Outotec introduced new nomic and social aspects into consideranies since 2010. The integration of acWE DIVERSIFY OUR products and technologies, developed its tion when assessing potential acquisition quired companies is carried out accordSTRATEGY PORTFOLIO TO INCLUDE supply base to reduce the share of supply targets. In 2013 Outotec made one acing to defined processes, templates and from high-cost countries, and launched a quisition, that of Scanalyse. With Scantools. An integration team is nominated MORE SERVICE 50-million-euro efficiency-improvement alyse solutions, equipment lifetime can for each case and the work is coordinatCOMPONENTS AND LIFEprogram to improve our cost structure. be lengthened and use of spare parts ed by the Strategy and M&A function. CYCLE OFFERINGS A strong brand and reputation will optimized. This preventive maintenance As Outotec is operating according to the pave the way for Outotec to become the helps to avoid unplanned situations that ‘One company’ principle the businessundisputed global leader in sustainable might increase energy consumption or es are normally integrated into Outotec’s minerals and metals processing soluemissions and increases the overall susoperating model and under the Outotec tions, and to firmly establish a presence tainability of a plant. brand. in the energy and industrial water treatWe also carry out environmental due Outotec’s strategy is focused on enabling sustainable use of Earth’s natural resources. ment businesses. This strategy provides diligence if there are environmental conthe direction for our sustainability work. siderations in relation to the acquisition. This mission defines the purpose of our company along with our core value: being committed to sustainability. These are the two vital elements that should drive sustainability in everything we do and lay the foundation for our strategy. → In 2013, we revisited the strategy we ously strengthening its technology portfodefined in 2010. Although the foundation lio for the entire value chain – from ore to stayed the same, we introduced six strametals – through in-house research and tegic programs that we will pursue in the development as well as by acquisitions. coming years. We provide our customers In addition, water is an increasingwith sustainable technologies and serly scarce resource and its efficient use, vices that guarantee performance and along with recycling and purification prolifelong benefits, such as the license to cesses, is a goal of steadily mounting operate, reduced energy and water conimportance. The energy and industrial sumption, high recovery, and minimized water treatment industries offer signifemissions, thus enabling the best return icant growth opportunities for Outotec on the customer’s investment. while boasting high synergy potential Outotec’s strategy is to combine five and manageable risks. Outotec also contypes of competences in the solutions tinues to diversify its portfolio from the offered to customers to maximize valequipment and project business to inue capture. These competences include clude more life-cycle offerings consisting technology as the foundation of the ofof service components. fering, proprietary equipment, systems Six strategic programs were introintegration for a complete process soluduced in 2013. The first focuses on custion design, the capability to deliver even tomer experience and aims to improve turn-key plants, and life-cycle services customer-centricity and delivery excelsupporting the customer over the entire lence. The second strengthens our earnlife of their business. ings logic to capture more value with In the area of mineral and metals proOutotec’s unique technologies over the cessing, Outotec has been an industry life cycle. The third program was made leader, developing innovative technologies to ensure Outotec’s technology leadfor nearly a century. This expertise has ership, and the fourth to increase cost since been successfully applied to many competiveness of our products. The fifth other industries. The company is continuprogram focuses on further developing 14 15 OUTOTEC OYJ / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 STORY BUILDING AN Steps were taken in 2013 to make sure people are more visible in Outotec’s strategy. Kirsi Nuotto, SVP, Human Resources, and Pia ENGAGING WORKPLACE Kåll, SVP, Strategy and M&A, discuss the company’s people-oriented culture, and the personnel footprint shifts on the horizon. How do people fit is really built around the inat their best. So we gain a instead of holding on to them in to Outotec’s strategy? tellect: how do we build this deeper understanding. – after all, you don’t own your Kirsi: We are a human capisolution and where do we have Pia: It’s not like a satisfacemployees or team – you tal company in the sense that the knowledge to do so? How tion survey. It’s more a quesshould be able to let them try our business is founded on can we improve it together? tion of: “Is what you do meanjob rotation and understand the know-how of our people The whole collaborative way of ingful and do we allow you to that you will get another great and their high-caliber comworking is just different than do it well?” and “Are you enteam member in return! petencies in the technologies elsewhere. gaged and empowered?” that we provide. So in a sense, I can give a practical exKirsi: Engagement and emHow will Outotec’s increasing everything we have is in the ample, having joined Outotec powerment are important qualadoption of the operation and heads of our people and therequite recently. People from ities, and for the first time we’re maintenance business model fore it’s really important to across the organization able to have a broader view over affect the company’s personmake sure they feel their exreached out to me immediatethese. They then become easier nel footprint? pertise is valued. We recognize ly with strategy suggestions to talk about as a concept and Kirsi: Our workforce strucpeople as our greatest asset and ideas, or just to ask my we can benchmark our results ture will definitely change due and we try to take good care of opinion on certain things. So I against other companies. We to this, so although we already them: we really are very peoreally found that people were can also build our aims around consider ourselves a truly ple-oriented. willing to share their thoughts the findings we make; for exglobal company, we’ll see the – the concept of developing the ample, customer-centricity and addition of more personnel How does this work company together can be felt collaboration have been selected based in diverse locations and in practice? quite strongly. during 2013 as key development with a variety of different backPia: Well, if you were to join targets. grounds, speaking different the company, you’d be workHow has the employee survey Pia: We saw from the surlanguages and so on. Operating with experts in their own developed this year? vey that people want to coling locally gives a different perfield, so you would find yourKirsi: There’s a big difference. laborate even more and break spective to the people strategy: self surrounded by people who It’s moved away from “Are you down the silos within organwe need to communicate our have a very high level of know­ happy or not in this company?” izational units, making sure culture to recruits around the ledge and are keen to share it towards clusters of questions that all the knowledge we have world and take more local rewith you. It’s not like coming that are more apt to measure flows better. And there’s a conquirements into consideration to work and sitting on a proengagement and how well we stant theme of getting closer as we move forward. duction line. The work here enable our people to perform to our customers and developPia: We will be more diing our understanding of what versified as a company, that’s they need. for sure. We’ll be local in every ”People want to collaborate even more Kirsi: When it comes to acting on the results, job rosense of the word, not only selling and delivering globally, and break down the silos within organizational tation is a good example of a but actually becoming a more units, making sure that all the knowledge practical measure we’re undertaking to improve collabtangible presence. So yes, of course we need more culwe have flows better.” oration. It’s important to help make managers more comtures, more languages, and all the rest. It might be helpful to Pia Kåll fortable with allowing their think of this as more of a need Kirsi Nuotto SVP, Strategy and M&A people to “go and grow”. So than a challenge. SVP, Human Resources 16 17 OUTOTEC OYJ / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 VALUE CHAIN OUR VALUE CHAIN Outotec’s value chain is multidimensional due to the nature of our business. As a technology company Outotec delivers large and complex tailored solutions and services to a relatively small number of customers, and the value chain differs in each delivery. METALS VALUE CHAIN i st i c s Lo g anie s E Eng o m p ma quip ion c nu lut i Sourc neer fac men So ition ing in tu t → When evaluating Outotec’s operating and services (EGS). The most significant and metals processing. The value chain fin , D g, re de el ive rs environment, three main agents can be ecological impact of the solutions providof Outotec’s activities in the energy sector Fea is described on page 63. si observed, each having a different value ed by Outotec is made in the customer’s st bili ry An udy, ty aly chain, impact and life cycle. First Outotec, operation phase. Consumers are not Outotec’s busisis developing products and delivering soluThe most material aspects for ness partners. However, in the value t ponen tions to its customers; secondly SuppliOutotec in terms of sustainability, as chain they play an important role, using I n st a l l a ti o n , Up ns OUTOTEC Com acturers the products and recycling them, returnd e s, E xp a g r a SUPPLIERS nuf ers proving materials, equipment and services for Outotec; and thirdly Customdefined in the materiality assessment conducted by the management at the ing materials to secondary processing. Com m ma TECHNOLOGY AND i ss io ni n g D e m o liti o n SERVICE SOLUTIONS ers using Outotec’s products and servicend of 2011, are es. These three value chains are strong• Sustainable products and Read more about our materiality io n ly interlinked. In sustainability reporting, solutions for customers analysis on page 38. Outotec has set its limits such that in ad• Preferred employer , dition to the company’s own operations, • Community involvement and rs uto the impact of products and services in charity work Outotec’s handprint larger Ope ra ti o n , M ain te n a nc e ib our customers’ operations and the sup• Improving the sustainability of our than its footprint CUSTOMERS tr D ply chain are partly covered. own operations Outotec’s core competence is in mineral is As we deliver large and complex tai• Responsible supply chain and metal processing, and we have delored solutions and life-cycle services to veloped applications for renewable enResources Mining Minerals Metals Metals and processing processing products a relatively small amount of customers, All these aspects are also essential ergy and industrial water treatment. Our CONSUMERS the value chain differs in each delivery. Similarly, the indirect environmental and elements in the three value chains described below. The majority (83%) of greatest positive impact comes from providing our customers sustainable social impact of Outotec’s activities differ Outotec’s business relates to minerals solutions and services. The most valuain each customer case, depending on the and metals processing, and the rest to ble resource for the company in making customer’s raw materials, the technolchemical processing, renewable energy a positive contribution to the sustainaogies and services included in the delivand industrial water treatment. The value ble use of natural resources is our forRECYCLATES ery, local legislation and circumstances, chain in chemical processing and energy ward-thinking experts. and how the customer makes use of the production is quite different from those of Outotec operates globally, mainly in technology in question. minerals and metals processing. For this offices which are located in 27 countries. 87 percent our order intake in 2013 reason, the overall value chain graph deThe bulk of our operations involve engican be regarded as environmental goods scribes Outotec’s activities in minerals neering and business management, the 18 19 OUTOTEC OYJ / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 VALUE CHAIN Besides products and services, metallurgical companies. Other customIn 2013, we developed our ability to Outotec’s positive effects in terms of ers include fertilizer producers, comcalculate the environmental footprint of sustainability come from organizing suspanies in the chemical industry and such processes further by using Outotec’s environmental impact of which is relatainability seminars for customers, givcompanies that utilize renewable or alown process design data and combining tively small. In addition, Outotec has two ing presentations at industry events, colternative energy sources. this data with a commercial LCA calcuresearch centers, two manufacturing laboration with universities and students, Major global mining companies typilation tool. workshops, four assembly shops, a ceand community work. cally operate numerous mines and metramic plate production plant, and sevallurgical plants and produce multiple Read more about the impact of eral warehouses. The majority (some 90 metals. Small and medium-sized mining Read more about our ecological our products on page 60. percent) of our manufacturing is outand metallurgical companies are usually footprint on page 68. sourced. Comparing our greenhouse gas focused on a particular metal. emissions (30,423 tonnes C2-e) and those The value chain of Outotec’s customof our supply chain (623,000 tonnes Supply chain ers starts from natural resources and CO2-e) to emissions avoided through use Outotec’s supply chain includes over includes mining, concentrate producof our technologies (5.4 million tonnes ten thousand suppliers globally. These tion through comminution, flotation and CO2-e) clearly shows that our handprint represent (but are not limited to) assemdewatering, metallurgical processing is much larger than our footprint. bly workshops, component manufacturand production of refined metal or metal ers, distributors, logistics services prosemi-products and products. The cusLife-cycle assessment of products viders, and construction and engineering tomers may also produce metals from The life-cycle of Outotec’s products and companies. secondary raw materials, in which case services is illustrated in the graph. StartThe value chain of an equipment the value chain is much shorter. Outotec ing from in-house R&D and studies, then supplier typically includes raw material is not, however, involved in the first phase on to engineering, sourcing and delivery extraction (quite often metals process(mining) or the last phase (production of of the products and services. Outotec’s ing), distribution, manufacturing, assemi-products and metal products) of activities continue at the customer’s sembly, transportation and installation the customers’ value chain. site with installation, operation support, at Outotec’s customer’s site. Because of The ecological footprint of Outotec’s maintenance, before showing upgrades the project-based nature of the business, customers operations from natural reand expansion, and finally to the demoliOutotec’s suppliers vary a great deal sources to refined metals and materials tion of the plant. from one year to the next, which makes is to a certain extent publicly available in Outotec has conducted a life-cycle it difficult to run joint long-term developthe sustainability reports of these comassessment (LCA) screening study of ment programs with them. panies. However, the data is very masthe environmental impacts caused by the In 2013 Outotec analyzed the footsive, complex and seldom comparable. construction materials of two Outotec print of its supply chain in terms of There is no defined method for calcuproducts; a sulfuric acid plant and a greenhouse gas emissions. The analysis lating the footprint of an entire processnon-ferrous mine mill circuit. The anashowed that the biggest sources of CO2 ing plant or setting the boundaries for lyzed product systems mainly consist of emissions in Outotec’s supply chain were such a calculation. For example, if prodbasic metals. For example, 1,000 tonnes metal products (34 percent of the total). uct use is included, the lifecycle of a car, of steel is used to build a sulfuric acid The carbon footprint of our supply chain for example, will include everything from plant, and nearly 500 tonnes for a grindin 2013, 623,000 tonnes CO2 in total, is the mining of metal ores and the enering mill circuit. Therefore mining proconsiderably larger than the footprint of gy used to process that into steel, to the cesses and metal refining are two imporOutotec’s operations, 30,423 tonnes CO2. crushing of the car and smelting the maWE FOSTER tant stages in the analyzed systems. terials back into useful scrap metal. Processes associated with the minWe have calculated the carbon footDIALOGUE WITH Read more about the impact of our ing and power industry were identified as print of five our our technologies, all of DECISION MAKERS supply chain on page 76. the most significant contributors to the which are industry benchmarks in terms ON SUSTAINABLE USE overall impacts of our products. In parof energy efficiency and low emissions. OF RESOURCES ticular, the disposal of mine tailings from Customers’ footprint However, these technologies are only one metal extraction and energy generation Outotec’s customers are major global element when calculating the footprint of for metal refining were the most signifimining companies and small and medithe customer’s operations. cant processes. um-sized or local mining companies and 20 21 OUTOTEC OYJ / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 STAKEHOLDER INTERACTION OUR PLANET AND THE GENERATIONS TO COME ARE INTERACTION ALSO OUR STAKEHOLDERS Our key stakeholders are customers, current and future employees, shareholders and investors, suppliers and the scientific community. We also cooperate with the media as well as public and nongovernmental organizations. In continuous dialogue with our key stakeholders we want to enhance WITH STAKEHOLDERS transparency. We also consider our planet and the generations to come as our stakeholders when evaluating whether our offering and operations are future-proof. Customers er survey with the new process in 2013. ment” at the Safi site in Morocco, where Current and future employees Outotec’s customers include compaThe survey was carried out with certain Outotec screened vanadium catalyst from Outotec’s aim is to be an open and equal nies using natural resources as their customers, market areas and projects converters of seven sulfuric acid plants. work community. The company culture raw material, such as mineral and metto collect customer insights and feedCodelco’s Andina division in Chile encourages everyone to discuss and deal processing companies as well as proback in a structured manner, analyze it recognized Outotec with the award for velop our operations. Regular briefing ducers of industrial minerals, fertilizand act upon it by utilizing a common Safety Management 2013, which is in and interactive events are organized for ers, sulfuric acid and energy. We have platform. The customers interviewed for recognition of our commitment and personnel regarding the company’s filong relationships with the majority of the pilot scored highly Outotec’s health achievements in productively controlling nancial situation, targets, and successes. our customers. As a provider of tailored and safety measures, the environmental hazards and preventing accidents during In addition, various channels are used technological solutions and services, we benefits of our products and the compe2013. The company encouraged Outotec for discussion and influence, such as the continuously interact with our customtence of our service personnel. The lowto continue building a strong preventive collaborative intranet, Outotec Round Taers on various levels during the lifetime est scores were related to communicasafety culture. ble, and meetings with employee repreof their investment or plant. Persontion with the customer. The results are sentatives. In 2013, Outotec introduced al discussions and site visits are always being utilized to improve customer reSustainability seminars for customers live internal webcasts where the CEO needed in our business. lationships as a whole. According to the In November 2013, Outotec and China’s presents financial results quarterly as We have joint R&D projects with cusnew process, customer feedback is colNonferrous Metals Industry Association well as our strategy with the system protomers in order to develop the best poslected, analyzed and acted upon as part (CNIA) convened a sustainability seminar viding the possibility (available worldsible solution for their specific needs. In of each delivery. for the 60 principal Chinese rare earth wide) to ask questions. Our global interaddition to regular business contacts, we elements (REE) producers and associactive intranet serves day-to-day organize seminars, user meetings, trainAwards in customer work ated research institutes in Nanchang, information sharing. ing, and workshops for customers. To get In 2013, we received several safety recChina to discuss the environmental Sustainability is our core value and is feedback and information on our customognitions from our customers. The most challenges of REE production, and posat the heart of all operations at Outotec. ers’ expectations, we conduct customer extensive safety achievement was the sibilities to improve productivity through In 2013, a global internal campaign called satisfaction surveys and case study intermilestone of 3 million accident-free environmentally sound solutions. China Sustainability Acts, was organized to moviews. Furthermore, it is industry practice working hours at the Cristal ilmenite is the largest REE producing nation in tivate personnel to constantly ask themthat the experts of both producers and smelter site in Saudi Arabia. the world and finds it necessary to reselves the important question: “Is this technology suppliers exchange informaOutotec was also awarded the prize duce the environmental impact of their sustainable?” The idea was to fuel sustion and experiences, meeting frequently of “Outstanding Company in Health and production with modern solutions. CNIA tainability thinking at work and at home, at technical conferences and trade shows Safety” by Samarco for our pelletizing and its industry have a long ongoing trato raise awareness and to share ideas. around the world. plant project in Brazil. Outotec scored 99 dition of collaboration with Outotec. The campaign community was estabpercent in the performance evaluation of As part of our collaboration with November 2013 for Mongolian decision use of Mongolian mineral resources, delished in the corporate social media Customer feedback safety items compliance. the Mongolian government to develop makers in the mining industry. The event velopment of mining-related legislation, platform with a blog and discussion area Outotec launched a new globally harmoThe largest phosphate supplier in the mining and metallurgical processing of attracted some 60 companies and over and the best environmental practices in where employees were asked to share nized process for monitoring customer world OCP awarded Outotec the first prize Mongolian mineral resources, Outotec 100 participants. The topics discussed Finland and the EU. their best eco-themed decisions and to relationships and made a pilot customfor “Safety and Respect for the Environarranged a seminar in Ulaanbaatar in at the seminar focused on sustainable ‘like’ those of others. An initiative to 22 23 OUTOTEC OYJ / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 STAKEHOLDER INTERACTION To increase recognition and to 1,000 private investors, used six different strengthen our employer image, Outotec dimensions to measure reputation: corhas actively sought different forms of porate culture and leadership, financial replace plastic cups with ceramic ones in collaboration with university students. excellence, public image, products and the Belo Horizonte office gathered most We organize visits, internships, cooperservices, social responsibility and opera‘likes’ and won a prize. ative work on research, topics and sutional dynamics. Our CEO Pertti Korhonen Outotec’s Young Professionals netpervision of diploma theses, field trips to was ranked sixth on the list of most repwork helps employees to network across production plants, and lectures on varutable CEOs in the same survey. business units, improve professionious topical issues. Many graduate stuOur CFO Mikko Puolakka was selectal pride, and share career experiencdents have contributed to the developed ‘CFO of the year 2013’ by Accenture, es across the organization. The network ment of Outotec’s technologies through Gutta and Talouselämä magazine in arranges activities with a positive attheir M. Sc. and post-graduate research. Finland. This award recognizes expertise mosphere. In 2013, a few new locations In 2013, Outotec awarded ten susand leadership in finance & control, and started their network activities, and the tainability prizes at the Central South this year in particular, the management intention is to expand the network globUniversity in China covering sustainabilof risks and change in organizations. In ally in the coming years. ity from technology and design to social IR Magazine Awards 2013, Outotec was In 2013, the role of our social media responsibility. Outotec also awarded two chosen to have the best investor relapresence was considerably increased. sustainability awards for best presentations in the alternative energy sector. In The use of social media has an official tion by master’s and doctoral students of addition, Vice President, Investor Relastatus at Outotec and is considered to be the South African Institute of Mining and tions Rita Uotila was awarded the secan extension to all our communications, Metallurgy at the Annual MinProc conond place in the Best investor relations marketing, employer branding and reference in Cape Town. In addition, five officer (small & mid-cap) category. The cruiting efforts. Social media accounts in prizes were given to the best final year IR Magazine Awards are the leading inFacebook, Twitter, LinkedIn and YouTube design projects at the University of Melternational awards cherishing leadership have proved to be efficient ways to reach bourne, one for each department in the and excellence in investor relations. out for new employees (especially those Engineering School. of the younger generation) and share inBroader shareholder base formation. Shareholders and investors Outotec’s investor base is relatively wideSustainability has also been an imOur shareholders and investors show inly spread geographically and the compaportant theme in social media. Durterest in Outotec’s capabilities to deliver ny’s free float is 100 percent. The largest ing 2013 Outotec followers in Facebook sustainable technologies, corporate rethree shareholders account for some 21 grew from 1,900+ to 2,700+. The number sponsibility and governance. In addition percent of the shares. The largest shareof Twitter followers grew from 700+ folto Finnish law, EU directives, corporate holder Solidium Oy has 10.03 percent of lowers to 1,300+. Our LinkedIn compagovernance, and stock exchange rules Outotec shares. At the end of 2013, Outony page is followed by more than 20,000 and regulations, Outotec’s governing tec had 29,231 (2012: 15,312) shareholdusers making it a considerable pool of structures are based on self-regulation, ers. Shares held in 12 nominee registers potential employees and a large audiwhich is embodied in Outotec’s corporate accounted for 33.9 percent (Dec 2012: ence for any company-related informagovernance and policies; our Disclosure 46%) and Finnish households held 16.2 tion sharing. Policy gives the framework for financial percent of all Outotec shares. markets disclosures. There are numerous requests for inIn 2013, Outotec as a company and formation from the capital markets reRead more about our people on page 48. its top management as individuals were garding the company’s business operarecognized among the investor comtions, financial performance, corporate Students munity in several surveys. According to governance and environmental and soStudents are our potential future emthe annual survey made by Pohjoisranta cial issues. The aim in communicating ployees and an important stakeholdBurson-Marsteller and Arvopaperi magwith the capital market is to ensure that er group with an increasing interest in azine, Outotec’s reputation improved sigthe market has true and fair information sustainability and our performance as nificantly in 2013 from tenth best (2012) of the company’s financial position, opa responsible employer. Students also to third position in the survey evaluaterations and future prospects in order to represent the next generation of deciing the reputation of 65 listed compamake investment decisions. 16 analysts sionmakers. nies in Finland. The survey, answered by conducted research on Outotec in 2013. 24 25 OUTOTEC OYJ / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 STAKEHOLDER INTERACTION research center in Frankfurt, Germany. for decision makers involved in the imIn 2013, Outotec supported UNICEF’s Some 30 analysts and investors participlementation of the pollution prevention Voices of Youth program in Brazil, the pated in the excursions. and control (IPPC) directive of the EU. Baltic Sea Action Group’s initiatives Regular dialogue with analysts In addition, Outotec has been infor rehabilitation of the Baltic Sea and and investors volved with the work of the Internationhelped people affected by the earthRead more about Outotec as an investment Outotec’s IR team has a continuous dial Copper Association’s Health, Enviquake in Sichuan, China and the typhoon target at www.outotec.com/investors. alogue with investors and analysts and ronment and Sustainable Development in the Philippines. meets them on a regular basis at quarSteering Committee, European TechnolOutotec was working on projects in terly reporting events, investor meetings, Suppliers ogy Platform – Sustainable Minerals Rethe Philippines in November 2013 at the road shows, industry seminars, capital Outotec’s supply chain includes over sources High Level Group, among other time of the typhoon. Following this close market days and annual general meet10,000 suppliers globally. These represent organizations listed on page 28. involvement with the Philippines, Outotec ings. In order to develop our investor re(but are not limited to) assembly workIn 2013, Outotec took part in the Eurogave a corporate donation to three disaslations capabilities further, we conduct shops, component manufacturers, dispean Sustainable Phosphorus Conferter funds. Outotec’s employees have also annual surveys amongst analysts and intributors, logistics services providers and ence to speed up the transition towards been personally involved by donating vestors about their expectations. construction and engineering companies. sustainable phosphorus management personal funds and working long hours In addition to interim reports and anSupplier selection is of key imporand recycling. to organize and deliver food and supplies nual financial statements, the CEO’s Q&A tance in Outotec’s business. Therefore Our sustainability expert, Professor to locals. sessions continued to be an important Outotec is determined to further develMarkus A. Reuter was the lead author of Outotec also continued its sponsorchannel to maintain a dialogue in beop long-term relationships with selected the United Nations Environmental Proship of the Millennium Technology Prize. tween interim reviews and to comply with suppliers, and establishing global, comtection (UNEP) “Metal Recycling: Opporfair disclosure. These live webcasts aim to mon procedures for supplier qualificatunities Limits Infrastructure” report, give further clarity on information made tion, quality assurance, continuous monwhich was published in 2013 along with a public earlier. In order to serve the capital itoring and joint continuous improvement textbook for students. He is also Adjunct market efficiently, to ensure equal access of processes and practices. Professor at Aalto University (Finland) to company-related information, and to Outotec has two policies serving as and actively promotes resource efficiencomply with disclosure requirements, the the basis for collaboration with suppliers. cy and metals recycling in his lectures live webcasts are recorded and available worldwide. on demand for future reference. Outotec also began active cooperRead about the impact of our supply chain Outotec also published a quarterly IR ation with the Central South University on page 76. highlights bulletin, which is an informa(CSU), a comprehensive and nationally tion collage of published orders, news key university under the direct adminisSUSTAINABILITY INDICES and events during the quarter. Scientific community tration of China’s Ministry of Education. As part of the annual Capital Markets We cooperate in technology development Professor Reuter was awarded a visiting Day, webcasted live from London, Outotec’s with various organizations. As an expert professorship by the University. management shed more light on comin the European Union’s (EU) technical pany strategy, business operations, and working group and in an environmental Read more about our commitment to long-term plans, as well as newly introworking group of the Federation of Finnexternal initiatives on page 28. duced technologies and customer cases. ish Technology Industries, many Outotec In April 2013, Outotec organized an representatives participate in the updatanalyst and investor excursion to our reing of the BREF documents on non-­ Local communities and donations search center in Pori, Finland and, in ferrous metals. BREF is a best available Outotec aims to be a good corporate citiSeptember a corresponding visit to our technique reference document created zen in the countries where we operate. The Global 100 RobecoSAM 2013 STOXX ® Global ESG Leaders 26 27 OUTOTEC OYJ / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 STAKEHOLDER INTERACTION COMMITMENT TO EXTERNAL INITIATIVES Organization Interest area Outotec’s engagement Organization Interest area Outotec’s engagement International Copper Association Increase the awareness and usage of Member, member of Environment Federation of Finnish Technology Ensure that the Finnish technology inMember of Technology & Business Workcopper by communicating the unique Program Advisory Committee Industries dustry has the preconditions for success ing Group, member of Association of attributes that make this sustainable elein the global marketplace Finnish Steel and Metal Producers, Chair ment an essential contributor to our lives of Environmental Working Group International Zinc Association Improvement of zinc production methods Member Carbon Disclosure Project Greenhouse gas emissions reduction Reporting since 2009 International Chromium Association Promote sustainable ferrochrome Member United Nations Global Compact Business sustainability guidelines Participant since 2010, also active production participant of Global Compact’s Nordic Network International Committee on Promote the holding of International Member Ferro Alloys Ferro Alloy Congresses to retain the Global Reporting Initiative Outotec sustainability reporting since established high technical standard of the industry 2010 according to GRI guidelines European Association of Metals, Non-ferrous metals industry in Europe Member of Executive Committee European Technology Platform on Address the future technological and High Level Group participant since 2005 Eurometaux as of 2013 Sustainable Mineral Resources social challenges in the European minerals industry Federation of European Mineral Support international education and Member Programs research Finnish Metals and Engineering Boost cooperation between companies Deputy member of the board Competence Cluster (FIMECC) and research institutes Finnish Environmental Cluster for Increase the awareness of Finnish Member, consultation China (FECC) environmental solutions in China Cluster for Energy and Environment Facilitate and coordinate world class Chair of the board (CLEEN) industry-driven research in the field of European Industrial Research R&D method management and develMember of the board energy and the environment Management Association opment The Tapani Järvinen Environmental Promote the research of environmental Outotec donated the basic capital for Finnish Business and Society Promote financially, socially, and ecologiMember of the board as of 2013 Technology Fund at the Aalto University technology the fund in 2010. cally sustainable business in Finland School of Science and Technology Cleantech Finland Promote clean technologies Member since 2009 Technology Industries of Finland Give EUR 300,000 annually in grants and Member Centennial Foundation Fund for the scholarships to students and university Association of Finnish Steel and Metal research groups Baltic Sea Action Group Improve the state of the Baltic Sea Member since 2009 Producers EU IPPC Bureau TWG evaluating Ensure in cooperation with the Finnish An Outotec employee has been International Chamber of Commerce Strengthen commercial ties among Vice Chair of ICC Finland, the reference values for BAT on non-ferrous metals industry that the a member since 2007 (ICC) nations Member of the Finnish Council non-ferrous metals technologies and emission values relating to them are realistic and reachable Technology Academy of Finland Award the Millennium Technology Prize Partner company, Excellence Finland Promote sustainable excellence and Member member of Industry Council competitiveness in Finland 28 29 OUTOTEC OYJ / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 STAKEHOLDER INTERACTION ADDED VALUE EUR 42.37; the share was split in April cial year per share. Outotec paid EUR relief in Sichuan, China (EUR 15,000), and a comparable price is 10.59). At the 1.20 per share dividend to shareholders, and typhoon relief in the Philippines same time, the NASDAQ OMX Helsinki totaling EUR 54.9 million in 2013. (EUR 17,000). portfolio index, OMX Helsinki CAP, rose by approximately 22 percent. Donations FOR STAKEHOLDERS Read more about our performance Outotec’s donations in 2013 amounted in Financial Statements 2013 at Dividends to EUR 100,000. The biggest individual www.outotec.com/investors. Outotec’s target as defined in the comdonation was made to Baltic Sea Action pany’s dividend policy is to distribute as Group (EUR 52,000). Outotec has also dividends at least 40 percent of the anmade two donations to help areas suffernual net income of the preceding finaning from natural disasters: earthquake → Through solid financial performance, flected in the drop of Outotec’s order inlong-term demand drivers are expected Outotec benefits all company stakeholdtake. Due to lower order intake, the sales to remain intact. ers. Profitable business enables growth and consequently the profitability weakAt the end of 2013, Outotec’s market and development of the business as well ened. Despite the challenging market, the capitalization was EUR 1,394 million. as the prosperity of owners and employdemand for Outotec’s services increased ees. Through providing sustainable soluand both the order intake and sales of the Read our long-term financial targets tions to our customers, we create jobs service business grew. In order to be preon page 34. and wealth locally in countries where we operate or where our customers’ propared for the continuing slowness of the market, Outotec launched a program to THE RIGHT TAXES IN THE RIGHT PLACES Country Effective income tax, % Australia 30.0 jects are located. reduce its annual operational costs by up Share price development As a globally operating company, Outotec faces a variety of tax laws and regulations. It is 2013 was a challenging year for to EUR 50 million by the end of 2014. The value of Outotec’s shares decreased Brazil 33.8 not always an easy environment to navigate, but the principle is clear: we want to pay the Outotec. The uncertainty in the world Our customers’ investment decisions 39 percent on the NASDAQ OMX Helsinki right taxes in the right places. We want to be transparent and non-discriminatory in our Bulgaria 10.0 economy together with the devaluation are increasingly driven by environmenin 2013, and the closing price at the end tax practices. Our Board of Directors has decided on an approach in which no aggressive Canada 25.8 of emerging market currencies were retal and energy-efficiency factors, and the of the year was EUR 7.61 (Dec 31, 2012: tax planning is done nor will Outotec have legal entities in the so-called tax havens unless Chile 35.0 a justified business reason arises. Currently there are none. China 25.0 In 2013, Outotec paid a total of EUR 63.1 million in taxes. Our effective tax rate was 30.4%. Finland 24.5 It tends to vary somewhat depending on the product mix and geographical distribution of our Germany 29.2 sales. On this page you can see a table describing tax rates in the countries where we operate. Ghana 25.0 India 32.4 Some stakeholders request total tax transparency on the basis of country. Outotec often Indonesia 25.0 delivers big projects, and there may be only one project ongoing in a single country. ReADDED VALUE FOR STAKEHOLDERS vealing country-specific financial information could breach our commitments concerning Kazakhstan 20.0 access to project-specific confidential information. Also, the destination of our sales Mexico 30.0 GENERATION OF ADDED VALUE DISTRIBUTION OF ADDED VALUE typically do not correspond with the places in which the work and activities connected to Mongolia 10.0 the sales are performed, where value is created and where the income must be reported Namibia 33.0 and paid, based on globally applied tax principles. Employees Netherlands 25.0 + CUSTOMERS Wages and salaries In 2013, Finnwatch, a Finnish non-governmental organization, made a study of the taxNorway 28.0 Sales EUR 385.8 million ation of international companies. Finnwatch monitors Finnish companies in developing Peru 30.0 EUR 1,911.5 million countries and economies in transition, and is supported by some trade unions as well Public sector Poland 19.0 Direct taxes as environmental and development NGOs. They are interested in the consequences of – SUPPLIERS Russia 20.0 EUR 46.8 million Finnish companies’ operations on human and labor rights, the environment and developCost of goods, materials and mental and social consequences. The study specifically looked at two companies, Outotec Saudi Arabia 20.0 services purchased OUTOTEC Creditors being one. We also met with the representatives of Finnwatch to discuss our tax practices. South Africa 28.0 EUR 1,337.5 million Interest on debt and borrowings The study report concludes that they found no evidence of aggressive tax planning nor use Sweden 22.0 EUR 10.0 million of tax havens at Outotec. However, the criticism was made that it was difficult to get inforUnited Kingdom 23.0 mation about country-specific taxation, since Outotec does not publish financial informa= EUR 574.0 million Shareholders tion on the basis of country. Authorities in some of the countries that were contacted were United States 37.9 Added value Dividends Zambia 35.0 not able to give the required information either (Zambia, Ghana and South Africa were EUR 54.9 million given as examples). As explained above, we do not believe that country-specific tax information would always give a comprehensive picture of the fairness of the tax distribution. 30 31 OUTOTEC OYJ / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 SUSTAINABILITY VISION SUSTAINABILITY Our largest impact on sustainability is created downstream, in our customers’ operations. This impact is where we can make a difference with our innovative technologies and solutions. This is also how we set our long-term targets and measure the success of our sustainability work over time. VISION AND TARGETS → Based on our materiality assesswith NGOs or donate to charitable proourselves, both long-term and annual ment we have defined the areas where jects that aim to improve sustainable detargets based on our short-term prioriwe want to reach the status of a forerunvelopment and/or quality of life. So far we ties. A major improvement in target-setner or where we want to meet our stakehave had multiannual co-operation with ting took place in 2013, when we for the holders’ anticipation level. This forms the Baltic Sea Action Group, where we first time set a long-term sustainabilour Sustainability Agenda, with defined can also be an active contributor through ity target. We started with the area, in goals. This agenda comprises four areour technologies. Secondly, we want to which we can have the largest impact: as: our offering, our people, our commusupport local projects in connection with our technologies. We promise our stakenity engagement and our governance. major solution deliveries to our customholders to develop even more sustainaOFFERING Our vision is to take major steps forward ers. These community projects are based ble technologies and services by 2020 as Sustainable technologies in all four areas. on the needs of the local community in described in the graph on page 32. The and lifecycle solutions the project delivery location in question, base line year for these long-term techand services Our Agenda 2020 and they are defined in a dialogue with the nology-related targets is 2012. As a technology company, our technollocal community. We aim at completing The second long-term target was GOVERNANCE ogies and R&D take a central role, and these community projects jointly with our formulated at the end of 2013 regardStrong common PEOPLE values and Code represent the key means of reducing the customers, with joint financing. The proing our People Agenda, which is the othSUSTAINABILITY Preferred PREFERRED environmental impact of our customers’ jects are also selected taking Outotec’s er area considered most relevant to our of Conduct and employer solid governance AGENDA2020 EMPLOYER operations. For this reason, our technolknow-how into account in order for us to business. As an enabling and engaging structure ogies are also at the core of our sustainintegrate voluntary work into the projects culture is a key differentiating factor for ability work. We promise our customers – both during and outside working hours. Outotec, we aim at five percent improve5% improvement that we will provide them with even more All community projects must bring measment in employee engagement and perCOMMUNITY in employee engagement and sustainable technologies and services urable long-term benefits to the local formance enablement indices by 2020 in Creating shared value together with our performance by 2020. They can thus reduce their footcommunity. employee surveys compared to the 2013 enablement indices customers in delivery by 2020. print through our positive contribution. Governance is often considered to be results. In 2013, Outotec’s employee enlocations Technology is not born it must be a matter of mere compliance. However, gagement index was 69 percent and percreated. We are dependent on our peowe believe that it makes a big difference formance enablement index 67 percent. ple, our experts thinking ahead. We want how sustainability is managed and govWe consider engagement to be a to make Outotec the most desired place erned. We have a clear hierarchy of combination of perceptions that have a Environmental 50% reduction in goods and services fresh make-up water to work in our industry and keep great ethics guidance and decision-making in positive impact on behavior. These per/ order intake per tonne of ore in talent with us. This means, for examsustainability issues. Everything we do is ceptions include satisfaction, commitpermanently over non-ferrous metals concentrators. ple, that we need to offer opportunities first and foremost based on our mission ment, pride, loyalty, a strong sense of 90%. for continuous professional growth via and values. Our everyday work is guidpersonal responsibility, and a willingness job and task rotation. The key driver for ed by our Code of Conduct and detailed to be an advocate for the organization. many experts today is the feeling of fulpolicies. We are currently developing our Another key element is performance enMORE SUSTAINABLE fillment. Therefore we want to strive for governance to make it a more interactive ablement, which focuses on customer TECHNOLOGIES a working culture which empowers our process. service and quality, involvement, training AND SERVICES people. All employees must have a sense and teamwork. It predicts customer satBY 2020 More energy generated through our of engagement and enablement. isfaction and business performance (e.g. Read more about our governance waste-to-energy Our own operations take place mainsales growth, market share, productivisolutions. Annual on page 40. 20% increase in ly in offices around the world. Interacting ty, and profitability). These elements are reduction in use of avoided CO2 fossil fuels by power with local communities is usually relativemeasured at least every second year in emissions by the plants equaling 80 ly uncomplicated. The objectives in our What gets measured, gets managed our employee survey. industry through use MWe and by steam of our metals-related boilers equaling community agenda are two-fold: first, we To drive our sustainability work, we have processes. 60 MWth. want to engage in strategic partnerships defined clear and transparent targets for 32 33 OUTOTEC OYJ / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 LONG-TERM TARGETS FOR 2020 Achieved Partially achieved Not achieved Long-term target Performance in 2013 GRI indicator Annual target for 2013 Performance in 2013 Annual target for 2014 GRI indicator Economic and governance Financial performance: • Sales decreased by 8% from 2012. EC1 Sustainable acquisitions: Outotec made one acquisition, Done. Continues EC1 continue growth through sustainScanalyse. With Scanalyse proas normal business Economic and To grow faster than the market resulting in compound • Service sales grew by 6% to EUR 505.9 million. average annual sales growth of 10–20%. • Operating profit margin was 8.5%. able acquisitions based on M&A cess equipment condition monipractice. target assessment criteria. More toring equipment lifetime can be governance • To grow the sales of services to an annual level of EUR 1 billion by the end of 2017. than 50% of our acquisitions must lengthened and the use of spare • Annual operating profit margin from business increase sustainability offering or parts optimized, which increases operations to be (on average) 10% over the cycle. improve sustainability agenda. the sustainability of a plant. • To maintain a strong balance sheet to provide operational flexibility and enable acquisitions. Management systems: In October 2013 we received One Done. We now have EN6 EHS module implementation Outotec multi-site matrix certificaa globally harmonized continues to cover all locations in tion including ISO 9001, ISO 14001 QEHS management EGS % of order intake: The share of EGS in 2013 order intake was 87%, EN6 2013. ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 (21 locations), BS: OHSAS 18001 (22 system and it is the percentage of EGS in order intake over 90%. which is on track but not an improvement from certification for 18 new locations. locations) and Safety Construction sustained as normal 2012’s 89% . Certificate (SCC) for most of our business practice. global locations. Environmental CO2 emissions avoided: 5.4 million tonnes of CO2 emissions avoided in EN18 Reduction in CO2 emissions 6% increase in tonnes of CO2 flight Continues. EN18 over 5% annual increase in the amount of avoided 2013, an increase of 17% from 2012. in traveling: emissions per million EUR sales CO2 emissions through the use of Outotec’s metals5% decrease in tonnes of CO2 flight even though actual flight emissions related technologies and solutions. Environmental emissions per million EUR sales were reduced. Flight emissions annually through increases in decreased by 3% year on year; Waste-to-energy solutions: Once the waste-to-energy projects in EN18 virtual ways of working. however, sales decreased by 8%. to generate more energy through our waste-to-energy Switzerland and Turkey will be completed solutions. The targeted annual reduction in the use in 2014 and 2015 the annual reduction Environment (NEW): EN22 of fossil fuels is comparable (on average) to 80 MWe will be 28.5 MWe and 4.5 MWth. waste sorting best pracpower plants and 60 MWth steam boilers. tices to be extended to 20 locations. Water treatment: Internal and external development projects to EN26 Further develop the Employee value proposition Building reach and 4.16 50% reduction in fresh make-up water per tonne of ore improve the total water management have been employer image: workshops were held in selected engagement in in non-ferrous metals concentrators. This is a clear started. We recruited new experts in this area. localized employee value proposilocations. The number of followers social media: task for technology development and innovation. tion in five key countries. 20% inincreased in all channels, with a joining new local social crease in number of followers and 150 % increase in LinkedIn. Localmedia channels in China. Employee engagement (NEW as of 2014): Engagement index 69% and performance 4.16 localized content in social media. ized content also increased. 5% improvement in employee engagement and enablement index 67%. Social performance enablement indices by 2020 Performance development Target was achieved. Continues as normal LA12 compared with 2013. dialogues (PDD): business practice. all employees have had PDDs according to defined policy. ANNUAL TARGETS FOR 2014 Achieved Partially achieved Not achieved Improving life balance and Global guidelines not yet pubGuidelines will be EN18, sustainable leadership: lished, but they are available published in 2014. Will LA11 global guidelines for remote workin Finland, Australia and North then continue as normal Annual target for 2013 Performance in 2013 Annual target for 2014 GRI indicator ing and flexible working time to be America. Performance evaluation business practice. Social published. Sustainable leadership concept will be piloted in 2014. Code of Conduct implementation: The Code of Conduct e-learning 80% of personnel SO3 implemented through performance Several leadership training proe-learning solution created and was assigned to 3,441 people. trained. All unable to evaluation concept and training. grams were implemented. 80% of personnel trained. By the end of 2013, 40% of those take the e-learning (1,332 persons) had completed the should receive classTechnology and Plant Safety TPSM was included in 70% of Continues. PR1 course. The e-learning platform room training instead. Management (TPSM): major new orders. Economic and governance in Germany was delayed and TPSM is included in all major German employees could not new technology and plant delivery complete the course in 2013. contracts globally Suppliers: 786 suppliers (approx. 90%) of 95% of major suppliers EC6, HR2 Health and safety (NEW): LA7 300 major suppliers have commitmajor suppliers had been comcommitted to Outotec’s Lost time injuries and ted to new Supplier Policy. mitted to Outotec’s Supplier Policy Supplier Policy. serious incidents will be by the end of 2013. investigated, and 80% of the agreed actions will Improve sustainability Some of the company’s sustainDone. Continues as 4.5 be executed within two governance model: ability targets are included in the normal business. months. strengthen sustainability focus on personal incentives of the Execuall levels and improve integration tive Board members responsible throughout the organization. for corporate responsibility and technology. 34 35 OUR WAY OF WORKING 38 Materiality analysis 40 Developing solid governance 44 Values and Code of Conduct 46 Compliance across the board 48 Developing our people 50 Professional growth 52 Labor practices 56 O’Share and share alike OUR WAY OF WORKING Delivering sustainable products and solutions for customers is Outotec’s most important task. That’s why competent and motivated people are essential to our success. OUTOTEC OYJ / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 MATERIALITY ANALYSIS MATERIALITY WHAT MATTERS MOST MUST BE ANALYSIS DEFINED solutions is underlined by comparing the Outotec’s management discussed, analyzed and defined the most important sustainability aspects for amount of CO2 emissions annually avoidthe company and the ambition levels related to them in a workshop facilitated by an external partner. ed through the use of Outotec’s goods and services, 5,400,000 tonnes CO2-e (2012: 4,600,000), and those deriving from Outotec’s own operations, 30,423 → In the materiality assessment in 2011, when defining the most important suswere chosen based on the workshop retonnes CO2-e (2012: 31,755) and supply our CEO, heads of global functions and tainability issues and, subsequently, the sults. chain, 623,000 tonnes CO2-e. representatives of each business area chosen GRI indicators. The ambition levThe materiality assessment revealed Becoming a preferred employer was discussed and analyzed the aspects that el for each material issue was defined that development of the company’s techregarded as highly important for Outotec’s are most material to Outotec’s business. and a dedicated person responsible for nology solutions is clearly the most imfuture success. This materiality aspect is Sustainability trends and stakeholder developing performance was nominatportant sustainability factor for Outotec. linked to economic performance, market feedback were also taken into account ed. Relevant key performance indicators The significance of providing eco-efficient presence, indirect economic impacts, labor/management relations, health, safety and training aspects. Community involvement and charity work including employee engagement were identified as areas for further development. OUTOTEC’S MOST MATERIAL ASPECTS Improving the sustainability of Sustainable Outotec’s own operations, supply chain products and management, and technology and plant Sustainability solutions for of Outotec's own safety management were also identicustomers fied as important targets to meet the exoperations pectations of customers, employees and other stakeholders. Continuous development of Outotec’s Responsible Preferred quality, environment, health and safety supply chain employer Community (QEHS) management systems ranks high involvement and on the company’s sustainability agenda. charity work Read more about our QEHS performance Technology on page 54. QEHS management and plant safety Corresponding to these concerns and systems ambition levels, the appropriate GRI indicators were chosen and targets for improvement determined. In 2014, Outotec Human rights / Labor rights / Forerunner plans to conduct a new materiality analAnticipation Forerunner ysis with our stakeholders involved in the Meeting Anticipation process. Meeting expectations Compliance expectations Compliance 38 39 OUTOTEC OYJ / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 GOVERNANCE centers, manufacturing workshops, conating with educational institutions. We contractors and other business partstruction sites and industrial plants. The also participate in local initiatives to inners. We work towards effective abolition aspects related to significant impacts crease welfare in the countries where we of the use of compulsory, forced or child SUSTAINABILITY are considered when we set our environoperate. labor globally and respect the rights of IS INCORPORATED mental objectives and annual targets. According to our Donations Policy indigenous people. There were no inciWhen selecting new office premises, the we can engage in two types of activities. dents reported in 2013 regarding human INTO ALL ASPECTS OF environmental criteria are taken into acFirstly, we can give donations to globrights abuses. DEVELOPING OUR BUSINESS count. For example, our new facilities in al charitable projects that aim to improve Espoo, Finland, fulfill LEED® Gold resustainable development and/or quality Mutual trust and respect at quirements (LEED = Leadership in Enerof life. Outotec does not give donations to the workplace gy and Environmental Design). individuals, political parties or pressure We value diversity and varied cultures at Our waste management system cagroups, religious organizations or any orthe workplace, and follow the principle of ters for the collection, sorting, storage ganizations showing or encouraging any equal opportunities. Employees are seSOLID GOVERNANCE and disposal of waste in our premistype of prejudice (for example racial, sexlected and treated on the basis of their es. We try to optimize materials usage ual or religious). abilities and merits. Every individual is to avoid waste. Everyone working for Secondly, we have a Community equally entitled to enjoy fair treatment, reOutotec is requested to separate waste Agenda, which is aimed at supporting spect and common courtesy without disfor sorted collection. Where hazardous local projects in connection with major crimination and regardless of his/her ethwaste (e.g. radioactive, flammable, exdeliveries to our customers. These comnic origin, nationality, religion, political plosive, toxic, corrosive, bio-hazardous) munity projects are based on the needs views, sex, sexual orientation or age. We or other substances are being considof the local community in a project dedo not tolerate any form of harassment or ered for disposal, the local legal requirelivery location, and they are defined in a behavior that can be considered offensive, We have been developing a solid governance structure to ensure that our operations are guided by good ments (or customer’s requirements at dialogue with the local community. We intimidating, discriminating or insulting. governance, effective risk management, adequate controls and the internal audit principles supporting them. construction sites) must be considered aim at completing the community proWe are committed to a working entogether with the use of specialized conjects jointly with our customer, with joint vironment with mutual trust and respect, In this report we describe our approach to economic, environmental and social responsibility as well as the tractors for the disposal. financing. The projects are also selectand where everyone feels responsible for governance and management of sustainability at Outotec. The company’s corporate governance is discussed We intend to achieve our targets with ed taking Outotec’s own know-how into Outotec’s performance and good repuminimum input of energy and materials account and by utilizing it to the furthest tation. Various communication, influencin more detail in our Corporate Governance Statement at www.outotec.com/cg. and therefore the consumption of elecpossible extent. ing and discussion channels are in use tricity, heating and water are recorded Furthermore, we want to integrate at Outotec, including a collaborative inannually. At the research centers, elecvoluntary work into community projects tranet site. Outotec respects the freedom Economic responsibility the majority of new metals production far more significance for Outotec. tric power and natural gas consumption both during and off working hours. All of association and the right to collective Outotec is committed to increasing capacity is being constructed in the deThe major impact of Outotec on the enfor test purposes is recorded monthly. Community Agenda projects must bring bargaining. shareholder value. The company delivveloping markets. Outotec is strengthenvironment is indirect and unfolds through In 2013 Outotec appointed a manager measurable benefits to the local comOutotec’s South African subsidiers on this commitment by developing ing its presence and local operations in our customers. Our primary sustainabilof Global Environment and Sustainability munity. ary has a ‘Level 5 contributor’ rating in and maintaining competitive and profitathese markets, and aims to support susity challenge is therefore to help minito coordinate this work. Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerble operations based on ethical business tainable development within them. mize any negative effects our customers’ In line with our Donation Policy, we Human rights and labor practices ment (BBBEE), which means that Outotec practices. Outotec constantly applies An essential part of Outotec’s growth operations may have. This includes assupport initiatives that enhance sustainOutotec has signed the United Nations customers can recognize 80 percent principles of good corporate governance strategy is to complement the compasisting them with reducing their impact able development. In recent years, we Global Compact initiative and commitof their spend on Outotec products and transparent accounting. ny’s portfolio of sustainable products and on the surrounding environment and aidhave actively participated in the Baltic ted to its principles of human rights, enas BBBEE Preferential Procurement. Outotec’s operations have economservices through acquisitions. ing them in the reuse and recycling of Sea Action Group’s program for rehabilivironment, labor, and anti-corruption. By The program has been initiated by the ic impact upon the local, national, and resources involved in their processes. tation of the Baltic Sea. joining the Global Compact initiative OuSouth African government to distribute global communities in which the compaIn its own operations, Outotec is totec has expressed its intent to further wealth across the society. Read our long-term financial targets on ny operates. We contribute to community committed to adhering to the princiadvance sustainability and social responpage 34 and added value for stakeholders Read about our ecological footprint on page well-being by paying taxes in those counples of sustainable development, pollusibility in its business practices. Supply chain management on page 30. 68 and targets on page 34. tries where we operate and through dition prevention and sound environmental We do not provide goods or servicGlobal supply chain management has rect and indirect employment, as well as management. The management’s comes that we know will be used to carry out been defined as a key strategic pillar for other forms of community involvement. Environmental responsibility mitment to continuous improvement of Social responsibility human rights abuses and we support the Outotec, and therefore supply is a straThe world’s industrial production Although improving the sustainability of our environmental performance is visiSociety realization of basic human rights globtegic function and a highly prioritized deis increasingly concentrated in Asia to Outotec’s operations is important for the ble in our target setting and results. The Outotec contributes to communially. We will not use any form of compulvelopment area. This function manages serve the area’s rapidly growing large locompany, the development and delivery impact on the environment is monitored ty well-being by paying taxes, providing sory, forced or child labor and we expect the supplier base through sourcing catcal markets and supply world markets of energy-efficient and environmentalby identifying and evaluating the envijobs directly and indirectly, and cooperthe same from our agents, suppliers, egory management and leads and deas a manufacturing powerhouse. Thus, ly sound solutions for our customers has ronmental aspects of offices, research 40 41 OUTOTEC OYJ / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 GOVERNANCE has a Product Compliance management purpose of preventing misconduct and The remuneration of Board memOUR PEOPLE process to ensure that the plants and crimes. In 2013, specific audits were bers is described in our Corporate GovCAN RAISE CONCERNS products engineered and delivered by conducted in the Supply function and its ernance Statement on page 11. There is DECISION MAKING IN SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES THROUGH A NEW the company worldwide are reliable and processes, vendor and customer master no linkage between the compensation meet all applied safety standards during data maintenance as well as in the intefor board members and Outotec’s social COMPLIANCE all phases of the product life cycle. gration of the acquired business, Energy or environmental performance. HELPLINE In 2013 Outotec appointed a Chief Products of Idaho. Compliance Officer and introduced a Sustainability governance and compliance helpline for employees to Monetary incentives related to management help raise any concerns regarding ethsustainability Governance is often considered to be a Board of ical or compliant behavior. The helpline Employees working with sustainability matter of mere compliance. However, we Directors is also available on our website for all and environmental issues have personal believe that it makes a big difference to stakeholders. All compliance concerns targets set in their annual bonus plans. how sustainability is managed and govraised at Outotec are reviewed in acThis mainly pertains to environmental erned. We have a clear hierarchy of ethcordance with an established process. and sustainability managers. Inventors ics guidance and decision-making in The Chief Compliance Officer reports, in working with new, patentable solutions sustainability issues. Everything we do is velops sourcing activities for custommatters related to compliance, directly to also receive monetary rewards for their first and foremost based on our mission CEO er deliveries, executed by locally-based the board’s audit and risk committee. inventions. Furthermore, Outotec reand values. Our everyday work is guided Executive purchasing. Outotec’s supply chain manIn 2013, Outotec did not encounter wards all employees for making proposby our Code of Conduct and the detailed Board agement covers both Outotec’s own opany competition-law or corruption-reals that improve the sustainability of the company policies and guidelines defined erations and those of our suppliers’. lated suspicions. Outotec did not have to company’s internal processes. in the Outotec Management System. We Corporate Outotec has two policies serving as pay any fines and was not exposed to any The majority of our technology-deare currently developing our governance responsibility Technology and the basis for collaboration with suppliers. non-monetary sanctions for non-comvelopment projects focus on raw mateinto a more interactive process. Head of Product Board Our Supply Policy defines how supply acCommunications CTO pliance with these laws and regulations rial and energy-efficiency improvements At Outotec, the Executive Board is reand CR tivities in the company shall be steered, or any environmental laws. Nor did any and thus emission reductions. Water-efsponsible for our sustainability agenda. how supply quality shall be built, and issues emerge concerning the rights of ficiency is also often a driver for our reThe Executive Board approves the susguidelines for all people involved in supindigenous people. search, and customers expect Outotec to tainability strategy, targets and reporting. ply-related activities. The Supplier Policy develop new technologies that result in Our Head of Communications & CorpoWorking group is publicly available and all Outotec Internal control and auditing energy and cost savings. rate Responsibility, a member of the Exsuppliers are expected to comply with it. Internal control and audits are a fundaecutive Board, has overall responsibility This policy defines the high-level requiremental part of Outotec’s corporate govBoard work for coordination and development. The Sustainability aspect ments for Outotec suppliers and sets ernance and management systems. InThe Board of Directors of Outotec conresponsibility for the sustainability of our principles on ethical conduct, compliance ternal audit monitors that the company’s sists of seven members, six of whom are products and services lies with the Techwith laws and regulations, the environoperations are efficiently managed and independent. Eija Ailasmaa, who is the nology and Product Board chaired by Strategy People Supply chain Governance ment, health and safety, labor, intellectual profitable, risk management is at suffiVice Chairman of the board of Solidium the CEO. Decisions made, actions, and and compliance Head of Head of Human Head of property and improper benefits. cient level and the information providOy (Outotec’s largest shareholder), is decommitments are reported to the Board Strategy Resources Supply Head of Legal In Outotec’s customer projects, lo& CCO ed for external and internal purposes is fined as dependent of the owner and inof Directors. Sustainability is integrated cal subcontractors are also required to accurate. The internal audit function redependent of the company. Two of the into all relevant organizational functions, be trained specialists. Therefore the risk ports administratively to the CFO and, in board members are female. such as human resources, supply, legal, profile regarding human rights violations matters related to the internal audit, reThe duties, composition and comhealth and safety etc. In addition, there QEHS Economic Investor Communications is relatively low. We will continue to deports directly to the Board’s audit and mittees of the board as well as the board is a sustainability working group that Head of CFO Relations Head of Operational velop our supply chain management and risk committee and the CEO. work in 2013 are described in our Corpomeets several times a year. Exellence Head of IR Communications supplier selection procedures further. Outotec’s internal and external aurate Governance Statement. The Board dit processes take into account evenof Directors assesses its performance Read more on our governance at Compliance with regulations tual corruption suspicions and frauduannually. In 2013, the Board’s special fowww.outotec.com/cg. and laws lent acts that may occur. Legal seminars cus was on Outotec’s long-term strategy, Outotec endorses ethical business pracand virtual trainings are held on a reguorganizational structure and scalability as tices and complies with national and inlar basis to train employees in anti-corwell as addressing the industry challengternational laws and regulations. Outotec ruption policies and procedures for the es of global macroeconomic environment. 42 43 OUTOTEC OYJ / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 GOVERNANCE VALUES AND CODE OF CONDUCT → At the core of Outotec’s values is 3) A  spiring for Excellence. This means In 2013, Outotec organized also virtuCreating our commitment to sustainability. For continuous improvement every day, al training for the employees on anti-corleading us, sustainability means a good balance setting the bar high, challenging ruption, competition law and intellectual technologies between social, economic and environthe status quo, growing and renewproperty rights. Approximately 50 permental responsibility. We want to behave ing ourselves as individuals, staying cent of the employees completed these in a sustainable manner in all our relahumble and adaptive to learn, finding trainings (anti-corruption 2,511; competionships, whether internal or external. out what good looks like and flourtition law 2,424 and intellectual property As we are growing larger and more mulishing in what we do. rights 2,376 employees). ticultural as an organization, we must Employees are encouraged to conensure that we not only rely on manuOur Executive Board members held lotact their supervisors or Chief CompliCommitted to als and policies, but on a strong ethical workshops where these values were ance Officer if they suspect misconduct sustainability cal culture built on our common values. explained and a local dialogue was or non-compliance. A helpline was also We want to encourage everyone at Outolaunched. Almost all Outotec locations established in 2013 for employees and tec to consider their actions through one were covered in 2012 and 2013. The first there is a form on the company’s public simple question: “Is this sustainable?” deployment phase concentrated on our website where other stakeholders can mission and core value. The second also raise concerns. All compliance conIn addition to our core value of sustainaphase in 2013 concentrated on the other cerns raised at Outotec are reviewed in bility, we have three value statements: three values. accordance with an established process. Aspiring Building for success Building on our values, we adopted In 2013, Outotec’s Chief Compliance excellence together 1) Creating Leading Technologies. This in 2012 a comprehensive Code of ConOfficer started blogging to enable ethical means creating technology breakduct which gives our people ethical guiddialogue within the company. In many of throughs and leading the way, seeing ance on many issues. This Code of Conthe areas covered by the Code of Conchange and complexity as opportunity, duct has been approved by the Board duct, we have separate, more detailed leveraging our expertise, encouraging of Directors. The Code of Conduct was policies in place. innovation and rethinking as well as translated into seven languages in 2013 leading in sustainable technology. and communicated to the employees. Read more about the targets related to our Approximately 40 percent of employees 2) B  uilding Success Together. This Code of Conduct on page 34. globally participated in virtual training means pursuing our mission, buildthrough e-learning. We were aiming at a ing long-term sustainable customer Read our Code of Conduct at higher coverage, but had some technical and supplier relationships, trust and www.outotec.com/sustainability. problems in launching the virtual learnrespect, celebrating success together, ing, delaying the process. The trainings taking care of life balance, leveraging will continue in 2014. diversity, and acting with courage. 44 45 OUTOTEC OYJ / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 STORY COMPLIANCE Compliance issues have never been more important than today, which is why several key initiatives are pointing the way forward for Outotec employees. Sami Lindström, Chief Compliance Officer, and Nina Kiviranta, General Counsel, took time out to look at the progress made so far. ACROSS ETHICAL WORKING → Why have compliance issues and ethical working Countries, for example where the way of doing business can sages with real enthusiasm. It exceeded all my expectations. code and some kind of helpline. But as Sami explains to PRACTICES ARE practices become of increasbe a little more relaxed: it’s We also deployed e-learning the people he trains, what it THE BOARD ing importance to Outotec in just how things are done there. modules on the code of conreally means is that you’re seOF INCREASING recent years? Our programs address this duct, as well as on anti-corrupcure in your own work. Sami: In one sense, this challenge very well now: the tion and competition, and the The code is there to proIMPORTANCE reflects pressure from the inassociated risks are countered participation rates have already tect you in the sense that you vestor community. Nowadays with firm rules. been excellent. can put your concerns forward most investors have come to or ask questions about the understand that a company Introducing the code of Have you seen any other signs policies. It doesn’t have to be that works ethically represents conduct was a major update. indicating that compliance isanything all that serious. a good long-term investment. How did people respond sues are really taking root at Sustainable business practices internally? Outotec? What are the next steps in from an organization that can Sami: It’s been incredibly Sami: Well one very good terms of ethical practices as be relied on means better repositive. I could never have imindication would be our new the organization moves turn as time goes on. agined how well people would compliance helpline. It was forward? Nina: It’s true: no respond and how active the introduced in the summer on Sami: Well, now that the stock-listed company can exparticipation would be. our intranet and public website code is implemented and we ist in this climate without propages, and it’s basically a way have resources in place like grams in place covering comIn the training sessions I lead, for anyone to send us a mesthe trainings, the e-learning, pliance and ethical practices. I go through as many as 25 sage, either asking a question and printed copies for all emIt’s pretty much a must for example cases. This might be or reporting any suspicions ployees, we move into a phase major companies these days. the best pedagogical way of they have that our policies are in which we need to keep Sami: And then of course making people aware of these being broken somehow. these issues active in people’s if you look at Outotec’s rechallenges and problems. It turned out to be a hugeminds, and make sure the cent growth and the flow of Most of them relate to actual ly valuable idea, as it’s been message is widely understood new people, a more pressing examples from the past, albetaken into very active use by as we go forward. need arrived to have shared it with modified names for the employees. I receive severNina: Initiatives like your processes. We needed to creplaces and people. al messages a week, and they compliance blog… ate a shared understanding of Nina: People relate best are mostly questions to do Sami: Yes, on the intranet. the demands we make of our to those things that they can with correct behavior, for exI’ve been writing an article employees and the standards imagine in real life. ample on topics like corporate on a monthly basis covering we uphold. This is what we’ve Sami: They think of themgifts. Now you might say these some hot topics, which could tried to achieve. selves actually being there, in are minor issues, and they ofbe of interest to the majoriNina: If you think about those situations. ten are, but the great thing is ty of our employees and give it, here in the corporate office Nina: And then think: that to see that people know that a compliance standpoint. It’s at least we are rather westcould happen to me. the code is out there and that called Compliance Binoculars. ernized people. We think that Sami: Exactly, so they rethey can depend on it to guide So far I’ve covered jurisdicstandards that are perhaps ally approach these real casthem. To me this really tells us tional issues around corrupclear to us are also clear to es as exercises in a personal a lot about the widespread ention, the general integrity of everybody else, regardless of way, discovering how the code thusiasm for compliance and the company and corporate ”I could never have imagined how well people would respond to the where they are in the world. But I think that the most chalcould affect certain situations in their own work. And in doing discussion of ethical issues. Nina: The way this is all unity and its related challenges. People have engaged with compliance initiatives and how active the participation would be.” lenging aspect of this work is the fact that we work in some those tasks, it’s been great to see how people were particicommunicated is very important too. I mean as an emit quite well. So yes, initiatives like this, making sure that iscountries where these types of pating – as well as challenging ployee you might be afraid of sues like those raised in the Sami Lindström code are always present in our compliance issues are not so and questioning things – and things you don’t fully underChief Compliance Officer thinking. black and white to everyone. listening to the code’s messtand, that there is a legal 46 47 OUTOTEC OYJ / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 DEVELOPING OUR PEOPLE Employees 2013 2012 2011 GRI indicator PEOPLE Number of employees at year end 4,855 4,805 3,883 LA1 Number of employees on average 4,927 4,456 3,516 LA1 WE WANT Temporary, % of the total number 8 9 9 LA1 TO CREATE A CULTURE Number of full-time equivalent contracted professionals 495 660 620 LA1 OF ENABLEMENT AND Share of women in employees, %* 19.6 19.2 20 LA2 ENGAGEMENT Share of women in management, %** 12.1 15.7 14 LA2, LA13 Wages and salaries paid, EUR million 385.8 362.6 284.4 EC1 Average age of employees 40.9 40.7 40.7 LA2 * 2013: n = 4,853 (coverage: 99.96%) Our success depends on competent and motivated people, and our business is founded on their know-how in ** 2013: n = 1,178 (employees in management based on Outotec grading) the technologies that we provide. We work hard towards achieving an enabling and engaging culture at our workplaces worldwide. Employees by region Dec 31, 2013 Dec 31,2012 Dec 31, 2011 EMEA 2,891 2,642 2,327 Americas 1,144 1,400 972 → At the end of 2013, Outotec had 4,855 APAC 820 763 584 employees. The number increased by 50 PERSONNEL BY AGE RANGE EMPLOYEES BY CATEGORY Total 4,855 4,805 3,883 from the previous year due to an acquisition and growth of the service business. Temporary personnel accounted for eight percent of this total. In addition, Outotec Employee turnover rate 2013 2013 2012 2012 2011 2011 GRI indicator had 495 full-time equivalent contracted # % # % # % professionals working in project execution and services. Outotec has employby age group LA2 ees on all continents; nearly half of them <25 71 29 22 8 15 8 are based in Europe. <25, 29% 26–30 112 18 54 9 40 7 Senior management 4.7% The past year was challenging for 26–30, 18% Middle management 21.7% 31–35 106 12 62 10 43 8 Outotec people as the uncertaintly in 31–35, 12% Specialists 56.4% 36–40 106 15 50 9 29 6 the world economy weakened our order 36–40, 15% Blue-collar workers 17.3% 41–45, 11% 41–45 69 11 44 9 23 5 intake, sales and profitability. Outotec 46–50, 8% 46–50 47 8 24 6 20 5 launched an efficiency improvement pro51–55, 8% 51–55 40 8 38 12 7 2 gram, which also resulted in personnel 56–60, 8% EDUCATIONAL BACKGROUND reduction. A total of 260 jobs were 56–60 30 8 23 8 18 6 >60, 21% terminated mainly in Chile, Finland and >60 73 21 47 21 9 4 2013: n = 4,851 (coverage: 99.9%) Australia through redundancies, retireTotal* 654 13 364 10 204 6 ments and discontinuing of fixed-term by gender LA2 contracts. In addition, employees were Women 114 12 102 11.3 45 6.1 temporarily laid off at the Turula works PERSONNEL BY REGION Men 558 14 310 8.1 195 6.5 in Finland. At the same time, we recruited by region LA2 over 300 new employees for the service business and project implementation. Finland 65 4 69 5 51 4 Primary and lower secondary level 27% Outotec offered monetary support, Upper secondary level and lower Germany 28 5 32 6 16 3 depending on the length of the employuniversity degree 48% Rest of Europe 29 7 28 10 12 4 ment, as well as training programs and Higher university degree and The Americas 414 36 174 12 83 9 coaching to support re-employment postgraduate 25% Australia 77 14 46 9 18 5 and entrepreneurship for those persons 2013: n = 2,769 (coverage: 57%) EMEA (including CIS) 59.6% Rest of the world 55 9 63 11 60 13 made redundant. Americas 23.6% In addition to cost-saving measures * The reason for the difference in the total number in the category ‘employee turnover rate by age group’ is APAC 16.9% initiated in October 2013, the restructurrestricted age data from one reporting unit. ing of our businesses and global functions impacted upon our people. The low share of women may reflect the typically high share of men in the mining and metallurgical industry historically. There were no reported incidents of any type of discrimination in 2013. 48 49 OUTOTEC OYJ / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 DEVELOPING OUR PEOPLE PROFESSIONAL our training hours. In recent years we have also held seminars about prevention of heart diseases and other occupaquality targets and quality discussions. This will be a key area of focus in 2014. We will also pilot a new concept on perGROWTH tional health issues for the employees. formance evaluation that ensures our rewards reflect the right behaviors aligned Performance development to our culture. It will evaluate overall Whilst over 95 percent of Outotec emachievements in one’s role (what) and ployees had performance development values (how) separately, and in 2015 it dialogues (PDD) in 2013, we recognize will link to the performance development there is still a challenge in addressing dialogue process for all employees. → Our goal with talent management and blement index was 67 percent, slightTraining programs professional growth is to enable our emly below the standard (73 percent). Two Learning Point, Outotec’s global learnployees to reach their full potential. global themes were identified for further ing platform focused on internal technolOur focus is to drive continuous development: collaboration and customogy and product training, was launched Training 2013 2012 2011 GRI indicator learning and leadership development er centricity. Action planning on these in the beginning of 2013. Learning Point to ensure professional growth. We folstarted in 2013 and the work will continAll types of vocational training and instruction LA10 includes technology self-studies and inlow the 70/20/10 concept; 70 percent of ue in 2014 both globally and locally. structor-led technical trainings varying Number of employees 2,704 2,990 1,288 emphasis is on on-the-job learning, 20 from introductions and core trainings to Hours 67,750 60,184 32,948 percent on learning from others, and 10 On-the-job learning advanced trainings. Several virtual trainPaid educational leave provided by the reporting LA10 percent on formal training programs. Job rotation continued to be high on the ing programs were offered to our emorganization for its employees In 2013 we focused globally on our agenda and it was also one of the guidployees. The programs focused on anNumber of employees 744 563 318 top leaders, mentoring and change maning principles in designing our new operti-corruption and Code of Conduct. New Hours 33,162 21,506 4,240 agement, whether this was related to orating model that came into effect on July courses are being developed constantly. Training or education pursued externally and LA10 ganizational changes, new programs or 1, 2013. In addition, during 2013 Outotec Our Sales Master Class enables paid for in whole or in part by the reporting new ways of working. We have created a had almost 300 persons on internationOutotec sales and service professionorganization talent maturity model for developing our al project assignments, for an average als working in the customer frontline to people. When knowing our talents we length of 5.2 months. There were over 70 Number of employees 1,395 2,277 1,237 develop advanced sales and behavioral can address the needs of our people with expatriates in 17 countries, an important skills. We have been laying the foundaHours 40,200 28,187 16,569 the right tools and interventions. indication of Outotec’s investment in ontion for value-based selling and raising Training on speciﬁc topics such as health and LA10 Almost 80 percent of our employees the-job learning and knowledge sharing sales capabilities for the last two years. safety responded to our newly-revised employee around the globe. In 2013 we had 15 workshops with 183 Hours 124,695 49,700 9,955 engagement survey. Through this channel participants around the world. Through Training on human rights issues LA10 of communication and engagement we Learning from others tracking return on investment we were Number of employees 1,039 3,019 n/a were able to demonstrate both successMentoring is also used to transfer tacable to identify circa EUR 11 million es and challenges. Our people observed it knowledge from more experienced Hours 1,168 1,509 deals won by adapting to the Sales Masand gave feedback on how their leadspecialists to newcomers or less expeter Class approach. ers behaved in line with company values. rienced employees. In 2013 we had 16 In addition, 40 leaders took part in a We were able to assess the quality of our mentoring pairs in Finland,10 pairs in Strategic Marketing Excellence program Benefits provided Full-time employees Temporary employees communications and measure the impact Brazil and a small program in Sweden. organized with IMD. Our Future Leadby Outotec covered, % covered, % GRI indicator of the current development opportunities. We launched a “train the trainer” proers program ran for a third successive As employee engagement and pergram in India and North America to help year, bringing together 48 top leaders to Life insurance 82 46 LA3 formance enablement are our priority them raise awareness and plan to preensure that we have leadership capabilHealth care 80 53 LA3 drivers and seen as a key differentiatpare for their own key mentoring proities to meet future challenges. On-goDisability/invalidity coverage 100 72 LA3 ing factor, we will continue to challenge grams for 2014. ing learning groups have been practicing Maternity/paternity leave 97 78 LA3 ourselves in the longer term with these Active coaching for the Execucoaching in projects covering major strakey targets which are linked to our surtive Board and senior leaders contintegic topics. In addition, there were some Retirement provision 63 22 LA3 vey results (read more about our targets ued on individual and team levels all local leadership development programs 2013: n= 4,228 on page 33). Based on the results of the over the world. In addition, we continand coachings as well as language, and 2013 survey, Outotec’s employee enued with monthly leadership reflections ICT trainings. gagement index was 69 percent, which and learning went out collectively to a set In 2013, we provided safety training Read more about compensation at www.outotec.com/cg. is at the same level as the internationcommunity of over 100 leaders for refor our employees and subcontractors al standard, and the performance enafreshing ideas on concepts of leadership. working on our projects, which increased 50 51 OUTOTEC OYJ / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 DEVELOPING OUR PEOPLE LABOR PRACTICES Fair and motivating compensation is essential for Outotec’s success. All employees are covered by an annual bonus system to encourage performance and personal development. → The Outotec Round Table is a discusthat is in line with the requirements of The bonus is paid to those employsion forum for personnel representatives the job and the performance and compeees only who have been employed by the and management on matters concerntences of the employee. company for at least six months during ing the whole company. It is based on the According to Outotec’s compensathe accounting period, or if a person has European Works Council directive 94/95 tion policy the total compensation should been hired during the accounting periEU, Article 6 and covers all employees in closely align the interests of Outotec, its od, the minimum employment time is four the EU countries as well as Norway and shareholders and all employees. A sigmonths. In addition, the employee needs to Switzerland. The Outotec Round Table nificant proportion of total compensabe employed by Outotec at the time of bowas held twice in 2013. Topics discussed tion should be based on the company’s nus payment. included strategy, acquisitions, rewardperformance in the short and long term Incentive bonuses are determined on ing, organizational change, and interand on each employee’s individual perthe basis of attainment of the companal development programs. 23 personformance. In order to attract and retain ny’s financial targets, as well as targets nel representatives participated in the highly competent professionals, the toset for the employees or departments meetings. tal compensation package of employees concerned. As a general rule, the total In addition to these meetings, Outotec with key competence and a high level of bonus percentage ranges from 10 to 60 Council, a sub-committee of Outotec individual performance should be compercent of the employee’s annual salary, Round Table, had meetings regularly once petitive compared to relevant labor mardepending on the position of the employper quarter and whenever necessary. ket compensation. ee. The incentive bonus program covers Outotec Council is the operative body to All Outotec employees are covered by almost all Outotec personnel. In addiensure the smooth administration of the an annual bonus system to encourage pertion, the board may decide to set some Outotec Round Table. It consists of performance and personal development. project-related bonuses. sonnel and management representatives. This forum was used as an additional discussion and information sharing channel Health and safety 2013 2012 2011 GRI indicator with employee representatives. Non-fatal injury arising from or in 54 26 48 LA7 the course of work Read more about our labor practices Fatal injury arising from or 2 0 0 LA7 on page 41. in the course of work Lost time injury rate (LTIR) 0.39 0.40 1.62 LA7 (number/200,000 working hours) Compensation Fair and motivating compensation plays Occupational diseases 1 0 0 LA7 an essential part in Outotec’s success. Occupational disease rate 0.01 0 0 LA7 It is also in shareholders’ interests to (number/200,000 working hours) have competent and motivated employLost days because of an occupa307 285 408 LA7 ees working in line with Outotec’s targets tional accident or disease and strategy. For a technology compaLost day rate (number/200,000 2.13 4.35 13.76 LA7 ny such as Outotec, it is very important working hours) to be able to recruit and retain worldAbsentee rate, % 0.80 1.96 2.61 LA7 class professionals, as they are a key asset that helps to create the company’s 2013: n = 13,821 (our own employees and subcontractors on project sites); a significant intellectual property. Fair and motivating increase from 2012 (n= 5,873) compensation is achieved through pay 52 53 OUTOTEC OYJ / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 DEVELOPING OUR PEOPLE Health and safety topics are not covthe security and well-being of its employEmployee categories, gender balance and age structure 2013 2012 2011 GRI indicator ered in formal agreements with trade ees. It covers all Outotec employees and unions. Health and safety issues are covservice providers for emergencies that Total number of employees in each employee category* LA13 The total compensation in 2013 ered by statutory regulations in different occur during business trips. Through its Senior management 209 126 135 consisted of: laws, and there is therefore no need for Medical Alerts and Travel Security Online Middle management 969 429 496 1) Base salary separate agreements. service available 24/7 our employees are Specialists 2,520 2,074 1,959 2) Short-term incentives When Outotec starts a new operaalso informed bout diseases and other Blue-collar workers 774 842 516 • Global annual bonus tion in a country, normally an expatrihealth, safety and security issues. Senior management, %** LA13 system, or project bonus ate is sent to integrate the new operaSafety is an important aspect of Women 13 10 11 3) Long-term incentives tion to Outotec. The target is, however, Outotec’s field operations at custom• Share-based Incentive Program that senior management is hired locally. er sites. Outotec’s project manager is Men 87 90 89 for key employees Currently 77 percent of Outotec’s entities responsible for the company and its < 30 years old 0 0 0 • Share Savings Plan for all have a local manager. sub-contractors’ site activities and fol30–50 years 54 61 68 employees lows the management of environmen> 50 years old 46 39 32 4) Rewards for innovation Health and safety tal issues, safety, systematic practices, Middle management, %** LA13 5) Ad-hoc rewarding for extraordinary An important milestone was reached in and cleanliness. All Outotec’s project and Women 12 19 12 achievements 2013 with the harmonization of Outotec’s service specialists follow the customer’s Men 88 81 88 6) Pension and life insurance benefits QEHS management systems. Our globsafety regulations on site. From the oc< 30 years old 1 4 3 al QEHS team has been working persiscupational safety standpoint, the greatest Outotec launched an employee share savtently for the past three years to develrisks are associated with work assign30–50 years 64 69 68 ings plan in January 2013 for the compaop and implement a harmonized QEHS ments in countries that have little aware> 50 years old 35 27 29 ny’s employees globally. Altogether 1,513 management system including QEHS ness of safety issues and a weak occupaSpecialists, %** 0 LA13 employees in 22 countries (approximatepolicy, procedures, work instructions and tional safety culture. In these countries, Women 27 24 27 ly 34 percent of the employees eligible to training material aligned with the ‘One Outotec employees are instructed to Men 73 76 73 participate) saved a proportion of their salOutotec’ approach. In November 2013, follow the company’s own occupational < 30 years old 19 15 21 ary to buy Outotec shares. In return, TÜV Rheinland Cert granted us ‘One safety principles. 30–50 years 59 61 57 Outotec will reward the participants with Outotec’ multi-site matrix certification Outotec provides safety training for > 50 years old 22 24 22 free shares in the future. The participaincluding ISO 9001 (Quality manageemployees whose work involves or will tion rate was over 50 percent in Finland, ment), ISO 14001 (Environmental maninvolve participating in site operations Blue-collar workers, %** LA13 Sweden and five other countries. Particiagement), BS:OHSAS 18001 (Occupationrelated to plants, equipment, or servicWomen 3 3 4 pation in the share savings plan is entireal Health and Safety management) and es delivered by Outotec to its customMen 97 97 96 ly voluntary. Safety Construction Certificate (SCC) for ers. The objective is to induct employees < 30 years old 31 31 22 In addition, 172 key employees beall our main locations. in hazard identification, risk assessment 30–50 years 50 49 49 came part of the company’s share-based The scope of health and safety reand required control actions to prevent > 50 years old 19 20 29 incentive program in 2013. porting was significantly extended: from any harm and to improve practical colBoard of Directors, % LA13 Outotec has several pension plans 5,873 employees and subcontractors laboration between the customer and Women 29 14 14 in various countries. These plans are working on projects in 2012 to nearly supplier organizations on shared sites. mainly classiﬁed as deﬁned contribution 13,821 in 2013, as more subcontractors Outotec received several safety awards Men 71 86 86 pension plans. Other post-employment on construction sites were included. from customers in 2013. For example, < 30 years old 0 0 0 beneﬁts relate to retirement medical In 2013, two fatal accidents occurred Codelco Chile recognized Outotec 30–50 years 0 29 29 arrangements in Germany. to our subcontractors, one in an office with the “Safety Management – 2013” > 50 years old 100 71 71 building under construction and one on award on the delivery of online analyzers Other labor practices a project construction site. Both casto its Andina operations for successfully * Grading of all employees not completed yet (n = 4,472; coverage = 92%). 51 percent (2012: 54 percent) of employees es have been investigated and correccontrolling hazards and preventing acci** Data coverage 80% because of local restriction of data reporting. are covered by collective bargaining agreetive actions have been taken. We collect dents in production, thus helping to build ments. Binding collective agreements are data from near-miss cases and continue a strong preventive safety culture. followed in each country where they are to further develop our Health and Safety applicable to Outotec employees. The minManagement System to prevent any acciRead also about product safety on page 74. imum notice periods regarding significant dents. We also have set a new target reoperational changes depend on locations lated to health and safety, see page 35. and national legislation, and therefore difOutotec has a medical and security fer significantly. Notice periods range from services agreement with the global ser2 to 8 weeks up to one year. vice provider International SOS to ensure 54 55 OUTOTEC OYJ / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 STORY O’SHARE of having realized efficiency prospect for our employees, cation; the high participation measures amongst our emdemonstrating that they value rate and the effort used in imployee base, we still saw an the company both in financial plementation, taking into acadoption rate of 33 percent.” terms and as a great place to count our company’s relatively EVERY However, the most meaningful work. small size. AND SHARE THIRD EMPLOYEE results are, of course, for the O’Share also won Global “I am happy about this future to reveal: increased Equity Organization’s GEO global recognition for our proOWNS OUTOTEC motivation at work and imAward in the category of “Best gram and being awarded SHARES proved employee retention. Plan Effectiveness”. GEO is a amongst the top global comWith benchmarks showglobal non-profit organization panies such as Facebook, ing that even 20 percent emsupporting share-based inGoogle and Pfizer,” says ALIKE ployee participation marks a centives. The judges’ decision Pekka Hukkanen, Head of Restrong result, O’Share has evwas based on Outotec’s verwarding at Outotec. idently been a very attractive satile high-quality communiLaunched in 2013, Outotec’s O’Share program was born of the recognition that competent and motivated personnel are central to the company’s success. We needed a reward system that would motivate our people, helping the company to build success together with its employees. The concept would have to reward employees in particular for their long-term commitment to the company, sticking with the team through thick and thin. → O’Share, an easy-to-manpurchased in this way and ing system that would enable ings for employees in all our age share savings plan availthat they remain employed by us to build success togethmajor locations. We left no able to Outotec personnel Outotec. er was strongly supported by stones unturned in terms of globally, represented the best O’Share is offered to our Outotec’s management, as it communication.” answer to these challenges, employees in countries where is closely linked to our values.” After several months of enabling our employees there are no legal, taxation or The international nature refining the details, the proto benefit directly from the administrative restraints. For of Outotec’s operations made gram was up and running as growth and success they help these reasons, O’Share is not achieving consistency across of January 2013. Tiia and her ”Developing a rewarding system that to build together. Participation in the prooffered in Russia, Kazakhstan or Saudi Arabia. various territories each with their own remuneratory regcolleagues in HR have already been able to see the great rewould enable us to build success gram is entirely voluntary, and involves personnel usWhile the idea of rewarding employees with the opporulations – an interesting task. “We defined effective comsults of their efforts. “In the 2013 sign-up drive, with the together was strongly supported ing a chosen amount of salary each month (between 2 tunity to purchase shares isn’t a new one, O’Share is actually munication as one of the key drivers of success in the improgram’s introduction, we saw a record high rate of 34 by Outotec’s management, as it is and 5 per cent) to purchase one of the first programs of its plementation of O’Share. For percent across the compaclosely linked to our values.” Outotec shares. In return for kind in Finland. instance, we translated all ny globally. In Finland and five their commitment, employTiia Lindroos, Human Recommunication materials and other countries the participaTiia Lindroos ees receive free shares after sources Officer, who played established an ‘Owners’ site’ tion rate was over 50 percent,” Human Resources Officer three years, provided that they a key role in the process, exin six languages, and organsays Tiia. “And in 2014, dekeep the shares they have plains: “Developing a rewardized face-to-face info meetspite the challenging situation 56 57 OUR IMPACT 60 More sustainable technologies 62 Technologies for energy production 64 R&D and innovation 66 Hands-on learning 68 Ecological footprint of our operations 74 Product safety 76 Impact of our supply chain OUR IMPACT We develop technologies that enable sustainable use of natural resources and keep our global society as healthy as possible. Reduced energy and water consumption as well as effective use of raw materials not only reduce environmental impact but also improve profitability. 59 OUTOTEC OYJ / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 OUR IMPACT the share of EGS in our order intake, Outotec designs sealed processes More energy generated through and the methodology was assessed by that utilize the energy contained withOutotec waste-to-energy solutions an external auditor. This methodology in raw materials. The annual emissions To abate climate change, substituting takes into account more accurately the avoided by the metallurgical industry fossil energy sources with renewable share of the services in orders. Accordthrough use of five Outotec technoloones is crucial. Outotec’s long-term taring to our self assessment, as much as gies amounted to 5.4 million tonnes of get is to achieve an annual reduction in 87 percent (2012: 89 percent) of our orCO2 equivalency (CO2-e) in 2013 (2012: use of fossil fuels by power plants equalder intake qualifies as EGS. These prod4.6 million tonnes). These five technoling 80 MWe and by steam boilers equalMORE SUSTAINABLE ucts and services measure, prevent, ogies are ferrochrome process, copper ing 60 MWth. limit, minimize or correct environmenflash smelting, alumina calcination, ceFor example, in the St. Petersburg tal damage to water, air and soil, as well ramic filters, and CO-generation in the region in Russia alone, more than twenty as problems related to waste, noise and ferrochrome process. Outotec’s CO filter million chickens, pigs and cattle annueco-systems. EGS represent pollution enables the use of process gas in direct ally produce over 600,000 tonnes of nuTECHNOLOGIES management, resource management electricity generation. trient-rich litter and manure. This waste and, particularly so in Outotec’s case, Our long-term target is to achieve biomass is a source of energy and nutricleaner technologies reduce environa 20 percent increase in the amount of ents if appropriately managed. Nutrient mental risk and minimize pollution and avoided CO2 emissions through the use run-off from large-scale animal farms resource usage. of Outotec metals-related processes by has become among the main threats of For example, Outotec’s sulfuric acid 2020. The reported increased 2013 valpollution for the sea and for groundwater plant, when used to produce acid from ue compared with the 4.6 million tonnes reservoirs. In addition, harmful atmosOutotec develops and delivers solutions which utilize resources efficiently, reduce energy and water a smelter, is clearly EGS technology, but reported for 2012 is mainly due to the inpheric emissions are derived from imin the case of an acid plant burning elcreased production in the plants using properly managed manure. consumption, produce less waste and emissions, and minimize the plant’s lifetime ecological impact emental sulfur, it is defined as ‘mayOutotec technologies. The changes in the Sewage sludge – when adequately and operating costs. Through our vast experience and in-house research centers, we have the ability be EGS’ and the final category depends on the latest features of acid production country-specific electricity grid CO2/kWh also have some influence on the generprocessed – comprises another important source of phosphorus and energy. to test and scale up processes for varied and increasingly complex raw materials, as well as develop technology being used in the particular ated savings. We offer waste-to-energy systems that project. can treat over 200 different biomass funew processes and tailor solutions for their processing. 50% reduction in fresh els from waste wood up to lignin sludge 20% increase in avoided CO2 make-up water in non-ferrous from bio-ethanol production. emissions through use of Outotec metals concentrators In addition, we have developed an → We have a strong portfolio of worldTo minimize the industry’s negasustainability challenges facing our cusmetals-related processes In many mining regions such as Chile efficient solution to exploit the energy class technologies for the entire value tive impact, Outotec offers solutions for tomers. Through hundreds of successIn metallurgical processing, energy is and Australia, the quality and quantity of and nutrient potential of a certain part chain of processing ore to refined metals. sustainable mine backfilling and tailings ful projects, we have made a significant the most significant cost item and the water pose problems, as companies’ waof farmyard waste and sewage sludge. Each of Outotec’s technological developtreatment, modernization, and longglobal impact by creating new revenue main reason for CO2 emissions. For exter demands can result in conflicts with The solution combines Outotec’s fluidments has the potential to reduce the enterm operation and maintenance serstreams, reducing our customers’ enample, energy accounts for around 70 local communities that depend on the ized-bed-based biomass incineration vironmental impact of a large number of vices. Significant impact on a plant’s vironmental footprints, and increasing percent of costs in aluminum production, same resources. Furthermore, mining technology and the ASH DEC process to industrial operations worldwide. sustainability can be achieved through well-being in local communities. and 50 percent of total operating costs and mineral work is often carried out in recover phosphate from the ash that reHowever, even if customers are using life cycle services and technological imThe key target on our long-term susof concentrators attached to mines. The parts of the world that are rich in natural mains as a by-product when incinerating Outotec’s best available technologies in provements. For example, Outotec can tainability agenda is more sustainable total energy consumption in a process resources, yet particularly environmenmunicipal sewage sludge, manure and mineral and metal processing, they may operate and maintain a plant on the custechnologies and services by 2020. from bauxite to metal products through tally sensitive. chicken litter and residues. have improper operational practices or tomer’s behalf, guaranteeing that it will the electrolysis of aluminum oxide (Al2 Outotec ‘s offering in this field inless sustainable technologies in use at run smoothly, safely, and efficiently at Environmental Goods and O3), which must first be mined from cludes, for example, paste plant technolthe same time. Therefore Outotec all times. Services in order intake bauxite ore and then refined using the ogy for mineral concentrators and efflumay indirectly be involved in environmenThough metals and minerals, once permanently over 90% Bayer process, is approximately 18,000 ent treatment solutions. The company is tal damage, contamination of soil or waextracted, have a very long usage life cyIn the long-term, we aim to keep the kWh per tonne of metal. developing water treatment solutions for ter, or public health effects through its cle and are often close to 100 percent reshare of environmental goods and serProducing aluminum from recythe industry as one of its strategic focus ANNUAL customers’ operations. Because industry cyclable, their production is often linked vices (EGS under OECD definitions) in cled scrap requires only five percent of areas. However, the proportion of these EMISSIONS AVOIDED investments have a lifetime of decades, to negative impact on the environment. our order intake permanently above 90 the energy used to make virgin alumisolutions in our sales is still relatively AMOUNTED TO Outotec also provides machinery, spare As a provider of technologies and servicpercent. This means that we always seek num. The recycling process involves simsmall. Our long-term target is to achieve 5.4 MILLION TONNES parts and services to old industrial plants es for these industries, we see our role to sell our latest and best available techply re-melting the metal and uses only 50 percent reduction in fresh make-up that may, despite modernization initiaas an essential contributor to change for nology to customers. about 10 percent of the equipment that water per tonne of ore in non-ferrous OF CO2-e tives, have a significant negative impact the better. As part of the varied solutions In 2013, we updated our self-asan aluminum processing facility employs metals concentrators through Outotec on the environment and human health. we offer, we aim to address the main sessment methodology to determine [source: The Aluminum Association]. technologies and solutions. 60 61 OUTOTEC OYJ / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 OUR IMPACT TECHNOLOGIES FOR ENERGY PRODUCTION Outotec® combustion, gasification and thermal processing Agriculture Bio fertilizer Wood pellets Wastes solutions Heat With conventional energy sources shrinking, renewable energy and unconventional fossil fuel Ash Biomass sources are being developed. We offer waste-to-energy systems for over 200 different biomass Agricultural waste Wood waste fuels and resource-efficient solutions when and where oil shale reserves are being utilized. Residue fuels and sludge Residential heating Municipal waste Wood pellets Industrial waste Heat → Oil shale is a mineral rock which conEesti Energia to provide its material hanThe processing starts with drying the Energy tains a carbon-rich component called dling, drying, heat recovery and circulatsurface mined oil shale, which is then kerogen, which decomposes at high ing fluidized bed technologies and experpyrolyzed. The vapor evaporating in pytemperature and the absence of oxygen, tise to the so called Enefit process. rolysis at about 570°C is condensed to liberating vapor, which can be condensed There are two principle methods to shale oil. The residue from the pyrolysis to generate liquid fuels. It is a strategic recover oil from oil shale: 1) mining using is combusted in a circulating fluidized Fossil raw materials Industrial plants resource, a lot of countries with limitsustainable technologies and treatment bed reactor to produce heat and power. Conventional fuels Heat ed access to other energy resources are of oil shale in a refinery type of operation, Hot solids from the combustion step are Bituminous fuels Steam keen to develop the industry as an aland 2) in situ recovery of oil from oil shale used to heat up the oil shale to the reOil shale Fuel gas ternative for crude oil. The oil shale reby heating the material below the surface quired process temperature and the offElectrical energy sources are huge estimations range (by allowing part of the oil shale to burn) gas is used for drying the wet oil shale. Shale oil from 3 to 9 times higher than the proven and then pumping the released oil to the The Enefit process is very energy efconventional oil reserves. surface. Outotec is not involved in the latficient: its energy-efficiency factor is Oil shale processing creates jobs in ter method and neither are we in shale around 80 percent. The cleaned off-gas the entire supply chain from raw materigas business. Shale gas is a gaseous fuel from combustion meets all European al mining through the refining of petrol, which has been produced by fracking of emission standards. Besides water condiesel and lubrication oils and extending mineral rocks mostly consisting of shale. sumed in mining, the process consumes to the distribution of these final prodonly a small amount of water. ucts. It usually has a significant regionThe Enefit process A pilot plant was commissioned by al employment and otherwise positive Large amounts of solid material, such as the joint venture Enefit Outotec Technoleconomic impact, in some cases conraw material and ash, have to be handled ogy in Outotec’s R&D Center in Frankfurt tributing to the national economy of the and processed when producing shale in 2013 to test the Enefit shale oil procountry. oil. Enefit, known as a solid-heat-carrier duction process with different types of oil process, requires the handling and comshale, collect data for adapting the proOur applications for oil shale bustion of several hundred tonnes of hot cess, and produce test batches of shale processing material per hour and the handling of oil for further analysis. Outotec is involved in the oil shale busilarge amounts of ash. Outotec’s circulatness through providing its know-how ing fluidized bed reactor and experience Read more about our technologies in sustainable minerals processing and in handling solids were superior for this at www.outotec.com. high-temperature processing of materipurpose. This was the reason why Eesti als in a controlled way. Outotec has partEnergia partnered with Outotec nered with Global Oil Shale company in when building an oil shale processing the beneficiation of oil shale and with plant in Narva, Estonia. 62 63 OUTOTEC OYJ / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 OUR IMPACT R&D AND INNOVATION attractive as they show high synergy potential and manageable risks. Outotec’s energy business includes offerings for biomaterial based energy production, → Outotec’s success is based on a To stay at the forefront of sustainable improved heat recovery, and more clean strong portfolio of world-class technolsolutions, Outotec continuously improves applications for oil shale and oil sands ogies, robust expertise and innovative and develops its proprietary technoloprocessing. Naturally, both of the compapersonnel. In R&D, Outotec focuses on gies for the entire value chain from ore ny’s business areas focus on energy and technology development to increase reto metals and complements its in-house water efficiency, emission reduction and source efficiency by, for example, reducR&D with acquisitions and partnerships. waste management in their product deing energy and water consumption and Furthermore, the company actively strives velopment. the environmental impact of our prodto explore new applications for its exist702 ucts and services. Key areas of expertise ing technologies. Among other sectors, In addition to in-house R&D, Outotec develops sustainable solutions in partPATENT FAMILIES, are physical separation, metallurgy of energy and industrial water treatment, in nership with other companies and co6,147 PATENTS solid-state materials, chemistry includparticular, offer significant and attracoperates with universities, research ing pyroand hydrometallurgy, as well as tive growth opportunities. Both of these institutes, and customers in R&D. For gas handling technologies. sectors require solutions for utilizing raw example, by utilizing its expertise in solidOutotec has over 700 patent families materials in a resource efficient and enwater separation technologies, Outotec and over 6,140 national patents and apvironmentally sound way. For some time cooperates with Kemira to improve the plications. Our competence centers and now, energy costs and stringent legislaoil recovery and water efficiency of oil in-house research centers, state-of-thetion have led industrial companies to seek sands extraction. Since 2010, Outotec art laboratories, and test facilities have out energy and water efficient technolohas participated in a five-year industrial enabled dozens of Outotec technologies gies. Water is an increasingly scarce reresearch program of the University of Alto become industry standards in sustainsource, and its efficient use, along with berta intended to foster sustainable waability. The company also has extensive recycling and purification processes, is a ter use in Canadian oil sands extraction. knowledge of material technology, plant goal of steadily mounting importance in In 2013, Outotec joined the initiative and equipment engineering, equipment the customer industry. to establish the Industrial Waters Exceland process automation, and the impleThe growth opportunities offered by lence Center (IWEC) in Russia in co-opmentation of large international projects. energy and industrial water treatment are eration with OAO Severstal, Kemira and Lahti Region Development LADEC, with the aim of reducing emissions of enviR&D and innovation 2013 2012 2011 GRI indicator ronmentally harmful substances to the Baltic Sea. IWEC plans to present new R&D expenditure, EUR million 48.7 41.6 33.5 EN6, EN26 water technologies and solutions to RusR&D expenditure, % of sales 2.6 2.0 2.4 EN6 sian industries to reduce the environR&D grants, EUR million 2.6 1.8 2.1 EC4 mental burden and provide better ecoAmount of new patent applications filed 101 70 41 nomic performance at lower costs. Outotec won the 2013 Rio Tinto Eureka New national or regional patents granted 419 286 326 Prize for Commercialization of Innovation Amount of patent families 702 630 583 with Outotec® MillMapper and Outotec® Proportion of environmental goods and services 87 89 87 EN6 CrusherMapper technologies. MillMapper in order intake, % and CrusherMapper are globally patented technologies and are the first in the world to measure, model, and manage liners in Read more about our technology targets on page 34. grinding mills and crushers. 64 65 OUTOTEC OYJ / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 STORY → As a technology compain one of our projects. This tants and so on. It hopefulWhat was the topic of ny active in varied markets is possible in the field of rely educates the participants to your thesis? such as mineral and metal search and development, as set up a work plan that allows The aim was to gain profound processing, energy and wawell as in other functions like them the time to perform and process knowledge for a new HANDS-ON STUDENTS ter – and adding value to our project engineering. synchronize concurrent tasks.” feedstock recycling plant. In MAY EVEN PREPARE customers by equally varied “Doing an internship and Of course, it isn’t always the pyrolytic process I was remeans – Outotec can be said preparing a thesis in experstraightforward, Spies adsearching, plastic and polystyTHEIR THESIS to be operating in quite imental research and develmits. “Hands-on work with rene wastes are catalytically WITHIN ONE OF OUR a complex and multifaceted opment offers some extra experimental R&D means degraded using zeolites. LEARNING PROJECTS series of businesses. challenges and opportunities” being confronted with all Communicating all the says Andreas Spies, Senior kinds of practical problems. It What did your research work various strands of these acManager, R&D at Outotec’s makes you familiar with real at Outotec involve? tivities to a newcomer to the research center in Frankworld issues, and strengthMy work was to conduct exindustries we serve can be furt. “When working at the ens your problem-solving caperiments in the laboratory challenging. For students, university, a student’s focus pabilities.” in Frankfurt. The experimenhowever, perhaps the most is mainly on theory, allowIf this sounds a little tal station was a modified significant of our stakeholder ing one to study an academic nerve wracking, just think of Fischer-Assay to degrade the groups who may find themproblem in depth, but bypassthe rewarding feeling of sucplastic wastes. The product is selves in this position, a bening the many practical comcess, and pride in a lesson a pyrolysis oil and gas. eficial way to enter Outotec’s plications which only emerge well learned: “We normally world and become more fa‘on the job’.” have five to ten master theses Who was your mentor at miliar with its workings is to At the Frankfurt center – students in Frankfurt, which Outotec and what was join the company as an intern as well as in Pori, where inis a large number when you their role? or even prepare their bachternships are also undergone consider that the research While I worked at Outotec, elor or master’s thesis with– students are paired with an center has a total staff of 25. my contact person Dr. WerOutotec R&D engineer to suAnd, of course, we always aim ning helped me when I had pervise their work. It is the to keep the best students on questions. We also defined ”We normally have responsibility of the supervisor to define the student’s afterwards.” the experimental parameters together. five to ten master task in such a way that they The student perspective are capable of performing the Kirstin Schneider took part Did you feel like you had the theses students in required actions while genin an internship at Frankfurt opportunity to contribute to erating results that are both for a period of five months: the company’s operations? Frankfurt and, of personally encouraging and of a required practical compoPurely from a practical point course, we always practical use to the company. Another instructive elenent of her degree in Chemical Technologies at the Uniof view, the duration of one experiment within this proaim to keep the ment of these internships, Spies explains, is the social versity of Applied Sciences in Darmstadt. Working with ject was an entire day, so it was essential for the compabest of them on dimension: “You are depending on the timely contributions Outotec engineer Dr. Holger Werning, her project centred ny that someone has the time to run the experiments. Plus afterwards.” of other people of various dison the recycling of plastics. the results of my experiments ciplines and qualification levUpon concluding her internwere certainly useful for the Kirstin Schneider Andreas Spies els like engineers, mechanics, ship, she went on to write her company. Intern Senior Manager, R&D electricians, chemical assisbachelor thesis at Outotec. 66 67 OUTOTEC OYJ / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 OUR IMPACT ECOLOGICAL FOOTPRINT OF OUR OPERATIONS → Outotec operates globally, mainly in which is relatively small and is managed offices which are located in 27 countries. through our QEHS management system. We have two research centers in FinAt our workshops in Turula and Lapland and Germany, two manufacturing peenranta and research center in Pori workshops in Finland, assembly shops we are committed to the Federation of in Brazil, Canada, China, and the USA, Finnish Technology Industries’ energy a ceramic plate production plant in Finefficiency program. land, and several warehouses. However, From our manufacturing and R&D 90 percent of Outotec’s manufacturing is activities no significant spills were reoutsourced. ported in 2013. At one project site there The bulk of Outotec’s operations inwere minor spills, which did not affect volve engineering and business manhuman health, land, vegetation, water agement, the environmental impact of bodies, or ground water. Energy consumption, TJ 2013 2012 2011 GRI indicator Direct energy consumption: 38.0 38.2 22.2 EN3 Propane gas 11.4 15.7 8.7 Light fuel oil 0.4 0.6 0.5 Coal, coke, semi coke 4.1 2.0 0.4 Natural gas 15.0 13.0 6.7 Diesel and gasoline 7.1 6.9 5.9 Indirect energy consumption: 118.8 126.7 119.3 EN4 Electricity* (incl. cooling) 70.1 72.9 67.0 District heating 47.5 52.6 50.3 Steam 1.2 1.2 2.0 Total energy consumption 156.8 164.9 141.5 EN3, EN4 * MWh converted to TJ: 19,467 MWh (2013), 20,244 MWh (2012), 18,605 MWh (2011). 68 69 OUTOTEC OYJ / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 OUR IMPACT Greenhouse gas emissions, tonnes of CO2-e 2013 2012 2011 GRI indicator Scope 1 emissions (own fuel combustion, 3,910 4,190 2,841 EN16 company cars) In 2013 Outotec’s total energy consumphotels. 90 percent of the flights used by Scope 2 emissions (purchased heat and 9,160 9,409 8,323 EN16 tion decreased 5 percent compared to our employees are operated by Finnair, electricity) 2012. The acquisition of Scanalyse softLufthansa, and other Star Alliance memScope 3 emissions (air travel and commuting) 1) 17,353* 18,156 14,861 EN17 ware technology company did not conbers. Lufthansa and Finnair, for instance, OUR TOTAL 2) 32,235* tribute to any changes in scope 1 and 2 use relatively new fleets. When Outotec ENERGY greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. makes agreements with hotels, hotels Flight emissions, tonnes of CO2/EUR 1 million sales 8.0** 7.6 9.5 EN17 GHG emissions from air travel are the with a social responsibility policy and CONSUMPTION biggest single source of Outotec’s emissystem in place are preferred. DECREASED 5% Total greenhouse gas emissions, tonnes of CO2/EUR 1 million sales 15.9 15.2 18.8 EN16 sions. Our current video conferencing serData on steel consumption in IN 2013 Total greenhouse gas emissions 30,423 31,755 26,025 EN16 vice was gradually upgraded across the Outotec workshops has been included in company and training sessions were orour environmental data reporting since Greenhouse gas emissions avoided through 5,400,000 4,600,000 4,800,000 EN18 ganized. In 2013, the number of installed 2012. Energy Products of Idaho, which the use of Outotec technologies systems was increased to 53. In addition was acquired by Outotec at the end of * During 2013 Outotec changed its travel agency, which also included a change in the methodology to video conferencing, Sametime, telecon2011, is included in the steel consumpof calculating flight emissions. Number 1) shows emissions from air travel and commuting accordferences and Skype are used for internal tion figures, which means that the 2012 ing to the old calculation methodology and 2) according to the new methodology. Both figures are presented to guarantee comparability. The old methodology was based on the average cabin seating meetings (there are no user statistics on figure was restated. whereas the new one also takes into account cabin classes. The new CO2e calculations are based on our use of Sametime and Skype). We manufacture high tech ceramics the guidelines produced by DEFRA/DECC’s GHG Conversion Factors. Flights to visit our customers are an in Turku, Finland, for use in Outotec filintegral part of Outotec’s business, by ters. This unit used 121 tonnes of ceram** Flight emissions decreased by 3% year on year; however, sales decreased by 8%. which means we contribute indirectly to ics in 2013. avoiding emissions through the use of Outotec’s Finnish workshops in Lapour technology solutions and services. peenranta, Turula (since 2012) and Turku Materials used, tonnes 2013 2012 2011 GRI indicator The positive impact of Outotec’s business annually report the amount of packagtravels can be best illustrated by coming they use to the Environmental RegPaper 94.7 131.3 90.8 EN1 paring our annual greenhouse gas emisister of Packaging PYR Ltd. In 2013, Pori Steel 9,300 6,946.9 n/a EN1 sions in 2013 (30,423 tonnes CO2-e) with research center was included in the reNew: 8,919 the emissions avoided through our goods porting, too. and services (5,400,000 tonnes CO2-e). A small amount of hazardous waste Ceramics 121 300 n/a EN1 Outotec has paid careful attention to is formed in the final surface treatment Cardboard packaging 11.4 9.9 6.6 EN1 the use of responsible air carriers and of filter presses in the Lappeenranta Plastic packaging 7.6 2.0 0.5 EN1 Metal packaging 1.0 1.5 0.4 EN1 Wood packaging 851.5 986.2 371.4 EN1 SCOPE 1, 2 AND 3 EMISSIONS FLIGHT EMISSIONS, TONNES OF CO2 / MILLION EURO SALES Waste, tonnes 2013 2012 2011 GRI indicator 10 Waste recycled 1,522.8 2,311.5 1,949.7 EN22 Landfill waste and incinerated waste 1,250.7 1,682.4 1,086.5 EN22 8 Hazardous waste 242.5 28.6 23.5 EN22, EN24 6 Total waste 3,016.0 4,022.5 3,059.7 EN22 4 Paper recycled 146.0 164.4 98.3 EN22 Scope 1 emissions 13% 2 Scope 2 emissions 30% Outotec is planning a new water technology center in Lappeenranta and found contaminated land 0 from earlier operations of an old laundry on our site. This land had to be removed, which increased Scope 3 emissions 57% 2011 2012 2013 the amount of our hazardous waste. 70 71 OUTOTEC OYJ / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 OUR IMPACT Water consumption, m3/year 2013 2012 2011 GRI indicator Volatile organic compounds (VOCs) emissions from paint shops 2013 2012 2011 GRI indicator Drinking water 53,945 69,300 55,997 EN8 River water for cooling 49,949 20,727 23,457 EN8 VOCs emissions, tonnes 15.6 10.3 n/a EN20 Total water usage 103,894 90,027 79,454 EN8 works. Outotec is planning a new waranta site was included in these agreeter technology center in Lappeenranta ments in 2012, showing its commitment Energy consumption and emissions and found contaminated land from earto reducing energy consumption. in Finnish units 2013 2012 2011 GRI indicator lier operations of an old laundry on our In the course of data quality improvePori research center and Turula works site. This land had to be removed, which ment, a data gap was revealed in reportincreased the amount of our hazardous ing of annual driven kilometers. ThereEnergy consumption, TJ 43.1 44.7 40.3 EN3, EN4 waste. In addition, oily waste from lubrifore, future reporting on company cars Energy saved due to efficiency improvements, TJ 4.8 3.2 7.6 EN5, EN7 cants used in the Turula works is hazin grams of CO2 emission per km driven (compared to base year) ardous. The hazardous waste is sent for will follow car manufacturers’ reported Emissions, tonnes CO2-e 2,900 3,010 2,703 EN16 treatment into local hazardous waste CO2 emissions. Previously reported treatment facilities. g CO2-e/km figures were re-calculated. Lappeenranta works Water is purchased locally from muOutotec updated its company car Energy consumption, TJ 17.9 21.2 20.1 EN3, EN4 nicipal water suppliers, and waste water policy in 2012. With this policy, employEnergy saved due to efficiency improvements, TJ 2.2 EN5, EN7 is sent to municipal waste water sysees are incentivized when they take a car (compared to base year) tems. Because our workshops are mainwith less than 120 g/km CO2 emissions. Emissions, tonnes CO2-e 1,200 1,423 1,346 EN16 ly assembly shops, no process water is This is one reason why g CO2 /km and discharged. Outotec’s research center in the total emissions decreased in 2013 Turku works Pori uses river water for cooling purposfrom the previous year. Out of 185 comEnergy consumption, TJ 13.8 24.9 16.8 EN3, EN4 es in their test facilities. After use, the pany cars in Finland 90 consume less Energy saved due to efficiency improvements, TJ 3.0 EN5, EN7 water is channeled back to the river. We than 120 g CO2/km. (compared to base year) also follow the water consumption at our Outotec’s target in Finland was to reEmissions, tonnes CO2-e 923 1,668 1,126 EN16 premises. duce company cars’ g/km CO2 emissions During 2013 a leakage from a drainby 18 percent by 2013 compared with the age well was discovered in our Lapbase year 2008. This target was achieved peenranta works. The incident is under as company cars’ g/km CO2 emissions Company cars in Finland 2013 2012 2011 GRI indicator investigation with Lappeenranta city’s were reduced by 31 percent. Both the environmental authorities. commitment to energy efficiency agreeCompany car emissions, g CO2-e/km 132 149 162 EN16 Outotec’s Lappeenranta site (2012) ments and the company car targets are Reduction from 2008, % 31 22 15 and Turku site (2013) were included in voluntary. the Federation of Finnish Technology InDue to improvements in environdustries’ energy efficiency agreements. mental data reporting, we are now able We have local or unit-specific targets to calculate volatile organic compound for the energy efficiency of operations. (VOC) emissions from our paint shops The Pori research center and the Turubased on annual paint consumption. la works in Finland are committed to the Federation of Finnish Technology InRead our targets related to environmental dustries’ energy efficiency agreements performance on page 34. 2008-2016 and plan to save 9 percent in energy consumption compared to the baseline year, 2006. Outotec’s Lappeen72 73 OUTOTEC OYJ / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 OUR IMPACT OUR TARGET IS ZERO HARM TO PEOPLE, PROPERTY AND THE ENVIRONMENT PRODUCT SAFETY → Outotec has a product compliance We infomr our customers about the management process that is mandatoimpact of our products and services (e.g. ry in all units to ensure that all products their energy consumption, emissions, engineered and delivered by the compametal recovery, and water usage) and ny meet all applied safety standards dursafety according to industry standards. ing each phase of their life cycle. By folWe also provide training services to our lowing the process as well as HAZOP customers. and SIL methods (internationally known In industrial processes, safety is an methods to analyze risks for personnel integral part of our operational manuand environment within process plants), als. Outotec manuals cover the entire life we ensure that we deliver a safe product cycle of the delivery, follow the new IEC which doesn’t cause any harm to human 82079-1 standard, and contain informabeings or the environment. tion on transport, installation, operation, The equipment delivered by Outotec maintenance and decommissioning. In fulfills safety-related industrial standaddition, we offer maintenance as a serards such as ISO 12100, IEC 62061 for vice package to our customers. the safety of machinery and all required During 2013, a large training proEuropean directives such as 1997/23/ gram involved more than 130 Outotec EG, 2009/105/EG, 2006/42/EG, 94/9/EG managers to underline the importance (ATEX), 2004/108/EG, 2006/95/EG, and of product compliance and increase the IEC 61508, IEC 61511 for process plants. knowledge of the relevant laws and reDetection of hazards such as exploquirements as well as declaration of sion, fire, and lightning followed by exconformity with them. The usage of our amination of HAZOP according to IEC safety software increased at all locations 61882 and SIL-Allocation Assessments with engineering activities and project are mandatory at Outotec. implementation. 74 75 OUTOTEC OYJ / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 OUR IMPACT CASE: TEKNIKUM Teknikum is a specialist in rubber and polyurethane products. Together with Outotec, they have developed many products for protection against wear and corrosion. The cooperation has 90% OF MAJOR IMPACT OF been ongoing for decades, but has recently been extended with joint development of a product for the flotation process. Juha Martikainen, Teknikum’s Managing Director, answered a few SUPPLIERS HAVE questions to detail their take on sustainability. COMMITTED How does Teknikum approach sustainability? TO OUR SUPPLIER POLICY OUR SUPPLY CHAIN “The most important issues for us are water and energy consumption in our production. Our production phas-es can be quite labor-intensive so work safety is important too. We also use chemicals and therefore need to keep a close eye on the relevant requirements there. All in all, our processes were approved according to the ISO 14001 standard about 10 years ago and we have made con¬tinuous improvements since.” Has your cooperation with Outotec somehow changed your approach? “Outotec has audited us as a supplier and given feedback on development areas following this but there have not been any major issues, which may be one reason they continue to prefer us as a partner. Of course, we did highlight some issues after these audits: for example, work → Some 90 percent of Outotec’s manugion (Europe, Middle East, Africa). SupCanada. These moderately sized operasafety and material development to extend materials’ lifetimes, but nothing of major concern. facturing is sourced from external suppliers in the APAC region have increased tions all have QEHS management system In general, we believe that our priority list for sustainability issues is very similar to Outotec’s.” pliers. Therefore supplier selection is of from 2012 whereas suppliers in Ameriin place, and they manage proper sortkey importance in Outotec’s business. cas have respectively decreased. ing and further handling of their wastes. How do you ensure the sustainability of your own supply chain? Outotec gives performance guarantees Outotec’s Supplier Policy covers ethNo considerable risk related to the use “We have developed very similar supplier criteria to those which Outotec applies to us, and we make sure that our suppliers fulfill these requirements. We’ve also tried to reduce the number for the plants and processes we deliver ical conduct, compliance with laws and of child, forced, or compulsory labor has of suppliers we work with, concentrating our dealings on those who demonstrate compliance to our customers. Naturally, Outotec is regulations, environmental, health and been identified. with our standards.” responsible for the equipment and masafety performance, labor relations (e.g. We have assessed the sustainability terials supplied as well as engineering, no child or forced labor), respecting inrisks of the supply chain in 2012 in interHow do you plan to further improve the sustainability of your operations? construction and service work provided tellectual property, improper benefits, nal workshops. The main risks identified “We have an extensive action plan for sustainable development. For example, we closely follow production safety, studying our near misses in order to avoid accidents. We also, as I menby our suppliers and subcontractors. conflicts of interest, and management of were bribery and kickbacks, occupationtioned, develop the materials in our products to extend product lifetimes further and conserve Outotec is determined to develop longsub-suppliers. Outotec expects its supal safety, protecting information and reresources. Our supplier audits and selection processes are also ongoing means of developterm relationships with selected suppliers to comply with this policy in their porting misconduct. With regard to enviment in this area.” pliers, as well as establishing global, dealings with Outotec, their own emronmental issues, material toxicity and common procedures for supplier qualployees, suppliers, and with other third chemicals ranked highest. Read about our supply chain management on page 26. ification, quality assurance, continuparties. Furthermore, they are expected Read about our targets related to suppliers on page 35. ous monitoring and joint continuous imto ensure compliance with Outotec poliGHG emissions of our supply chain provement of processes and practices. cy, identify deviations, manage corrective In 2013, we analyzed the footprint of our Outotec’s supply chain includes over actions, provide transparency of these supply chain in terms of greenhouse gas ten thousand of suppliers globally. These actions and communicate in a systematemissions. The footprint was calculatrepresent (but are not limited to) assemic manner. ed based on money spent by Outotec and SUPPLY SPEND BY CATEGORY CO2 EMISSIONS BY SUPPLY CATEGORY SUPPLY BY REGION bly workshops, component manufacturWe set ourselves a target for 2013 using the supply chain emission factors ers, distributors, logistics services prothat 300 of our major suppliers will have as defined by the Department for Envividers, and construction and engineering committed to our Supplier Policy. We ronment, Food and Rural Affairs of the companies. succeeded in surpassing the target: 786 UK (DEFRA). The analysis showed that In 2013, Outotec spent approximatesuppliers (approximately 90 percent of the biggest sources of CO2 emissions in ly EUR 980 million (2012: EUR 1,150 milmajor suppliers) were committed to Outotec’s supply chain were metal prodlion) on customer-deliveries-related purOutotec’s policy by the end of 2013. ucts (34 percent of the total). chasing. The amount was smaller than Approximately 10 percent of Outotec’s The carbon footprint of our supply chain, the previous year because of decreased manufacturing and assembly takes place 623,000 tonnes CO2 is considerably largComponents and systems 30% Components and systems 28% EMEA 63% order intake and sales in a weakened in the company’s two manufacturing er than the footprint of Outotec’s operaSmall parts 30% Small parts 21% Americas 19% Metals products 23% Metal products 34% APAC 18% market situation. The majority of purworkshops and a ceramic plate productions, 30,423 tonnes CO2. Plastics 4% Plastics 4% chasing, approximately 72 percent (2012: tion plant in Finland and in assembly Indirect 13% Indirect 13% 79 percent) took place in the EMEA reshops located in Brazil, China, USA and 76 77 GRI 80 About the report 82 GRI index and UN Global Compact 86 Independent assurance 88 Contact information GRI Outotec’s sustainability reporting observes the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3 sustainability reporting guidelines and the UN Global Compact Principles. OUTOTEC OYJ / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THE REPORT ABOUT THE REPORT Report scope and profile We fully report on our own operations calculations. In 2013, Outotec acquired data reported covers basic information of are included in the report. The sources according to the International Financial This report covers the company’s susand partly include information on our one new business, Scanalyse, which is all employees, however, some details such of owned fuel combustion are identified Reporting Standard. In addition, some tainability performance in the 2013 caldelivery projects, use of our technology, included in the data reported. as labor benefits are asked separately. through separate annual environmental data has been collected manually from endar year. Outotec reports its perforand our supply chain. The report boundFor the collection of social perforWe have a validation check in the redata reports. When required, e-mail corMS Excel sheets. mance and targets annually. This report ary includes all our major operations. mance data, a global master data based porting tool that highlights changes of respondence was used to collect the inWe have applied GRI’s “Guidance on is prepared according to the Global ReOur aim is to expand information colon SAP Human Capital Management over 20 percent compared to the previformation from the business units. Defining Report Content” when preparporting Initiative (GRI) G3 sustainability lection and include site operations, conwas applied. It includes accurate data on ous years and asks for verification of the Environmental data was available for ing the report. reporting guidelines and the UN Global struction, and commissioning work carOutotec employees globally and covers data controller. our most important and largest business Outotec’s most material sustainaCompact principles. If you are interestried out at our customers’ sites. In 2013, all business units. In 2013, we received We continue to report on GRI B+ levunits. The smallest offices were not able bility issues were defined in a manageed in specific issues relating to corpoCO2-e emissions from Outotec’s supply more accurate numbers about trainel. The developments concerning the to report environmental data, because ment workshop facilitated by an external rate responsibility, we recommend that chain were calculated for the first time. ing, as several virtual training programs new G4 guidelines are followed closely. they are located in larger office premises partner in 2011. Sustainability trends and you check the GRI and UN Global Comwere included in our performance diaPerformance data on environmental together with other companies. They pay a feedback from stakeholders were taken pact reporting index, where all the indiData collection logue tool. In addition, we have a global aspects have been collected from mamonthly lump sum to the office providers, into account when defining the matericators regarding responsibility practices Outotec introduced its environmental health and safety reporting system for jor business units for electricity, heatand therefore it is not possible to identiality and, subsequently, the chosen GRI are listed together with links to the pagdata reporting system in 2009. The data setting and following common targets in ing, owned or leased company cars, flight fy electricity, heat, or water consumption. indicators. Identified material aspects es on which they are addressed. is based on Outotec’s financial reporting all our operations. It also provides qualiemissions, water, paper, recycled waste, For this group, an average number was created the basis for our sustainability Outotec reports on the core indicasystem, ‘Hyperion Financial Managefied metrics. and landfill waste. In addition, the comcalculated based on the available data. management and reporting. This report tors of most relevance to its operations ment’ (HFM), where each business unit The data of this report covers Outotec bustion of fuels in company-owned comEconomic performance data is based was reviewed and approved by Outotec and stakeholders. The selected core inreports its environmental figures. After globally. In 2013, the scope of health and bustion sources (scope 1 emissions) and on data collection through our ERP and Executive Board in March 2014. We have dicators are of importance at the corpodata collection, the reported figures were safety reporting was extended and subhazardous waste occurring in our remanagement reporting systems. The figidentified our investors, customers, currate level and are based on those proretrieved from the HFM system and Micontractors on construction sites were search centers, manufacturing workures used in Outotec’s consolidated firent and future employees, and suppliers posed by the GRI guidelines. crosoft Excel was deployed to carry out included for the first time. The employee shops, and ceramic plate production plant nancial statements have been prepared as the main users of this report. 80 81 OUTOTEC OYJ / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 GRI INDEX GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE INDEX AND UN GLOBAL COMPACT GRI Content Reference page Reported Global Compact principles Based on its own assessment, Outotec has self-declared this report to comply with the GRI application level B+. ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE INDICATORS The application level has been checked by a third party, Ecobio Ltd. Management approach to economic responsibility Economic responsibility, p. 40 Fully 1,4,6,7 EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Added value for stakeholders, p. 30 Fully Global Compact EC2 Financial implications and other risks and Megatrends, risks and opportunities, p. 10 Fully 7 GRI Content Reference page Reported principles opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change Standard Disclosure EC3 Employee benefit obligations Labor practices, p. 53 Partly 1 Strategy and analysis EC4 Significant financial assistance received from R&D and innovation, p. 64 Fully 1.1 CEO's statement CEO’s message, p. 8 Fully government 1.2 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Materiality analysis, p. 38 Fully EC6 Spending on local suppliers Impact of our supply chain, p. 77 Partly Megatrends, risks and opportunities, p. 10 Sustainability vision and targets, p. 32 EC7 Procedures for local hiring Other labor practices, p. 54 Fully 6 2 Organizational profile EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments Commitment to external initiatives, p. 28 Fully and services provided primarily for public benefit 2.1 Name of the organization What is Outotec, p. 6 Fully EC9 Understanding and describing signiﬁcant indirect Added value for stakeholders, p. 30 Partly 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services What is Outotec, p. 6 Fully economic impacts Economic responsibility, p. 40 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including What is Outotec, p. 6 Fully ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures Management approach to Environmental responsibility, p.40 Fully 7,8,9 environmental responsibility Ecological footprint, p. 68 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters What is Outotec, p. 6 Fully EN1 Materials used Ecological footprint, p. 70 Partly 8 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates What is Outotec, p. 6 Fully EN3–5 Energy consumption and energy saved Ecological footprint, p. 68 and 72 Fully 8,9 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form What is Outotec, p. 6 Fully EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable Technologies for energy production, p. 62 Partly 8,9 2.7 Markets served What is Outotec, p. 6 Fully energy-based products and services R&D and innovation, p. 64 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization What is Outotec, p. 6 Fully EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption Ecological footprint, p. 72-73 Partly 8,9 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period What is Outotec, p. 6 Fully and the reductions achieved regarding size, structure, or ownership EN8 Water withdrawal Ecological footprint, p. 72 Fully 8 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period A year in the sustainability business, p. 2 Fully EN11 Location and size of land holdings in areas of high Not 8 Interaction with stakeholders, p. 22 biodiversity relevant 3 Report parameters EN12 Description of significant impact of activities, products, Not 8 3.1–3.4 Report profile About the report, p. 80 Fully and services on biodiversity reported Contact information, p. 88 EN16–17 Greenhouse gas emissions Ecological footprint, p. 70 Fully 8 3.5 Process for defining report content Materiality analysis, p. 38 Fully EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions Ecological footprint, p. 71-73 Fully 7,8,9 Interaction with stakeholders, p. 22 Sustainability vision and targets, p. 33 3.6 Boundary of the report About the report, p. 80 Fully EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight Not 8 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or About the report, p. 80 Fully relevant boundary of the report EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions Ecological footprint, p. 73 Partly 8 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, About the report, p. 80 Fully EN21 Water discharge Not 8 leased facilities, outsourced operations, relevant and other entities EN22 Waste by type and disposal method Ecological footprint, p. 70 Fully 8 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of Data collection, p. 80 Fully calculations EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills Ecological footprint, p. 69 Partly 8 (NEW) 3.10 Explanation of re-statements What is Outotec, p. 6 Fully EN24 Hazardous waste Ecological footprint, p. 71 Fully 8 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods What is Outotec, p. 6 Fully in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods About the report, p. 80 EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts Sustainability vision and targets, p. 33 Partly 7,8,9 of products More sustainable technologies, p. 60 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard GRI Index and UN Global Compact, p. 82 Fully R&D and innovation, p. 64 Disclosures in the report Product safety, p. 74 3.13 Assurance Independent assurance, p. 86 Fully EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging Not 8,9 4 Governance, commitments, and engagement materials that are reclaimed by category reported 4.1–4.10 Governance Developing solid governance, p. 40 Fully 1–10 EN28 Compliance with environmental laws Compliance with regulations and laws, Fully 8 Megatrends, risks and opportunities, p. 10 p. 42 4.11–4.13 Commitments to external initiatives Commitment to external initiatives, p. 28 Fully 1–10 Megatrends, risks and opportunities, p. 10 4.14–4.17 Stakeholder engagement People, p. 48 Fully Interaction with stakeholders, p. 22 82 83 OUTOTEC OYJ / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 GRI INDEX Global Compact Global Compact GRI Content Reference page Reported principles GRI Content Reference page Reported principles SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Society Labor practices and decent work Management approach to society Social responsibility, p. 41 Fully 10 Management approach to labor practices Social responsibility, p. 41 Fully 1,3,6 SO1 Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs Commitment to external initiatives, p. 28 Fully and decent work Labor practices, p. 53 and practices that asses and manage the impacts Impact of our supply chain, p. 76 LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment People, p. 49 Fully of operations on communities contract, and region SO2 Percentage and total number of business units Developing solid governance, p. 42 Partly 10 LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age People, p. 48 Fully 6 analyzed for risks related to corruption group, gender, and region SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s Values and Code of Conduct, p. 44 Fully 10 LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are People, p. 51 Fully anti-corruption policies and procedures not provided to temporary or part-time employees SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption Developing solid governance, p. 42 Fully 10 LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective Other labor practices, p. 54 Fully 1,3 SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public Interaction with stakeholders, p. 26-28 Fully 1–10 bargaining agreements policy development LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant Other labor practices, p. 54 Partly 3 SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to Developing solid governance, p. 41 Fully 10 operational changes political parties, politicians, and related institutions LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days and Health and safety, p. 53-54 Fully 1 SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive Compliance with regulations and laws, Fully absenteeism, and total number behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices p. 42 of work-related fatalities by region SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number Compliance with regulations and laws, Fully LA8 Education, training and prevention programs Professional growth, p. 51 Partly 1 of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with p. 42 regarding serious diseases laws and regulations LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal Health and safety, p. 54 Partly 1 Product responsibility agreements with trade unions Management approach to product responsibility Social responsibility, p. 41 Fully 1–8 LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee Professional growth, p. 51 Partly More sustainable technologies, p. 60 category Product safety, p. 74 LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning Professional growth, p. 51 Fully PR1 Health and safety impacts of products and services Product safety, p. 74 Fully 1 LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular Professional growth, p. 51 Fully PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with Product safety, p. 74 Partly 1 performance and career development reviews regulations and voluntary codes concerning health LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown People, p. 55 Fully 1,6 and safety impacts of products and services of employees per category according to gender, PR3 Type of product and service information required by Product safety, p. 74 Partly 8 age group, minority group membership, and procedures, and percentage of significant products other indicators of diversity and services subject to such information LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee Not 1,6 PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with Compliance with regulations and laws, Fully 8 category reported regulations and voluntary codes concerning p. 42 Human rights product and service information and labeling Management approach to human rights Social responsibility, p. 41 Fully 1,2,3,4,5,6 PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including Interaction with stakeholders, p. 22 Fully Values and Code of Conduct, p. 44 results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction HR1 Investment agreements with human rights Not 1,2,3,4,5,6 PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, Not clauses or that have undergone human rights reported and voluntary codes related to marketing reported screening communications HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors Impact of our supply chain, p. 76 Partly 1,2,3,4,5,6 PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance Compliance with regulations and laws, Fully that have undergone screening on human rights and with laws and regulations concerning p. 42 actions taken the provision and use of products and services HR3 Employee training on policies and procedures Values and Code of Conduct, p. 44 Fully 1,2,3,4,5,6 concerning human rights relevant to operations Labor practices, p. 51 HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and People, p. 49 Fully 1,2,6 actions taken HR5 Operations identified in which the right to exercise Not 1,2,3 freedom of association and collective reported bargaining may be at significant risk HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for Human rights and labor practices, p. 41 Fully 1,2,5 incidents of child labor HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for Human rights and labor practices, p. 41 Fully 1,2,4 incidents of forced or compulsory labor HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights Human rights and labor practices, p. 41 Fully 1,2 of indigenous people and actions taken 84 85 OUTOTEC OYJ / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE therefore less assurance is obtained. These observations and recommendaPractitioner’s Independence This assurance engagement was contions do not affect the conclusions preand qualifications ducted from January to March 2014. sented earlier. Ecobio is an independent consulting The assurance process included: • In general, the report is comprehencompany that specializes in environmen• Interviewing employees responsible sive, well-structured and claims are tal, health and safety management with for data collection and reporting at reported in a reasonable fashion. over 20 years of history. Ecobio provides Outotec’s group level. • Due to improved data gathering procorporate sustainability and environmen• Evaluating procedures for gathering, cesses, Outotec has been able to extal consultancy services, combined with analyzing, and aggregating quantitatend the number of indicators reporttraining, modelling, research and planINDEPENDENT tive data for the Sustainability Report ed. It is, however, recommended for ning, for companies in the infrastructure, 2013 as well as performing crossfuture reporting periods to further industry and service sectors. Ecobio’s checks on a sample basis concerning improve the accuracy and completeassurers are skilled and experienced the reported sustainability data. ness of the data provided. within non-financial assurance and has • Checking the internal guidelines of • Outotec has made vast efforts to inASSURANCE REPORT good knowledge of industry related susthe data collection. clude supplier performance and protainability issues. • Checking the sufficiency of ject execution within the reporting As an independent consultancy, the documentation of the data boundary, which can be seen as a Ecobio has no financial dependencies gathering process. major improvement to comprehenon Outotec beyond the scope of this • Checking the consistency of the sively evaluate the company’s impact engagement. Ecobio has conducted this Sustainability Report 2013 compared on sustainability issues. For consistassurance independently, and there has to the GRI G3 Sustainability Reporting ency it is recommended to further been no conflict of interest. Guidelines. develop the implementation of the To the Management of Outotec Oyj Practitioner’s Responsibility Ecobio disclaims any liability or rereporting boundary to the disclosed Helsinki, 10th of March 2014 Insinööritoimisto Ecobio Oy (hereafter Ecobio’s responsibility was to present a sponsibility for any third party decision Conclusions information. Insinööritoimisto Ecobio Oy Ecobio) has been commissioned by conclusion on the Sustainability Informabased upon this assurance report. Based on the work described in this re• To improve transparency, it is recomOutotec Oyj (hereafter Outotec) to pertion subject to the assurance performed port, nothing has come to our attention mended for Outotec to further develform a limited third party assurance by Ecobio. Methodology that would cause us to believe that the op reporting on possible failures or engagement regarding the content of The scope of work included assurEcobio based the assurance process on information presented in Outotec’s Susdrawbacks in the report content. By Sanna Vaalgamaa Outotec’s Sustainability Report for 2013. ance of completeness and correctness the following guidelines and standards: tainability Report 2013 is not fairly statincluding non-successful issues the Managing Director (Ph.D.) of information presented by Outotec in the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3 ed, in all material respects, or that it balance of future reports will be enOutotec’s Responsibility the Sustainability Report 2013. The asSustainability Reporting Guidelines 3.0, would not comply with the Reporting hanced, e.g. the importance of legal Outotec was responsible for the collecsurance engagement was limited to the the International Standard on Assurance Criteria stated before. compliance and product issues could tion, preparation and presentation of the non-financial performance data disEn-gagements 3000 (ISAE3000) and Outotec claims that an Application be discussed more in detail in future Taru Halla information in the Sustainability Report closed in the Sustainability Report for Outotec’s internal reporting guidelines. Level of B+ is achieved. We assessed the reports. Senior Consultant (M.Sc.) (hereafter Sustainability Information) the reporting period of January 1st 2013 The assurance process was performed scope of Sustainability Information pro• To improve consistency in data gathaccording to the Sustainability Reportto December 31st 2013. utilizing Ecobio’s internally developed vided by Outotec for each Standard Disering and compilation, it is recoming Guidelines (version 3.0) set up by the The Sustainability Information asGRI assurance tool, covering the princlosure and evaluated that an Application mended to further elaborate the docGlobal Reporting Initiative (GRI). Ecobio, sured covered the Standard Disclosures, ciples, standard disclosures and inLevel of B+ is achieved. umentation of the work processes Thomas Andersson as an independent assuror was not inincluding the reported Environmental dicators of the GRI G3 Guidelines. All and the internal guidelines for data Senior Consultant (M.Sc.) volved in the data gathering and prepaand Social Performance Indicators. In Standard Disclosures were assessed inObservations and gathering to take into account all asration of the Sustainability Information, addition, the level of the consistency of dividually. Recommendations pects of the report content. By imapart from the Independent Assurance. the Economic Performance Indicators Concerning limited assurance enBased on our limited assurance engageproving the documentation the acThe Management of Outotec has apreported was checked against the GRI G3 gagement the evidence-gathering proment we provide the following observacuracy and completeness of future proved the information provided in the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. cedures are more limited than for a reations and recommendations related to reports will be enhanced. Sustainability Report. sonable assurance engagement, and GRI Sustainability Reporting principles. 86 87 OUTOTEC OYJ / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 FROM THE GROUND UP Outotec’s customers in the minerals and metals processing, renewable energy production and industrial water treatment industries need technologies that allow them to make the best possible use of increasingly limited raw materials. By making prudent choices today, we can ensure the prosperous growth of businesses and societies worldwide, while preserving the planet for the benefit of future generations. This is our mission: sustainable use of Earth’s natural resources. This is where we see modern society. Let’s not forget that Outotec’s solutions make all this possible. Our technologies provide the backbone of our customers’ operations, and the full life-cycle support we provide ensures the best return on their investments. We are technology partner to the world’s major resources companies. Their facilities are where you’ll find our varied offering at work. They in turn supply the materials that underpin the infrastructure of our lives. CONTACT INFORMATION We all understand by now that natural resources of all kinds require more efficient, environmentally friendly treatment. We answer this challenge by developing breakthrough technologies which utilize natural resources and raw materials efficiently. They also recycle materials and reduce energy and water consumption, waste, and emissions, while optimizing a plant’s lifetime operating costs. Minna Aila Eila Paatela www.outotec.com/sustainability All this is underpinned by decades of experience as well as constant innovation at Senior Vice President – Marketing, Director – Corporate Communications www.facebook.com/Outotec our in-house R&D centers. Our people and their expertise, not to mention their Communications & Corporate Responsibility e-mail: eila.paatela@outotec.com www.linkedin.com/company/outotec e-mail: minna.aila@outotec.com www.twitter.com/outotec commitment and drive, are what make all this possible. Saija Kinanen www.youtube.com/user/OutotecOyj Dr. Ilkka Kojo Communication Specialist – External Director – Environment and Sustainability Communications e-mail: ilkka.kojo@outotec.com e-mail: saija.kinanen@outotec.com Harald Huppe Outotec Oyj Manager – Global Environment and The planet’s inner layers are the source of the metals and minerals that represent Corporate management Sustainability PO Box 86, FI-02201 Espoo, Finland Outotec’s heritage. Our experts now look beyond the use phase of a variety of e-mail: harald.huppe@outotec.com Tel. +358 20 529 211 resources, also including water and biomass, to examine their entire life cycles. Deep process knowledge of these raw materials – the building blocks of our lives – is our most important asset. For the whole story, please visit our YouTube channel. 88 Outotec provides leading technologies and services for the sustainable use of Earth’s natural resources. As the global leader in minerals and metals processing technology, we have developed many breakthrough technologies over the decades for our customers in metals and mining industry. We also provide innovative solutions for industrial water treatment, the utilization of alternative energy sources and the chemical industry. Outotec shares are listed on NASDAQ OMX Helsinki. www.outotec.com Copyright © 2014 Outotec Oyj. All rights reserved.
