SETRIGHT Powering Africa UN GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress 2013-2014 CONTACT INFORMATION Company name: Setright Technologies Limited Sector: Renewable Energy & Telecommunication Number of Employees: 40 UN Global compact signatory since: 31st August, 2012 Contact person: Kissinger Kiprotich Address: West End Towers, 06th floor, Waiyaki Way, Nairobi-Kenya P.O. Box 1379-00606 E-Mail: info@setrightechnologies.com Phone: +254 20 444 000 1/6, +254 789 994 838/9 Website: www.setrightechnologies.com SETRIGHT Powering Africa SETRIGHT Powering Africa CEO’s Message of Continued Support It is with great pleasure that I confirm Setright Technologies’ continued support for the UN Global Compact and its ten principles with respect to Human Rights, Labour, Environment and AntiCorruption. “Pride and passion are our most vital characteristics” Our commitment is to remain a reliable solutions provider in Africa. Our entire business is founded on three pillars, namely customers, staff members and suppliers. Quality and reliability are the cornerstones of our business. When developing solutions for our customers, we believe that this gives us the competitive edge. Our focus on quality and reliability enables us to render stable, low maintenance, green energy solutions. The quality of our products is important to us, as is our customer’s peace of mind. In order to meet the individual needs of customers, Setright Technologies maintains a wide range of expertise. We excel in Project management and have an experienced technical team that undergoes continuous and customised training. Our medium-term goals are to satisfy the ever growing customers’ needs in the Sub-Saharan African market. We have therefore strategically opened our offices in various locations to support our customer requirements, not only in supply and installations, but to provide maintenance and support. We currently have offices in South Africa, Kenya and Angola and are planning to expand our presence. It is through the above components that Setright functions in perfect harmony to deliver competitive energy solutions. Tony Ketter SETRIGHT Powering Africa Brief Nature of Business Renewable energy solutions are an effective way to reduce OPEX, providing ‘clean’ energy in their carbon footprint. At SETRIGHT TECHNOLOGIES, we offer turnkey, renewable energy solutions for our corporate customers, particularly telecommunication companies in Sub-Saharan Africa. We are a young dynamic company striving to stay on the cutting edge of the ever-changing technological evolution and environmental needs. At SETRIGHT TECHNOLOGIES, we recognise that each customer’s needs are unique. Our experienced team has the expertise to tailor-make solutions to meet each customer’s unique renewable energy needs. We harness and combine traditional (diesel generators, battery banks etc) and innovative technologies (wind turbines, solar chargers and panels etc) to offer our customers the best overall solution for both OPEX reduction and optimise performance. In other words, we take the best that current technology has to offer, along with what nature provides, to both reduce energy consumption and provide renewable energy as an alternative. Technologies in the renewable energy field are constantly changing, evolving and improving and we keep abreast of these developments in order to offer our customers proven solutions. We have manufacturer partners around the world, with the products that have been stringently tested, proven for sustainable, reliable energy solutions. Through our knowledge and expertise we are able to provide these solutions at competitive prices. As solution providers, we serve our clients with integrity and strive to make a difference with each project that we undertake. High quality products, competitive pricing, excellent lead times and service, have allowed us to build a broad customer base in Sub-Saharan Africa. We look forward to partnering with our customers in reducing carbon emissions in our planet, while lowering their OPEX. “Excellence is our driving force” that is what makes us different. SETRIGHT Powering Africa Vision To be the trusted Sub-Saharan service provider of choice for high quality, economic, customised, scalable and reliable renewable energy solutions and to deliver outstanding solutions that exceed the expectations and needs of our customers. Mission Statement To provide our customers with a wide range of renewable energy and other cost saving energy solutions and products. Our sights are set on continually providing and implementing the latest tested technology, in order to lower customers OPEX and be at the forefront of reducing carbon emissions. SETRIGHT Powering Africa Human Rights Principle Setright Technologies is committed to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. To promote this we have set values and ethics in our company which we live by and some of these include; 1. Honesty 2. Integrity 3. Accountability 4. Respect for each other 5. Discipline We do not discriminate anybody on any basis be it race, colour, tribe religion, gender etc. Setright Technologies is an equal opportunities employer. Labour Principle We are guided by the laws of Kenya on labour. We have applied for ISO certification through Bureau Veritas and are pleased to report that our audit was successful. Our staff members are entitled twenty six working day leave as well as paternity/maternity leave. We also extend compassionate leave in addition to sick leave to our employees. In an endeavour to promote our human resource capacity we undertake regular training of our staff in addition to study leave to individual staff to further their education. SETRIGHT Powering Africa Environment Principle Setright Technologies recognizes the importance of planning environmental factors into tall projects at the earliest possible stage to prevent any pollution for environment. This Construction, Environment and Social Management Plan has been prepared to describe how Setright Technologies intends to manage, control and coordinate all works in order to protect the environment around the projects which may be affected by the operations. SETRIGHT Powering Africa Anti-Corruption Principle Setright Technologies does not tolerate corruption of any form in any way whatsoever. We have laid down procedures of pre-emptively discouraging corrupt practices and encourage dealings in a dignified and clean manner. This policy sets out specific guidelines and responsibilities regarding appropriate actions that must be followed for investigation of corruption, fraud and other similar irregularities.
