30 MAY 2014 UN GLOBAL COMPACT SALTERBAXTER’S 2013 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS P2 XX MONTH 2014 INTRODUCTION CLIENT CLIENT NAME NAME UN GLOBAL PROPOSAL PROPOSAL COMPACT FOR FOR – SALTERBAXTER XXXXXXXX THE 2014 XXXXXXXX ANNUAL COMMUNICATION XXXXXXXX REPORTING SUITE ON PROGRESS WE’RE SALTERBAXTER So, what’s so special about what we do? Why the UN Global Compact is important to us We work where business strategy, sustainability The very nature of our business is about helping companies become a positive and creative communications meet, producing force in our global society. Critical to this, is ensuring that we can stand up strategies and stories for some of the world’s to the same high expectations we set for our clients. The UN Global Compact leading businesses and brands. We help business is unique in providing a framework that sets a truly universal and comparable perform better, communicate better and deliver standard for a sustainable and inclusive global economy. That is why we use better long-term outcomes – we call this ‘Ideas the UNGC as a fundamental component of our sustainability programme. for Better Business’. FOUNDED IN 1998 65 EMPLOYEES 30% OF OUR CLIENTS THINK IT, DO IT BY PENNY BAXTER AND NIGEL SALTER IN OUR WEST LONDON HEAD OFFICE BASED OUTSIDE THE UK OUR SUSTAINABILITY VISION INCLUDING THE USA, DENMARK, THE UAE AND AUSTRALIA P3 CONTENTS UN GLOBAL COMPACT – SALTERBAXTER COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS GO ON CONTENTS CONTACTS STATEMENT FROM OUR FOUNDING DIRECTORS CAROLINE CARSON WHY NOT P4 Junior Consultant T +44 (0)20 7229 5720 THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT’S TEN PRINCIPLES E CCARSON@SALTERBAXTER.COM P5 TAKE HUMAN RIGHTS ADDRESS P6 THE DOME LABOUR STANDARDS LEVEL 4 WHITELEYS CENTRE A PEEK? P7 151 QUEENSWAY LONDON W2 4YN ENVIRONMENT AND ANTI-CORRUPTION WWW.SALTERBAXTER.COM P8 IF ONLY… THINK IT, DO IT This is Salterbaxter’s eighth annual P9 Communication on Progress (COP) submitted for the period covering January to December 2013. OUR PEOPLE The first section describes our commitment to P16 the Global Compact’s Ten Principles, and shows what activities we are doing to demonstrate this. THE ENVIRONMENT The second section covers in more detail our P19 own sustainability programme If Only, how we approach it and what the initiatives mean to us. OUR KPIs AND POLICIES P22 You can find more detail on our If Only website: http://sustainability.salterbaxter.com. REVIEWING OUR YEAR We love to talk all things sustainability so P27 feedback is welcomed – see our contact details on the right. P4 STATEMENT FROM OUR FOUNDING DIRECTORS UN GLOBAL COMPACT – SALTERBAXTER COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS STATEMENT FROM OUR FOUNDING DIRECTORS Operating responsibly has always been Being a signatory to the UN Global Compact demonstrates our ongoing support for business and part of the fabric of Salterbaxter and its market transformation through sustainable business practice. As a business that repeatedly combines importance is just as strong as it was when strategic thinking with creativity to solve challenges, we started the business over 15 years ago. we’re passionate about the ability of sustainability to drive innovation and deliver prosperous societies. We believe by sharing our experience and setting ourselves new goals we can be part of the critical mass that will make sustainability everyday business behaviour. ‘Think it, do it’ puts ideas at the core of how we make change happen, and drives our business to make a difference every day. PENNY BAXTER AND NIGEL SALTER Company Founders P5 THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT’S TEN PRINCIPLES UN GLOBAL COMPACT – SALTERBAXTER COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT’S TEN PRINCIPLES The United Nations Global Compact is one of the world’s strongest initiatives for socially and environmentally responsible business. The principles contained within are uniquely powerful for their universality. That is why we report against them as a standard for responsible business. P6 THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT’S TEN PRINCIPLES UN GLOBAL COMPACT – SALTERBAXTER COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS TEN PRINCIPLES HUMAN RIGHTS 01 PRINCIPLE Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed ACTIONS human rights. At Salterbaxter, we welcomed the implementation of Although as a company we do not have a significant the Guiding Principles for Business and Human Rights negative impact on human rights, we want to ensure by the United Nations Human Rights Council in 2011. that we live up to best practice approaches in this 02 We continue to endorse these Guiding Principles as area within our sector. That is why we will commit to: well as the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. • Continuously reviewing our approach to managing PRINCIPLE We assess the real and potential human impacts that Businesses should make and promoting Human Rights. our business operations have on a regular basis and sure they are not complicit do not believe that we have any adverse effect on • Including a formal Human Rights policy in our in human rights abuses. human rights. Employee Handbook. Nevertheless, as a company, we want our business • Providing a briefing session for all employees to to benefit global society as a whole and not just raise awareness and improve understanding of mitigate any harmful affects. That is why we have individual and collective Human Rights issues. in place a number of measures to ensure that we deliver a positive impact on human rights as a result of our business activities. • All employees are required to read our Employee Handbook upon starting employment. This lays out our Grievance procedure and ensures staff are familiar with how to raise concerns about staff treatment or any other aspect of our work. • Our comprehensive Health and Safety policy in our Employee Handbook and the work environment that we promote ensures that we positively contribute to the right to safe and healthy working conditions. • We also contribute to improving human rights for our employees by facilitating the right to education, the right to an adequate standard of living as well as freedom of expression through the way we run our business. More of this is covered under the Labour Standards principles and further detail can be found in ‘Our People’ in the ‘If Only’ section of this report. P7 THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT’S TEN PRINCIPLES UN GLOBAL COMPACT – SALTERBAXTER COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS TEN PRINCIPLES LABOUR STANDARDS 03 PRINCIPLE Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the ACTIONS right to collective bargaining. Equal opportunities for women and minority groups During 2013, women made up 57% of all staff, as well are one of the main human rights challenges that we as comprising half of our senior team heads position. believe companies in the UK will face in the next 10 We also improved our health insurance provisions; 04 years. At Salterbaxter we strive for a culture in which to provide all permanent staff with a proactive all staff are treated fairly, as we believe that a working healthy living programme that rewards our staff for PRINCIPLE environment that promotes each individual’s merits taking steps to improve their health and wellbeing, Business should support equally is conducive to a happy and effective as well as providing comprehensive medical coverage. the elimination of all workforce. We view strong labour practices as We again conducted our biennial People survey, forms of forced and essential for attracting, developing and retaining the which showed that the proportion of our staff compulsory labour. talented people that make Salterbaxter the leading who are proud to say “I work at Salterbaxter” strategy, sustainability and creative communications remains steadily high at 75%. consultancy. As such we are strongly supportive of We will continue to monitor Labour Standards through 05 instruments that promote global labour standards our operations, including the People survey, as well such as the ILO Core Conventions. as continuing to provide the best possible working PRINCIPLE Business should support We address labour standards by ensuring that: conditions for all our staff. the effective abolition • We remain an equal opportunities employer of child labour. with regards to both our employees and recruitment processes. • All employees are free to join a union if they wish. • We conduct bi-annual reviews to formally monitor 06 performance and compensation, as well as monthly PRINCIPLE check-ins to facilitate more informal feedback. Business should support the • We monitor working hours through our online elimination of discrimination business operations system to manage employees’ in respect of employment work/life balance and general wellbeing. and occupation. • We regularly review and update as required our Employee Handbook, which covers staff benefits, our Human Resources policies and procedures including grievance mechanisms and health and safety. • We measure and monitor employee satisfaction on a regular basis, taking appropriate action on results of our People survey. P8 THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT’S TEN PRINCIPLES UN GLOBAL COMPACT – SALTERBAXTER COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS TEN PRINCIPLES ENVIRONMENT 07 PRINCIPLE Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. ACTIONS ENVIRONMENT • Promoting positive sustainable behaviour, As a sustainability strategy and communications for example by removing access to consultancy, working to protect and conserve our non-recycling facilities in the main office 08 environment has been in our DNA as a business since space to encourage recycling. we were founded in 1998. Although as an office-based • Measuring our energy use each quarter PRINCIPLE business our direct environmental impact is relatively Business should undertake and being signed up to a green electricity tariff. small, we believe in the importance of considering the initiatives to promote greater environmental impacts of our entire value chain. ANTI-CORRUPTION environmental challenges. Therefore our efforts span from using environmental Salterbaxter is committed to operating ethically considerations as a key criteria of supplier selection, and against all forms of corruption at all times. to our office space management practices and Our Employee Handbook details our policy and the kind of paper we select for our clients’ procedure on receiving gifts, and only permits us 09 printed materials. to accept gifts of no substantial financial value. PRINCIPLE We monitor our environmental impacts on a quarterly These are then distributed amongst all staff Business should encourage basis and have conducted an operational review in to prevent any undue influence developing in the development and line with ISO 14001. Some of the specific ways in our client and supplier relationships. diffusion of environmentally which we address environmental challenges include: friendly technologies. • Engaging our employees on environmental issues through our If Only programme and quarterly themes related to sustainability. More information ANTIon our environmental activities that are part of this programme can be found in the second half of this report. CORRUPTION • Targeting a ‘10% less’ consumption of waste, water and energy usage year-on-year. • Working with our printing suppliers to improve their environmental credentials. 10 • Ensuring our in-house printing uses FSC-certified PRINCIPLE or recycled paper, and recycling all office waste Business should work as much as possible, including printer toners and against corruption in all its IT equipment. forms, including extortion and bribery. P9 IF ONLY... THINK IT, DO IT UN GLOBAL COMPACT – SALTERBAXTER COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS WE PRACTICE WHAT WE PREACH Ever think ‘if only’? We do. But we don’t just think it: we get on and make it happen. That’s what our If Only sustainability programme is all about. It’s a way for all of us to get together and do something positive – and have fun and learn new stuff while we’re at it. P10 IF ONLY... THINK IT, DO IT UN GLOBAL COMPACT – SALTERBAXTER COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS IF ONLY... OUR APPROACH THINK IT, DO IT MISSION: We will use creative thinking to encourage positive living. We will work together to solve Here at Salterbaxter, we spend a QUARTERLY THEMES EVERYDAY ACTIONS the sustainability challenges that matter to us. lot of time talking with our clients Every quarter, we work in teams We want to make environmentally about sustainability and corporate from across the business to decide friendly behaviour feel like social responsibility. It’s a subject on a particular sustainability second-nature. So as well as we care deeply about. And right theme we want to focus on for encouraging everyone to do their from the start, we wanted to apply three months, and then get bit to minimise our impacts in key that knowledge, creativity and everyone involved in activities areas like electricity and paper passion to our own business. around that issue. Themes in the use, we run awareness campaigns That’s how If Only came about. past have included everything to keep our environmental goals If Only has two sides. On the from healthy lifestyles to front of mind at work. one hand, there’s ‘Think it, do it’, sustainable fashion. THINK IT, DO IT MEASURE AND REPORT 83% which is our name for all the INNOVATION DAYS Individually and collectively We’re determined to do sustainability events and One of our biggest events is our we know we can change even better at developing activities we take part in every annual Innovation Day. For one things – we make change our people and reducing year. It’s about getting involved, day of every year, we put client happen for our clients all the our environmental raising awareness and trying OF EMPLOYEES AGREE THAT work to one side and dedicate time. We will apply that same impacts. To do that, we’re something new. OUR IF ONLY PROGRAMME IS our time to supporting social creative thinking to solve the introducing new tools Taking part and having fun is one enterprises. In the run up to the IMPORTANT TO THE CULTURE AND sustainability issues that for measuring progress. thing – but if you want to be sure event our team works with social REPUTATION OF THE COMPANY matter most to us. your sustainability programme entrepreneur support group, is making a real difference, UnLtd, to find enterprises who you need hard facts and figures. could benefit most from our So the other side of If Only is communications know-how about measuring and reporting and sustainability expertise. our performance and progress. ACTIONS ACTIONS • Quarterly themes •K  PI scorecard • Innovation day •U  N Global Compact • Behaviour change Communication on Progress including our performance report • Biannual People Survey P11 IF ONLY... THINK IT, DO IT UN GLOBAL COMPACT – SALTERBAXTER COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS IF ONLY... The Salterbaxter team voted ‘Eco Fashion’ the most successful theme of 2013. Brought Equally important and inspiring are the opportunities for everyone across Salterbaxter to work in new 2013 QUARTERLY to life through fun initiatives ranging from clothing flexible ways: redefining how we partner with design competitions to dress-up Fridays, it also colleagues, developing skills and showcasing encouraged us to think about what constitutes more strengths or taking on challenges and tasks outside THEMES sustainable garment production and make more our core roles. informed choices. Each theme provided a great platform to raise awareness and inspire behaviour CLARA STEVENSON Head of Client Services and Operations change around key issues that are relevant to us all, in a positive and engaging way. Q1 Eco Fashion Friday Q2 Good Grub Q3 Cheerfest Q4 It’s CRistmas Eco Fashion Friday involved thinking about what we Q2 saw the Good Grub and Grog team pick up the July saw the Cheerfest team swoop into action by The final quarter was all about 8 Weeks of CRistmas: wear one day a week. What we buy, where the clothes theme of sustainable food and drink. They kicked off totally reinventing the topic of health and wellbeing. Unwrapping Consumption. The team provided come from, what they are made from and who made with a British organic food and wine tasting in our Every week we were asked to break from routine, an eclectic mix of fun activities that got into the them. Clothing has an impact, from it costing over usual Friday 5pm beer o’clock slot – instantly winning think differently and share the things that make us festive spirit whilst making us think about the less 1,000 litres of water to make one cotton t-shirt to people over. This was accompanied by a sharing of feel happy. Highlights included food week – designed sustainable side of the season. During this time the social impact of garment workers. facts on the topic highlighting some of the consumer to encourage us to think differently about our food we eat, drink, buy and use more of everything, challenges we all face, and also those that some habits every day; Nostalgia week, in which we and as a consequence we waste more of everything Eco Fashion Friday became the new Dress Down of our clients are tackling, including Mondelēz, indulged in all things retro and vintage; Active week – in frightening amounts. Friday, aiming to do for sustainable fashion what M&S and Morrisons. – celebrating the arrival of summer and generally The Sustainable Restaurants Association (SRA) Meat Free Mondays has done in getting people to The team got chef and restaurateur, Rowley Leigh, getting outside; and Soul week, which involved us came in to give us some tips on having a sustainable think about what they eat and its impact on the to come in for a fascinating Q&A on sustainable fish. sharing top tips on health, wellbeing and the power Christmas dinner and the team got us involved in planet. The team set a series of weekly challenges Fresh back from a trip to Newfoundland, he had of positive thinking. Save the Children’s Christmas jumper day as well and also organised a number of people from the fashion industry to come in and talk to us much to say on the subject and painted a rather as a collection of food and clothing for the American – to inspire and inform. gloomy picture for consumers wanting to purchase Church soup kitchen. The team successfully balanced sustainable fish now and in the future. festive fun with serious content that highlighted Check out their website http://ecofashionfriday.com multiple issues on the sustainability agenda. P12 IF ONLY... THINK IT, DO IT UN GLOBAL COMPACT – SALTERBAXTER COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 1. Q3’s Cheerfest website 2. Q1’s Eco Fashion Friday website P13 IF ONLY... THINK IT, DO IT UN GLOBAL COMPACT – SALTERBAXTER COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS IF ONLY... IF YOUR COMPANY HAD ONE DAY FREE, WHAT WOULD YOU DO WITH IT? distractions and being able to completely focus on the particular challenges of each of the enterprises, INNOVATION DAY Corporate employee volunteering days are on average we were able to get our best creative and problemonly one or two days a year, so how to make the most solving juices going. By using different brainstorming of these rare opportunities? Having an eclectic bunch models and sub teams, we were able by the end of of talents across the company, we felt we could the day to present back to the rest of the company deliver more impact by using our skills and services and enterprises, our solutions. to help emerging social enterprises that embody the Impressively, all the enterprises took away elements spirit of If Only. that they could put into practice immediately, as So, for our third annual Innovation Day in July 2013, well as ideas that were more ‘food for thought’. we got involved with UnLtd, the major champion and And without a doubt we at Salterbaxter benefited supporter of UK social entrepreneurship, to find the from the inspirational drive and passion the social Our If Only innovation event is a organisations where our particular expertise could best help find solutions to the brand, communication entrepreneurs have for their ideas. day for us to all apply some creative and marketing challenges they face. We worked with: FEEDBACK FROM THE ENTERPRISES: thinking and sustainability expertise uMotif https://www.umotif.com – @uMotif Excellent, informative, fun, professional, challenging, supporting and somewhat to help support social enterprises in uMotif is a digital health company creating engaging, beautiful and effective software to help people lead transformative. It’s one of the days that is likely to be defining in the early growth and development of our business. We found the day very useful for need of our skills. This is an amazing healthy, engaged and independent lives. Year Here three reasons: First, it provided a platform for us to describe what we do to a non-health/medical opportunity for all of us at Salterbaxter http://yearhere.org – @yearhere Year Here is a new type of gap year that challenges audience which helped us to understand what aspects of the message we now give are good and are to work with people who have created ambitious and entrepreneurial young people to a year of tackling social issues in their own backyard. not. Second, the SB team helped us to look at aspects of our branding that we hadn’t considered – for a successful business around an area Hub Commercial Ventures example, our logo and what it communicates and http://www.hubventures.org doesn’t. Third, the analysis of our competitors by a new group helped us better understand where our about which they are passionate. They Hub Commercial Ventures operates multi-purpose buildings with an aim to create social space for product stands in the competitive market. social change. are a shining example of the ‘think it, Charity Checkout UMOTIF do it’ ideology. https://www.charitycheckout.co.uk The Innovation Day delivers inspiring outcomes – @CharityCheckout for the companies we offer our time to, and to Charity Checkout: an innovative online donation our own people. The power of a day’s time from the system for small and medium-sized UK charities, entire SB team has completely turbocharged the which enables them to raise more money online thinking in some of the participating companies and via their own sites and platforms. has helped many of our own SB people thrive and On the day, the whole company split into four flourish in situations they’re not used to. Whether it’s multidisciplinary teams, each led by one of our facilitating team workshops, presenting to the whole consultants who structured the day in order to tackle company, generating strategic ideas, thinking through each of the challenges set in advance by the a website – people have been taken out of their enterprises. First job was to get to grips with the comfort zones and delivered amazing results. business model, product offers and commercial objectives of the company by subjecting the NIGEL SALTER entrepreneurs to an intensive Q&A. By removing Company Founder P14 IF ONLY... THINK IT, DO IT UN GLOBAL COMPACT – SALTERBAXTER COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Our day with Salterbaxter helped us to refine our proposition – and as a result, we’ll be able to engage our target audience much more, enabling us to grow our business and have a much bigger impact. CHARITY CHECKOUT The SB team was full of energy and were completely engaged with us throughout the day. They challenged us to better explain what we do, which was essential. YEAR HERE 1. Penny welcoming everyone at the start of the day 2. The hub team getting serious 3. Reviewing creative ideas 4. A lot of thinking in a short space of time P15 IF ONLY... THINK IT, DO IT UN GLOBAL COMPACT – SALTERBAXTER COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS IF ONLY... In September 2013, we dedicated a wall in our communal kitchen to giving updates on CHANGING OUR our If Only activities, crowd-sourcing themes and issues to focus on (as well as providing an anarchic creative fun area). Also, critically, the wall provides BEHAVIOURS daily reminders that encourage and embed the best behaviour around our biggest impacts supporting our operational targets. LYNN DICKINSON Senior Consultant WHAT WE’RE UP TO YOUR SPACE Eco Fashion Friday is the new Dress Down Friday. It’s time to ditch the chinos – unless they are organic cotton! With a series of weekly challenges, everyone can get involved in exploring what Let SB help you kick start your year by supporting your heroic new year resolutions with some sustainable fashion means. January activities, further dates tbc! 3 WEEkly challEngEs IncluDE: • Wear something so old from your wardrobe that it’s new rd Get the buzz from alcohol-free HA • Wear something repurposed or upcycled cocktails from our very own bartender extraordinaires VE • Wear something British made SA YOU HAVE YOUR Wear something organic 10 TH DISCOVER HOW BAXTER GOT IN SUCH Y: R SAY: • And on 22nd March, we want as many people as possible GREAT SHAPE BY MEETING A PERSONAL to take part – and make a stand for sustainable fashion. TRAINER AND FINDING OUT ABOUT A GREAT INTRODUCTORY OFFER FROM SB 17 hoW you can joIn In: Visit our website: www.EcoFashionFriday.com th Take part in an energising Pilates class in the early morning calm Follow us on Twitter: @EcoFashionFrida with Jeff’s gorgeous wife Like the campaign and post your pictures on our Facebook page TH  !'&!'&!)&!  '&$&!  Get your company to take part – talk to us for tips on how &!%&(!%&$%%+&!  ! + to get people involved, on 22nd March and every Friday! !!!&!$%#' Eco Fashion Friday is an initiative developed by Salterbaxter, and born eryone’s new year re for ev ing you throug solution out of If Only, our own CR programme. ing ort h Febr ua s in J ask ep supp be e d back, kick yourself into ry and anuary W e’ll can k don’t hol sha pe March, think e , s o w brave in 2 it, do it 01 4 ! think it, do it s o be think it, do it UR YO HAVE YOUR VE : HA SAY WE WANT YOUR SAY: HA WRITE THEM DOWN HERE OR EMAIL LYNN. VE SA YOU IDEAS FOR THE Y: R 2014 QUARTERLY THEMES. it it, do think R HAVE YOU SAY: think it, do it think it, do it 1 % LESS If you’re the last one out please If you need a reminder on how to Switch it off make sure you’ve switched it off. THINKING OF please let Tracy know. CYCLING TO WORK? Get 42% discount off the purchase of a bike and Or as members of PruVitality you can get 50% off a new What can you do to use less paper, create less equipment up to £1,000. bike at Evans Cycles. Plus you waste, minimise use of electricity and reduce The loan is interest free and can be paid off over 1 year. get points for being a cyclist. our impact on the environment. think it, do it Visit www.pruhealth.co.uk 1. Choose a bike and/or Desk lights Music speakers Computers Printers Our resident cycling experts equipment are George, Jenny, Lindsay paper waste energy 2. Get a quote from a shop and Mark. They’re happy 3. We send the quote to to answer any questions. Cycle Scheme 4. They send back vouchers 5. You buy your bike Visit www.cyclescheme.co.uk Meeting room air think it, do it conditioning Office lights Portable heaters Chargers think it, do it think it, do it think it, do it FRIDGE FIRE DOOR LANDFILL RECYCLING HA VE SA YOU Y: R think it, do it think it, do it P16 OUR PEOPLE UN GLOBAL COMPACT – SALTERBAXTER COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS OUR PEOPLE We do everything we can to make Salterbaxter a great place to work, and we want to keep it that way. We have regular meetings and surveys to make sure all our people feel engaged and supported, and to identify areas where we could be doing things better. P17 OUR PEOPLE UN GLOBAL COMPACT – SALTERBAXTER COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS OUR PEOPLE PERFORMANCE Our aims and objectives for 2013 were around communicate how our work has a real, tangible impact, as well as regularly reviewing the types APPROACH sustainability awareness and behaviour change, of work that we take on. fundraising, students and interns and overall job 8.6 satisfaction. We set a number of other targets, including the value of time invested in our If only programme, training, and average working hours, among others. We also conducted our twice-yearly People Survey to inform management decisions, AVERAGE WORKING DAY HOURS how we conduct appraisals, our culture, where we can improve and how we can be better. Averaging out at just over our target of 8.5, the length 3.7 DAYS of an average working day at Salterbaxter remained We rely on the talent and dedication a challenge for us in 2013. Whilst this is to an extent a feature of the industry in which we work in and of our people. We engage them on the kind of fast-paced, dynamic projects that are otherwise very exciting to deliver, a good work-life issues that we care deeply about, that AVERAGE NUMBER OF DAYS ACROSS THE YEAR THAT EACH EMPLOYEE SPENT PARTICIPATING IN THE IF ONLY PROGRAMME balance is critical to our wellbeing as well as our productivity. We monitor working hours across the connect to our work and to our daily company through our project management system, respond to workloads through regular team catch-ups, We achieved our target of having each employee, and use short-, mediumand long-term planning to lives. We want to know what our people (including permanent and freelance staff) spend an equivalent of almost four days on our If Only review upcoming recruitment requirements. care about and give them the space 7 programme throughout 2013. The quarterly themes chosen allowed staff to come together and in which to share this passion and collaborate on the sustainability challenges that motivate us, and share our ideas for solving them with the rest of the company. If Only has become an innovate solutions. We nurture this by integral part of Salterbaxter’s culture and we know it will only continue to grow and improve. Our plans PAID INTERNSHIPS PROVIDED TO RECENT GRADUATES OR STUDENTS promoting a culture of openness and for 2014 include bringing health and wellness to the fore as we share skills to help each other keep During 2013 we provided placements to three students, short of our target of seven, but we were mutual respect. Ideas are never stifled our New Year’s resolutions, making Innovation Day even bigger and better, and taking a fresh able to exceed our goal of recruiting four interns by providing paid internships for seven recent graduates. by seniority, hierarchy or peer pressure. approach to behaviour change. Two have since joined us as permanent staff in our 72% Consulting and Design teams. Everyone’s voice counts. EMPLOYEES INSPIRED TO WORK AT SALTERBAXTER Unfortunately we fell short on achieving our ambitious target of 85% of employees feeling inspired to work for the company through the twice-yearly People Survey. While 72% is still a solid proportion of inspired people in the company, we want to ensure that everyone feels excited by the work that we do at Salterbaxter. To work towards this, we’ve evaluated the individual components of the overarching objective of ‘feeling inspired’. The main area where we fell short is how our employees feel connected through the work we do to the world around us. So we are taking steps to better P18 OUR PEOPLE UN GLOBAL COMPACT – SALTERBAXTER COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS OUR PEOPLE Last year we started tracking turnover as a Key AVERAGE LENGTH OF SERVICE Performance Indicator as part of our aspiration to Years be the employer of choice and to attract and retain CONTINUED 5 the best talent. However, over the past 12 months we have found this to be a less useful metric to measure how we are doing. As a small company, our staff turnover can appear to be drastically affected by a small number of employees who 4 may leave for reasons unrelated to Salterbaxter’s qualities as an employer, such as going travelling or setting up a social enterprise. As a result 3.1 we’ve decided to focus more on length of service 3 as an indicator of our performance. PEOPLE SURVEY Our People Survey conducted every six months, 2 is our commitment to a transparent, fair and inspiring 2010 2011 2012 2013 working environment. We operate in a very dynamic workplace, we are growing fast and every opinion is important. We believe that the information we receive via the survey is a critical part of understanding what works well and not so well. We feed back to SOCIAL INDICATORS our staff the results of our People Survey at our Indicator Company Data 2013 regular company meetings. The People Survey helps Average number of full-time employees 52.2 to inform management decisions, how we conduct Average number of freelance staff 12.8 appraisals, our culture, where we can improve and Average sick days per person 4.1 how we can be better. Average age 37 The survey is anonymous and features 30 questions: 26 are multiple choices on a five-point scale, and four Average length of service (years) 3.1 are open questions providing the opportunity for Gender ratio male to female 43% male, 57% female feedback and suggestions. It is not designed to replace our open and transparent day-to-day communication, nor our appraisal process, but its anonymous nature does give it a unique role. The six-monthly survey cycle allows us to gauge trends throughout the year and to develop timely improvements. Male We want our employees to feel inspired to work at Female Salterbaxter. Some of the questions in the survey are specifically developed to track this and we have set ourselves an ambitious target of achieving an 85% total satisfaction level in these particular indicators. P19 THE ENVIRONMENT UN GLOBAL COMPACT – SALTERBAXTER COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS THE ENVIRONMENT The role of global business in shaping the future of our planet is something we deal with every day. We know that there is no option other than to ensure our own environmental performance is as positive as it can be. P20 THE ENVIRONMENT UN GLOBAL COMPACT – SALTERBAXTER COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS THE ENVIRONMENT PERFORMANCE Although as a relatively small, office-based business • Promoting more environmentally sustainable behaviours amongst our employees, for example APPROACH our direct environmental impact is minor, we are by removing access to non-recycling facilities conscious of the importance of considering in the main office space to encourage recycling. environmental impacts on our entire value chain. • Measuring our energy use each quarter and being As a result, our approach to our environmental signed up to a green electricity tariff. impact ranges from environmental performance as a key criteria for supplier sourcing, to our office management, to selecting paper for our own and PAPER 41kg our clients’ printed materials. Our greatest indirect impact on the environment, we feel, is a positive one – through our sustainability consultancy to clients We see how the world is being affected we are able to reinforce the importance of addressing global challenges such as climate change and PAPER USAGE PER EMPLOYEE by serious environmental challenges, resource depletion. We monitor our environmental impacts on a quarterly PAPER and face proof of how they are relevant basis and have conducted an operational review in Paper usage remains our biggest challenge. line with ISO 14001. In 2012, we identified the main As one of the few sustainability communication areas where our direct impact lies: paper, waste consultancies with an in-house creative team, our for business every day. So in order to and electricity, and each year we set ourselves the challenging goal of achieving 10% reductions in strength as a business is bringing a creative approach to sustainability and communications challenges, advise our clients on sustainability, each of these areas. We drive this internally through various initiatives under our ‘10% less’ campaign. but an output of this process is a heavy-use of paper in the collaboration, thinking and design stages. we need to be able to ensure our own Some of the initiatives that we have taken to achieve our goals include: Whilst we achieved our 10% reduction target in 2012, we fell some way short of another 10% reduction in environmental performance is as positive • Engaging our employees on environmental issues through our If Only programme and quarterly 2013, falling back to our 2011 levels. In retrospect, our success in 2012 was likely the result of the as it can be. Every year we set KPIs immediate after-effects of the launch of our ‘10% less’ themes related to sustainability. campaign, when this was uppermost in our minds. • Working with our printing suppliers to improve their In 2013, whilst we continued to communicate our for our environmental sustainability, environmental credentials. • Ensuring our in-house printing uses FSC-certified targets on paper use, we see the 2013 results as the effect of ‘campaign fatigue’ and it is clear that and report back on performance every or recycled paper. • Recycling all office waste as much as possible, we need to step up our activities in this area again, to restate our ambitions on cutting paper use and quarter to our management team. including printer toners and IT equipment. re-establish momentum. Some of the increase in paper use can be explained by more rigorous reporting methods, to now include business stationery purchased, as well as printer paper. Nevertheless, we will take what we have learned from our challenges in cutting paper use to inform our 2014 actions, including dedicating the fourth quarter to the issue of behaviour change. Next steps: All our paper is FSC and/or recycled, but we have committed to our 10% reduction in paper use, so our target for 2014 is 37kg per employee. Key to achieving this is bringing our ‘10% less’ campaign back to the forefront. We will also focus on making our aim to reduce paper part of our culture and expectations included in our inductions with new staff including freelancers. P21 THE ENVIRONMENT UN GLOBAL COMPACT – SALTERBAXTER COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS THE PAPER USE PER EMPLOYEE ELECTRICITY USED PER PERSON ENVIRONMENT 3,161kwh Kg 50 CONTINUED 41 ELECTRICITY 40 Our most complex environmental focus area to tackle is around our electricity use. As part of the historic Whiteleys Shopping Centre our office space is a Grade II listed building, and as such we are restricted in 30 energy efficiency improvements that we can make. Whilst we continue to work with the landlord and management company, we focus on reducing our individual impacts as employees. 20 Because of the limitations we face in changing 2010 2011 2012 2013 the big impact areas of the building, we knew that a 10% reduction from our 2012 numbers would be a challenge to achieve. Unfortunately our energy use per employee increased by 19%, indicating WASTE RECYCLING we have more work to do in this area to achieve 52.7kg 10,700kg a year-on-year reduction. Next steps: In 2012, we began our ‘Switch It Off’ campaign and the numbers for 2013 highlight the need to refresh this and revisit the way we WASTE PER EMPLOYEE RECYCLED IN 2013 communicate this to staff in order to get back on track with our reduction strategies. We are also WASTE RECYCLING investigating how much energy can be saved through In 2013, we missed our 10% reduction target of 27.6kg At Salterbaxter we aim to recycle as much as possible insulation measures that are achievable within per employee sent to Materials Recovery Facility but are constantly working to ensure that we use the remits of our office’s listed building status. (MRF) by a considerable margin. Like our paper use, fewer resources to begin with. We want to be able to Our target for 2014 will be a 10% reduction on we need to restate the importance of minimising the have as much transparency around the end use of our 2013 levels, the equivalent of 2,955kWh per employee. waste we send to landfill back on the agenda in 2014. waste, therefore we use First Mile recycling to collect In 2013, we unveiled our If Only kitchen wall redesign our recyclables, separated from the other waste that (page 15) to serve as a reminder on what can be is collected by our office facilities management. recycled and what goes to landfill, and keep the team In 2013, we increased the amount of waste that was updated on our 10% Less campaign. recycled from 98.8kg to 165kg per person, earning us We also kept the 10% Less theme in mind during each the ‘Silver Standard’ from First Mile. This included of our If Only quarterly themes, for example: electrical items, toners, light bulbs as well as glass, plastic, cans and paper. All of our toner and ink • The Eco Fashion Friday team informed us all around cartridges are collected for recycling. We are pleased the life-cycles of our clothes, and challenged us to to have embedded a recycling culture internally, think less wastefully around the fashion we buy. but still have work to do on changing behaviours • At Christmas time, the 8 Weeks of CRistmas team and reducing the initial use of resources such as challenged us to choose a ‘vintage’ gift for our paper and plastic. This will be a key theme in 2014. Secret Santas, as well as putting on a quiz to raise 123 awareness on some of the wasteful and over consumption habits we are used to doing at this time of the year. Next steps: By focusing on individual behaviour change in 2014, we hope to address our waste impacts TREES SAVED THROUGH OUR RECYCLING SCHEME and reach our target of 47kg per employee sent to MRF. P22 OUR KPIs AND POLICIES UN GLOBAL COMPACT – SALTERBAXTER COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS OUR KPIs AND POLICIES Our KPIs let us see how well we are doing. Our policies allow us to make progress, stay on track and maintain a happy work environment. P23 OUR KPIs AND POLICIES UN GLOBAL COMPACT – SALTERBAXTER COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS KPIs OUR TARGETS KPI 2013 Target 2013 Achievement Target for 2014 Employees inspired to work at Salterbaxter 85% 72% 85% Average working day hours 8.5 8.6 8.5 Staff formal training (days per employee) 0.5 0.4 0.5 Staff informal training days/person (cumulative) 2.5 1.1 2 If Only programme participation (days per employee) 2 3.7 3.5 Volunteering days 1 0.2 1 Number of Student placements 7 3 5 Number of Interns 4 7 5 Paper purchased (kg per employee) 29.6 41 37 Waste to MRF (kg per employee) 27.6 52.7 47.4 Electricity (kWh per employee) 2,481 3,283 2,955 P24 OUR KPIs AND POLICIES UN GLOBAL COMPACT – SALTERBAXTER COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS POLICIES This means that it is the Company’s policy to make every effort to ensure that there is no discrimination All employees are required to follow and implement the Company’s equal opportunities policy and, if OUR EQUAL or harassment on the grounds of colour, race, necessary, undergo any training and development nationality, religion or belief, ethnic origin, disability, activities to ensure that they can carry out their age, gender, marital status or sexual orientation, duties and responsibilities in terms of promoting, parental responsibilities, part-time or fixed-term developing, implementing and reviewing the policy OPPORTUNITIES status, in the way that the Company treats its employees, job applicants, clients, contractors and visitors. Bullying is a form of harassment and this arrangements in the course of their work. POLICY policy covers bullying. Being able to offer equal and fair treatment to all our staff is essential to not only retaining a In issuing this policy the Company has three main motivated workforce, but it also ensures we are able objectives: to attract and recruit the most talented and qualified First, to encourage its employees to take an active staff in what is an increasingly competitive industry. role against all forms of bullying, harassment and discrimination; second, to deter employees JASON PARRY Salterbaxter Communications from participating in bullying, harassment or discriminatory behaviour; and third, to demonstrate Finance Director Limited is an equal to all employees that they can rely upon the Company’s support in cases of bullying, harassment or discrimination at work. opportunities employer. The Company is committed to a working environment that offers equal treatment and equal opportunities for all its employees, so that every employee is able to progress to their true potential. Even after employment has ended, the Company is committed to ensuring that discrimination does not occur. This policy applies to all aspects of the Company’s working practices and therefore applies to the recruitment and selection of employees, terms and conditions of employment, training, salary, work allocation, promotion and disciplinary and grievance procedures. The Company’s recruitment, selection, promotion procedures, and general policies and practices will be periodically reviewed to ensure that this equal opportunities policy is being implemented. P25 OUR KPIs AND POLICIES UN GLOBAL COMPACT – SALTERBAXTER COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS POLICIES We want our employees to be as safe as possible in our working environment. We require all employees The Company will provide and maintain a healthy and safe working environment with the objective OUR HEALTH AND to follow these guidelines at all times. of minimising the number of health and safety While the Company will take all reasonable steps related instances. The Company will pay particular to ensure the health and safety of its employees, attention to: SAFETY POLICY health and safety at work is also the responsibility of • Maintaining the workplace in a safe condition and employees themselves. It is the duty of all employees providing adequate facilities and arrangements to take reasonable care of their own and other for welfare at work. people’s health, safety and welfare. We encourage • Providing a safe means of access to and from staff to report any situation that may pose a serious the workplace. or imminent threat to the wellbeing of themselves or of any other person. • The provision and maintenance of equipment that Health and safety information for all The Company may take disciplinary action against any employee who disregards health and safety rules is safe. • The provision of such information, instructions, employees of Salterbaxter is supplied and procedures, or who fails to perform their duties under health and safety legislation. Depending on the training and supervision as is necessary to ensure the health and safety at work of its employees and other persons. in the staff handbook, which is seriousness of the offence, it may amount to potential gross misconduct rendering the employee liable to • The Company also recognises its duty to protect summary dismissal. the health and safety of all visitors to the Company, available to all employees at all including contractors and temporary workers, as well as any members of the public. times for ease of reference. Health • There was one incident logged in 2013 in the Health and Safety book when one member of and safety information relates to staff suffered minor scratches when helping to change a light bulb. Salterbaxter’s office in Bayswater: The Dome, Level 4 Whiteleys Centre, 151 Queensway, London W2 4YN. P26 OUR KPIs AND POLICIES UN GLOBAL COMPACT – SALTERBAXTER COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS POLICIES We monitor and manage other impacts of our office operations including energy use, waste and paper. LEVEL 1: • Vegetable inks as base set OUR ENVIRONMENT • Recycle 80% of waste from presses PAPER POLICY All paper specified for our major reporting projects • Have environmental targets and policy in place, (annual reports, CSR reports, corporate brochures), including energy, waste and emissions, and are POLICY and any major print components of large branding aiming to achieve ISO 14001 projects must adhere to the following as a minimum: LEVEL 2: • Be ECF (elemental chlorine free) or TCF (total Level 1 requirements plus: chlorine free). • ISO 14001 • Any virgin pulp must be sourced from sustainably managed forests. LEVEL 3: Salterbaxter is committed • The mills which produce the paper should have ISO 14001 accreditation. Level 2 requirements plus: • FSC accreditation to managing and reducing Ninety-five percent of all major projects must go further and specify paper from our ‘Top 10’ list of LEVEL 4: its environmental impacts. enhanced environmental paper stocks. All these Level 3 requirements plus: papers are FSC accredited OR recycled with a • Renewable energy minimum of 20% post-consumer waste. We are also • Carbon neutral looking into carbon neutral papers. The biggest impact we have on the PRINT PROCUREMENT POLICY • IPA emissions below 10% We will hold meetings with these and other printers environment is through our supply Where we have the buying decision, we aim to place the majority of our print with suppliers who are managing their environmental impacts to encourage and assist them in progressing through the levels and will continue to assess these chain and how we place work with categories throughout the year. in a progressive and transparent way. The remaining 20% of our print total for smaller The proportion of print we place is around 80% of projects and other one-off items will be reviewed printers on behalf of our clients. our total and consists of all major reporting projects (annual reports, CR reports, corporate brochures), on a project-by-project basis. We need some flexibility in this area as the practicalities of finishing Our print and paper policies can and any major print components of large branding projects. and production/capacity may mean placing the work with other specialists in the industry. be read here. This process is managed through a key suppliers list. Where we do not have the final buying decision we The list is structured into four levels. In the past we will always advise clients to follow these guidelines have aimed to place 90% or more of our print in the and will record where they are not able to do so. top two levels, with 10% placed in levels 1 and 2. ISO 14001 is a key part of our criteria and although we understand the limitations of this system, we still feel it is a useful assurance process by which we can assess a printer’s commitment to environmental management. We may also consider other suppliers if their activities are transparent enough for us to assess without the ISO programme. P27 REVIEWING OUR YEAR REVIEWING The last few years have been an exciting time for thinking to encourage positive living’. At the end Salterbaxter as we’ve grown significantly as a of the year we asked our employees to vote for the business. We have expanded our client base, range If Only quarterly theme of the year. The winning theme OUR YEAR of services and moved to larger office premises team was Eco Fashion Friday who succeeded in to accommodate our growing team of sustainability making a complex and topical issue simple and and creative communications experts. relevant to every one of us, as well as inspiring us all But as we grow we are finding it challenging to keep to think differently about expressing our values as our operational impacts down and meet the ambitious well as our style through the way we dress every day. goals we set for ourselves. Our environmental impacts Plans are well underway for If Only 2014, with four whilst still relatively small, are increasing rather than new If Only quarterly themes ranging from health and decreasing and our Key Performance Indicator (KPI) wellness to sustainable cities. In Q2 we will set aside of employees ‘inspired to work at Salterbaxter’ at a whole quarter to focus on making our Innovation Looking back over 2013 retrospectively 72% is still some way off our big goal of 85%. To turnaround these trends we plan to take two main Day 2014 bigger and better. During this quarter we will hand pick the social enterprises that benefit has given us an opportunity to see how actions over the course of 2014. First of all we will and get to know them in advance of the event so step up efforts on our ‘10% less’ campaign through a that we can deliver an even bigger impact on the day. And we want to go further to ensure that our activities far we’ve come and consider what we combination of resource efficiency improvements to our office space and also by taking a fresh approach are engaging and inspiring to everyone within the to how we talk about the campaign with employees. company but also set an example for our clients. want to achieve in the coming years. We will also dedicate an entire If Only quarter to the topic of behaviour change, and delve into We’re excited about what’s to come. what works and what doesn’t when it comes to transitioning towards more sustainable lifestyles. Secondly, we are focusing on communicating better amongst the team through our monthly company update meetings on all the great work we are doing, and how every member of staff has an impact. We think this is a critical component of ensuring that we keep our work environment a place that inspires our employees and makes the company an attractive employer. In contrast to our operational challenges, 2013 was the biggest and best year yet for our If Only programme. With four distinct quarterly themes inspired by the sustainability challenges that matter to each of us and run by cross-disciplinary teams, If Only succeeded in our mission of using ‘creative
