Annual Report 2013-2014 FACE TO FACE As one of the nation’s biggest diversified conglomerates, Aitken Spence holds itself accountable to thousands of stakeholders; from customers and business partners to investors, employees and the communities we work with. In this report we take a long hard look at how we have delivered on our responsibilities to each of them, bringing the reader face to face with our long-term strategies and internal operations as we analyse Group and sector performances in the context of our broader vision for the success of the Company. This year as always, we present to our shareholders a solid balance sheet achieved in a challenging environment; proof of the hard work and commitment of every member of our team. The report also deconstructs in detail the prudent policies and far-sighted decisions that have made such results possible. Aitken Spence Talking to our stakeholders Face to face. CONTENTS GROUP OVERVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Group Highlights 4 Independent Auditors’ Report 124 Aitken Spence at a Glance 8 Financial Statements 125 Consolidated Financial Statements in USD 190 LEADERSHIP REVIEW Chairman’s Message 12 INVESTOR INFORMATION Managing Director’s Review 15 Investor Information 192 Ten Year Summary 197 MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS About Aitken Spence and the Operating Environment 21 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION Engagement with Stakeholders 26 UN Global Compact 198 Our Strategy 29 GRI Index 202 Risk Management 34 Awards and Recognition 2013 2014 210 Our People 40 Group Companies and Directorate 211 Who Leads Us 44 Glossary of Terms 220 Group Performance 59 Notice of Meeting 224 Business Sectors Form of Proxy Tourism 66 Shareholder Feedback Form Maritime Cargo Logistics 74 IBC Corporate Information Strategic Investments 82 Services 92 GOVERNANCE REVIEW Corporate Governance Report 100 Nomination Committee Report 106 Remuneration Committee Report 107 Audit Committee Report 108 Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities 117 Annual Report of Directors 118 chairman's message page 12 group performance review pages 59 65 2 Aitken Spence PLC AN INTRODUCTION TO THE CONTENTS OF THIS REPORT We are pleased to present to stakeholders our integrated annual report for the year ended Chairman’s Message Page 12 31st March 2014. Managing Director’s Review Page 15 The report covers the integrated economic, Management Discussion and Analysis Page 19 social and environmental performance of the Financial Statements Page 123 companies in which Aitken Spence PLC.,has significant operational and management control, including activities in Asia, Africa and South Pacific. The report provides information on our subsidiaries, joint ventures and equity accounted investees. The names and details The report covers the integrated economic, of the companies are set out on pages 211 to 219. social and environmental performance of This year, we have reported our performance the companies in which Aitken Spence PLC.,has “in accordance” Core with the Global Reporting Initiative’s G4 Reporting Framework significant operational and management for disclosure on sustainability performance control, including activities in Asia, Africa which was launched in May 2013. With the launch of the G4 reporting framework, the and south pacific. process of identifying material aspects was revised and improved to look at the nature Standards (SLFRSs and LKASs) in alignment the disclosures inclusive of all operational of individual operations for different aspects. with the International Financial Reporting activities, material and relevant to the impacts Selection of sustainability priorities and the Standards (IFRS) the Companies Act No.07 and risks within our systems and is focused assessment of materiality are detailed on of 2007, the Listing Rules of the Colombo on educating the stakeholders about the pages 21 to 33. This study is still, mostly an Stock Exchange, as well as the Code of Best operations of Aitken Spence. A comprehensive internally conducted scientific study, guided Practices on Corporate Governance Principles shareholder feedback form is available at by the historical data of the organisation, 2013 and other related guidance. the end of the report so that the disclosures feedback from specific key stakeholders in future reports can be improved to suit that the organisation has engaged with A limitation in this report is that the the reader’s needs better. Further our social through the years, feedback from the sustainability performance is monitored for media could also be used to get in touch with Group’s sustainability team members and our operations only in Sri Lanka and the us for feedback and comments. guidance from senior management. The Maldives. Also, where sustainability systems methods used,assumptions made and are still in the implementation process, exclusions are explained in detail in the comprehensive data is not yet available. Our Group Performance Review. We have provided reporting process is driven and supervised material disclosures on governance, ethics, entirely by the internal expertise of the Group strategy, risk, opportunity and remuneration and our short to medium term goal is to make in relation to our financial, economic, ethical, social and environmental performance and prospects, at both Group and operating level REPORT NAVIGATION AID at the respective sectors. It is our hope that Web link provides reference the annual integrated report will set the Further reading to online disclosures. basis for meaningful engagement with our within this report. stakeholders in the year ahead. Performance data relevant to the Performance data relevant to the The financial statements are prepared in Women’s Empowerment Principles UNGC Communication on Progress accordance with the Sri Lanka Accounting Annual Report 2013 2014 3 GROUP HIGHLIGHTS RS. 39.7 Bn RS.36.6 Bn MARKET TOTAL CAPITALISATION 1.6% OF CSE TOTAL MARKET CAPITALISATION REVENUE BUSINESS GEOGRAPHIES ASIA Bangladesh Pakistan India Dhaka Oman Chittagong Chennai Puducherry Fiji Coimbatore Islands Trivandrum Sri Lanka AFRICA Maldives Mozambique South Africa TOURISM STRATEGIC INVESTMENT MARITIME CARGO LOGISTICS SERVICES 4 Aitken Spence PLC LEGACY OF OVER 3,672 2014 3,288 2013 2012 Net Profit Attributable to Equity HolDers 3,488 150 YEARS RS. 3,672 Mn for the year ended 31st March IN BUSINESS TOTAL ASSETS Jaffna RS. 61.1 Bn FOR THE 8TH Vavuniya CONSECUTIVE YEAR Trincomalee RANKED AMONG THE TEN BEST CORPORATE CITIZENS OF SRI LANKA Mihintale Dambulla Workforce Negombo Katunayake Welisara Kurunegala Kandy Matale 6000+ 43 Pudaluoya Mabole Biyagama ENVIRONMENTAL Pussellawa Colombo Malabe Nuwara Eliya Ratmalana Ambewela Kalutara Beruwala Matugama Bandarawela MANAGEMENT Ahungalla Talgaswela Embilipitiya Hambantota SYSTEMS Elpitiya Wanduraba Galle Koggala Matara 12 are ISO 14001 CERTIFIED Annual Report 2013 2014 5 performance HIGHLIGHTS 2013-2014 Financial 2013/2014 2012/2013 Change % Rs. Mn Rs. Mn Results for the year Group revenue with equity-accounted investees 37,673 38,252 (1.5) Group revenue 36,598 37,140 (1.5) Profit from operations 5,703 5,531 3.1 Profit before tax 5,409 5,025 7.6 Profit attributable to equity holders of the Company 3,672 3,288 11.7 As at 31st March Total assets 61,145 56,151 8.9 Total liabilities 22,367 22,648 (1.2) Current ratio (times) 1.86 1.44 29.2 Debt to equity (times) 0.19 0.19 – Return on equity (%) 12.2 12.4 (1.5) Per Share (Rs.) Earnings per share 9.04 8.10 11.7 Dividends per share 2.00 1.50 33.3 Net asset value per share as at 31st March 79.46 69.10 15.0 Market price per share as at 31st March 97.90 119.60 (18.1) Our Performance will drive the creation of real and long-term beneficial RS.9.04 relationships with social and business partners within the company and the communities in which we operate. Earnings 12.2% Return on equity Per Share Growth in net 11.7% profit to RS.7.2 Bn Equity holders EBITDA 19.7% EBITDA RS.32.3 BN MARGIN Shareholders’ funds 6 Aitken Spence PLC Social 15% Pg 19 to 97 24 hrs of employees have been in of training per employee service for over 10 years RS. 38.9 Mn 62% of TOTAL EMPLOYEES 20% of total Total funds channelled for community development are below 35 years managers are young managers Environment RS. 109.4 Mn 273,252 m3 Volume of water recycled and / or reused Total investment in environmental protection which is 31.8% of total water withdrawn 1,457 TonNEs 55,341 GJ Total paper recycled and / or sold for reuse Energy produced from renewable sources which is 4,780 tonnes 3% We remain committed to champion sustainability within of GHG emissions our businesses and the wider reduced and / of total energy private sector. or offset produced Annual Report 2013 2014 7 aitken spence at a glance TOURISM MARITIME CARGO Hotels LOGISTICS Sectors Inbound & Outbound Travels Airline GSA Maritime Services Integrated Logistics Freight Forwarding Courier Services Key interests Aitken Spence is an illustrious name in Sri Lanka’s tourism Aitken Spence has emerged from humble beginnings to become sector with a presence spanning over four decades. The Group’s a leader in the Sri Lankan maritime and cargo logistics sector. operations vary from owning and managing star class hotels, to Through a progressive journey the company has integrated its providing both inbound and outbound travel solutions covering operations in air-sea freight forwarding, warehousing, distriparks the entire spectrum of requirements of the modern day traveller. and related services, courier and transport to provide a total, The Group’s strength in the hospitality industry is showcased by seamless solution to the importer and exporter alike. We were its expansion in to global tourism hot spots with luxury resorts in the first Company in Sri Lanka to extend port management the Maldives, India and Oman. expertise outside Sri Lanka. Today, our services cover the complete physical cargo flow process from shipper to recipient as well as port management services. REVENUE (RS.Mn) REVENUE (RS.Mn) for the year ended 31st March for the year ended 31st March 15,210 6,796 2014 2014 performance highlights 14,063 5,743 2013 2013 11,262 5,663 2012 2012 Total Assets (RS.Mn) Total Assets (RS.Mn) AS AT 31st March AS AT 31st March 27,167 7,589 2014 2014 23,829 5,747 2013 2013 21,021 5,169 2012 2012 8 Aitken Spence PLC STRATEGIC SERVICES INVESTMENTS Power Generation Inward Money Transfer Elevator Agency Insurance Printing & Packaging Property Management Garment Manufacture Information Technology Plantations Holding Company The success story of the Aitken Spence Group has been reinforced We were the pioneers in the services industry with a presence going by astute investments and strategic partnerships in diverse sectors. back 138 years as the agent for the world renowned insurer Lloyds The Company’s unblemished track record proves that it is a proactive of London since 1876. This was the first step towards diversification player in a dynamic economy. The Strategic Investments sector into the service areas such as insurance broking, electronic money comprises of various business ventures having high potential in the transfers, elevator services, information technology services and current economic environment as well as those which are poised for property management services. With our proven track record of being growth in the future. The Group’s extensive and profitable presence in a leader in the service industry we are well poised to break new a wide range of businesses has simultaneously diversified the risks grounds with the launch of the Heritage Grove, the pioneering luxury and enabled the Group harness growth opportunities. retirement village in the country. REVENUE (RS.Mn) REVENUE (RS.Mn) for the year ended 31st March for the year ended 31st March 15,068 599 2014 2014 17,908 537 2013 2013 14,581 482 2012 2012 Total Assets (RS.Mn) Total Assets (RS.Mn) AS AT 31st March AS AT 31st March 22,363 3,085 2014 2014 22,890 3,020 2013 2013 21,378 2,704 2012 2012 Annual Report 2013 2014 9 10 Aitken Spence PLC ONE ON ONE EXECUTIVE REVIEWS Annual Report 2013 2014 11 CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT I welcome you to the sixty second Annual General Meeting of Aitken Spence PLC., and am pleased to present to you the Integrated Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March 2014. GLOBAL ECONOMY The global economy posted a growth of 3% in 2013, driven by a recovery in the advanced economies and the continued strong performances of the developing and emerging economies. Asia Pacific economies continued to outperform their western counterparts, recording a growth of 6.6% despite slower than expected growth in its two largest economies. China grew at 7.7% its slowest growth in over a decade while the Indian economy grew 4.4%. Sentiment on the African continent has improved steadily, with the region growing 4.8% during the year and several of its economies being tagged by analysts as ones to watch in the medium term. With economic activity gathering pace across Your Company had an excellent year and the globe, the IMF has projected global growth recorded the highest ever profits, posting to strengthen to 3.7% in 2014 and to 3.9 % in 2015. Emerging markets are stated to grow a profit before tax of Rs. 5.4 billion for the at around 5.1% up from 4.7% in 2013, while advanced economies are expected to grow year. at 2.2 %, higher than the 1.3% achieved in 2013. China and India are expected to continue their above par performance, with the Chinese economy remaining robust to grow at 7.5% while India is expected to post a growth of 5.4%. Of the advanced economies, a strong growth of 2.8% has been projected for the United States with the Eurozone expected to return positive growth, despite some members continuing to struggle with high debt and financial fragmentation. The Group will watch with interest the developments in India, following the election of the BJP leader Narendra Modi as Prime 12 Aitken Spence PLC Minister. This is an opportune moment for the earnings in tourism the current account new investments directly from an overseas SAARC region to reap its tremendous growth deficit decreased to USD 2,607 in 2013 from lender. potential by working together towards the USD 3,982 million in 2012. The country’s common good. per capita income crossed the USD 3,000 I commend the government on its efforts mark, to end at USD 3,280 keeping on track to create an enabling environment for business in Sri Lanka; the current economic ENABLING ENVIRONMENT to reach the per capita income target of USD 4,000 by 2016. environment, while being challenging in some The Sri Lankan economy surged ahead in respects, presents a multitude of opportunities 2013, achieving a real GDP growth of 7.3% Economic conditions in Sri Lanka have for businesses with the appetite to grow. compared with the 6.3% achieved in 2012. positioned the country for a spurt of growth; The agriculture sector grew 4.7% on the back the low interest rates and low inflation I wish to also reiterate the need to provide of strong performances from tea, fisheries combined with high level of liquidity in support to Sri Lankan entrepreneurs to and paddy sub-sectors while rubber and the money market and a stable exchange achieve their true potential. While foreign coconut industries reported negative growth. rate have created conducive conditions investments must be encouraged, we must The Industry sector grew by 9.9% with the for businesses. The post-war infrastructure act with prudence to ensure the entry of the construction industry leading the way with development continues apace; we welcome right kind of investors, who can add value to 14.4% growth and the mining and quarrying the extensive efforts across the country to our local economy and our people. and electricity industries both expanding improve the road network as well as the over 10%. The services sector grew by 6.4% I take this opportunity to also salute the mega projects which have already provided with the booming hotels and restaurant sub government on successfully hosting the a second international airport and seaport to sector growing by a considerable 22.3% and Commonwealth Heads of Government the country. The economic benefits wrought transport services growing by 9.4%. Meeting in Colombo in November. Hosting by such developments and the connectivity the summit enabled the government to they offer will be long term in nature. Tourist arrivals to country surpassed the initial demonstrate its development agenda target of 1.2 million to record 1.27 million The Central Bank of Sri Lanka in its policy for and its progress in the reconstruction and arrivals which is a growth of 26.7% over the 2014 has announced plans to consolidate rehabilitation of the former conflict affected previous year. The continuous increase in the country’s overcrowded banking sector, areas. CHOGM 2013 raised post-war Sri tourist arrivals and an increase in average with a view to creating stronger financial Lanka’s profile on the global stage, proving spending per tourist resulted in gross institutions that can help sustain the country’s the country’s position as an exciting and safe earnings from tourism recording USD 1,715 growth. The government’s vision is for at least destination for both foreign investors and million in 2013 which is year on year increase five Sri Lankan banks to have one trillion tourists. The challenge is now upon the public of 67.4%. rupee balance sheets by 2016. We welcome and private sector communities to capitalize the move as a strong financial services sector on opportunities created therein. Exports earned USD 10,394 million recording will be a barometer of a robust economy. a 6.4% growth while imports amounted to CORPORATE PERFORMANCE USD 18,003 million, contracting by 6.2%. The The government has encouraged the private trade deficit declined by 19.2 % to USD 7,609 Your Company had an excellent year and sector to borrow funds from overseas million in 2013 from USD 9,417 million. With recorded the highest ever profits, posting a institutions; your Company too has taken the decline in the trade deficit and with the profit before tax of Rs. 5.4 billion for the year, advantage of the liberalised exchange control increase in worker remittances and enhanced a growth of 7.6% and a net profit attributable regulations to obtain funding for several of its to equity holders of Rs. 3.7 billion, a 11.7% growth over the previous year. Earnings per Share stood at Rs. 9.04 while the return 3,672 on equity was a commendable 12.2%. In 2014 keeping with the strong performance and in line with providing an attractive return on 3,288 2013 investment to our shareholders, the Board recommends a final dividend of Rs 2.00 per 3,488 share which is an increase of 33.3% over the 2012 previous year. While the performance of the individual businesses is described in greater Net Profit Attributable to Equity HolDers detail in the rest of this report, I would like RS. 3,672 Mn to bring your attention to a few noteworthy highlights. for the year ended 31st March The Tourism sector recorded yet another strong performance during the year, boosted Annual Report 2013 2014 13 CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT by an exceptional year for the Maldivian underpinned by a well diversified business Ms. D.S.T. Jayawardena who joined the Board properties. The Sri Lankan hotels also model that supports this growth trajectory. during the year. During the year, the Board achieved a stronger performance year on year was deeply saddened at the passing away while the Travels segment did well to retain its In order to create sustainable value for our of our fellow Director Mr. C.R. de Silva, PC. predominant market position. stakeholders, we have focused on short term His tenure on the Board, though brief, was of performance as well as medium term goals much value to the Company. The Maritime Cargo Logistics sector had and a long term vision – the combination a successful year, and I am particularly and alignment of which allow us to broadly I extend my appreciations to the many encouraged by the investment made by the map out our business strategies for the next notable principals, agents and business Group in Fiji for port management; we see decade. partners we work with across the world, with vast potential for similar projects, especially whom we enjoy positive relationships of in the Asia Pacific and African regions. The These are times of rapid change for the mutual benefit. I thank you for your loyalty to investment in maritime education has truly entire world, and these mega trends will our Group. been proven to be a far sighted move, given redefine how states, societies, businesses and the successes we continue to see. individuals operate in the future. These gameThe management of your company, led by changers include demographic shifts such as the Group Management Committee and the Of our Strategic Investments, this has been an ageing population and rapid urbanization; Sector Management teams, has provided an exceptional year for the Garments and the pressure on natural resources; climate yeomen leadership to the employees –on Printing segments; it is immensely satisfying change; the shift in economic power bases behalf of the Board, I would like to sincerely to observe these segments which have had from the west to the east; the growing thank them. The employees are the core their share of pressures, performing above connectedness of people and economies in a of Aitken Spence – I thank them for their expectations. virtual world; and the role of new technologies commitment, courage and fortitude to take on and innovations. Companies such as the challenges of tomorrow. It was a disappointing year for the power ours must be mindful of the opportunities segment, which faced a slew of challenges presented by such mega trends and the risks Finally, I thank you our loyal shareholders, and was unable to achieve the expected they pose to our sustainability. Our strategies for your trust and faith in the Board and targets. We were adversely affected by delays for the long term and our exploration of management of your company. in payments from the Ceylon Electricity Board potential new areas of business therefore and the non-renewal of the power purchase factor in our consideration and responses to agreements of Horana and Matara plants. some of the key trends of the future. Hence during the year the segment disposed the Horana power plant to an overseas Over the last few years, we have instituted buyer and made a provision for impairment a robust risk management framework and of approximately Rs.400 million for the strong governance structures with a view remaining assets of these two companies. to strengthening your company’s internal D.H.S. Jayawardena. controls. Our corporate governance structure The 100 MW power plant in Embilipitiya Chairman is in compliance with “The Code of Best which operated throughout the financial Practice on Corporate Governance” issued 27th May 2014. year is now in the final year of its power jointly by the Securities and Exchange purchase agreement. The Group is presently Commission of Sri Lanka and the institute of discussing with CEB on the way forward for Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka. the Embilipitiya plant and is confident of a mutually beneficial outcome. These mechanisms allow us to manage the business with more transparency and We remain optimistic about our involvement accountability – they also facilitate best in renewable energy through hydropower and practices in succession planning and wind power projects, and will seek growth leadership development, ensuring that the avenues in these areas. Group nurtures a pipeline of leaders for the future. I am happy to assure you that such COMPANY OUTLOOK measures will inevitably add value to your Your company has been able to deliver investment in Aitken Spence PLC. consistent results through a combination of strategic foresight and the capacity to APPRECIATIONS transform challenges into opportunities; these It is my duty to thank my fellow members of qualities of the conglomerate have been the Board of Directors for their support and guidance during the year. I wish to welcome 14 Aitken Spence PLC Managing Director's Review RS.9.04 EARNINGS PER SHARE Facilitated by the diversity of our businesses, it was a year during which the focus of our strategies, our strength and agility as a conglomerate, and the skills and adaptability of our people once again resulted in a stellar performance. I note with pride that Aitken Spence has Historically, we have recognized the PERFORMANCE once again proven its ability to transform importance of proactively interacting with our The Group achieved a revenue of Rs. 36.6 challenges into opportunities, achieving stakeholders by listening to and responding to billion and a profit before tax of Rs.5.4 billion, growth under challenging conditions for their concerns and priorities. During the last which was a growth of 7.6% over the previous some key sectors. Facilitated by the diversity few years, we have fine tuned our processes financial year. A 11.7% growth was recorded of our businesses, it was a year during which to ensure that our relationship with each in the profits attributable to equity holders the focus of our strategies, our strength and stakeholder creates mutual value. The value which reached Rs. 3.7 billion. agility as a conglomerate, and the skills and we so create is what makes Aitken Spence adaptability of our people once again resulted a solid investment for our investors and a Reflecting the progress of the Group, the in a stellar performance. partner of choice for our many stakeholders. earnings per share was Rs. 9.04 while the Annual Report 2013 2014 15 Managing Director's Review return on equity stood at a healthy 12.2% at central planning for tourism may lead to rates benefitting from a buoyant tourism industry year end. In acknowledgment of our excellent and yields coming under pressure. and new strategies adopted to attract results and in line with our policy of providing emerging markets. Our performance was an attractive return to our shareholders, the During the next financial year “The Sands“ somewhat hindered by the non operation Board of Directors has recommended a first Kalutara will add an additional 90 rooms of 17 water villas at Adaaran Select and final dividend of Rs. 2.00 per share, which thereby enhancing the resort’s inventory to Hudhuranfushi resort during the second half. is 33.3% higher than last year. 200 rooms. construction is in its final stages The villas, damaged by fire, will recommence at the proposed 150 roomed luxury hotel operations by September 2014. The Group is It is disappointing to note the drop in our property in Negombo. This luxury hotel will be also actively seeking opportunities to expand share price which I strongly believe does not the latest to join the Heritance portfolio and is its operations in the lucrative Maldivian reflect the performance and the fundamental expected to commence operations in winter market as well as in India, as prospects in value of the Company. The decline in share 2014 as “Heritance Negombo” The resort both countries should improve as a result of price was also partly due to the exit of several would cater to multiple segments of clients post-election political stability. large US and European funds from the stock including business travellers. market as a result of the weak conditions in The inbound travel segment maintained its those markets as well as the policy changes With rapid infrastructure development taking pre-eminent position in the market during the signalled by the US Federal Reserve. I hope place in the Eastern province we are now year, with considerable growth in volumes in the coming year, the share price of your ready to develop our property in Nilaweli, and revenue. The partnership with TUI was Company would reflect the true value of your Trincomalee. We are working with authorities further energised during the year with a visit Company. to obtain approvals to begin planning work by the CEO and senior management of TUI and have been faced with bureaucratic Travel PLC, to explore greater opportunities in the country. 5,703 2014 We continue to enjoy an excellent relationship with Singapore Airlines, for 5,531 whom we have been General Sales Agent in 2013 Sri Lanka for over thirty years the longest 5,402 serving GSA within the SIA network. During 2012 the year, we successfully defended SIA market share in Sri Lanka despite heavy competition PROFIT FROM OPERATIONS and pressures. We also note with satisfaction RS. 5,703 Mn the progress of our Sri Lankan Airlines GSA in the Maldives. At Aitken Spence, our future outlook will for the year ended 31st March involve taking advantage of our position as a regional player with its presence in Sri Lanka, As an in depth discussion on the performance restrictions arising from the land being the Maldives, India and Oman to offer greater of the Group is presented in the Management situated within one mile radius of the Pigeon synergies to international tour operators. We Discussion and Analysis, I would touch upon Island protected wildlife area. are also actively promoting the MICE tourism the key areas of importance in my report. market, taking advantage of the expanded We are excited about our partnership with RIU infrastructure, domestic air travel and the Hotels, Spain in a USD 100 million investment increasing number of international airlines SECTOR PERFORMANCE to build a 500 room, five star luxury hotel on flying into Sri Lanka. Tourism our property in Ahungalle. The hotel will be operated by RIU on its all inclusive model and Maritime Cargo Logistics Sri Lanka is ready to take a leap in its tourism will cater to high value charter groups flown in industry, having welcomed over 1.27 million The Maritime Cargo Logistics Sector had a to Mattala Rajapaksa International Airport. RIU tourists during the year 2013, with a target of good year, the highlight of which was the as well as its partner TUI, a long term partner 1.5 million for 2014. The room inventory has entry of the Maritime Sector into the Republic of Aitken Spence, have identified Sri Lanka as grown, leaving the country poised to cater of Fiji through a public-private partnership. a cornerstone in their growth strategies for to greater demand. At this juncture, there Under this agreement, we secured a 51% the future, which augurs well for the tourism must be a collective and cohesive approach stake in Ports Terminal Limited of Fiji, and will industry. towards destination marketing in order to operate and manage the ports of Suva and generate better value and growth; the lack of The Maldivian properties registered an Lautoka over the next 15 years. The Aitken excellent performance during the year, Spence involvement has resulted in a 30%16 Aitken Spence PLC 40% productivity improvement within just six optimistic that the segment will continue to with its main customers. The segment is now months – influenced by our learnings from grow in the medium term. The demand for ready for expansion and during the coming similar operations in African continent. We will warehousing has grown steadily, and a new year, we plan to set up a new production continue to seek similar port management investment will be made in an ultra-modern facility with enhanced capacities. opportunities in Asia and Africa. warehousing complex in Welisara. The printing segment enjoyed another good Our investment in the education sector – the year, with its new eco-friendly green factory Strategic Investments CINEC Maritime Campus has proven a solid attracting more business from overseas. investment; the campus now offers degree The power generation segment had an The industry demands constant innovation courses in engineering and management extremely difficult year, following the nonand investment in modern machinery; this in partnership with foreign universities and renewal of the power purchase agreements year, the segment expanded its offering by is due to begin degree programmes in of the Horana and Matara plants. During introducing variable and digital printing tourism and hospitality shortly. The Maritime the year the segment disposed the Horana facilities. Cargo Logistics sector is pursuing a shift in power plant to an overseas buyer and made a its business model, from the agency and provision for impairment of approximately The plantations segment had a successful service-related businesses to investment Rs. 400 million for the remaining assets of year, driven by its diversification into palm driven operations since in the current rapidly these two companies, which had an adverse oil and a new joint venture to sell Ceylon developing economic landscape, the role of impact to the sector and the Group. Tea in China. It is important to note that the the middleman is waning. sustainability of the entire plantations industry The 100 MW plant in Embilipitiya is now in can only be guaranteed through the adoption TNT courier had a dip in operational profits the final year of its contract and the Group of a model where future wage increases are is presently in discussions with the CEB on linked to performance and productivity of workers. Maritime Cargo Logistics Sector had a good year, Services the highlight of which was the entry of the The MMBL Money Transfer service reported a healthy performance, driven by its strategic Sector into the Republic of Fiji through a publicmarketing initiatives in the “Send” countries. private partnership. we secured a 51% stake in The growing numbers of skilled and semiskilled personnel seeking employment Ports Terminal Limited of Fiji, and will operate and opportunities overseas holds positive growth potential for the segment. manage the ports of Suva and Lautoka over the The insurance segment continued to act next 15 years. as superintendents for UNWFP and further secured a long term agreement with them this year. This provides us with the largest this year as it was mainly affected by cross single source of income in this segment, exchange rate losses. The now abandoned the way forward for the Embilipitiya plant. whilst affording our surveyors the opportunity proposed merger between TNT and UPS The hydropower plant and the wind power of training regional logistics staff, thereby resulted in depressed trading and reduced plant have not performed at desired levels serving the community. The segment also innovations during 2012/2013, however TNT this year and it is hoped that they would ventured into aviation surveys and further is now on a reinvigorated growth phase and bring in the expected results in the coming expanded its operations in the Maldives to we look forward to expanding our activities years. The Group remains committed to include marine cargo surveys, investigations during the coming year. During the year, the expanding its renewable energy portfolio and and discharge surveys. freight forwarding segment and the Cargo is seeking opportunities both in Sri Lanka GSA operations in Sri Lanka, Maldives and and overseas. In Bangladesh, we have exited The OTIS Elevator agency enjoyed a strong Bangladesh performed well bringing in the from one proposed thermal power project due performance, winning several prestigious expected returns to the Group. to the authorities not being able to provide high profile contracts on the back of the a suitable land for the plant as per project infrastructure development in the country. The transportation business was impacted requirements, while discussions continue in The entry of global brands to Sri Lanka is by the non-operation of the two thermal relation to the second project. beneficial for top-end products such as OTIS. power plants resulting in a drastic reduction in the regular fuel transport operations. The The garments segment has performed Performance of the information technology extensive diversification within the segment exceptionally well, establishing itself in its segment, in just its second year of operations, has enabled it to perform well; we are niche and enjoying preferred supplier status has been very encouraging, winning a Annual Report 2013 2014 17 Managing Director’s Review The Group will continue to pursue new areas of business while constantly exploring traditional sectors as well as new emerging sectors and industries, for opportunities that would complement our strategies and align well with our vision. significant number of implementation and anti-corruption. We remain committed contracts; it is also a top performer in the to champion the principles within our Oracle suite of products and offers much businesses and the wider private sector, by future promise for the Group. giving leadership and support to the Global Compact Network of Sri Lanka. The Group formally entered the luxury retirement homes space during the year NEW BUSINESS with the launch of Heritage Grove project in Negombo. We see great potential in this The Group will continue to pursue new area once there is sufficient awareness of the areas of business while constantly exploring concept, which is new to Sri Lanka. We have traditional sectors as well as new emerging now commenced the marketing of luxury sectors and industries, for opportunities that villas in the US, Canada, Europe and Australia. would complement our strategies and align well with our vision. As has been our strength in the past, we will continue to tread new HUMAN RESOURCES & paths, exit those businesses that no longer SUSTAINABILITY fit well with our agenda for sustainable The success and growth of a diversified development and reinvent ourselves to Group such as ours is dependent solely upon transform challenges into opportunities. the contributions made by each and every employee of the Group. We appreciate our APPRECIATIONS employees’ continuous contribution towards the Company’s improved performance. I thank each and every member of the Aitken Spence family without whom, our During the year HR policies were reviewed achievements would not have been possible. and revised to promote better employee While thanking you for the journey you have engagement and to obtain employee support taken with us, I would like to emphasise to face the challenges of the complex that greater challenges lie ahead and that business environment in which we operate. innovation must become part of our DNA; it is Developing the leadership pipeline within the by forging a spirit of entrepreneurship that we Group was a key priority this year, and would can work towards a collective vision. be continued into the future. A renewed social and environmental governance policy and implementation procedure were introduced this year. We implemented several initiatives within the Group to build capacity and share knowledge related to sustainability. Aitken Spence was among the first businesses to sign J.M.S. Brito up to the United Nations Global Compact, Managing and Finance Director a strategic policy initiative committed to 27th May 2014. ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment Pg 19 to 97 18 Aitken Spence PLC STEP BY STEP management discussion and analysis Annual Report 2013 2014 19 Management Discussion and Analysis In our management discussion and analysis we would be discussing our business model, our strategies and performance and key economic, social and environmental factors affecting our businesses. Pages 21 25 About Aitken Spence & the Operating Environment The opportunities and challenges of diverse business segments are met with the same Pages 26 28 vigour whilst remaining at all times true Engaging with our to its core values; this has enabled Aitken stakeholders Spence to develop many key strategic We examine the methods and strengths over the years. the channels we engage with our stakeholders, and how we address mutual issues. Pages 29 33 Our Strategy We consider the business model in our four core sectors while discussing economic, social and Pages 34 39 environmental strategies for the Group in the short, medium and Risk Management long term. The diverse range of business activities exposes the Group to a wider range of risks and opportunities. This report discusses the risk management Pages 40 43 strategies adopted by the Group. Our People Aitken Spence has built a solid reputation as an employer of choice; an achievement built on years of strategic efforts to Pages 44 58 attract, develop and retain key talent. Who leads us Board of Directors Group Management Committee Senior Management Teams Pages 59 65 Group Performance Review of the overall Group financial performance along Pages 66 97 with discussions on financial indicators based on the Group’s Business Sectors consolidated performance Tourism Maritime Cargo Logistics Services Strategic Investments Discussion on the business, economic, social and environmental conditions in which we operate and a detailed analysis of the performance of each sector. 20 Aitken Spence PLC about Aitken Spence OUR VISION To achieve excellence in all our activities, establish high growth businesses in Sri Lanka and across new frontiers, and become a globally competitive market leader in the region. Our Brand Values P Reliable P Honest P Friendly P Genuine P Inspiring Confidence The roots of Aitken Spence go back 150 years. Aitken Spence owns and manages an continue its current leadership position in the The Company was founded as a trading and internationally-acclaimed chain of hotels and future. One of the key thrusts would be in the maritime services operation in 1868 by two resorts in Sri Lanka, the Maldives, India and luxury living segment where Aitken Spence British entrepreneurs. Over one and a half Oman. The Company has partnered the world’s broke new ground by introducing the country’s centuries, the Company expanded its business largest name in travel – TUI of Germany first Luxury Retirement Community Heritage operations and grew to become one of the (a member of the Worldcome network) for Grove, aimed at attracting expatriates to the largest and most respected conglomerates in over three decades and represents over 200 country for their retirement. the country. Aitken Spence, was listed on the leading worldwide tour operators. Colombo Stock Exchange in 1983. A visionary and proactive approach to Aitken Spence is Sri Lanka’s leading provider maintaining long term viability, profitability and Today, Aitken Spence’s operations are of logistics solutions, with an unrivalled range integrity of the business to enable sustainable categorised under four sectors, namely, of services that include maritime, cargo, value creation at Aitken Spence, sustainability Tourism, Maritime Cargo Logistics, Services express courier, container-related services, practices are specifically embedded in its and Strategic Investments. Amongst the warehousing, supply chain management operations to ensure they are aligned with the strategic investments the Company has made and specialised transport offerings. The Company’s strategy. Many benchmarks were it has significant interests in plantations, power Company recently entered into a publicset including the first carbon neutral owned generation, KPO/BPO services, insurance, private partnership with Fiji Ports Corporation fleet and destination management operation IT, printing and garments. The Company’s to operate and manage the ports of Suva and in the country, the first ISO 50001 certified operations have a global reach spanning Lautoka, the largest international ports in Fiji. hotel chain in the country, and the first carbon South Asia, the Middle East, Africa and neutral printing facility in the region during the South Pacific. Aitken Spence has been The Company is a significant player in the the year. recognised by Forbes Magazine as one of the power generation sector with a portfolio of most successful publicly traded companies thermal, wind and hydro power plants and is The Company initiated Empowering Sri with annual sales under USD 1 billion outside strategically evaluating several new power Lanka First, a programme implemented to of the United States, for three consecutive projects both in Sri Lanka and overseas. provide English and computer literacy skills to years. students of low income families. This learning The Company acts as agents for Lloyd’s of opportunity is aimed at inculcating an interest Aitken Spence is a pioneer in making London in Sri Lanka since 1876 and has in learning English language and developing investments in strategic growth sectors. The been representing Singapore Airlines, and computer literacy skills through self-learning Company through its strategic foresight has OTIS elevators for several decades. It is also and communicative teaching methods. identified and invested in several sectors a principal agent in Sri Lanka for Western resulting in exceptional returns over the years. Union Money Transfer. Aitken Spence has also Aitken Spence is a signatory to the United It possesses an enviable record in working made a significant investment in the higher Nations Global Compact and has been with global leaders in many of the industry education sphere when it became the single repeatedly recognised by the country’s sectors. Whilst most of the strategic ventures largest shareholder in the CINEC maritime leading business chamber as one of the best are joint ventures with partners having globally campus. corporate citizens in Sri Lanka for the past recognised brand names, the Company has eight years, and was adjudged as the winner The Company has identified a number of in 2012. developed its own brands in the Tourism strategic frontiers that would enable it to sector. Annual Report 2013 2014 21 operating environment The core essence of the Aitken Spence Brand is RELIABILITY. In striving towards achieving excellence in all our activities, establishing high growth businesses in Sri Lanka and across new frontiers and aiming towards becoming a globally competitive market leader in the region, we aspire to always be recognised as being an organisation that is Reliable, Transparent, Friendly, Genuine and Inspiring Confidence while going the extra mile and a half to deliver that value and provide an exceptional service. In doing so, we hope to maintain our core strengths; P Wealth of experience and professional management P Diverse business portfolio P Financial stability P Corporate reputation P Best talent in service Strengths The Advantage Our Approach Wealth of experience and professional management Management expertise Strong domain knowledge, proven experience Contemporary talent management and human resource in building businesses, reputed for intellectual management strategies, succession planning to train capital. and mentor next line of leadership. Diverse business portfolio Diversity of industries and Presence in many key industry sectors insulates Regular strategic evaluation of micro and macro business sectors overall Group performance against potential economic fundamentals with a view to invest and/or risks and negative impacts that may occur in a divest to maintain optimum portfolio. particular business sector. Geographical and regional The geographic distribution of operations Seeking expansion in overseas markets utilising our diversity allows the Group to spread its risk among management capabilities and investment capacity and several regions, leaving it better prepared to acumen. offset a potential downturn in one region with strong performance from another. Financial stability Stable financial structure Ability to attract and retain strategic Focused strategic decision making in choosing areas of partnerships, capacity to expedite new investment, diversified portfolio of businesses, tactical investments/ventures, greater access to funds decision making in business entry and exit strategies, and more advantageous negotiation powers efficient management of Group wide cash flows. with financial institutions, greater efficiency in day to day operations. 22 Aitken Spence PLC Strengths The Advantage Our Approach Governance and risk management Strong focus on internal controls, well Regular training and awareness sessions to employees established policies and procedures with at all levels. Regular interactions with the members of inhouse internal audit and risk management the Board Audit Committee and external auditors to unit. Resolute culture of doing business discuss key concerns or early warning signs. ethically at all times and inculcating strong corporate values at all levels. Property and physical A strong base of land and infrastructure Evaluating opportunities to utilise existing land and infrastructure in sought-after locations; iconic physical property base for further expansion; strong ethic on infrastructure considered benchmarks in maintaining high standards of infrastructure with sound respective industries. construction process utilising best available inputs and environmentally friendly designs. Stability and consistency A good investment for shareholders; stable A positive but conservative philosophy towards growth partner for stakeholders and a just and and expansion to ensure long-term performance and meaningful contributor towards the economy. sustainability; agile decision making. Corporate reputation Reputation Has earned the respect and trust of existing Strong focus on governance and sustainable and potential stakeholders as a responsible development; commitment to long-standing global corporate citizen. partners. Brand Strong corporate brand with high equity allows Brand and perception managed through positive for easy recognition and recall; strategy of and consistent brand communication; regular brand umbrella branding results in wide acceptance awareness education for employees. and synergy. Best talent in service Job satisfaction and security of An empowered, motivated workforce, driven Proactive engagement with employees to address employees towards performance and aware of the wider mutual concerns; extensive training for personal and goals of the organization. skills development; responding to the changing nature of the workforce; promotion of work life balance; regular benchmarking of remuneration and benefits with those offered by the market. Annual Report 2013 2014 23 operating environment Global Trends, Opportunities, Challenges and the Impact on Our Business Opportunity Addressing the Opportunities Emerging global niche markets and new customer segments provide • Developing products to address global trends and demands opportunities to attract new investors and international fund managers Efficiency and productivity enhancement and management in and new growth opportunities. ports. Macro economic growth, rapidly advancing middle-class and emerging • Exploring business ventures beyond the existing geographical unique business opportunities in the Asian and African continent pave presence. the way for new business ventures. Evolution of technology and business connectivity, create boundless • Integrating digital concepts and technology to business opportunities for products and services that cater to evolving customer strategies. needs. • Diversity in operations and the product/ service offering. • Implementation of sustainability performance management software tools to streamline disclosure of performance information. As organisations increase effort to maximise cost efficiency within the • Investing in a KPO operation to cater to the global market operations, focus is shifting towards outsourcing business operations. demands. Focus on climate change mitigation has opened doors to many • Leadership in eco-friendly products and services. opportunities in new products and services that contribute positively • Positioning in the country as a responsible corporate citizen. towards climate change mitigation and ensuring a sustainable future. • Ecosystem conservation efforts. Provision of eco-friendly and socially responsible products and • Renewable energy projects of the Group companies. services create opportunity to increase brand equity. • Carbon neutral printing facility. • Carbon neutral destination management operations and owned fleet of vehicles. • Investment in innovative agricultural projects. Infrastructure developments in the country is enabling a growth in the • Partnering with new hotel operators and brands. opportunities for all businesses. • Establishing logistical infrastructure at Hambantota Port. There is an increased demand for business intelligence education as • Development of internal educational capabilities and evolving business opportunities require more skilled workforce. engagement with external academic institutions and industry associations. 24 Aitken Spence PLC Challenges Addressing the Challenges Impacts on environment, ecosystem • Environmental Management Systems and network of trained and certified internal EMS auditors. services and biodiversity • Pollution control across the Group. • Green philosophy implemented across the hotel operations in Sri Lanka and the Maldives. • Energy management systems across the hotel chain; ISO 50001 certified energy management system at Heritance hotels. • Obtaining and retaining LEED certified architecture. Retention and attraction of talent • Sustainable talent management schemes. • Succession planning. • Encouraging work life balance for employees. • Employee competency development. • Proactive employee relations. Data Security • Ongoing monitoring and risk management of IT systems. Competition from new entrants in • Quality assurance of products and services. traditional businesses • Total solution product offering through diversification. Increasing energy cost • Energy management activities across the Group. • Creating awareness on the importance of energy conservation amongst all stakeholders. • Investment in renewable energy. Fluctuating weather patterns due to • Forestry management. climate change • Renewable energy investment. • Monitoring and control of emissions. • Energy management systems and environmental management systems. • Innovative management techniques at the estates. Regulatory barriers and adverse macro • Diversification in geographical markets. economic trends locally and globally • Diversification of products. Annual Report 2013 2014 25 Engagement with Our Stakeholders Key Stakeholder Categories: Employees Investors, Shareholders Banks and financial institutions Customers , Principals & agents Industry Partners & Associations Suppliers/ Service Providers & Community Environment/ Environmental Interest Groups Government and Regulatory Bodies Organisations working towards true Our key stakeholders can be Stakeholders outside or external sustainability must engage with their stakeholders in a healthy, and mutually clustered into the following to the organisation beneficial manner which foster lasting broad categories: (stakeholders indirectly related to the relationships. We value the multiple operations); relationships built by Aitken Spence across Stakeholders within the organisation industries and developed over time, and (stakeholders directly related to our operations); • Customers, Principals & Agents believe that regular engagement with these stakeholders is critical to maintain those • Employees • Banks and financial institutions bonds. • Investors • Suppliers/ Service Providers The diversity of the Group’s operations in • Shareholders • Community both scale and nature means that each industry segment has its own unique set • Partners • Environment/ Environmental of stakeholders, concerns, impacts, risks, Interest Groups opportunities and benefits. Therefore a ‘onesize-fits-all’ solution is neither suitable nor • Government and Regulatory Bodies sustainable for the Group. As such what we • Associations practice is both unique and diverse. 26 Aitken Spence PLC Channels of Engagement; and communities that are directly related to (EMRs) and Occupational Health and Safety us. We constantly assess our businesses and (OHS) Representatives on the topics of The Group uses many channels of their stakeholders and monitor the current ‘Identifying Environmental Aspects relevant to engagement, which facilitate continuous business and operational environments with a the Operation’ for the EMRs and ‘Emergency feedback to both the Company and its view to identifying the potential opportunities Evacuation’ for the OHS representatives. stakeholders. The feedback thus received is and challenges for the company and in These forums are planned to be conducted analysed based on order to evaluate the Group’s competitive every quarter with the next set of Peer Forums • the relevance and priority of each strengths and advantages. This process already completed in March 2014 with EMRs stakeholder, allows the Group to proactively address each discussing ‘Energy Management’ and the • severity of any significant impacts, opportunity and challenge in order to improve OHS representatives discussing ‘OHS Due • business priorities and our readiness and mitigate our risks, thereby Diligence’. We hope to launch peer education • the need for striking the triple bottom achieving our ultimate goals of building a forums for the Group’s Human Rights Focal line balance. sustainable business. Points in June 2014. Commencing work on the Social and The methods of engagement for the key Results of Stakeholder Environmental Governance Policy and stakeholders with whom we have proactively Engagement Practices; engaged are illustrated in the ‘Stakeholder Procedures and implementing a sustainability During the year, there were several examples performance management software were Engagement’ diagram in this report. Some of the Group responding to stakeholder of the key sustainability issues and concerns other steps taken to improve overall concerns, directly addressing issues that organisational performance. addressed through stakeholder engagement arose during engagement. include return on investment, profit and At present our stakeholder engagement growth for investors, business partners and One key concern raised by an investor was process is internally driven without an shareholders; career progression, benefits, that the role awareness of sustainability team independent stakeholder engagement study. remuneration, working facilities and personal members needed to improve. In response, Plans are in the pipeline to carry out an development for employees, product and the concept of ‘Peer Education Forums’ independent stakeholder engagement study service quality, cost, reliability for customers; was introduced to bring together different in the foreseeable future with the assistance economic, social and environmental impact individuals across Aitken Spence companies of an external service provider in order to including local purchasing and employment handling similar responsibilities. This was ensure that the results are unbiased and that for communities. aimed at improving interaction between all key concerns are addressed. participants which could lead to learning The Group conducts scientific study and opportunities and better awareness of their maintains regular contact with significant roles from shared expertise and experience stakeholder groups that are directly related. of team members across the Group. These These include shareholders, partners, forums were launched in October 2013 with employees, interest groups, and associations separate forums for the Group’s network of such as the Global Compact Network links Environmental Management Representatives Annual Report 2013 2014 27 Engagement with Our Stakeholders Channels of Engagement Direct contact ı Participation in forums and training programmes ı Channels of Engagement Communication via sub agents or representatives ı Site visits and service Dialogue with policymakers, regulatory level agreements ı Meetings and lobby authorities and experts ı Reports and groups meetings ı Participation in industry / Channels of Engagement national level events ı Compliance Key areas of interest for reviews ı Media stakeholders and the organisation Dialogue with policymakers, regulatory authorities and experts ı Direct Adherence to international communication | Compliance reviews ı Key areas of interest for benchmarks ı Prevention of corruption Media stakeholders and the organisation ı Assurance of products / services ı Progress on agreed activities / Key areas of interest for Compliance ı Generation of procedures ı Capitalising on new stakeholders and the organisation employment ı Foreign income business opportunities by catering to generation ı Payment of taxes / fees / the needs of the clientele Climate change mitigation ı levies due to government / regulatory Management of environmental impacts bodies ı Prevention of corruption Channels of Engagement ı Waste management ı Compliance with environmental standards, laws Direct dialogue ı Participation in and regulations of the country seminars on quality and Channels of Engagement efﬁciency ı Supplier appraisals Employee satisfaction surveys ı Internal newsletters and Key areas of interest intranet ı Performance reviews rnal Stakeholders Re for stakeholders and st Exte lia ı Open door policy ı Grievance the organisation ne bl handling procedures ı Small Ho e group meetings with the Ethical conduct and Enviro nm Managing Director ı Group and production ı Proﬁtability ı s Interes ental tion t Gr oup SBU level events Assurance for service cia s so requirements, concerns, As l Co cia Rep rpor solutions ı an lty uta at Fin abil tio e ent & Professionalism and on St n ernm time service ı Efﬁciency Em Key areas of interest Gov y Authorities s Suppliers & for stakeholders and and effectiveness of Part ne ees oy ator the organisation pl Wealth of operations ı Competitive r advantage Service Provid Best Talent Internal gul ers enRe in Service Experi ce Stakeholders Occupational health and dence Confi safety ı Remuneration and ve beneﬁts ı Career progression ı lde In rs s g tor s & Shareho s Pr Skills development ı Human n es i a n ofe s si n C Frien pir y u nit Bu sto M a g sio n r s e li o Rights at the Workplace mu em al D i v e ortf o me dly Ins m e nt P rs ı Work life balance Co B anks l & Fin a n c ia I n s ti t u ti o n s Channels of Engagement Channels of Engagement G en unin e Direct communication ı Local Customer satisfaction surveys ı purchasing engagements ı Dialogues Buyer inspections/ audits ı with community groups ı Media and Direct contact ı Customer annual reports Channels of Engagement service and support points-of-contact Annual General Meeting and other meetings ı Financial Key areas of interest for reporting ı Website and social Key areas of interest stakeholders and the organisation media ı Media ı Investor for stakeholders and Development of infrastructure ı discussions the organisation Employment generation and extending opportunities for local Key areas of interest Quality and reliability of entrepreneurs/ students ı for stakeholders and products and services ı Ethical Environmental conservation ı the organisation production ı Value for given Building sustainable social price ı Data security and relationships ı Safety, health and Return on Investment/ ROE ı privacy of information disclosed welfare Ethical conduct ı to the organisation ı Innovation Environmental and social of products and services to governance ı Resilient balance meet new trends in markets sheet ı Sustainable proﬁtability ı and customer needs Corporate communication 28 Aitken Spence PLC OUR Strategy Aitken Spence PLC is one of Sri Lanka’s largest blue-chip conglomerates. Over We aspire to deliver Stakeholder value by: hundred years of successful business operation has enabled us to create the P Positive economic value creation through geographical, rich heritage of the Aitken Spence Brand. The wealth of skill and competencies and business and product diversification. strength of our human resources has enabled us to evolve and transcend to the premier P Employment generation, reward and retention Company we are today. The pillars on which our diversification strategy rests are the four P Contribution to society through our corporate social core sectors in which the Company operates namely Tourism, Maritime Cargo Logistics, responsibility initiatives Strategic Investments and Services. Over the years we have expanded our operations P Sustaining the business environment in which we in key segments where we have built core operate. competencies and ventured into new business areas in which we have acquired proficiencies through joint ventures and We believe our sustainable growth requires Given below are some of the key strategic strategic partnerships with international and proactive meticulous planning and decision directions pursued by Aitken Spence in local corporates. It is with pride that we can making based on solid fundamentals and furthering its operations and commitment to state that we were the pioneers in many of financial discipline. We depict our operational creating stakeholder value. the business segments that we are leaders in interaction within the core sectors of Aitken today. We have also taken our expertise in the Spence along with the strategic direction that is • Taking advantage of the rapid core sectors across international boundaries provided by the Board of Directors in page 31. infrastructure development in the country to replicate the success story achieved in and the Government’s initiative for the Sri Lanka. Our operations are spread across We invest in and facilitate research and development of the nation as a tourism the globe from Asia to Africa, the Middle East development to ensure continuous innovation hub, our strategy encompasses the and to the South Pacific. We are a Sri Lankan to maintain our pioneering nature in our development of four luxury resorts in enterprise with a truly global reach. We are business growth. It is our aim to build Negombo, Ahungalla, Galle and Nilaweli. consistently aware of our commitment to long term strategies to leverage on the One of which would be with a strategic our stakeholders and strive for an equitable Aitken Spence Brand by developing a set of partnership with RUI Hotels. balance between wealth creation and cohesive strategies across all the sectors and create synergies for growth both locally • Yet again in a pioneering venture in the sustainable development whilst nurturing the and internationally. Aitken Spence is planning Maritime Cargo Logistics sector we have environment we operate in. its new growth strategy by making an early entered into a public private partnership entry into the “next generation technology with Fiji Ports Corporation to acquire a Business model 51% equity stake in Ports Terminal Limited business” that will create opportunities and We at Aitken Spence realise that the success for the operation and the management growth both in Sri Lanka and overseas. It of our Company is our diversification. of the ports of Suva and Lautoka. Further is the Aitken Spence Group endeavour to Therefore we constantly seek strategies keeping in line with the policy direction position itself as the preferred partner in the to fuel the growth and expansion of our of the Sri Lankan Government promoting region for international companies that value current business segments as well as seek Sri Lanka as a maritime hub we at Aitken good corporate, social and environmental opportunities for diversification into new Spence hope to contribute towards this governance. businesses. Our strategy of diversification goal with the opening of a state of the art is focused on both organic and inorganic logistics complex offering warehousing initiatives geared towards creating value and container freight station facilities at to our stakeholders. In achieving this we Welisara. place emphasis in building collaborations with world renowned partners and brands. Annual Report 2013 2014 29 OUR Strategy • Through our strategic investment in and innovative technologies that are in any gaps in achieving sustainability as CINEC maritime campus, the largest keeping with our strategic directions for expected, and also to recognise opportunities maritime academy in South Asia, we investment. and new aspects that might be of relevance propose to expand the Aitken Spence foot to their operations. print in education both in Sri Lanka and • The wealth of our people and the overseas. reliability of our service excellence is a Simultaneously, Group companies are focus of our strategy through which we encouraged to champion an area in • Renewable power generation remains intend to venture into new knowledge and sustainability that will enable the most a key segment in which we wish to service centered businesses. sustainable value creation for that specific further participate. In this direction we SBU and their key stakeholders. This is are focused on setting up green field We at Aitken Spence will continue to support the second platform of the Aitken Spence power plants in the emerging markets the United Nations Global Compact, its ten sustainability strategy which we refer to as and to undertake further investments in principles and focused initiatives on specific ‘Strategic Differentiation of the SBUs’. All SBUs renewable energy projects in Sri Lanka. sustainability challenges. Our strategies have identified areas that add value to their are aligned to playing a leading role in operations and are in the process of taking • We acknowledge the fact of the global strengthening the proliferation of sustainable action to create differentiation in their efforts. demographics gradually changing to a business practices in areas we operate. Aitken more ageing population and the needs Spence has remained steadfast in ensuring a Group differentiation is the next platform in of the market segment requiring greater consistent and good return to its shareholders. the strategy where a common sustainability attention. With this in mind Aitken Spence Our prudent financial management practices programme is launched to create sustainable has ventured into a landmark project by along with our strategic direction has enabled value where all companies within the Group investing in a luxury retirement home this proven successful track record, which we can come under one umbrella to support complex “Heritage Grove”, in Negombo. have no doubt will continue in the future. a cause that is of national importance. This project also aims at creating a ‘Empowering Sri Lanka First’ was developed “second home” to the expatriate and the The Sustainability Strategy after much discussion with education experts diaspora of the country, a concept which and stakeholders to provide English language The sustainability strategy was developed has developed significantly in the region. and computer skills education for children to incorporate strategic focus to the existing within our communities. This is a platform • The rapidly changing technological sustainability efforts of the SBUs where in the strategy which is meant to create landscape brings with it immense necessary and also guide them on future differentiation for Aitken Spence, as one potentials for growth and investment. action. Implementation of the integrated Company and provide opportunities for SBUs We constantly keep abreast of these sustainability policy is the foundation of the and employees to get involved in and support. developments to identify and pursue new strategy. It is meant to assist SBUs to identify Tiers III & IV: Exemplary action points are meant to showcase differentiation for SBUs in their sustainability efforts and set examples for championing sustainability. Not always applicable to all SBUs, these action points are meant to add value to the organisation and can be adopted by the SBU subject to relevance to the operation and commitments of the organisation. Exemplary Tier II Action Points: A step above primary requirements for sustainability, Expected these action points spell out best practice expectations of an operation. They may or may not apply to all SBUs depending on the nature of perations. Essential Tier I Action Points: Action points that have to be implemented by all SBUs in order to ensure that basic systems or procedures are in place to maintain the long term proﬁtability, viability and integrity of the Company. These actions are meant to strengthen the sustainability foundation of any SBU. The Implementation Framework 30 Aitken Spence PLC Our strategy of diversification is focused on both organic and inorganic initiatives geared towards creating value to our stakeholders. We depict our operational interaction within the core sectors of Aitken Spence along with the strategic direction that is provided by the Board of Directors Annual Report 2013 2014 31 OUR Strategy The Integrated Sustainability K. Quality Management The purpose of establishing the integrated Policy L. Community Development sustainability policy was to benchmark M. Support to Local Economic Development the expected behaviour of the Group Development of a formal ‘Sustainability N. Occupational Health and Safety and to provide guidance to identify areas Strategy’ for the Group commenced in 2007 O. Human Resources where the operation could be improved. with the identification gaps in the operations P. Human Rights Many Strategic Business Units (SBUs) had of Aitken Spence in a sustainability context. Q. Reporting already demonstrated leadership in specific The compilation of a comprehensive set of R. Information Security sustainability areas, and the integrated policy areas that could affect the long term viability, S. Communication is meant to ensure all SBUs achieve specified profitability and integrity of Aitken Spence T. Annual Performance Review and Planning standards in sustainability performance. was the start of the Aitken Spence Integrated Sustainability Policy. These areas were listed into an Integrated As such the policy was further expanded into Sustainability Policy as ‘policy clauses’ an Implementation Framework by adding The areas identified included; reflected in the policy which is available action points under each policy clause so A. Compliance in English, Sinhala and Tamil in the that the aspirations of the Company do not B. Internalisation of UNGC principles Group’s website www.aitkenspence.com/ remain as mere words on a document. C. Ethical Conduct sustainability. D. Environmental Conservation “The Implementation Framework” as shown E. Stakeholder Inclusiveness Each policy clause has a set of action points in the diagram, is segregated into tier levels F. Supply Chain Management which are organised into a referencing and stages of relevance to the SBUs. G. Strategic Focus on Sustainability system. The letter ‘I’ is not used when listing H. Sustainable Processes the policy clauses to avoid confusion with For all action points, the following aspects J. Innovation number one. were considered for grouping into tiers; Tier III & IV Tier II Tier I Exemplary Action Points Expected Action Points Essential Action Points As applicable to As relevant to the Medium Priority High Priority create differentiation individual SBUs All aspects Aspects that get At this stage, These aspects These aspects ‘filtered out’ at the aspect are are relevant to are relevant to this stage are relevant to action points action points relevant to action points that have that are of high action points that have a higher potential priority for all with a potential higher potential impact, higher Group for adverse to cause impact frequency of Companies as impact but with and a higher occurrence and they meet all a low probability of flagged by criteria probability of risk. However, interest groups. specified. risk causing aspect has not However, harm. been flagged by compliance any regulators requirements or interest are lower. groups. Does the aspect pose a Is there high or Have these aspect or Does the aspect contain significant or reasonably high economic/ social/ legal requirements/ considerable economic, frequency of occurrence environmental concerns requirements of environmental and/or of the aspect/ been highlighted by management system social impact? operational activity of the investors, shareholders standards or voluntary aspect? or regulators? endorsements for the organisation? The Filters to Shortlist and Prioritise Material Aspects 32 Aitken Spence PLC Environmental/ Social impact of the aspect Benchmarking Sustainability Aspects are thus shortlisted and prioritised Frequency of occurrence Performance Management and into tier levels as illustrated in the diagrams Legal requirements/ Requirements of Reporting “The Filters to Shortlist and Prioritise Material voluntary endorsements such as the UN Aspects” and “Snapshot of Material Aspects”. We adopt the sustainability reporting Global Compact Considering that the Group’s sustainability framework of the Global Reporting Initiative Requirements of management systems strategy is still on a continual improvement (GRI) which has had significant influence on for key areas of focus (ex: environment, and implementation path, not all indicators how we capture and monitor sustainability quality, health & safety) are disclosed in this annual report. It is a short performance data. With this report, we are “in Concerns highlighted by investors, term goal of the sustainability team and the accordance” Core with the GRI G4 Reporting shareholders or regulators Group to continually develop the reporting Framework. practices till such time it comprehensively To shortlist the GRI aspects material to Aitken embodies the Group’s performance in Current Priorities in the Spence, we used a similar approach to the sustainability. implementation framework integrated policy framework and applied the We have prioritised the action points to following ‘filters’ to the list of aspects. be spearheaded at Group level. Out of all clauses (focus areas) in the integrated Environmental/ social impact of the aspect sustainability policy, the current priorities for Frequency of occurrence implementation are action on; Legal requirements/ requirements of management system standards 1. Compliance 2. Environment Concerns highlighted by investors, a. Energy management shareholders or regulators b. Waste management (emissions, effluents and solid waste) c. Water d. Biodiversity 3. Occupational health and safety a. Hazard spotting and mitigation b. Emergency evacuation 4. Human rights at the workplace 5. Internalisation of the UNGC Principles and the Women’s Empowerment Principles 6. Development of local communities 7. Human resource issues 8. Reporting on sustainability performance Aspects Grouped as Exemplary : Tier III & IV Action Points Optional Eg: Supplier Assessment (for human rights, societal and labour practices According to the Nature of Exemplary related impacts) | Product & Service Labeling | Public Policy Operation Action Aspects Grouped as Expected: Tier II Action Points Recommended Expected According to the Eg: Procurement Practices | Supplier Assessment Nature of Action (for environmental impacts) | Security Practices Operation Aspects Grouped as Essential : Tier I Action Points Eg: Economic Performance | Energy | Employment | OHS | Mandatory Essential for All Action Compliance | Customer Health & Safety | Emissions, Efﬂuents Operations and waste | Training & Education Snapshot of Material Aspects Annual Report 2013 2014 33 Risk Management The Aitken Spence Group is involved in a diverse range of business activities, spanning across several industries, market segments and geographical locations. Whilst this diversification provides a natural hedge against the positive correlation of business risks, it also exposes the Group to a wider range of risks which can be broadly categorised as follows. Financial Risks Business & Strategic Risk Operational Risk • Interest Rate Risk • Competitive Risk • Employee Risk • Foreign Exchange Risk • Economic and Regulatory Risk • Legal Risk • Credit Risk • Reputation Risk • Operations Risk • Environmental Risk • Technology Risk • Product & Safety Risk • Occupational Health & Safety Risk The risks identified are rated based on each risk’s probability of occurrence and its magnitude of impact on the Group’s operations as depicted in the chart below. Accordingly, each risks final risk rating (as shown in pages 35 39) is the product of the individual risks probability of occurrence and its magnitude of impact on the Group’s operations. Employee HIGH Risk Reputation Risk Occupational Credit Risk Technology Interest Rate IMPACT MEDIUM Health & Safety Risk Risk Risk Competitive Risk Environmental Product & Foreign Economic & Risk Safety Risk Exchange Risk Regulatory Risk LOW Operations Risk Legal Risk LOW MEDIUM HIGH PROBABILITY The Group recognises that risk management is a critical aspect in achieving its strategic objectives and recognises the importance of adopting a proactive approach when dealing with risk. It is also a key element of the Aitken Spence system of Corporate Governance and attempts to create a suitable balance between entrepreneurial attitude and the level of risk associated with business opportunities. The Risk Management process is driven through a combination of a ‘top-down’ (driven by the Board) and ‘bottom-up’ (originating from the Strategic Business Units SBU’s) approaches. This has been made possible because the Group has clearly identified the role of the Board of Directors and their responsibilities in managing all risks affecting the Group. In each area, the Board is supported by the Group Management Committee, the Audit Committee, and Operational Managers with key functional responsibilities. 34 Aitken Spence PLC Board of Directors Approves the risk governance frame work . and high level risk parameters for individual SBU’s and the Group. Reviews reports from the Audit Committee on risk related matters Group Management Committee Audit Committee Designs, operates and monitors risk management and control Reviews adequacy of the risk management framework. processes at SBU and Group level. Receives and reviews risk management reports submitted by the risk Ensures that strategies adopted by SBU’s are in line with the risk management unit. parameters of the Group and addresses stakeholder concerns including Receives and reviews reports from internal and external auditors. the negation of possible adverse actions of stakeholders. Risk Owners Group Integrated Group Internal Audit Department and Managers Treasury Sustainability Team The Internal Audit Department maintains strict independence in all the Evaluates the status Monitors movements in The sustainability work it performs from the management of individual SBU’s. of the risks and foreign exchange and team is a group of The department has 3 specialised sub units covering key areas of the effectiveness of risk interest rates with the cross functional and risk management process. mitigation. objective of entering diverse executive level Day to day oversight of into timely hedging representatives from risks and risk mitigation arrangements such as all Strategic Business actions. forwards and swaps Units of the Group. This Finance and Risk Information that could eliminate or team spearheads the Operational Audit Management Security Improves risk mitigation minimise financial losses. implementation of the strategies where possible. Aitken Spence Integrated Conducts audits to Responsible for Reviews the adequacy Sustainability Policy ensure compliance financial, strategic of controls of both Framework within their with the laid down and operational risk new and existing operations. Each SBU internal control assessments across information systems, has a sustainability framework & statutory the Group. IT infrastructure and sub-committee led by regulations. Reviews information assets. these representatives adequacy of internal who handle the different controls. responsibilities of the implementation process. Aitken Spence has a comprehensive system of Risk assessments are also carried out at SBU The Group has a high awareness of business controls in place to manage risks. level throughout the year as per the annual risks and monitors such risks through a weekly risk plan,under the three broad categories of bulletin that carries information on market The Group’s consistent application of its risk Financial, Strategic and Operational risk. The developments, industry trends, possible new management framework at both SBU and assessments will typically include the detailed business opportunities and competitive threats. Group level has allowed for the successful identification and analysis of the inherent risks A number of forecasts on key economic identification, assessment and mitigation of faced by the industry in which the respective indicators are also carried out on a routine risks, to ensure the achievement of its corporate SBU operates in, its trickle-down effect on basis. The impact on the Group is also assessed objectives. companies within the sector, the risks specific and circulated amongst key personnel within to the SBU on a micro level, the adequacy of the Group. The Group also maintains and continuously mitigation strategies and controls already in updates a risk register; which identifies The following section gives a broad overview of place within the SBU and new strategies and possible internal and external risks together the key risks pertinent to the Group and its risk controls that could be put in place to deal with with appropriate risk management strategies ratings for the year 2013/2014, together with new risks identified, as well as to strengthen formulated to mitigate these risks. the mitigation strategies adopted. mitigation strategies of risks already identified. Economic and Regulatory Risk Risk Rating for 2013/14 Medium Mitigation Strategies • The Risk Unit of the Group constructs a report on domestic economic performance and forecasts on a quarterly Adopted basis whilst reporting on key domestic indicators on a monthly basis. The impact of significant international economic events on the Sri Lankan economy and its industries is also analysed in order to keep key personnel of the Group informed. • The Unit also constantly looks at new industry trends and new business opportunities available to the Group. • With regards to regulatory changes the Group has put in place dynamic internal processes to adapt to the changes as needed. • The Group also maintains strong relationships with relevant associations, chambers, stakeholders, lobby groups and trade unions. Annual Report 2013 2014 35 Risk Management Competitive Risk Risk Rating for 2013/14 High Mitigation Strategies • Competitor activity and performance is monitored continuously at a financial and strategic level so as to ensure Adopted that the Group’s competitiveness is maintained. • The Group continuously looks at diversifying its investment portfolio and adding value to its existing portfolio by methods such as, investing in R&D, process improvements and obtaining ISO certifications. This helps the Group obtain efficiencies and economies of scale which enable it to stay abreast of its competition. • The financial year of 2013/2014 was a year that saw much diversification and value addition. A few key initiatives are mentioned below. The Group took over the management of the ports in Suva and Lautoka in Fiji. The successful operations of the ports led to yet another breakthrough in establishing the opportunity to manage the Maritime School of the Fiji National University (FNU) in Suva. The Group entered into a completely new sector through ‘Heritage Grove’ – the first-ever luxury retirement community in Sri Lanka competing against leading retirement destinations such as Malaysia and Thailand. The Group partnered with RIU Hotels Spain to build a luxury resort managed by RIU in Ahungalla in order to exploit strategic business opportunities associated with the completion of the Southern Highway to Hambantota and convenient access to the Mattala Airport. Aitken Spence Printing achieved a definitive competitive edge in the industry when it was jointly crowned the “Sri Lanka Master Printer” and bagged 4 Excellence, 3 Distinction and 3 Merit Awards at the ceremony organized by the Sri Lanka Association of Printers. The printing facility is the first LEED certified facility, competing in the South Asian region. Interest Rate Risk Risk Rating for 2013/14 Medium Mitigation Strategies • Constant monitoring and forecasting of market interest rates are carried out to ensure that the cost of borrowing is Adopted minimised and returns on financial investments are maximised. • Swaps and other hedging mechanisms are used where applicable and negotiations with banks and other financial institutions are carried out by the Group Treasury Department in order to obtain the best possible interest rates for borrowings and investments, by the Group. Foreign Exchange Risk Risk Rating for 2013/14 Medium Mitigation Strategies • Group Treasury provides advice to all SBU’s within the Group on strategies to minimise costs and maximise Adopted revenue in Sri Lankan Rupees, when dealing with foreign currency. • Exchange rates are constantly monitored and forecasts are carried out to ensure that timely and appropriate hedging activities are taken to mitigate risks. • Sensitivity studies are carried out to assess possible impacts on the Group. Credit Risk Risk Rating for 2013/14 Low Mitigation Strategies • A periodical analysis of the Group’s trade receivables is carried out to understand the composition, age analysis Adopted and concentrations of debtors by each sector and company. • Overdue receivables are identified and monitored by the SBU’s and the Group’s Legal Division. • The Group’s Internal Audit Division reviews the credit approval processes followed by SBU’s when conducting operational audits. • The subsidiaries have in place strong credit control strategies and as a result approximately 90% of the Group’s total trade receivables are within 90 days. 36 Aitken Spence PLC Employee Risk Risk Rating for 2013/14 High Mitigation Strategies The Group recognises the competitive labour environment and difficulty to attract and retain high calibre employees Adopted as well as key employees in leadership positions. The Group uses the following strategies to negate adverse effects of such situations. • The Group attends job fairs and works with universities to build up a pool of potential candidates for hire when vacancies arise. • Providing training opportunities to freshers with the aim of later hiring them if suitable vacancies arise. • Launching the Aitken Spence School of Management and tying up with international educational bodies to provide employees with more focused training to perform their jobs and anticipated roles. • Evaluating strengths and development areas of identified successors to be groomed to critical/leadership positions. • Providing job rotations and overseas assignments in order to develop managerial capacity of employees. • Conducting climate surveys to identify employee opinions and concerns in order to address them. • Composing/revising policies to accommodate the changing market environment and employee needs. • Organising employee engagement activities. • Introducing new communication channels to improve transparency of organisational events and decisions. • Sponsoring occupation related studies which employees pursue on personal basis. • Introducing stricter controls to justify recruitment and verify authenticity of candidate details. • Arranging for the services of a professional counsellor for the benefit of employees. Legal Risk Risk Rating for 2013/14 Medium Mitigation Strategies • The Group recognises and accepts its responsibilities as a public quoted company, a taxpayer and an employer. Adopted Therefore all statutory and legal requirements are met in all transactions. • Periodic reviews and audits are conducted by the Internal Audit Division in collaboration with the Legal Division to ensure that all business units conform to legal, regulatory and statutory requirements. • The use of external professional counsel when required. Operations Risk Risk Rating for 2013/14 Medium Mitigation Strategies • Periodic and impromptu checks are carried out by the Group’s Internal Audit Division to ensure compliance and Adopted the effectiveness of these controls. • Business continuity plans are formulated for all sectors of the Group to ensure smooth operations even at a time of disaster. As a part of this process, all natural and man-made disasters that can have an adverse impact on each of the sectors are being identified and preventive and mitigation strategies are based on the potential loss and probabilities of occurrences. • The Group’s Disaster Recovery plan is strengthened continuously. • The Group’s Integrated Sustainability Policy is supported by an implementation framework, categorised into tiers for implementation. These tiers look at action points considered essential, expected and exemplary for the successful and sustainable operation of the Company. Tier I action points are classified as essential and aim at bringing all subsidiaries into one platform in all focus areas such as occupational health & safety, talent management, supply chain management etc. Annual Report 2013 2014 37 Risk Management Technology Risk Risk Rating for 2013/14 Medium Mitigation Strategies • A comprehensive network vulnerability assessment and a web application security assessment were conducted Adopted and its recommendations are being implemented in order to minimise possible hacking carried out by internal / external parties. • Malware continues to increase in sophistication, and has more avenues for execution. Thus, periodic anti-virus control reviews are being conducted to ensure compliance in anti-virus controls, access controls, change management controls etc. • Systems failure events are treated as occasional. IT hardware/ software capacity is monitored to ensure availability of sufficient computational resources. • Employee Information security awareness workshops are being conducted monthly /annually. • Non-disclosure agreements are entered into with vendors. • A framework for incident management, business continuity and disaster recovery is being developed for Group IT services in line with ISO 27001 standard implementation. • ITGC reviews and review of key applications are conducted periodically. Environmental Risk Risk Rating for 2013/14 Medium Mitigation Strategies • The Group currently has in place 43 Environmental Management Systems (EMS’s), aligned to ISO 14001:2004 Adopted standard which attempts to scientifically mitigate the adverse environmental impacts cause by the Group’s activities. 12 of the 43 Environmental Management Systems are already ISO 14001 certified. • The Heritance chain of hotels obtained the ISO 50001 certification for Energy Management Systems and also monitor carbon emissions. It has the pride of being the first to obtain this certification in Sri Lanka. The Group is working towards implementing systems to record carbon emissions and greenhouse gas emission data and improve the disclosure of such data across the Group in the near future. • Elpitiya Lifestyle Solutions (Pvt) Limited received the Forestry Stewardship Certificate (FSC) assuring their clientele that the wood sourced for their products stem from managed forests. • The Group continues to ensure that its products, services or activities have minimum impact on areas of high bio-diversity value outside protected areas. Product & Service Safety Risk Risk Rating for 2013/14 Medium Mitigation Strategies • Compliance with specific industry standards and the laws and regulations of the country is a priority for the Group. Adopted There have been no incidents of non compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotions and sponsorship. No complaints have risen regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data. • Respective SBU’s have different management systems to address product and service responsibility concerns. Continual capacity building on this topic is conducted either through Group HR or through external parties when necessary. • The Group follows, Quality Management Systems where applicable and currently maintain 10 ISO 9001 certifications. The Group companies maintain 13 ISO 22000/HACCP certifications which include 8 certifications in the Hotels sector. The Plantations sector has secured 5 ISO 22000/ HACCP certifications and is in the process of implementing food safety systems within the rest of their operations. Ace Power Embilipitiya (Pvt.) Ltd. is OHSAS 18001, ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 certified. Aitken Spence Garments have also maintained the Worldwide Responsible Accredited Productions Certification and have continual programmes to ensure ethical production. 38 Aitken Spence PLC Occupational Health & Safety Risk Risk Rating for 2013/14 Medium Mitigation Strategies • Operational audits are conducted on a frequent basis to analyse if Strategic Business Units of the Group abide by Adopted laws and regulations and compliances relevant to their scope of operations. • SBU’s within the Group have identified Occupational Health and Safety Officers (OHS) and are in the process of providing them the necessary capacity building to handle this responsibility. Certificate training in First Aid and Fire Safety training are examples of such programmes. A new addition to the capacity building efforts of the Group was to launch Peer Forums for OHS Officers providing them the opportunity to interact and share their knowledge with other OHS officers across the Group. • In keeping with the first two principles of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) on Human Rights, the Group is currently working towards applying the essential action points of the Human Rights Protection Framework developed by the Business Leaders’ Initiative for Human Rights and the UNGC. • A gap analysis of the Group’s policies, practices and procedures to implement a Human Rights Protection Framework has been carried out and representatives have been appointed across the Group to act as Human Rights Focal Points. The Focal Points also continually identify gap areas within the Group’s operations and bring them to the notice of the Sustainability Team so that necessary corrective and/or preventive action can be taken. A peer forum similar to that developed for OHS officers is being developed for these officers. • An assessment on the adequacy of the Group’s current Social and Economic practices was conducted by DEG recently. The action plan recommended, would enable the Group to achieve international best practice standards in the future. Reputation Risk Risk Rating for 2013/14 Medium Mitigation Strategies All media communications are channelled through the Group’s Business Development Unit, to ensure consistency Adopted in communications. • All subsidiaries of the Group have a process of obtaining feedback from customers to gauge their satisfaction levels and to generate continuous improvement. • The growth of social media has resulted in a free expression of customer reviews and complaints. The Group’s Business Development Unit, manages the corporate social media accounts and monitors it constantly. • An on-going brand monitoring and approval process is in place to mitigate potential brand threats and is monitored across media sources. • The Group has its own code of ethics and regularly conducts workshops on ethical behaviour and company procedures on anti-corruption for its staff. A copy of the Code of Ethics is given to all new recruits. • Strict adherence to statutory requirements and environmental regulations to the extent of even enhancing the environment in some instances. Annual Report 2013 2014 39 Our People It is common practice to refer to the people of a business organization as the ‘Human Capital’. This we feel underestimates the true value of a human. At Aitken Spence we go beyond the traditional premise to instil the principle of human-centricity. Thus, our commitment is to add value to our people by unleashing their true potential through human-centric decision making. Our main focus for this year was to develop our leadership pipeline by means of organising management development centres, developing employee competencies and introducing new channels of employee communication. Building a Leadership Pipeline This year our succession planning process took a new direction with a Management Development Centre set up to focus on nurturing future leaders from within the At Aitken Spence we go beyond the traditional organisation. While the Group has always premise to instil the principle of human-centricity. considered developing employees as a priority, this is the first time a formal system Thus, our commitment is to add value to our was established with the specific objective of grooming people to take on future leadership people by unleashing their true potential through roles. During the year, a pool of 24 highpotential employees was selected from human-centric decision making. staff, in the Manager to General Manager categories. Young Managers Types of Training as at 31st March 2014 for the year ended 31st March 2014 The services of a world renowned competency assessment service provider were obtained for this purpose. The sessions included role25% plays, games, case studies and psychometric testing with a focus on key competencies. The 40% programme enabled participants to identify their strengths and development needs. This also allowed the management to understand 92 116 how best the participants could be developed for higher positions. 29% 6% 34 26 84 42 36 Organisational Development 6 3 3 Managerial Development AM Mgr AGM DGM GM & Above Individual Development Technical 40 Aitken Spence PLC Developing Key Talent The training and development activities Category-wise Analysis of Number of Employees Trained Employees Trained during the financial year included 483 for the year ended 31st March for the year ended 31st March 2014 programmes for the benefit of over 10,000 participants. Among these programmes 4,225 were the Management Trainee Programme 7% 3,483 conducted in Sinhala which was well received 3,017 2,717 by the staff, outward bound team building 2,597 programmes and training conducted in 2,587 24% the Maldives. A monthly programme for HR Partners was organised to learn and discuss current HR trends. 553 The Aitken Spence School of Management, 585 69% which was established the previous year to facilitate sector-specific technical Organisational Managerial Individual Technical skills training for employees, launched its Manager programmes this year. Seven MBAs, fully Development Development Development Executive sponsored by the Company, were offered Non-Executive to staff of the Maritime Cargo Logistics sector. Forty certificate courses from the 2013 CINEC Maritime Campus were awarded 2014 to employees as well. Aitken Spence also continued their corporate partnership with the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants and the Institute of Chartered Improved Communication at improved communication. During the next Accountants of Sri Lanka. financial year, we plan to promote the concept The size of our organisation necessitates of town hall meetings among subsidiaries As the Group works towards ISO Certification the creation of forums where employees so that Company specific information can be for Information Security, Corporate HR scattered among the various industries have communicated directly to employees. facilitated the conduct of awareness the opportunity of sharing organisational programmes for employees on Information progress and business insights, and In the spirit of strengthening internal Security. The programmes conducted by networking with each other. A decision was communications, the corporate Group IT covered 730 employees at executive made during the year to organise a staff communication function further improved level. In addition to this, a session was convention every quarter to enable employees its operations to ensure transparency included in the Group orientation programme, at Middle Management and above level to and accountability. Several avenues for so that all new recruits in the executive cadre meet on one platform. Each forum involves improving the internal circulation of Company are educated at the very outset about the presentations and a panel discussion aimed information, in addition to the Ace Magazine importance of information security. As our businesses grow to encompass more and more operations beyond our shores, the need to equip our people with internationally accepted, proven qualifications was amplified. To fulfil this requirement, we entered into partnerships with international entities such as Thomas International, National University of Singapore (NUS), Stanford University and the Indian Business School. We continued with our existing scheme to support the higher education of our employees, awarding the most number of such opportunities in 2013-2014. Annual Report 2013 2014 41 Our People and Athwela newsletter, were introduced. This included ensuring that any press release issued to the media was circulated among employees beforehand. Process Engineering The Company initiated many automation projects during the year with a view to increasing efficiency and effectiveness. This leads to ensuring greater transparency in HR processes and a reduction in the consumption of paper. The areas to be automated include the recruitment process and general services such as stationary and business card requisitions, meeting room and restaurant reservations and issuance of access cards. In this constantly changing business environment Productivity Improvement we strive to maintain our competitive edge by Corporate HR takes a leadership role in building and developing our core competence helping subsidiaries gauge and improve their service levels by conducting mystery which lies in our people. customer, mystery caller and customer satisfaction surveys. the Group and introduced three new awards number of awards including the awards for ‘6S and HR Excellence’, ‘HR Excellence’ the overall winner of ‘6S & HR Excellence’ and The ‘6S & HR Excellence Competition’, an and ‘Best 6S Coordinator’. A total of 55 ‘HR Excellence’. Heritance Tea Factory won the inter-company competition held since 2002 awards and certificates were presented to award for ‘Best 6S’. to promote productivity improvements, saw winners in various award categories at the the participation of 47 subsidiaries including ceremony held in December 2013. Heritance HR Service Improvement all Maldivian resorts. The competition this Kandalama walked away with the most year included an evaluation of HR practices in In its efforts to continuously improve the services provided to employees, Corporate HR conducted a survey on their service standards. Feedback was sought from the Subsidiary HR Partners, the key internal customers of Corporate HR, and subsequent action was taken to improve service standards as required. Employee Satisfaction Survey A Group-wide employee satisfaction survey was conducted during the year; the viable suggestions received from employees were included in an action plan. Additionally, several other surveys were conducted to gather employee opinion on different aspects of the work environment. 42 Aitken Spence PLC Occupational Health & Safety Staff Welfare cricket, netball and basketball tournaments at mercantile level. The health and safety of employees is a The work-life balance of employees has critical consideration at Aitken Spence. always been a priority. In this regard various In an effort to promote wellness of the We ensure that regular programmes are programmes are driven by HR and the Sports mind, body and soul, ‘Hatha Yoga’ sessions conducted to create awareness and to refresh Club for the benefit of employees. Among the were introduced to employees in January knowledge and skills in handling aspects of exciting events that continued this year were 2014. The programme has received much health and safety. the Chillax Evening, Sport-o-Rama, Christmas interest and is conducted every Monday and party, beach party, bowling competition, the Wednesday. Recruitment Procedures ‘Different Strokes’ children’s art competition, Vesak lantern competition and Dansela. We also organised a seminar for employees’ The Group’s recruitment procedures were families, titled ‘Healthy Lifestyle for You and streamlined and tightened during the year The Meddecombra bungalow, owned by the Your Family’ to create awareness about nonto validate the authenticity of information Plantations division was made available as communicable diseases and ways to prevent provided by candidates. In a bid to access a holiday bungalow to the Aitken Spence such diseases within their households. the country’s talent pool better, the Company Executive cadre. This is in addition to the also participated in several career fairs and holiday bungalow in Nuwara Eliya. The Toastmasters Club of the Company conducted mentoring sessions for under plays a meaningful role in improving the graduates. During the year, the Group made a decision communication and leadership skills of to offer internships to children and siblings employees. The club has successfully Striking a Balance of employees. A number of selected students produced an Area Governor while two of its who had passed their A/L examination in members have also qualified to take part in The composition of the employee cadre 2013 were given the internships, providing divisional competitions. strikes a balance among different age them with the opportunity to explore the strata, which corresponds to the business corporate world. In this constantly changing business requirements of Aitken Spence. There has environment we strive to maintain our been an increase in the percentage of The once popular Spence Badminton competitive edge by building and developing employees below the age of 25 years. Further, Tournament was revived this year following our core competence which lies in our the escalation in the number of young a hiatus of several years. The competition people. Strategies have been developed, managers in the Group over the past years included team and individual games, with aligned with the business needs of the Group, is clear proof of increased empowerment Aitken Spence Cargo emerging winners and which are phased over a period of 5 years. of young employees. Aitken Spence has Heritance Ahungalla becoming runnersadapted its people management approach in up. Throughout the year, employees also response to this demographic change in its availed themselves of Company-sponsored employee base. The revision of majority of HR gymnasium and swimming pool facilities, and policies to address changing employee needs were given the opportunity to participate in was a result of this approach. Annual Report 2013 2014 43 WHO LEADS US Board of Directors Mr. D.H.S. Jayawardena Appointed in April 2000 Ms. D.S.T. Jayawardena Mr. J.M.S. Brito Appointed in December 2013 Appointed in April 2000 Dr. P. Dissanayake Dr. R.M. Fernando Appointed in September 2009 Appointed in April 2005 44 Aitken Spence PLC the Aitken Spence Team has proven once again why it is considered one of the best in Sri Lanka – for its ability to work towards a common vision, its ability to respond with agility to changing conditions and its single minded focus on performance. Mr. R.N. Asirwatham Mr. G.C. Wickremasinghe Appointed in September 2009 Appointed in April 1972 Mr. C.H. Gomez Mr. V.M. Fernando Appointed in May 2002 Appointed in May 2008 Mr. N.J. de Silva Deva Aditya Appointed in September 2006 Annual Report 2013 2014 45 WHO LEADS US Board of Directors Mr. D.H.S. Jayawardena former Chairman of DFCC Bank, Sri Lankan Dr. Dissanayake is a former Chairman/ Airlines, The Employers’ Federation of Ceylon CEO of Sri Lanka Ports Authority and also Mr. Harry Jayawardena is one of Sri Lanka’s and a former Director of Sri Lanka Insurance a former Chairman of state owned Jaya most successful businessmen and heads Corporation. Container Terminals Ltd., and Sri Lanka Port many successful enterprises in very diverse Management Consultancy Services Ltd. fields of activity. He is the Founder Director Mr. Brito was appointed to the Board of Aitken and current Chairman/Managing Director Spence PLC., in April 2000. Dr. Dissanayake who serves on the UN/ of the Stassen Group of Companies – a UNCTAD Panel as an expert on Ports & diversified group in export and import trade, Shipping is a Past Chairman of the Institute and the Chairman of Lanka Milk Foods Dr. R.M. Fernando of Chartered Shipbrokers, Past Chairman (CWE) PLC. He is also the Chairman of the of the Chartered Institute of Logistics and Distilleries Company of Sri Lanka PLC., Lanka Dr. Rohan Fernando who heads Plantations and Business Development at Aitken Spence Transport (Sri Lanka branch) and a Past Bell (Pvt) Ltd., Browns Beach Hotel, Balangoda Chairman of the Central Advisory Council of Plantations PLC., and Madulsima Plantations PLC., holds a PhD and a MBA from the University of Colombo and is also a Chartered Sri Lanka Transport Board. He is a member PLC. He is a former Director of Hatton National of the Faculty Industry Consultative Board of Bank PLC., the largest listed bank in Sri Lanka. Marketer and a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Marketing, (CIM) UK. the University of Moratuwa and Chairman Mr. Jayawardena was the former Chairman of of Ceylon Chamber of Commerce Steering Ceylon Petroleum Corporation and Sri Lankan Committee on Ports, Shipping, Aviation and He has extensive experience in the plantation Airlines. Logistics and Jt. Managing Director of CINEC industry both in the public and private sectors and played a key role in the plantations Maritime and Management Campus. Mr. Jayawardena is presently the Honorary Consul for Denmark and on 9th February privatisation programme. Dr. Dissanayake a University of Oxford 2010, was knighted by Her Majesty the Queen Business Alumni is a Graduate of Harvard He also leads the CSR and Sustainability of Denmark with the prestigious honour of Business School (EEP) on “Global Economy” Initiatives of the Group. He was awarded the “Knight Cross of Dannebrog”. and a Fellow of NORAD and JICA. Brand Leadership Award at the Asia Brand Mr. Jayawardena was appointed to the Board Congress 2008, held in Mumbai in September 2008. He is also the Hon. Consul General for the of Aitken Spence PLC., on 1st April 2000 and Republic of Fiji Islands in Sri Lanka. has been Chairman of the Company since He is the Chairman of United Nations Global 25th April 2003. Compact Network, Ceylon and the former Ms. D.S.T. Jayawardena He has also been awarded the title, President of the Chartered Institute of Marketing Sri Lanka region . He also serves Ms. Stasshani Jayawardena is a graduate of “Deshamanya” in recognition of his services on the Advisory Committee of the Sri Lanka St. James’ & Lucie Clayton College and Keele to the Motherland, since November 2005. Business at Biodiversity Platform of the Ceylon University in the United Kingdom. Chamber of Commerce. She joined Aitken Spence PLC., in January Mr. J.M.S. Brito He was appointed to the Board of Aitken 2010, gaining experience in several of its key Mr. Rajan Brito has a LLB (University of Spence PLC., in April 2005. strategic business units as well as within the London) and MBA (London City Business parent company. She was appointed to the School) degrees and is a Fellow of both board of Aitken Spence PLC., in December Institutes of Chartered Accountants of Sri Dr. P. Dissanayake 2013. Lanka and England and Wales. Together Dr. Parakrama Dissanayake, is the Chairman/ with this multi-disciplined knowledge, he Ms. Jayawardena is a member of the CEO of Aitken Spence Maritime, Logistics & also brings with him a wealth of 35 years Young Leaders Steering Committee and Cargo and Director Aitken Spence PLC. He of international experience working with the Banking, Finance and Capital Markets was appointed to the Board of Aitken Spence a number of international organizations. Steering Committee of the Ceylon Chamber PLC., in September 2009. Presently Mr. Brito is the Managing & Finance of Commerce. She is the Chairperson of the Director of Aitken Spence PLC., and the Board of Splendor Media and a member of EY Chairman of DFCC Vardhana Bank. He is a Next Generation Club. 46 Aitken Spence PLC In 2003 she was the youngest intern to work Mr. N.J. de Silva Deva Aditya He is the Chairman of Stallion Holdings (Pvt) under US Senator Hilary Rodham Clinton and Ltd., Dynamic AV Technologies (Pvt) Ltd., the Former US President Bill Clinton. Mr. Niranjan Deva Aditya, who was appointed Hyundai Lankan Limited and Shipping and to the Board of Aitken Spence PLC., in Cargo Logistics (Pvt) Ltd. He is also a Director Ms. Jayawardena currently leads a team of September 2006, is an aeronautical engineer, of Sri Lankan Airlines Ltd, Ceylon Guardian young professionals that is endeavouring scientist and economist, is a Conservative Investment Trust PLC, Ceylon Investment PLC, to develop a strategic development plan for Member of the European Parliament elected Stallion Plantations (Pvt) Ltd., and a Trustee of future growth of Aitken Spence PLC. Her main from the SE England. He is the Vice President Joseph Frazer Memorial Hospital. competencies include Strategic Planning, of the Development Committee; ECR CoBranding and Marketing. ordinator and Conservative Spokesman for Overseas’ Development and Co-operation. Mr. R.N. Asirwatham He was the Co Leader of the Parliamentary Mr. Rajan Asirwatham was the Senior Partner Mr. G.C. Wickremasinghe Delegation to the UN World Summit and General Assembly 2006, Chairman Working and Country Head of KPMG from 2001 to Mr. G.C. Wickremasinghe started his career Group A of Development Committee 2008. Further, he was the Chairman of the in 1954 on an Aitken Spence managed overseeing Asia, Central Asia and Far East; Steering Committee for the Sustainable plantation. He has therefore had an Co Co-ordinator Assembly of 79 Parliaments Tourism Project funded by the World Bank unbroken association of nearly 60 years of the EU-ACP 2004 and the President EU for the Ministry of Tourism and was also a with the Company. After over a decade as India Chamber of Commerce from 2005. member of the Presidential Commission on a professional planter he moved to the In 2012 he stood for and came runner Taxation, appointed by His Excellency the Company’s head office in 1965 to take over up, beating the Liberal candidate into 3rd President of Sri Lanka. the Estate Agency Department. In the early place to be the President (Speaker) to the 70’s, he also took charge of the Insurance European Parliament. He was the first Asian As at present, Mr.Asirwatham, a fellow division, including the Lloyd’s Agency and to be elected as a Conservative Member of member of the Institute of Chartered the Singapore Airlines Agency. When the British Parliament, first Asian MP to serve in Accountants of Sri Lanka, is the Chairman of Insurance industry was liberalized in the late the British Government as PPS in the Scottish the Financial Services Stability Committee 80’s, he played an active role in the formation Office and first Asian born MP to be elected to of the Central Bank of Sri Lanka. He is also a of Union Assurance Ltd., and served a stint as the European Parliament. He was nominated member of the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce its Chairman. as a candidate to succeed Kofi Annan as Advisory Council and a member of the council Secretary General to the UN in 2006. He of the University of Colombo. Mr. Wickremasinghe was appointed to the is a Hon. Ambassador without portfolio for Board of Aitken Spence PLC., in April 1972 He also serves on the Boards of Vallibel Sri Lanka; the first Asian to be appointed as and was Chairman from 1996 to 1997. He One Limited, Ceylon Tea Services PLC., Her Majesty’s Deputy Lord Lieutenant for has therefore been a Director of the Company Royal Ceramics PLC., Dial Tex Industries Greater London, representing The Queen on continuously for a period of over 40 years. He (Pvt) Limited, Renuka Hotels (Pvt) Limited, official occasions since 1985; awarded the has a wide and varied experience in many CIC Holdings PLC., Rajawella Holdings (Pvt) honour “ViswaKirthi Sri Lanka Abhimani“ by business sectors. Mr. Wickremasinghe has Limited, Mercantile Merchant Bank, Yaal the Buddhist Clergy for his Services to Sri the distinction of being responsible for the Hotels (Pvt) Limited, Dankotuwa Porcelain Lanka and given the Knighthood with Merit concept and construction of the Group’s PLC., Ceylon Agro Industries Ltd., Colombo of the Sacred Constantinian Military Order unique theme hotel The Heritance Tea City Holdings PLC., and Peninsular Properties of St. George for his global work on poverty Factory. (Pvt) Ltd. eradication. He is a Fellow of the Royal Society for Arts, Manufacture and Commerce Mr. Asirwatham was appointed to the Board of (Est : 1765). Mr. C.H. Gomez Aitken Spence PLC., in September 2009. Mr. Charles Gomez is a former Investment Banker with over 30 years of experience in the Mr. V. M. Fernando finance industry. He has worked for several Mr. Manilal Fernando who is an Attorney-atmajor financial institutions, and brings to the Law started his practice in his home town in Company a wealth of experience in regard Kalutara in 1972 and was the Secretary of the to international financial markets. Mr. Gomez Bar Association, Kalutara for many years. He is a partner of a financial services company was appointed to the Board of Aitken Spence based in Gibraltar a nd serves on Boards of PLC., in May, 2008. foreign investment companies. Mr. Gomez was appointed to the Board of Aitken Spence PLC., in May 2002. Annual Report 2013 2014 47 WHO LEADS US Group Management Committee 1 7 2 6 3 4 5 1. Mr. J.M.S. Brito 2. Dr. R.M. Fernando 3. Dr. P. Dissanayake 4. Ms. D.S.T. Jayawardena 5. Mr. R.E.V. Casie Chetty 6. Mr. K.R.T. Peiris 7. Ms. N. Sivapragasam 48 Aitken Spence PLC 8 14 9 13 10 12 11 8. Mr. S.M. Hapugoda 9. Ms. N.W. de A. Guneratne 10. Mr. C.M.S. Jayawickrama 11. Mr. R.G. Pandithakorralage 12. Mr. D.S. Mendis 13. Mr. V.M. Gunatilleka 14. Mr. P. Karunathilake Annual Report 2013 2014 49 WHO LEADS US Group Management Committee 15 20 16 17 19 18 15. Mr. L. Wickremarachchi 16. Mr. J.S.A. Fernando 17. Mr. S.K.R.B. Jayaweera 18. Mr. R.G. Salgado 19. Mr. N.A.N. Jayasundera 20. Mr. N.P. Wakwella 50 Aitken Spence PLC Mr. J.M.S. Brito years and now helps them on an advisory is a graduate of the Sri Lanka Institute of capacity. He is also a Director of SLFFA Tourism & Hotel Management (SLITHM) and is See Board of Directors profile. Cargo Services Ltd. He is a Member of the a fellow and founder President of the Ceylon Dr. R.M. Fernando Chartered Institute of Logistics & Transport – Hotel School Graduates Association. He International and is also affiliated with most of holds a diploma in hospitality, restaurant and See Board of Directors profile. the industry bodies. institutional administration from the Rayerson Institute of Technology, Toronto, Canada. Ms. D.S.T. Jayawardena See Board of Directors profile. Ms. N. Sivapragasam Ms. Nilanthi Sivapragasam who is the Chief Ms. N.W. de A. Guneratne Dr. P. Dissanayake Financial Officer of the Group is a Fellow of Ms. Nimmi De A. Guneratne who is the See Board of Directors profile. the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Chief Legal Officer of the Group is also the Lanka and a Fellow of the Chartered Institute Managing Director of Aitken Spence Insurance Mr. R.E.V. Casie Chetty of Management Accountants of UK. (Pvt) Ltd and Aitken Spence Insurance Brokers Mr. Ranjan Casie Chetty is the Company (Pvt) Ltd. She is also the General Manager Secretary of Aitken Spence PLC., and a She is currently a Board member of the Sri of the Lloyd’s Agency in Colombo and the Director of Aitken Spence Group Ltd., Aitken Lanka Accounting & Auditing Standards Maldives. She is a Fellow of the Chartered Spence Hotel Holdings PLC., and various Monitoring Board and is a Council Member Insurance Institute of UK, and a Chartered other companies in the Aitken Spence of the Sri Lanka Institute of Directors. She Insurance Practitioner and holds a Bachelor’s Group. He is a Fellow of the Institute of is also the Co Chairperson of the Taxation Degree in Law and is also an Attorney-at-Law. Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, a Fellow Steering Committee and a member of the She is a visiting Lecturer and Examiner in of the Chartered Institute of Management Accounting Standards & Regulatory Reporting Insurance Law at the Sri Lanka Law College, Accountants of UK and a Fellow of the Steering Committee of the Ceylon Chamber of and is also a Lecturer and Examiner of the Certified Management Accountants of Commerce. Sri Lanka Insurance Institute. She is a Past Sri Lanka. He is also a Member of the President of the Sri Lanka Insurance Institute. Chartered Management Institute of UK and Ms. Sivapragasam is the Chairperson has been awarded the Joint Diploma in of the Financial Reporting Faculty and She currently serves on a subcommittee that Management Accounting Services. He has serves as a member of the Taxation Faculty has been appointed by the Ministry of Justice over 40 years post qualifying experience. and the Financial Reporting Standards in connection with the setting up of an During this period he has held very senior Implementation & Interpretation Committee International Arbitration Centre in Sri Lanka and responsible positions in many reputable of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of private sector organisations. He has been Sri Lanka. She was previously on the Board of Governance of The Chartered Institute Mr. C.M.S. Jayawickrama actively involved in numerous committees of Management Accountants – Sri Lanka Mr. Susith Jayawickrama a fellow member of Professional Institutes and Chambers of Division. of the Chartered Institute of Management Commerce. He served as a Member of the Accountants UK, is the Deputy Managing Advisory Commission constituted under the She is also on the Board of Women and Director of Aitken Spence Hotel Managements Companies Act No. 17 of 1982. He was a Media Collective, a non-governmental (Pvt) Ltd., the company managing all the former Chairman of the Sri Lanka Apparel organization. Group Hotels in Sri Lanka and overseas. Exporters Association. He serves on the Boards of all the hotel She completed her Articles at Ernst & Young companies in the Group. He has extensive Mr. K.R.T. Peiris Colombo and has over 25 years of post experience at senior management positions Mr. Rohantha Peiris heads Freight Forwarding, qualifying experience in industry. in the Group’s hotel sector for almost two Express and Airline Division and he brings decades and has considerable exposure into the industry a depth of knowledge and in the tourism industry in Sri Lanka and Mr. S.M. Hapugoda overseas. He is also the Vice President, Resort valuable expertise. He is responsible for Mr. S. Malin Hapugoda heads the Hotel Hotels of the Tourist Hotels Association of Sri operations in Bangladesh, Pakistan and Sector of the Group. He is a professional Lanka (THASL). Maldives. He was also a Director of American hotelier counting many years of managerial Chamber of Commerce for two consecutive experience at senior level within several hotel years and presently represents the Company Mr. R.G. Pandithakorralage companies and is an Honorary Member (Past at all American Chamber of Commerce President) of the Tourist Hotels’ Association Mr. Rohan Pandithakorralage is the Director/ activities and is also a Committee Member of of Sri Lanka and a Member of the Tourism Chief Human Resources Officer of Aitken the Singapore –Sri Lanka Business Council. Cluster of the National Council for Economic Spence Group Ltd. At present he is a member He held the position of Chairman of the Sri Development (NCED). He is a Fellow of the of the Board of Governors of National Lanka Freight Forwarders Association for 3 Chartered Institute of Management, UK. He Annual Report 2013 2014 51 WHO LEADS US Group Management Committee Institute of Labour Studies (NILS), National as a Subsidiary Director. During this period Mr. P. Karunathilake Labour Advisory Council (NLAC), the Board of he also served two years in the Executive Mr. Prasanna Karunathilake joined the then Directors of CSR Sri Lanka and the Council of Committee of the Sri Lanka Freight Forwarders Printing Department of Aitken Spence & Co. the Employers Federation of Ceylon (EFC). Association and a Director of SLFFA Cargo Ltd., as a Trainee Production Executive in Services Ltd. He currently serves as a Director 1980. Whilst at Aitken Spence he pursued He is a Business graduate of Victoria on the Board of The American Chamber his higher studies in Printing, and obtained University of Australia with an Executive of Commerce in Sri Lanka. He also has his Diploma in Printing Technology and training at NUS Business School in Singapore international experience working in the retail Management at the prestigious Sri Lanka and has received extensive management industry in USA. Institute of Printing, and is today a fellow of training at Nippon Keidanren International the Institute. On completion of his Diploma, Cooperation Center (NICC) in Japan. Mr. V.M. Gunatilleka he was promoted as Senior Executive and in the year 1988 as Production Manager. In He is a past president of the International Mr. Vipula Gunatilleka currently serves as 1993 he left the company, but continued to Public Management Association for Human the Group Chief Corporate Officer/Director serve the industry in a Senior Managerial Resources (IPMA-HR) Sri Lanka Chapter and of Aitken Spence Group Ltd. He is a fellow capacity for a period of 17 years. During this Executive Committee Member of the IPMA-HR member of CIMA -UK, ICA Sri Lanka, CPA time he proceeded to the Netherlands where Asia Network. He is a Founder/Fellow member Australia and holds a MBA from the University he underwent advanced training in Printing and a past president of the Association of of Colombo. He is also a GE Trained Six Sigma. Technology & Didactics at the Netherlands Human Resource Professionals in Sri Lanka INGRIN Institute. (HRP).He was the Chairman of the Executive He started his accounting career at KPMG Committee of HRM Awards 2010. in Sri Lanka and counts over 20 years of Thereafter he migrated to the USA, and on senior leadership experience with some of his return in 2010, rejoined the Company He was a visiting lecturer at the University of the leading conglomerates and multinational as the Managing Director of Aitken Spence Colombo and University of Ruhuna. He won corporations in Sri Lanka, Singapore and Printing (Pvt.) Ltd. In September 2012, he was the Prestigious HR Leadership award at the Australia. promoted as a Director of the Aitken Spence Asia Pacific Congress (APHRM) 2007/08. Group. He is a Director of the INGRIN Institute He was recognized under the global HR Prior to joining Aitken Spence, he worked as of Printing & Graphics Sri Lanka, and serves excellence category, for the contribution the Group CFO of Dialog Axiata PLC. He was the Institute as a Lecturer as well. He is also a made to HR for the economic development of a key member of the senior management Lecturer of the Sri Lanka Institute of Printing. the country. team responsible for re-structuring the Dialog Group and implementing many key strategic He is currently serving the Export initiatives to turnaround the Dialog Group. He Mr. D.S. Mendis was also the CFO/Acting CEO of Sri Lankan Development Board in the capacity of adviser for the Printing and Packaging Industry in Sri Mr. Dinesh Mendis who heads the Financial Airlines and played a pivotal role during the Lanka, and is also an advisor on the Wages Solutions segment is additionally responsible management transition of the National Carrier Board for the Printing Trade. for Aitken Spence Technologies (Pvt) Ltd. He from Emirates to the Government of Sri Lanka is also involved in new business initiatives of in 2008. the Group. He holds a Bachelor of Science Mr. L. Wickremarachchi Degree (Magna Cum Laude) in Business He has been a board member of CIMA Sri Mr. Leel Wickremarachchi is the Deputy Administration specialising in Marketing and Lanka from 2010 and held the position of Chairman/Managing Director of all power Economics from Slippery Rock University Vice Chairman in 2013 and currently serve as sector subsidiaries of Aitken Spence PLC. Mr. of Pennsylvania, USA. During his final year the Deputy Chairman of CIMA. He is a Council Wickremarachchi has held senior positions he was chosen as the Outstanding Student Member of SLASSCOM & Board Member Sri both in the public and the private sector in both Marketing and Economics of the Lanka Auditing and Accounting Standards organizations. Immediately before joining University. He also obtained a Master’s Monitoring Board (SLAASMB). Aitken Spence PLC., Mr. Wickremarachchi Degree in Business Administration from The worked as a Consultant in Liberia under a University of Texas, USA. He worked in the USAID funded project in the renewable energy Logistics sector of the Group for 11 years sector for two years. from 1994 to 2005, the last five of which was 52 Aitken Spence PLC He was Director General of the Public of SKAL Colombo as well as an Auditor of Mr. Jayasundera counts 30 years of Enterprises Reform Commission (PERC) the SKAL Asian Area, in the Committee of experience in tourism and possesses a wide from 2004 to 2006. During his tenure at Management of the Travel Trade Sports Club in knowledge of the travel industry. He played PERC he managed to resolve various post various capacities including a two-year term an important role in the development of the privatization disputes of privatized State as President in 2004 & 2005. tourism sector by venturing into many new Owned Enterprises (SOEs) and restructured markets. a defunct SOE for recommencement of A Fellow of the Chartered Management operation as a Public Private Partnership Institute of UK, he is currently the Immediate entity. He also did a consultancy assignment Past President of the Sri Lanka branch of the Mr. N.P. Wakwella for the Asian Development Bank for evaluating institute. Mr. Nilantha Wakwella who holds an the feasibility of establishing a Public Private Master’s Degree in Business Administration Infrastructure Financing Facility for the from the University of Chittagong accounts Government of Pakistan. Mr. R. G. Salgado for over thirty years of experience in Mr. Gihan Salgado is a Mechanical Engineer integrated logistics of which 14 years was in He possesses an MSc in Engineering and with a B.Sc. (Hon) Degree, from the University Bangladesh. During his tenure in Sri Lanka an MBA. He had attended many Executive of Birmingham, United Kingdom. In 1999 he he was responsible in the set up of four Development Programs including the obtained a MBA Degree in Management from large internal terminal facilities in Colombo. programs conducted by the JFK School of the Sri Jayewardenepura University. In Bangladesh, he was an instrumental and Government of Harvard University, USA and driving force in the transformation and the the National University of Singapore. On his return to Sri Lanka in 1979 he joined development of its inland logistics industry. Walker Sons & Co. Ltd. as a trainee engineer. He was a founder member of the Bangladesh He was trained in the mechanical workshops Inland Container Depot Association and was Mr. J.S.A. Fernando for one year and thereafter he joined a member of its executive committee for Mr. Jayantha Fernando started his career the Elevator Department & served as the eight years. He also served in the advisory in the apparel industry in 1977 and joined Maintenance Engineer. In 1989 he moved to committee for the Chittagong Terminal Aitken Spence Garments at its inception Aitken Spence & Company Ltd. Along with the Planning during the period 2008 – 2009. in 1978. He was appointed as a Director OTIS Agency and was one of the key members of Aitken Spence Garments in 2009 and of the management team of the company, He returned to the island in April 2013, to join at present he functions as Director / Chief who was instrumental in driving the Agency Aitken Spence as the Managing Director of its Executive Officer of this segment. forward. integrated logistics segment. During his tenure he was instrumental in In April 1999 he was promoted as the relocating the garment manufacturing facility General Manager of Elevators Pvt Ltd. and from Galle Fort to a more sophisticated plant in December 2003 he was appointed as a at the Koggala Free Trade Zone. Director of the company. In July 2008 he was appointed the Managing Director of Elevators (Pvt) Ltd. In which capacity he serves up to Mr. S.K.R.B. Jayaweera date. Mr. Keethi Jayaweera joined Aset Airways Ltd, the General Sales Agency for Singapore Gihan Salgado also serves as a Director of Airlines in Colombo, in 1978 as a Junior Aitken Spence Property Developments (Pvt) Ltd. Executive in the Ticket Office. He climbed the ranks at Ticket Office with regular promotions and in 1994 was appointed as a Director. He Mr. N.A.N. Jayasundera was appointed as Joint Managing Director of Mr. Nalin Jayasundera is the Managing the company in April 2008 and as Managing Director of Aitken Spence Travels (ASTL) the Director on 1st February 2011. leading destination management company in Sri Lanka a joint venture between TUI Travel He has served various industry related bodies Plc the world’s largest integrated tourism i.e. as Treasurer of the Sri Lanka Association company and Aitken Spence PLC. of Airline Representatives (SLAAR – an Association of Airlines GSA’s) since June He is an Executive Committee member of 2009, as a member of SKAL International the Sri Lanka Association of Inbound Tour Colombo (an International Association Operators (SLAITO) and was an Executive of Travel and Tourism Professionals) and Committee Member of the PATA Sri Lanka currently the Immediate Past President Chapter. Annual Report 2013 2014 53 TOURISM SECTOR Senior Management Team (in alphabetical order) 1 8 9 • In bo u & nd • Ho tra bound vel tels Out 2 7 • A ir li n e G S A 6 4 3 5 1. Mr. D.J. de Crusz 6. Mr. M.H. Jayah 2. Mr. S.T.B. Ellepola 7. Mr. A.A.H. Mohamed Ali 3. Mr. G.P.J. Goonewardene 8. Mr. T.D.U.D. Peiris 4. Mr. J.T.P. Gunawardena 9. Mr. D.D. Perera 5. Mr. A.S. Hapugoda 54 Aitken Spence PLC 17 10 18 • In bo u & nd • Ho tra bound vel tels 16 Out 11 • A ir li n e G S A 15 12 14 13 10. Mr. K.A.A.C. Perera 15. Mr. B.H.R. Sariffodeen 11. Mr. P.L. Perera 16. Mr. D.L. Warawita 12. Mr. R.S. Rajaratne 17. Mr. J.C. Weerakone 13. Mr. N. Ratwatte 18. Mr. M.P. Wijesekera 14. Mr. H.P.N. Rodrigo Annual Report 2013 2014 55 Maritime Cargo Logistics SECTOR Senior Management Team (in alphabetical order) 1 7 dL tegrate ogistics 2 • In 6 For reight warding aritime Service • M s •F •C o u ri er S e r vic e s 3 4 5 1. Mr. A.M.M. Amir 5. Mr. I.S. Cuttilan 2. Mr. C.A.S. Anthony 6. Mr. A. Jayasekera 3. Ms. T.D.M.N. Anthony 7. Mr. D.R. Sumanaweera 4. Mr. J.E. Brohier 56 Aitken Spence PLC Strategic Investments SECTOR Senior Management Team (in alphabetical order) 1 7 ing • Ga ckag rm Pa en g& t •P ure fact rin 2 tin nu Ma neration r Ge 6 we •P l o an •P tati on •H oldin y g Co mpan 4 3 5 1. Mr. C.R.F. de Costa 5. Mr. V.S. Premawardhana 2. Mr. A.L.W. Goonewardena 6. Ms. W.A.D.L. Silva 3. Ms. R.I.D. Katipearachchi 7. Mr. K.A.K. Wanniarachchi 4. Mr. R.T.B. Navaratne Annual Report 2013 2014 57 Services SECTOR Senior Management Team (in alphabetical order) 1 4 nol n Tech ogy matio •E •I for le ncy n Age tor va Tr Money ansfer ard • Insu w ran In ce 3 • •P 2 ro p e nt rty M a n a g eme 1. Mr. J.V.A. Corera 2. Mr. C.C.S. Dissanayake 3. Mr. A.E.A. Perera 4. Mr. A.N. Seneviratne 58 Aitken Spence PLC Group Performance The Operating Environment the public-private partnership with Fiji Ports average room rates (ARR) both in Sri Lankan Corporation during the year to acquire a 51% and Maldivian resorts. Consolidation of Ports The Sri Lankan economy grew at a stake in the Ports Terminal Ltd was a landmark Terminal Ltd, Fiji, during the year under review commendable 7.3% through 2013. Industry event. for the first time boosted the revenue of the sector grew by 9.9% whilst services and Maritime Cargo Logistics sector by 18.3% agriculture sectors registered growth rates This review analyses the Group’s performance compared to the previous year. All business of 6.4% and 4.7% respectively. The services in terms of the operational results for the year, segments within the Services sector showed sector contributed 58.1% to GDP while the the strength of the financial position and the promising growth levels with the overall industry sector contributed 31.1% and the capital structure, funding & liquidity position. sector revenues growing by 11.5%. Both agriculture sector contributed 10.8%. Inflation Results are analysed in terms of shareholder printing & packaging and garments segments steadily declined and remained at mid-single perspective and the value creation for all showed an increase in revenue during the digit levels throughout the financial year. stakeholders. year despite the overall drop in revenue of The low inflation environment enabled the the Strategic Investments sector. In terms monetary authorities to maintain a growth Operating Results of composition, Tourism sector contributed oriented monetary policy which was aimed 41.6% and Strategic Investments sector at stimulating the economic environment Group Revenue contributed 38.2% to the Group revenue. of the country. Sri Lanka’s external sector Group recorded a consolidated revenue of performance improved during 2013, with Rs.36.6 billion for the year under review, a EBIT, EBITDA and Operating Costs increased export earnings and lower import marginal decline of 1.5% compared to the expenditure narrowing the trade deficit to USD During the year under review, the Group’s previous year. Strategic Investments sector 7.6 billion. operating profit (earnings before interest and saw a drop in revenue of 16.7% (excluding tax-EBIT) grew by 3.1% from the previous The post war growth in the tourism sector share of equity accounted investees), year to Rs. 5.7 billion with the operating profit continued to flourish while the infrastructure primarily due to the two 24 MW power plants margin widening from 14.9% to 15.6%.With development by the state and the private being non-operational during the whole the exception of the Strategic Investment sector contributed immensely towards of 2013/2014. Revenue across all other sector, other sectors showed commendable maintaining business confidence. Tourist sectors showed an increase compared to growth in profit from operations of 23.2%, arrivals to the country increased by 26.7% the previous year. The Tourism sector saw its 23.9% & 9.9% for Tourism, Maritime Cargo to 1.27million during 2013 whilst Maldives revenue increase by 8.2% stemming from Logistics and Services sectors respectively. showed a growth of 17.4% to record 1.13 increased occupancy levels and increased million arrivals. Revenue EBIT & EBIT Margin for the year ended 31st March for the year ended 31st March The performance of the Group during Rs.Mn 5,703 2013/2014 bears testimony to its resilience of being a diversified conglomerate. Though 37,140 36,598 5,402 5,531 31,022 the lapsing of power purchase agreements of two thermal power plants at Matara and 17.4% 15.6% Horana adversely impacted on the Group’s 14.9% performance, other sectors led by the Tourism sector have compensated for this setback by delivering exceptional results for the year. On the backdrop of the record number of tourist arrivals to the country, Sri Lankan hotels enjoyed higher levels of occupancies and profits, whilst the Group’s Adaaran branded resorts in Maldives performed exceptionally well to drive the growth. For Aitken Spence 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 Group that is constantly exploring for growth opportunities both in Sri Lanka and overseas, EBIT (Rs. Mn) EBIT Margin Annual Report 2013 2014 59 Group Performance Analysis of Operating Expenses Fiji, being consolidated during the year for the dividend tax was a result of the increase in for the year ended 31st March 2014 first time. dividends received from the hotel companies of the Group. The deferred tax charge for the 18% Depreciation, amortization and impairment financial year was Rs. 94.8 million, against expenses increased by 5.0% to Rs.1.5 Rs. 63.7 million in the previous financial year. 34% billion for the year under review. Group The deferred tax charged for the year was the earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and effect of undistributed profits of consolidated amortization (EBITDA) increased by 3.5% to entities, accelerated depreciation allowances 7.2 billion and the EBITDA margin improved to and substantial utilisation of tax losses during 19.7% from 18.7%. the financial year. The Group’s effective tax rate for the financial year was 16.6% 29% Taxation 14% compared to 14.9% in the previous year. 5% The Group’s provision for taxation for the Raw Materials and Consumables used financial year 2013/2014 was Rs. 900.5 Equity accounted investee profits Employee Benefits Expense million which was an increase of 20.1% from Profit from equity accounted investees Depreciation, Amortisation and Impairment the previous year (2012/2013 – Rs. 750.0 declined by 12.2% to Rs. 156.1 million of Property, Plant & Equipment and Goodwill million).The income tax charge for the year for the year under review compared to the Other Operating Expenses Direct was Rs. 721.4 million which is a 11.8% previous year. This was due to the decline increase over the previous financial year. The in interest income from Browns Beach Other Operating Expenses Indirect income tax of the Group increased mainly PLC with the funds raised being gradually due to the increase in off shore profits of the utilised for construction. However the Group’s Group. The income tax liability arising from off investment in Elpitiya Plantations PLC., Increased occupancy levels and ARR resulted shore profits increased by 28.0% during the returned a commendable performance for the in the operating profit margin in the Tourism year predominantly from the taxes payable in year under review, led by the diversification sector rising from 24.5% to 27.9% driving the the Maldives and Fiji. strategies pursued by the plantation. overall operating profit margin for the Group. The performance of the Strategic Investment Further profits and income derived from services rendered by Sri Lankan companies Earnings for the year sector was hampered by the non-operations of the power plants at Matara and Horana and to off shore companies in Maldives and Fiji The Group’s consolidated net profit after tax a provision for impairment of approximately suffered a withholding tax deduction of 10% for the year under review was Rs. 4.5 billion, Rs. 400 million made in respect of the assets and 15% respectively. The dividend tax for a growth of 5.5% over the previous year. Net of these two companies. the financial year under review was Rs. 83.5 profit margin increased to 12.3% from the million which is a 22.4% increase from previous year’s 11.5%. All business sectors The Group’s other operating income grew the previous financial year. The increase in contributed positively towards profit after tax by Rs.442.6 million from the previous year mainly due to an insurance claim in respect of a Maldivian resort which incurred some Profit After Tax (PAT) Net Profit Attributable & PAT Margin damage by fire during the year. for the year ended 31st March for the year ended 31st March Rs.Mn 3,672 4,437 4,509 The Group’s total operating costs amounted 3,488 4,276 3,288 to Rs. 30.9 billion for the year, a marginal decline of 0.7% compared to the previous year. This was contributed by the decrease 14.3% in raw materials and consumables used 12.3% in operations by 19.2% or Rs.2.5 billion 11.5% compared to the previous year, primarily due to the non-operation of Matara and Horana thermal power plants. Other indirect operating costs increased by 24.8% during the year to Rs.5.4 billion. This was owing to a general increase in 2012 2013 2014 administration, selling and distribution costs coupled with the costs of Ports Terminal Ltd, 2012 2013 2014 Profit After Tax (Rs.Mn) PAT Margin 60 Aitken Spence PLC with the Tourism sector continuing to be the Shareholders' Funds Assets & Funding largest contributor. as at 31st March as at 31st March Rs.Mn Rs.Bn 32,259 Profit attributable to non-controlling interest 14 28,053 for the year under review was Rs.836.8 15 25,155 million, a decrease of 15.3% over the 15 previous year. This decrease was as a result 47 of again the lower contribution of profits 36 41 from the Strategic Investment sector where the non-controlling holding is relatively 22 26 higher. This was offset to a certain degree 19 by the increase in share of profits to noncontrolling interests in the Tourism sector. Net 32 34 35 profit attributable to equity holders for the year under reviewed was Rs.3.7 billion, an impressive growth of 11.7% over the previous 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 year. Fixed Assets Current Assets & Others Financial Position and Resources Long Term Funding Total asset turnover, which is an indication Total Assets Short Term Funding of the efficiency in utilisation of the assets Total assets of the Group as at the reporting dropped from 0.69 times to 0.62 times, date was Rs.61.1 billion, comprising of nonprimarily due to the non-operation of Matara current assets of Rs. 35.3 billion and current Noncurrent Interest Bearing Borrowings and Horana power plants. assets of Rs. 25.7 billion. This was an increase As at the reporting date for the year under of 8.9% over the previous year. Property plant review, Group held non-current interest Capital Expenditure and equipment, which represented 71.5% bearing borrowings of Rs. 7.3 billion The Group invested a total of Rs. 1.4 billion of the non-current assets, increased by Rs. compared to Rs. 6.2 billion the previous year. in non-current assets during the year. Major 1.2 billion or 4.9% over the previous year. In Tourism sector and Strategic Investments investments to non-current assets were made terms of total asset composition by sector, sector which includes the holding company, in the Tourism Sector for Rs. 930.1 million had the highest share of overall long term whilst the Maritime Cargo Logistics sector debt as at the reporting date. Addition to debt Total Assets & incurred Rs. 248.8 million. was mainly from the above two sectors with Asset Turonover the Maldivian hotel sector borrowing in order ast at 31st March During the year under review, the Group invested in a 51% equity stake in Ports to meet the capital expenditure requirements 50,985 56,151 61,145 Terminal Limited to take over the managerial of expanding the water villas in one of the and operational responsibilities of Ports of resorts and to settle the preference share 0.69 0.69 capital in another. With the relaxation of 0.62 Suva and Lautoka, Fiji. certain exchange controls allowing Sri Lankan entities to borrow overseas, the holding Financial Management, Cost of company opted to borrow in foreign currency Funding and Liquidity to take advantage of lower interest rates to Financial Leverage fund new investments locally and overseas as well as to meet the funding requirements As at the reporting date, total assets of the within the Group. Group of Rs.61.1 billion was financed through equity of Rs. 38.8 billion, non current liabilities The debt to equity ratio for the Group of Rs.8.6 billion and current liabilities of Rs. remained at the same level, at 0.19 times 2012 2013 2014 13.8 billion. Financial leverage for the Group as the previous year. The Group constantly was as at a healthy 1.62 times allowing monitors its debt in relation to the capital Total Assets (Rs.Mn) Asset Turnover (Times) the option to the raise additional debt for structure to maintain a healthy balance in the Group if required to fund future growth order to maximise shareholders’ return on opportunities. equity whilst maintaining financial flexibility 44.4% was held by the Tourism sector whilst 36.6% was held by the Strategic Investments and reducing the risk of the debt burden. The sector. debt to EBITDA cover was at a healthy 1.02 times. Annual Report 2013 2014 61 Group Performance Relaxation of the monetary policy by the Treasury Operations Central Bank of Sri Lanka resulted in lower Working Capital average interest rates during the year under Interest Rate and Cash Management & Current Ratio review compared to the previous year, which Several policy rate changes during 2013 as at 31st March impacted both the finance income and resulted in the market interest rates declining 1.86 finance expenses for the Group. Despite to single digit levels and remaining so the rate drop, the Group benefitted from for a considerable period of time. During 11,899 funds invested at previous rates for longer the financial year the one year Treasury 1.44 1.27 maturities and together with availability of bill weighted average yield declined from greater pool of funds resulted in the positive 11.35% to 7.05%. Three-month and six6,808 increase in finance income. The decrease in month treasury bill rates also declined to 6.65 long term and short term borrowings in the % and 6.82 % respectively at the end of the 3,951 power generation segment and repayment of financial year. loans in the Tourism sector contributed to the decrease in finance expense coupled with the Due to the continuous efforts of monetary lower interest rates. The bulk of the finance authorities aimed at reducing lending rates in expense arose in the Strategic Investments order to stimulate the economy, the Average and Tourism sectors in line with the overall Weighted Prime Lending Rate (AWPLR) 2012 2013 2014 declined to 8.57% at the end of the financial debt held. Working Capital (Rs.Mn) year, from 13.77% in the previous year. Current Ratio (Times) Consequently, the interest cover for the Group increased to 16.21 times from 9.55 times the The declining interest rate scenario presented previous year indicating its strong liquidity a plethora of challenges to the Group Working Capital position in meeting the obligations to lender treasury. On one hand the Group’s borrowing The liquidity position of the Group remained institutions. rates steadily declined and on the other hand strong with working capital increasing to maintaining the investment income at a Rs. 11.9 billion at the reporting date from reasonable level became a difficult task. The Rs.6.8 billion last year. Group’s cash and Interest Expense & Group treasury adopted a strategy of investing deposits in banks and government securities Interest Cover in long tenures to lock in high interest rates for the year ended 31st March at the beginning of the financial year. This increased significantly by 52.8% and stood strategy hedged the Group’s investment 1,328 at 13.3 billion, whilst the bank overdrafts and 23.08 short term borrowings reduced by 18.5% to income against the declining rates for most of Rs.4.6 billion. As at the end of the financial 1,146 the financial year. However, re-investments of year, trade and other receivables stood at Rs. maturing securities were made at much lower 9.3 billion, drop of 6.6% when compared to rates and the earning capacity of the Group’s the previous year, with the trade and other 16.21 cash pool has declined considerably due to 702 the prevailing low interest rate regime. The payables declining by 14.7% to Rs. 6.6 billion. treasury will also find it challenging to reinvest Accordingly the current ratio improved to 1.86 the fixed deposit portfolio due to rates being times from 1.44 times in the previous year unattractive. 9.55 while the quick asset ratio increased to 1.74 times from 1.32 times in the previous year The treasury continued to manage the indicating the Group’s ability in meeting its liquidity of the Group in order to ensure the short term obligations. 2012 2013 2014 efficient utilisation of funds. The treasury matches the surplus and deficit liquidity Interest Expense (Rs.Mn) positions of different business sectors of the Finance Income and Finance Expense Interest Cover (Times) Group for the most optimum utilisation of For the year under review, finance income available funding resources. For this purpose increased by 5.2% to Rs. 800.7 million and the treasury makes use of electronic cash finance expense decreased by 13.4% to Rs management platforms supplied by several 1.3 billion. Accordingly, net finance expense international banks. Excess liquidity is declined to Rs. 449.9 million from Rs.683.1 invested in the highest yielding investment million last year. opportunity available and if there is a requirement to borrow the available lowest 62 Aitken Spence PLC cost short term option is utilised. The Group assists the money transfer business of the increased by 15.0% to Rs. 32.3 billion. Net has access to facilities provided by a number Group by negotiating best rates to convert asset per share stood at Rs. 79.46 as at of commercial banks, both domestic and inflows to increase the profit margins of the the reporting date for the year under review international. The approved but unused short operation. compared to Rs. 69.10 as the end of the last term borrowing facilities at the end of the financial year. financial year was in excess of Rs 4 billion. It is expected that the coming financial year The Group takes comfort in the fact that would bring forth many challenges to foreign these facilities can be utilised at a short exchange markets. The world economy is Net Assets Per Share notice to fund working capital and investment evolving and with the growth prospects of as at 31st March Rs. 79.46 requirements. In addition to negotiating short key Western economies improving the year term facilities, the treasury continues to assist 2014 is expected to be the beginning of a the different business sectors of the Group in transition period for global financial markets. 69.10 securing favourable terms for their long term The Aitken Spence Group remains optimistic 61.96 borrowing requirements. of these global conditions and believes that the transition is both desired and necessary During the financial year the Group signed for sustainable growth. a long term loan agreement with DEG (Germany) to obtain a loan of USD 20 million Shareholder Returns to fund equity investments of the holding company in various projects, both in Sri Lanka Earnings Per share and overseas. Part of the loan proceeds were The Group reported an earnings per share of used to fund an overseas acquisition during Rs. 9.04 for the year under review, compared the financial year. The Group’s long term to an earnings per share of Rs.8.10 the borrowing costs were favourably impacted previous year. Total number of shares in issue 2012 2013 2014 due to the utilisation of this facility. remained unchanged from the previous year at 405,996,045 resulting in the EPS showing Foreign Exchange Management a growth identical to the growth in profit Group recorded a return on equity of 12.2% attributable to equity holders of 11.7%. for the year under review compared to the The Rupee was stable through most part previous year’s 12.4%. of the year except for some depreciation during July-September period in 2013. There were several USD bond issuances in the Earnings Per Share Return on Equity international markets by local banks which for the year ended 31st March for the year ended 31st March received encouraging investor response. The Rs. net inflow of foreign currency in government 15.0% 9.04 securities for 2013 was USD 493 million. 8.59 With the introduction of the “tapering” of the 8.10 12.4% 12.2% quantitative easing by the Federal Reserve many emerging market currencies tumbled overnight. Sri Lanka was fortunate not to see a major exodus of the foreign investors as experienced by some other regional markets. During 2013, US Dollar to Rupee exchange rate reached a high of 133.91 in August while the lowest of 125.52 was recorded during April. 2012 2013 2014 The treasury helps to manage the foreign exchange risk faced by the Group and 2012 2013 2014 assists the subsidiaries to obtain favorable rates from banks by advising them on market movements and trends. The Group is a net foreign exchange earner with many Net Assets and Return on Equity subsidiaries in Tourism, and Maritime Cargo The Group’s net assets or the equity Logistics Sectors having considerable US attributable to equity holders of the parent Dollar denominated cash flows. The treasury Annual Report 2013 2014 63 Group Performance Market Price per Share and Market Dividend Per Share Compliance with Sri Lanka Financial Capitalisation for the year ended 31st March Reporting Standards (SLFRS) Rs. The market price of the company’s share was 2.00 Aitken Spence published its first set of Rs. 97.90 at the end of the financial year SLFRS/LKAS compliant financial statements 2013/2014 compared to Rs. 119.60 at the for the previous financial year. The Group end of the previous financial year. The lowest 1.50 having successfully complied with the 1.40 share price at which the share traded during new accounting standards, the financial the year under review was Rs 95.0 whilst statements for the year under review has also the highest traded price was Rs 140.0. The been prepared as per the same Sri Lanka total value of the shares traded during the accounting standards adopted last year, year amounted to Rs 3.97 billion. The market except for the application of the revised SLAS capitalisation of Aitken Spence PLC was Rs 19 – Employment Benefits. The revision in 39.7 billion at the end of the financial year the standard which was effective for financial which was 1.6% of the total capitalisation of periods beginning on or after 1st January the Colombo Stock Exchange. 2013 has been complied by the Group this year, with restatement of information for the 2012 2013 2014 previous year being made where applicable. Market Value Per Share as at 31st March Price to Earnings Ratio and Rs. Price to Book Value 119.60 Price to earnings (PE) ratio for the Group for the year under review was 10.82 times compared to 14.77 times the previous year. 112.70 Decrease in the market price per share and increase in the earnings per share both have impacted in a lower PE ratio for the Group. The market PE ratio was 15.93 times at the 97.90 end of the financial year and the Groups multiple was at a 32.0% discount to the market multiple. Similarly price to book value decreased to 1.23 times from the previous year’s 1.73 times as a result of the decrease in the share price and increase in the net 2012 2013 2014 assets per share. Dividends EPS & Price Earnings Ratio The Board is recommending a first and final for the year ended 31st March dividend payment of Rs. 2.00 per share for the financial year 2013/2014, a 33.3% increase 14.77 9.04 8.59 over the previous financial year. In absolute terms the dividend pay-out will be Rs. 812.0 8.10 13.12 million, a pay-out ratio of 22.1%, which is a 10.82 19.4% increase over the previous year. 2012 2013 2014 EPS (Rs.) Price Earnings Ratio (Times) 64 Aitken Spence PLC Financial Value Creation Distribution of Wealth Created 2013/2014 Group’s long standing commitment to create a positive impact towards the economy has Total value added by the Group Rs. 12,926 Mn yielded continuous improvement in economic value generation through its operations. 11% To Governments From a quantitative financial perspective, Rs. 1,390 Mn a measure of the benefits associated with To Employees Group activities includes the levels of 34% Rs. 4,382 Mn payment to employees and suppliers, and the To Lenders of Capital distribution of value added to our employees, 15% Rs. 1,983 Mn providers of capital and governments as To Shareholders shown in the value added statement below. 6% Rs. 812 Mn The economic value generated by the Group Retained for reinvestments for the year under review was Rs. 12.9 billion, Rs. 4,359 Mn 34% which was a 5.2% increase over the previous year. Out of this, 34% of the total value added was distributed amongst the employees of the Group while the distribution to lenders of capital saw a marked decline from 19% to 15% of the total value addition during the year. The Group allocated 6% of the total value creation for the payment of dividends and 11% of the total value addition was paid out in the form of tax to the government authorities. 34% of the total value addition of the Group was retained for future reinvestments and growth of the Group’s operations. Statement of Value Added 2013/2014 2012/2013 2011/2012 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Total revenue 36,598,095 37,139,927 31,021,623 Purchase of goods and services (25,083,776) (25,807,077) (21,575,034) 11,514,319 11,332,850 9,446,589 Other operating and interest income 1,255,814 773,395 1,557,442 Share of profits of equity-accounted investees 156,067 177,816 85,983 Total value added by the Group 12,926,200 12,284,061 11,090,014 Distributed as follows To governments (income tax and revenue tax) 11% 1,390,201 10% 1,283,611 11% 1,224,609 To employees (salaries and other costs) 34% 4,381,840 33% 3,969,275 32% 3,580,485 To lenders of capital ( interest on loan capital and non-controlling interest) 15% 1,982,869 19% 2,315,495 15% 1,651,768 To shareholders (dividends) 6% 811,992 5% 608,994 5% 568,394 Retained for reinvestments and future growth 34% 4,359,298 33% 4,106,686 37% 4,064,758 (depreciation and retained profits) 100% 12,926,200 100% 12,284,061 100% 11,090,014 Annual Report 2013 2014 65 TOURISM SECTOR Hotels Inbound & Outbound travel Airline GSA Aitken Spence is an illustrious name in Sri Lanka’s tourism sector with a presence spanning over four decades. The Group’s operations vary from owning and managing star class hotels, to providing both inbound and outbound travel solutions covering the entire spectrum of requirements of the modern day traveller. The Group’s strength in the hospitality industry is showcased by its expansion in to global tourism hot spots with luxury resorts in the Maldives, India and Oman. 66 Aitken Spence PLC The high standards the Group has maintained and its rigorous attention to the improvement of the quality of its service offering has enabled the Group to be amongst the best in the markets it serves. PBT REVENUE RS.4.4 Bn RS.15.2 bn ASSETS EMPLOYEES RS.27.2 bn 2,827 Global tourism grew during 2013, with during the year to record impressive growth of further cemented during the year, recording arrivals climbing 5% or by a staggering 52 26.7%, easily outperforming growth in arrivals growths of 80.4% and 96.5% respectively in million international tourists, to reach a record of regional giants such as India, Thailand and tourist expenditure. In 2014, UNWTO forecasts 1.087 billion international tourist arrivals. Malaysia. The unprecedented number is a 4% to 4.5% growth of world tourism. We Tourism thus became one of the better significant achievement given the country’s anticipate Western European markets such performing industries during a year in which target of reaching 2.5 million tourists by as UK, Germany and France to grow as they socioeconomic challenges continued to 2016. The Government of Sri Lanka has set a emerge out of recession. Russia and the CIS linger throughout the world. target of 1.5 million tourists for 2014. nations have been key markets for Sri Lanka, and we will be watching the Crimean crisis Asia led tourism demand with a growth of 6%, The major source markets to Sri Lanka consist closely as it has the potential to destabilise with the South East Asian sub-region growing of India, United Kingdom, Germany, France the entire region and thereby affect arrivals. by over 10% and South Asia growing by and Australia. The rise of Russia and China as 5%.Sri Lanka welcomed 1,274,593 tourists important outbound markets worldwide was Annual Report 2013 2014 67 TOURISM SECTOR recorded by the Sri Lankan hotels sector and the destination management segments. The total revenue of the sector was Rs. 15.2 billion which accounted for 41.6% of total Group revenue. The Maldivian hotels segment recorded a 25.7% increase in performance over the previous year, while the Sri Lankan hotels segment witnessed its profit before tax improving by 39.3% over last year. The profit before tax of the destination management segment increased by 8.8% while the performance of the Airline GSAs remained flat when compared to the previous year. Our flagship properties Heritance Kandalama Hotels In Sri Lanka, the national room inventory and Heritance Tea Factory continued to perform continues to grow, especially on the coastal belt which has resulted in rates being exceptionally well by recording significant pushed downwards among beach properties. growths in profit before tax. The Group’s properties have been able to hold prices above average rates due to the unique offerings within its portfolio. The niche It must be noted that the formal tourism strategies by which the Government’s vision Heritance Ayurveda Maha Gedara has proven sector – destination management companies could be achieved should be implemented, to be a success, enjoying heavy demand and and hotel chains has not reflected the high with special attention being paid to marketing high occupancy year-round. This property growth of the country’s arrivals as a result of the country in the region’s competitive saw the doubling of its profit before tax over more and more people exploring the country context. the previous year. Our flagship properties on their own and opting for the informal The construction cost and the operating costs Heritance Kandalama and Heritance Tea sector, including home stays. The much structures in Sri Lanka pose a dampener to Factory continued to perform exceptionally improved safety and security conditions in the the industry as the competitor markets such well by recording significant growths in profit country is a primary reason for the increase as Thailand and Vietnam have the advantage before tax. in the number of independent travellers choosing to explore Sri Lanka on their own. of much lower cost structures, enabling them The Group’s inventory is set to expand in the to price their offering at very competitive coming year with the 150 roomed Heritance The post-war boom in infrastructure prices. Negombo expected to begin operations development including sea ports and airports, during the next financial year, while the expressways and mixed development Financial Performance expansion of The Sands, Kalutara is underway projects, continues to spur the tourism Aitken Spence has built an iconic product to add 90 rooms by Winter 2014. The Group sector with 5, 4 and 3 star hotel projects offering in the tourism industry, both in Sri is also pursuing the “Clan House” project – an attracting international brands, and room Lanka and overseas. The high standards exclusive 15-roomed heritage hotel within capacities increasing significantly. The entry the Group has maintained and its rigorous the UNESCO World Heritage Site Galle Fort. of global hospitality brands will enhance attention to the improvement of the quality of The hotel will be built on the property which the destination’s image leading to improved its service offering has enabled the Group to originally housed the Group’s forebears standards and offerings in the entire sector. be amongst the best in the markets it serves. Clark Spence and will abide by the stringent The growth in internal air travel, as well as The sector includes resort hotels in Sri Lanka, architectural regulations for buildings within the growing number of international airlines Maldives, India and Oman through both the Fort. adding Sri Lanka to their networks augurs well ownership and management, destination for further growth in tourism. During the year, Aitken Spence announced management services and General Sales Agency operations for Singapore Airlines in Sri plans to partner with RIU Hotels, Spain to build The need for concerted destination marketing Lanka and Sri Lankan Airlines in the Maldives. a USD 100 million resort on the Group’s 11 is critical if Sri Lanka is to attract a sustainable acre property in Ahungalla, which is adjacent mix of tourists that includes a substantial The Tourism sector recorded a growth of to Heritance Ahungalla. The resort, due for portion of the high value segment. A viable 8.2% in revenue for the financial year under completion by winter 2016, has the unique tourism master plan that maps out the review, with the highest increases being 68 Aitken Spence PLC loyalty and increase the brand image and 23,829 27,167 reach of Aitken Spence Hotels. 4,251 21,021 15,210 The Maldivian properties returned a stellar 14,063 3,451 performance during the year as the country’s political stability improved. With political 11,262 2,628 stability, it is expected that the state will place more emphasis on the development of its main industry which is tourism. The European tourist arrivals into the Maldives remained flat; the Chinese, Korean and Japanese markets led the growth in Maldivian arrivals. Our operational strategies were fine tuned to attract these new markets, which 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 has led to considerable gains in revenue. The Asian tourist typically spends a far shorter Revenue Profit from Operations Total Assets stay of around 4 days, compared with the RS. 15,210 MN for the year ended 31st March RS. 4,251 MN for the year ended 31st March RS. 27,167 MN as at 31st March traditional European tourist who on average occupies 11 to 14 room nights. Nevertheless the high Asian volumes help offset the dull advantage of being located at the midpoint seen international success across 107 performance of the traditional markets. between the Katunayake and Mattala properties managed by them in 16 countries. The recent changes to building ratios in international airports. Travel time to the hotel The Ahungalla project is a first for the Spanish the Maldives allow operators to expand the is also halved due to the easy access through chain, being their inaugural project in the Asia extent of built areas on the island resorts. The the Colombo Katunayake expressway and the Pacific region. Group is exploring ways of taking advantage Southern Expressway. The 5 storey, 500-room Aitken Spence Hotels recently partnered of the change in regulations to increase 5 star luxury resort will be managed by RIU with the Sri Lankan Airlines FlySmiles loyalty its room inventory while being cautious of Hotels, which is owned by TUI, the global giant program providing guests with the facility maintaining the ambience of the resorts. in the travel trade. to earn and redeem frequent traveller We do acknowledge however that the way Uniquely, the project will introduce TUI miles at the Group’s Sri Lankan properties. forward for the Group in the Maldives is the charter flights to the country, with the hotel The strategic alliance formed will prove to expansion of volumes; as we now command catering to high end customers looking for be mutually beneficial to all stakeholders optimal rates. long stay vacations who will arrive on Boeing especially with the FlySmiles program recently Our managed properties in Oman continue 787 Dreamliner charters which can carry joining the One World Alliance. This will no to perform satisfactorily, and during the year upto 300 passengers at a time. RIU Hotels, doubt have a positive impact on customer the Group undertook the management of operates an all-inclusive model which has INPUT VALUE ADDING ACTIVITIES OUTPUT • Our expertise • Talent enhancement • Customer satisfaction & loyalty • Our brand behaviour & values • Strategic management • Skilled & motivated employees • Strategically positioned iconic • Nuturing the brand • Market intrinsic knowledge properties • Development of infrastructure • Positive economic value • Partnerships & networks • Cultivating partnerships & • Empowering the community • Financial resources networks • Enhanced brand image • Enhancing service quality • Unique product /service offerings • Leading the industry with best • Conservation of ecosystems practices • Innovation • Global reach to customers • Group synergies Annual Report 2013 2014 69 TOURISM SECTOR a new property named Al Jabal Al Akhdhar Hotel in Jabal Akhdhar. The new property is expected to add greater monetary value to the existing business while expanding the Group’s presence in Oman. Destination Management Services The segment’s top 5 source markets were UK, India, Germany, Russia and France. Poland entered the top 10 destinations for the first time, mainly due to a charter operation which commenced during the year. The exponential growth we have achieved in our key markets has been the result of focused marketing, enhanced agent relationships and product differentiation. The entry of RIU hotels to Sri Lanka in partnership The inbound travel segment has consolidated with the Aitken Spence Group will create its position in traditional European markets through product differentiation and synergies for operators within the TUI network to competitive pricing; the market continues to hold strong potential for Sri Lanka due to operate charters to Sri Lanka in the future. the high value, longer stay tourism it offers. experiences of the team will no doubt expand existing staff, on a regular basis. We have We continue to focus on identified emerging charter opportunities for the country. also achieved improved levels of motivation markets, and have increased focus on by offering overseas exposure to staff, and segments such as nature, wild life, wellness, The entry of RIU hotels to Sri Lanka in conducting merit based appraisal and and medical tourism. partnership with the Aitken Spence Group will rewards system. The travel trade has once create synergies for operators within the TUI again begun to attract quality staff, however The cruise segment has also been growing network to operate charters to Sri Lanka in the the life span of employees within the trade and importantly, more cruise liners are now future. Going forward, the newly established remains brief due to work patterns. It must calling at the Galle and Trincomalee ports partnership with Emirates Holidays is also be noted that many universities now offer in addition to Colombo port as the country expected to open up many new opportunities tourism related courses, enhancing the skill now offers a greater choice. With tourism within the Emirates route network. base of the industry. infrastructure set to grow in the south, cruise liners will also have the option of calling at The Worldcome alliance of 22 destination The destination management segment’s the Hambantota port. management companies (DMC), of which short term goals include implementing we were a member, underwent a change strategies to generate more business from We continue to develop the online market, as during the year to become “Destination traditional markets while also optimising on the tourism industry moves towards an online Services” an alliance of 39 DMCs, working opportunities provided by emerging markets platform. The segment will shortly launch a in 50 countries cross-selling each other. such as China, Korea, CIS, and the Americas. customised booking engine to be marketed The alliance has common performance The RIU hotel project is expected to influence among our B2B base. The booking engine indicators and standards including ISO 9001 our business significantly in the medium marks a paradigm shift in our business, certification for all members, who have TUI as term. In the long term, the segment is working allowing tour operators to work directly online. their common thread. towards a paradigm shift from traditional This, along with a revamped website, will offer brick and mortar business towards a more potential for further growth within these areas. Tour operators are seeking differentiation information technology oriented virtual in order to be competitive; and in order to structure, necessitating the management of Our joint venture partner TUI, the world’s cater to this demand, Aitken Spence Travels an increasing number of online bookings. largest integrated travel management has encouraged a culture of innovation and company and market leader in many key creativity within the organisation by setting up source markets, has identified Sri Lanka a research and development division, which Airline GSA as a key destination to focus in the future. will focus on enhancing our travel offering. The Singapore Airlines GSA representation During the year, a senior team from TUI Travel which spans over forty years maintained its PLC., including its global CEO was invited Training continues on a fully automated status quo during this financial year despite to Sri Lanka; the positive impression and system for all new recruits as well as challenging market conditions due to intense 70 Aitken Spence PLC price wars. The newly acquired Sri Lankan hotel conducts regular energy audits, staff The hotel’s energy management team makes Airlines GSA in the Maldives performed awareness sessions and good preventive frequent inspections with a view to identifying remarkably well showing much promise for maintenance while applying new energy every possible way of reducing energy usage. the future. saving products wherever possible. The Guests are also engaged in the efforts to save hotel’s efforts were recognised with a Silver energy and water through notices and posters Singapore Airlines has successfully defended Flame award at the Sri Lanka National Energy in rooms. The property treats its waste water its market share during the year, despite Efficiency Award in 2013, conducted by Sri and effluents at a sewerage treatment plant, increased challenges in a highly competitive Lanka Sustainability Energy Authority and which redirects the recycled water for reuse in market. Passenger sales held its own during Ministry of Power and Energy. The hotel has watering the gardens. the year in spite of SIA’s fares remaining high also achieved a 13% reduction in total water in comparison to our competitors and the consumption; with all waste water treated and In keeping with best practices, The Sands rising cost of living in Sri Lanka which saw a reused for irrigation. The waste generated by has installed a sound proof generator and a downturn in leisure travel. the hotel is sorted into wet and dry waste and boiler while extending its exhaust chimneys recycled. to over 60ft above the roof to ensure optimal On the Cargo side, our performance was dispersion. The hotel also has a sewerage impacted by SIA’s cancellation of its two The energy saving initiatives at the Heritance treatment plant as well as a groundwater non-stop services to Los Angeles and New Tea Factory includes optimising on the use treatment plant to optimise its water usage. York in October, which led to a reduction in of natural light and the introduction of timers capacity to USA. Colombo was one of the to control usage and lighting load. Eighty The Singapore Airlines GSA practices main contributors to these two flights with our percent of the lighting in the hotel is now conservation through measures such as regular garment shipments. supplied through energy efficient LED bulbs. a switch off policy, the assessment and The hotel operates heavy machinery only management of monthly consumption, and With a greater emphasis on customer daylight harvesting at its offices in Colombo. during off peak hours. The use of biomass relationship management, we have as an alternative to diesel has increased to undertaken extensive measures to deliver Aitken Spence Travels has taken extensive ninety percent for the provision of hot water, an improved standard of service, including measures to minimise fuel wastage, by laundry and heating in public areas. Waste training 16 staff at SIA’s commercial training introducing new vehicle parking yards in heat from the gasifier is transferred to heat department in Singapore. Seeduwa and Aluthgama (close to the public areas while its byproducts are used ultimate destinations) to minimise empty The GSA has reenergized the corporate sales as organic fertilizer. The water conservation mileage, combining transfers where possible, strategy, and has created opportunities in efforts include rainwater harvesting and and encouraging the use of hybrid vehicles. the MICE (meetings, incentives, conventions the introduction of low flow aerator taps to The vehicle fleet is closely monitored to and exhibitions) and premium leisure market. minimise wastage of water. One hundred ensure emissions are at permissible levels. In order to promote sales, we are partnering percent of the hotel’s sewerage is recycled Aitken Spence Travels is the first destination several reputed private banks targeting their and reused. The hotel’s tea plantation and management company in Sri Lanka to offset affluent travel savvy customer base. vegetable garden use only organic compost, the GHG emissions from their office operation processed on the premises. The use of as well as their owned fleet of vehicles. The Our strategies on the passenger side are weedicide has been halted, resorting instead SBU also became the first company in Sri focused on North Asia and South East to manual weeding. As a result of adopting Lanka to invest in a Sri Lankan company to Asia, where we are promoting medical, such environmentally friendly measures over offset GHG emissions by engaging with the pilgrimage, and recreational tours. We have the past eight years in conserving the soil Sri Lanka Carbon Fund to become a carbon also entered into a collaborative partnership and the biodiversity of the Hethersett estate, neutral destination management operation with Singapore Tourism Board, highlighting Heritance Tea Factory was recognised with and owned fleet. the new developments in Singapore in a bid the first organic certification in Sri Lanka for to improve performance on our trunk route. cultivation and processing of organic tea by We have promoted Singapore as a hub with the Sri Lanka Standards Institution. Use of Social Performance enhanced value added benefits such as The the biomass gasifier with Grilicidia wood as The sector maintains the Occupational Health Changi Dollar Voucher, and a Free Singapore the source of energy instead of diesel has and Safety (OHS) standards, with timely audits Tour among other attractions. enabled Heritance Tea Factory to offset 1,000 as well as routine training sessions to fulfill tonnes of GHG emissions to date since 2007. identified training needs of staff. Environmental Performance At Hotel Hilltop, energy management Extensive mechanisms are in place to ensure Heritance Ahungalla is an ISO 50001 that our hotels have a strong framework to initiatives such as the use of LED and CFL certified hotel and has implemented several minimise the risk of fires, as well as to deal bulbs, solar hot water panels to produce hot successful energy management initiatives, with a potential fire. At all properties, fire drills water and capacitor banks that help reduce which have collectively led to a 7% decrease and evacuation drills are conducted once a the KVA value have helped the hotel make in total annual electricity consumption. The quarter while ensuring that fire extinguishers several strides in its sustainability agenda. Annual Report 2013 2014 71 TOURISM SECTOR are serviced on time and that clear signage/ Energy Consumption maps are provided for guest evacuation in Diesel: 5,382,502.61 litres Biomass/ Fuel wood: 795,918 kg case of fire. (204,455.17 GJ) (11,663.78 GJ) Petrol: 847,861 litres LPG: 268,654.98 kg Heritance Tea Factory educates its employees (27,591.34 GJ) (12,373.44 GJ) on aspects of health and safety, personal Furnace Oil: 194,969 litres Electricity: 10,358,064 kWh hygiene and first aid. Such programmes (7,865.39 GJ) (37,289.03 GJ) indirectly benefit the local communities as seventy percent of the hotel’s employees are Total energy produced from non-renewable sources (GJ) 242,254 GJ from the vicinity. The Sands conducts similar Total energy produced from renewable sources (GJ) 11,713.45 GJ programmes and also conducts free dental Total Energy Saved 11,378.58 GJ clinics for staff as well as children from the Gross direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent 23,400.30 tonnes community. Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent 7,664.97 tonnes The amount of GHG emissions reduced and/ or offset 2,857.70 tonnes Heritance Ahungalla takes a proactive Total quantified volume of water used (in cubic meters) 850,969.42 m3 approach in its engagement with the Total volume of water recycled and/ or reused by the organisation. 271,075.29 m3 community and has a close relationship with Total spending on environmental conservation Rs. 5.88 million the village temple. During the year, the hotel Total funds channelled for community development Rs. 15.85 million conducted a shramadhana at the Children’s Ward of the Balapitiya Hospital while also for students, provision of spectacles and The commitment to the local communities conducting awareness sessions of 5S and wheelchairs and other equipment needed for also extends to supporting the surrounding 7R practices for the benefit of students of the differently abled. economies. Hotels within the Group make the Rajapakshe Vidyalaya, which is located every effort to source their requirements from Many of our hotels recruit significant numbers local suppliers. Thirty percent of the Heritance close-by. from their local communities; such recruits Kandalama procurement expenditure is spent Heritance Kandalama engages with the are then developed to take on management locally while Heritance Ahungalla spends neighbouring community through meetings roles within the organisation. Among the 16%, Heritance Tea Factory 7%, Hotel Hill with the heads of religious institutions, village hotels with a high percentage of managers Top and The Sands 45% each and the Oman heads, Grama Niladaris, school principals from the local communities are Oman Hotels Hotels 75% on local suppliers. The destination and other members of the community. with 10%, Heritance Ahungalla with 20%, management segment utilises more than These meetings serve as a useful forum to Hotel Hilltop with 75%, Heritance Kandalama 75% of its procurement budget to source identify and respond to the needs of the with 17%, Heritance Tea Factory with 60% locally. community. For example the hotel was able to and The Sands with 25%. assist the community with repairs to school All the segments and properties that fall buildings, roof repairs, granting scholarships within the Tourism sector have individual Total weight of hazardous and non-hazardous waste, by disposal methods Waste type Method of handling the waste Total weight/ volume Paper The various business units of the sector segregate waste and either sells for 12,099kg reuse or recycles all waste material. Cardboard 29,517 kg Plastic Food waste is either used for compost or handed over to pig farms as animal 11,284.08 kg feed. In addition 1,321 cans Polythene 3,168 kg The sector leads Aitken Spence companies in implementing the 7Rs approach CFL bulbs for waste management which is aimed at reaching zero waste dumping status. 360 bulbs, and an additional 773 kg Lead Acid Batteries 30 units and an additional 706kg Alkaline Batteries 20 units and an additional 286 kg Tires 153 tires and an additional 1,116 kg Scrap Metal 18,225 kg Glass 25,416 kg Soiled cotton 580 kg Food waste 1,108,355 E – waste 2 units and an additional 328.25 kg 72 Aitken Spence PLC 1972 The general sales agency of Singapore Bawa. Triton Hotel is now branded as 2004 Aitken Spence Travels enters into a Airlines was obtained by the Group; ‘Heritance Ahungalle’ JV partnership with TUI of which the which we have retained up to now. results are exceptional. 1991/92 Aitken Spence Hotels is listed in the 1974 The first resort hotel, ‘Neptune Hotel’ Colombo Stock Exchange with an 2005 Launched ‘Adaaran Prestige Water was constructed in Beruwala designed issued share capital of Rs.150mn Villa’a twenty exclusive luxury by the renowned architect Geoffrey water villas at Meedhupparu Island ; 1993 Became the first Sri Lankan hospitality Bawa. Neptune is now re-branded as Maldives. company to broaden its horizons ‘Heritance Ayurveda Maha Gedara’. and develop an overseas portfolio by 2006 Entering the Indian hospitality industry 1977 The Company which is an IATA agent entering into the Maldivian tourism by securing the management of five moved into inbound and outbound sector with the acquisition of Bathala hotel properties in India. travel, with this ‘Aitken Spence Travels Island resort in Maldives. Ltd’ was incorporated. 2007 Obtains the management of four hotel 1994 Commenced commercial operations properties in Oman, becoming the 1978 ‘Aitken Spence Travels’ entered into an of Heritance Kandalama one of the first hospitality company to enter the agency agreement with TUI which is a world’s defining ecologically conscious Middle East. one of the world’s leading leisure travel hotels and became the first Asian hotel companies. to receive the prestigious ‘green globe 2008 The Group opens ‘Adaaran Prestige 21’ certification. Vadoo’ the fifth resort with fifty luxury 1981 The first five star resort ‘Triton’ was villas in close proximity to the Malè constructed in Ahungalle designed 1996 The first theme hotel in Sri Lanka ‘The atoll. by the renowned architect Geoffrey Tea Factory’ commences operations. Occupational Health and Safety teams. Employees appointed to the committees Heritance Kandalama has channeled Rs. represent a cross section of departments and functions. The safety teams undergo regular 14.9 million towards community engagement training sessions to refresh their knowledge, and are exposed to internal as well as initiatives spanning across scholarships external training expertise. provided to local students, support extended The sector supports the Group’s sustainability to local entrepreneurs, building supplies for initiative ‘Empowering Sri Lanka First’. Heritance Kandalama and Heritance infrastructure development and donation of Ahungalla manage two of its three learning centers in the pilot programme, in Dambulla medical supplies to villagers. and Ahungalla respectively. Management of the learning centers requires observing to local entrepreneurs, building supplies for the hotel is also audited for its SLSI organic the classes at all times, managing resource infrastructure development and donation certification. requirements for the lessons in coordination of medical supplies to villagers. The Sands with Group sustainability division, evaluating worked with the Ministry of Health to conduct Aitken Spence Travels customer surveys the performance of the teachers and handling a dental clinic for the community members of during the year indicated that 75% of their absenteeism of the students. Aitken Spence Panadura. customers rated their service as excellent. Travels contributed to the pilot programme by contributing 17 refurbished computers for the Aitken Spence Hotels recognises that in Product Responsibility order to remain leaders in the industry it is computer literacy segment of the programme. Aitken Spence Travels also distributed books Aitken Spence Travels reinforced its carbon essential to retain existing customers, thus to local libraries. neutral status by communicating it visually in have placed great emphasis on implementing its fleet while also designing a new itinerary effective procedures to increase customer In addition, Heritance Ahungalla has header and email signature which highlight satisfaction and loyalty. Customer satisfaction channeled Rs. 0.6 million towards community the ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and carbon neutral feedback platforms such as TripAdvsior development and engagement initiatives logos. and HolidayCheck are monitored by the including donation of school supplies to local management on a regular basis in order to students and donation of equipment to local All hotels carryout food sample testing and scrutinise guest satisfaction levels and rectify entrepreneurs and charitable institutions. water testing on a monthly basis in line with concerns addressed by guests. Aitken Spence Heritance Kandalama has channeled Rs. 14.9 the requirements of the ISO 22000 and ISO Hotels rates very highly on the primary guest million towards community engagement 14000 standards. HACCP audits are carried feedback platform, TripAdvisor with most of its initiatives spanning across scholarships out twice a year. At Heritance Tea Factory, Hotels receiving the Trip Advisor Excellence provided to local students, support extended ranking in 2013. Annual Report 2013 2014 73 MARITIME CARGO LOGISTICS SECTOr Maritime Services Integrated Logistics Freight Forwarding Courier Services Aitken Spence has emerged from humble beginnings to become a leader in the Sri Lankan maritime and cargo logistics sector. Through a progressive journey the company has integrated its operations in air-sea freight forwarding, warehousing, distriparks and related services, courier and transport to provide a total, seamless solution to the importer and exporter alike. We were the first Company in Sri Lanka to extend port management expertise outside Sri Lanka. Today, our services cover the complete physical cargo flow process from shipper to recipient as well as port management services. 74 Aitken Spence PLC During the year, we formally entered into a public-private partnership with the Fiji Ports Corporation by securing a 51% stake in FIJI Ports Terminal, marking a significant milestone for both Aitken Spence and the nation. PBT REVENUE RS.709.2 mn RS.6.8 bn ASSETS EMPLOYEES RS.7.6 bn 1,091 Aitken Spence has played an instrumental The sector comprises of Maritime, Cargo profits before tax of 25.9% compared to the role in Sri Lanka’s transformation from a and Integrated Logistics activities, with the previous financial year. single port nation in the Indian Ocean maritime segment expanding its footprint into in to a modern transshipment hub. The overseas port management and maritime Maritime Services Group’s expertise has been sought over the education as well. With the demand for carriage of goods being years by many administrations related to The consolidated performance of the sector derived out of the demand for goods, this the maritime and cargo logistics industry. recorded a growth of 18.3% in revenue year was a challenging one for imports and Whether in forming coalitions to help compared to the previous financial year, exports. Port volumes out of India, our primary improve infrastructure or in advocacy to reflecting the sustainable growth the sector market contracted while export volumes better manage port operations, Aitken Spence has achieved over time. This increase in out of Sri Lanka reduced by 3.3%. In spite has played a pivotal role in the nation’s revenues was converted to an increase in of this gloomy external environment, the development efforts. segment performed commendably well to Annual Report 2013 2014 75 MARITIME CARGO LOGISTICS SECTOr register growth of over 50%, driven primarily by the maritime education and overseas port management activities while the freight forwarding and agency businesses dipped, in line with global trends. The segment has made a strategic decision to expand its investment driven operations, shifting from the mainly service-related proposition now on offer. We have honed our skills in port management, efficiency enhancement and equipment management, going beyond our traditional scope of agency activity. As an outcome of the new strategic expansions the maritime segment recorded a revenue growth of 57.4% mainly contributing The cargo segment returned a strong from the new investment in Ports Terminal Limited of Fiji. performance in challenging conditions this year, The decision to invest in a significant stake with freight, airline and brokerage products in CINEC (Colombo International Nautical and Engineering College) Maritime Campus, producing excellent results. the largest maritime academy in South process enhancements, have positioned us as providers. There is also a global trend to Asia, has borne fruit. Our investment in a results-driven partner for maritime operators move from off-shoring to near-shoring as CINEC allows us to expand our operations to overseas. a response to the changing consumption overseas locations where we could operate patterns in the US and Europe, and enhanced and manage maritime schools. CINEC now Africa continues to be a vital market technological capabilities diminishing the manages the maritime school of the Fiji for the segment which carries out port importance of the labour component in National University and the Maritime Academy operations management and port equipment manufacturing. in the Seychelles. maintenance management on the continent. The segment is seeking expansion of The future of the maritime segment, while During the year, we formally entered into a activities on the continent through increased offering exciting opportunities, focuses on public-private partnership with the Fiji Ports investment in port related operations, the need for innovative and agile decision Corporation Ltd, by securing a 51% stake including opportunities for inland container making. In the short term, the segment in Ports Terminal Limited of Fiji, marking a depots. The segment is also seeking maritimewill focus on consolidating the liner significant milestone for both Aitken Spence related opportunities in the South Pacific representation, freight forwarding activities and the nation. The partnership envisages region where tremendous growth potential and port management activities. In the the operation and management of the ports exists. medium term, the segment is constantly of Suva and Lautoka for a period of 15 years. seeking new markets as well as new avenues The initial focus has been on upgrading There are demanding times ahead for the for diversification, where we may capitalise processes, introducing new systems and liner agency business; overall, shipping on our strengths and competencies. We are training staff, with a view to upgrading lines are faced with continuing losses with currently exploring new areas within the productivity and efficiency at the two ports, the advent of ultra large ships which create maritime segment including the management thereby enabling the faster turnaround of excess capacity, thereby driving down freight of maritime schools. vessels by eliminating berthing delays. During rates. In fact, by 2016 it is expected that 95% the first 3 months of our operations there, we of vessels will be ultra large ones with over have already achieved a productivity increase Freight Forwarding & Courier 10,000 TEU capacity. It is estimated that as of 35%. Our learning and experiences in at present vessels with a collective capacity The freight forwarding and courier segment operating and managing ports in the African of approximately 700,000 TEUs lie idle due to performed encouragingly during the continent have been crucial to the Group’s over capacity, as the supply exceeds demand. last financial year whilst facing exigent reputation and success overseas. The Global trends such as the concentration of circumstances of the sector, with a revenue productivity and efficiency improvements, power among a handful of shipping lines growth of 1.7%. However the segment has which we successfully achieved in Africa – where the 3 major alliances control 50% faced a 11.5% decline in its net profit before through training, attitudinal change and of global capacity posing a threat to service tax mainly as a result of price competition 76 Aitken Spence PLC and the negative movement of the cross 7,589 6,796 exchange rates between the US dollar and 852 the Euro. 5,663 5,743 736 5,747 The cargo segment returned a strong 5,169 performance in challenging conditions 594 this year, with freight, airline and brokerage products producing excellent results. The express segment however was unfortunate to be impacted by cross exchange rate fluctuations which took their toll on profits, despite top line performance remaining strong. International Air Transport Association figures 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 show a 1.4% expansion in global air freight volumes in 2013 with the second half of the Revenue Profit from Operations Total Assets year showing more activity. A 2.6% expansion in capacity and weak load factors of around RS. 6,796 MN for the year ended 31st March RS. 736 MN for the year ended 31st March RS. 7,589 MN as at 31st March 45.3% contributed to a dull performance. With European economies struggling and US growth still slow, trade volumes remain under positions Sri Lanka as a regional hub. If transportation costs. Fuel surcharges on air pressure and the logistics industry will look successful, new business in this area should and express shipments reduced marginally. for more intra-regional volumes in future, to make Sri Lanka attractive to more shipping We also welcome the steps taken by Sri capitalise on the growing trend for nearlines and airlines. Lanka Customs, shipping and airline ground sourcing. handling authorities to automate export and The freight segment experienced greater import procedures leading to submission of The local air cargo market grew by 11%, due volumes from regular customers, while the manifests and customs declarations online. to an increase in transshipment volumes airline segment was driven by strong growth especially from Bangladesh. The conditions in from the Qatar Airways cargo operation. In Bangladesh, profitability of the freight the US and EU countries impacted Sri Lankan Qatar Airways cargo maintained a high 92% segment grew appreciably over the exports while imports into Sri Lanka declined load factor during the year, doubling its own previous year despite political turmoil and with the government restricting credit for non capacity in the fourth quarter amidst capacity some negativity in the country’s apparel essential imports. increases by competitors. manufacturing sector. The Airline GSA segment reported healthy growth for online The logistics industry is set to benefit from It must be noted that 2013/2014 was a year carrier Mihin Lanka but our other offline Cargo the government’s proposed free port policy during which local fuel prices remained GSA, United Airlines was severely affected by envisioning a new area of logistics which stable thereby enabling us to manage our INPUT VALUE ADDING ACTIVITIES OUTPUT • Our expertise • Talent enhancement • Customer satisfaction & loyalty • Our brand behaviour & values • Service provision • Skilled & motivated employees • Specialised equipment & fleet • Strategic management • Market intrinsic knowledge • Partner brands & networks • Expansion & improvement of • Positive economic value • Logistics management systems & infrastructure • Innovative integrated logistics technology • Cultivating partnerships & solutions • Financial resources networks • Effective supply chain management • Quality assurance • Optimising utilisation of logistics solutions • Group synergies Annual Report 2013 2014 77 MARITIME CARGO LOGISTICS SECTOr limited space on first leg carriers and onward During the year, we revamped the marketing a highly competitive sector. We have adopted space from the network hubs. function of the freight segment from a a more aggressive approach in the regional decentralised outfit to a centralised team to offices as well, which should pay dividends in In the Maldives, our Sri Lankan Airlines Cargo increase its capacities and synergies. The the coming years. GSA continued to achieve year on year growth focus of marketing activities has shifted to despite capacity increases by competitors. The targeted areas and trade lanes with a vision In the near future, we envisage new express segment posted modest growth, with to achieve leadership in identified areas. We investment to expand our record gains in the second half offset by a lull during have also consolidated our partnerships with management business which will enable the first half. The Maldives freight segment key European customers during the year, us to modernise and increase capacity continues to consolidate its business through leveraging on emerging opportunities to spur progressively. Aitken Spence Cargo, together agency agreements. volume growth. In the express segment, our with the rest of the Group maritime, cargo, territory management system continues to logistics sector, offers customers an bear results with strong market penetration in unique integrated logistics solution that encompasses every area of the supply chain. The segment has been able to maintain its We anticipate that trade volumes will increase marginally next year, especially for imports. competitive edge through the long term Growth in exports will be hinged on the recovery in the US and European markets. The relationships and loyalty built with key fierce competition in the industry, together customers over the years, by offering tailor with the removal of the terminal handling fee will however impact profitability. The removal made solutions and capitalising on the synergies of entry barriers for foreign companies of being part of the Aitken Spence Group. 78 Aitken Spence PLC 1873 Commencement of Aitken Spence 1985 Commenced container transportation 2009 Acquires ‘Logilink (Pvt) Ltd’ a container & Co. in Colombo as the largest services and a inland container freight station operation with shipping agency. terminal in Mattakkuliya. specialised solutions for warehousing and garments on hangers. 1980 Diversified operations into 1987/88 Established Ace Container Terminals international freight forwarding in Sri (Pte) Ltd to handle the first free trade 2011 The Group becomes the largest Lanka. zone inland dry port in the country. shareholder of CINEC which is the Sri Lanka’s largest private sector maritime 1981 The Group was appointed as agents 2007 The first Sri Lankan Company & higher education campus. for TNT Express, one of the world’s to venture into ‘Port Efficiency leading courier companies. Management’ outside Sri Lanka. may also see the competitive landscape changes as a significant number of new during the year by a salary revision affected transforming to include key players. players made their entry to the market, by the Wages Board on the transport segment. notably in warehousing, transportation, We have positioned ourselves as an container depot and over dimensional cargo The segment has been able to maintain established company with a strong parent, a handling. its competitive edge through the long term regional presence, as well as good agency relationships and loyalty built with key networks and the capacity to invest, which With the pressure of the global logistics customers over the years, by offering tailor will continue to provide us with a competitive industry, market conditions and the change made solutions and capitalising on the advantage. of business mix etc, the revenue of the synergies of being part of the Aitken Spence integrated logistics segment dropped by Group, and through constant innovation and The outlook for the segment is positive with 0.9%.However with the efficiencies and the a sharp focus on efficiency and productivity. our strategies geared to leverage our market competency of the segment a 3.2% growth Despite strong competition, the segment position with base volumes to increase our in the net profit before tax was achieved remains one of the top 3 players in the buying power and strategically target new compared to the last financial year. industry, and in fact continues to hold market customers. The segment will continue to leadership in internal container depot, rationalise costs by maximising synergies Although the segment experienced erratic transportation and container freight station through internal collaboration; our vision is conditions during the year, the segment businesses. Our investment in an integrated to establish common service teams which benefitting once again from its diversification warehouse management and container will lead to greater efficiency and expertise. In ended the year on a high note. The transport IT system has borne fruit, and has the short term we will pursue consolidation curtailment of operations at the Group’s enhanced our marketability and performance in the Maldives and Bangladesh through a power plants in Horana and Matara had a management. greater offering of services. In the medium to severe impact on our fuel transportation long term, we are seeking the expansion of business, which dragged down an otherwise Going forward, we have identified our regional footprint, especially with the right strong performance from segments such as warehousing as an area of much growth partner in India. internal container terminals, container freight potential, given the trends for outsourcing. station, transportation, container rentals and During the year, we invested in a further Integrated Logistics special operations. The warehouse segment two acres of land adjacent to our Welisara operated at full capacity throughout the year property which has been earmarked for a The global logistics industry experienced but experienced a drop in revenue due to state of the art one stop logistics complex a slowdown in 2013, with the shipping a change in its revenue mix. The European offering warehousing and container freight industry battling excess capacity and airlines downturn has had a marked effect on the station operations. The segment will soon under pressure from declining freight rates. free trade zones, and as a result our zone embark on its construction and it is the Despite this global slowdown, in Sri Lanka, operations experienced volume drops. The intention to begin commercial operation by the logistics sector witnessed vigour and integrated logistics segment was also affected end of next year. enthusiasm as logistics related infrastructure boomed and the government brought in new legislation to promote its free port and hub concepts. Container throughput at the Port of Colombo recorded a 5.2% growth during the year, as did transshipment volumes, which grew by 5.5%. This growth was on the backdrop of the Port of Colombo overall volumes declining by 0.3% during the previous financial year of 2012/2013. The local competitive landscape also underwent Annual Report 2013 2014 79 MARITIME CARGO LOGISTICS SECTOr service providers who are able to demonstrate safe and environmentally friendly practices. Similarly, our environmental commitments were communicated to our international agents and principals and our key customers, highlighting our achievement of becoming the first major freight forwarder in Sri Lanka to receive ISO 14001 EMS Certification. During the year, the cargo segment invested financially as well as with significant management and staff time on training, and audits related to environmental sustainability. The maritime segment takes several In the short term, we plan the completion environmental aspects including reducing measures to reduce its energy usage, of our yard development to upgrade paper use, waste segregation, and reducing including the use of daylight in the periphery our infrastructure to match our service energy use. The segment has devised ways of the office, a 50% reduction of air levels. Stringent cost control and product of recycling and reusing paper, packing conditioning during lunch time and switching rationalisation will continue to drive our materials and waste wherever possible. off monitors and water dispensers after work approach to business. We have also increased while also restricting the use of the water capacity of our mobile storage segment. The importance of environmental boiler. sustainability was impressed on the Over the medium and long term, we will employees through regular awareness The logistics segment has changed its explore opportunities for logistics in Welisara, programmes and communication material. In lighting to CFL and LED bulbs to reduce Hambantota and Mattala while also seeking particular, such initiatives addressed issues its energy usage, while also introducing potential projects in the Asia Pacific and such as climate change and its impact on transparent sheets to new buildings that bring African regions. the economy, ISO 14001 EMS emergency in natural light. The yard currently requires preparedness, and the importance of resource watering in order to minimise dust and the segment has now opted to use low quality Environmental Performance conservation. water from the nearby canal for this purpose, The Aitken Spence cargo segment is the During the year, steps were taken to instead of using fresh water. Although the first major freight forwarder in Sri Lanka to encourage the cargo segment’s transport canal has abundant water perennially, it is achieve ISO 14001:2004 certification for service providers to adopt sustainable not used for human consumption because of its Environmental Management Systems practices. Ninty seven of our main suppliers/ the low quality of the water. Daily withdrawal (EMS), demonstrating awareness, actions, transporters were educated on sustainability, of canal water is roughly about 25.8 cubic and commitment to environmental quality management systems and meters in volume. The logistics segment sustainability. In line with the requirements environment management systems, good disposes waste such as scraps, batteries, of the certification, the segment conducts safety practices and the UN Global Compact and tyres through registered contractors. regular analysis of impacts and internal and as well as aspects of the industry. The activity During the year, an evaluation was carried external audits. The stringent requirements of was carried out with a view to registering out to introduce a more structured waste the standard include controls on significant management system. The segment is also currently pursuing the Environmental Energy Consumption Protection License issued by the Central Diesel: 1,778,729.92 litres Biomass/ Fuel Not used (i.e. 67,565.32 GJ) wood: Environmental Authority. Petrol: 22,774.69 litres LPG: Not used (i.e. 741.14 GJ) Social Responsibility Furnace Oil: Not used Electricity: 1,672,634 kWh All three segment of the sector have in place (i.e. 6,021.48 GJ) OHS (Occupational Health and Safety) teams Total Energy Saved 6.66 GJ that comprise of representatives of the SBUs Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions in metric tonnes 4,956.60 tonnes of CO2 equivalent that make up each segment. The members Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions in 1,237.75 tonnes of OHS teams receive ongoing training on metric tonnes of CO2 equivalent aspects of occupational health and safety, The amount of GHG emissions reductions 1.37 tonnes conducted by both internal resource persons achieved in metric tonnes of CO2 equivalent and external experts. 80 Aitken Spence PLC Total weight of hazardous and non-hazardous waste, by disposal methods Waste type Method of handling the waste Total weight/ volume Paper Paper is re-used and used on both sides when printing documents when possible. Stationery/ 219.5 kg envelopes etc. are reused wherever possible. Waste paper is recalled and given to recycling vendors as per Aitken Spence Group Policy. Aitken Spence Cargo shreds confidential documents and uses the waste paper as packing materials at Packing Warehouse. Packing material is reused at the Packing warehouse. Cardboard Aitken Spence Cargo reuses packing materials wherever possible. 320 cartons reused Plastic Negligible quantities. Polythene Packing materials are reused wherever possible 34.1 kg of bubble wrap was reused Lead Acid Exchanged with the vendors 5 nos. Batteries Tires Repaired when possible, and if not, disposed as per Aitken Spence Group Policy 20 nos. Wood Plywood sheets were reused at the Packing Warehouse 237 plywood sheets reused E – waste Disposed of as per the Aitken Spence Group Policy With integrated management systems an external one-day OHS programme. The provided much needed items to a pre-school encompassing EMS and sustainability, the Company also continued to provide jobattended by 36 children. cargo segment’s management approach related training & development with over 73% to occupational health and safety includes of staff attending at least one programme in The cargo segment has provided internship hazard analysis/ inspection, and the the year. opportunities for two interns and a trainee, completion of periodic accident / incident who received exposure to a corporate status reports along with corrective and The cargo segment undertook many environment and job-related training and preventive action if applicable. This also community engagement activities during the mentoring. The staff of Aitken Spence Shipping extends to emergency preparedness year, such as the donation of used computers donated books to students of Arrawwala evacuation plans, installing first aid boxes for the benefit of 400 children studying at the Rajamaha Viharaya while we facilitated a and having trained first aiders, clear signage, Vidyawardhana Vidyalaya Primary School in donation by Hapag Lloyd cruises together with internal inspections and external audits as Wellampitiya, close to our packing warehouse. the passengers of MV Colombus 2 to ‘Ladani’, well as creating awareness through training The staff of the warehouse were involved in an organisation that takes care of 225 under for appropriate personnel. These initiatives the project to engage with the community privileged girls and boys at 7 locations. together help create a system of awareness positively. We also organised two danselas designed to prevent and correct potential OHS with the staff that benefited about 100 Product Responsibility risks and improve action and responses in the persons in the vicinity of our offices. The ISO 9001:2008 quality management event of an emergency. system as well as regulatory requirements The Company supported the International Vesak Buddhist Film Festival and Exhibition and Group policy provides the cargo segment The cargo segment conducted a number held in Colombo in May 2013 as part of with a framework to ensure the quality of of sustainability, EMS & OHS related the Vesak Kalapaya, which attracted about the services we provide to customers. The programmes during the year, including 10,000 visitors over 3 days. The event Company ensures a high quality of customer an emergency preparedness /fire drill for included an exhibition with educational communication prior to and upon placement the packing staff, outsourced security and objectives, creating awareness and of the orders and post shipment; such cleaning staff at the packing warehouse. The communicating the value of preserving communications and engagement takes segment also developed a dengue hazard nature and our heritage, which was attended many forms such as email, telephone, fax, analysis inspection checklist, and carried by several hundred people. Our sponsorship media, meetings and face to face discussions. out inspections at all operating locations, of this event was in line with our objective The Company has geared itself to ensure taking corrective/ preventive action where of creating awareness of environmental customer satisfaction by providing a total necessary. In addition to five cross-functional conservation and sustainability. logistics solution comprising of air freight and staff trained as ‘Trained First Aiders’ another sea freight, custom house agency, brokerage, six cross-functional staff including from We also continued our support to the Pannala express, and supply chain. Customer privacy branch offices attended a one-day first aid Sri Piyarathne Dhamma School which we is given utmost importance, with employees training programme conducted by St John’s have assisted for four years. This year, we expected to sign the Aitken Spence Code of Ambulance and three personnel attended Ethics agreement upon joining the Company. Annual Report 2013 2014 81 Strategic Investments SECTOr Power Generation Printing & Packaging Garment Manufacture Plantations Holding Company The success story of the Aitken Spence Group has been reinforced by astute investments and strategic partnerships in diverse sectors. The Company’s unblemished track record proves that it is a proactive player in a dynamic economy. The Strategic Investments sector comprises of various business ventures having high potential in the current economic environment as well as those which are poised for growth in the future. The Group’s extensive and profitable presence in a wide range of businesses has simultaneously diversified the risks and enabled the Group harness growth opportunities. 82 Aitken Spence PLC As a result of venturing in to varied industries, today the sector comprises of investments in diverse strategic business segments. PBT REVENUE RS.159.8 mn RS.15.1bn ASSETS EMPLOYEES RS.22.4 bn 1,862 Aitken Spence has made several strategic lower year on year. This was mainly due to agreements (PPA). During the year, the investments over the years as part of our challenges arising from the power segment, segment disposed the thermal power plant sustainable business plan. As a result of which are detailed below. The sector held in Horana to an overseas buyer. Further the venturing in to varied industries, today the 36.6% or Rs. 22.4 billion of the Group’s total segment made a provision for impairment sector comprises of the plantations, power asset base. of approximately Rs. 400 million for the generation including renewable energy, remaining assets of these two power plants printing and packaging, and garment POWER GENERATION which had a negative impact on the segment manufacturing segments. and the Group. The wind power plant situated The power generation segment experienced at Ambewela and the hydro power plant at The sector recorded a revenue of Rs 15.1 a difficult year. Segmental revenue declined Matale also did not contribute significantly to billion during the year, a drop of 15.9% from by 22.1 % mainly due to two of its power the profitability of the segment. the previous financial year. The net profit plants at Matara and Horana remaining idle before tax was Rs 159.8 million, 81.1% following the expiry of their power purchase Annual Report 2013 2014 83 Strategic Investments SECTOr PRINTING & PACKAGING The first full year of operations in the new printing facility at Mawaramandiya translated to an impressive growth in its profitability over the previous year, driven by a 16.8% growth in revenue achieved over the previous year. The relatively stable low interest rate regime during the year had a positive impact on the segment, which has a significant quantum of borrowings. The exchange rate stability also enabled us to plan and better manage our supply chain which has a significant exposure to imported raw materials thereby favourably impacting the overall cost structure. The nature of the business dictates high levels of energy usage; hence the segment thus faced The printing segment also made several inroads the impact of the high rates of electricity tariff and fuel. However these were balanced by the into new areas, adding value to the product benefits accruing from the advanced energy mix by launching variable printing and a digital saving equipment in the new printing facility. printing facility. Being a major supplier of packaging for the milk powder market, we were seriously affected by the turmoil in the industry during the year, as volumes forecasted for key The power purchase agreement of the In the medium term, the Group will explore customers failed to materialise. We were Embilipitiya power plant comes to an end options to invest in renewable energy projects able to offset the impact through initiatives during the next financial year. However given of less than 10 MW. to venture into other business areas such as the country’s power generation needs, the pharmaceuticals and point of sale material. capacity offered by the Embilipitiya power The power generation segment continues plant remains vital to the national grid and it to explore greenfield opportunities in In the competitive framework, we witnessed is hoped that the relevant authorities would Bangladesh where thermal projects are an upgrading of technology capabilities take steps to ensure that the plant will not lie offered to the private sector. We received across the industry, especially end-to-end idle post expiration of the PPA. Letters of Intent (LOI) from the Bangladeshi packaging plants, while smaller presses have Power Development Board (BPDB) for proliferated, increasing the pressure on prices The power generation segment is highly two thermal power projects of 150 MW at and profit margins. It is estimated that the regulated with the Ceylon Electricity Board Kaliakoir and 54.5 MW at Bhairab. The terms offset printing industry will grow by 5% 6% (CEB) being the only off taker; private power of the Letter of Intent for the Kaliakoir project during the coming year. companies are severely affected by the required the government of Bangladesh to difficulties faced by the CEB to make timely release an appropriate land to the developer. The printing segment also made several payments as per the terms of agreements. However due to their inability to provide such inroads into new areas, adding value to the Furthermore, the current policy of expanding land, BPDB decided to withdraw the project product mix by launching variable printing the CEB’s generation capacity without and cancel the LOI. With the cancellation of and a digital printing facility. The variable the participation of the private sector has the Kaliakoir project due to circumstances printing initiative gives the capability to significantly restricted the opportunities beyond our control, the viability of the Bhairab penetrate into new market segments such as available to independent power producers. project was compromised because expected labels with variable data. The digital printing The restrictions even extend to renewable returns of this project alone failed to meet facility was a response to the demand for low energy. The private sector is not permitted to the investment criterion of the Company. We volumes, high quality, and faster solutions. establish commercial solar power projects remain in negotiations with the authorities In order to enhance our manufacturing and the CEB currently does not approve the in Bangladesh with a view to addressing this capability, we also invested in state of the art establishment of any new wind power plants issue. We will also continue to seek further binding machinery. pending the conclusion of a study on grid opportunities for thermal power in the region. Our strategies for the future are designed to capacity to absorb energy from renewable capitalise on our competitive attributes such sources. as low lead time, consistent quality, quick response, agility and a strong brand image. 84 Aitken Spence PLC The Group’s garment segment had another 22,890 22,363 17,908 1,768 21,378 exceptional year with a year on year revenue 15,068 growth of 19.5% and profit before tax 14,581 growth of 30.1%. This was mainly due to the 1,336 expansion of the facilities and the strategy of optimising internal resources. The revival of the US economy bought in more volumes from American customers. Volumes ordered by European customers, who account for 552 15-20% of our portfolio, continue to be depressed as economic conditions in Europe are yet to improve. The business benefited from the relatively stable foreign exchange rates during the year, however a devaluation 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 of the rupee would accrue greater business benefits. It must be noted that the cost of Revenue Profit from Operations Total Assets production was adversely impacted by the RS. 15,068 MN for the year ended 31st March RS. 552 MN for the year ended 31st March RS. 22,363 MN as at 31st March electricity tariff revision in April 2013. It is critical that inflation is tightly controlled in order to maintain the future competitiveness of the industry. We are constantly seeking way of improving usage. In order to instil sound awareness our quality, lead times and productivity, and among the staff on issues of sustainability, During the year, the garments segment further have deployed a cellular manufacturing we have trained them on aspects such as enhanced its state of the art machinery by approach to improve overall productivity. resource utilisation. investing in semi automatic sewing machines. Special cross functional teams have been We would continue to focus on further investment in semi-automated machinery to appointed to monitor service levels in a bid to GARMENT MANUFACTURE enhance efficiency and productivity while also proactively attend to client needs. Sri Lanka’s competitive position among developing a more environmentally friendly Aitken Spence Printing has successfully global apparel vendors grew stronger during manufacturing environment. Plans are also completed the stage 1 audit towards the year, with costs increasing in competing in place to invest in a new state of the art complying with ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and nations such as India, China and Vietnam. facility to expand production capacity, while ISO 18001 standards. The facility has also Sri Lanka is also a preferred vendor for attracting high-end clientele to the business. complied with LEED standards and the Marks customers focused on compliant production & Spencer (one of our key customers) Eco facilities and high levels of innovation and A series of process improvements were also factory standards while being a carbon responsiveness. The country’s apparel exports made during the year with the Company neutral organisation. We have deployed cross were USD 4.5 billion in value and grew successfully obtaining renewal of the functional teams to monitor our energy, water by approximately 13% during 2013. This WRAP (Worldwide Responsible Accredited and waste practices and have established amounted to more than half the industrial Production) certification and beginning the operational controls to manage our energy exports of the country. process of obtaining ISO certification. INPUT VALUE ADDING ACTIVITIES OUTPUT • Our brand behaviour and values • Talent enhancement • Customer satisfaction and loyalty • Our expertise • High service standards • Skilled and motivated employees • Partnerships and networks • Strategic management • Positive economic value • Infrastructure and specialised • Effective supply chain • Community development assets management • Innovative products and services • Technology • Quality assurance • Responsible production • Information system • Health and safety standards • Financial resources • Setting industry standards • Innovation Annual Report 2013 2014 85 Strategic Investments SECTOr 1955 Started ‘Aitken Spence Printing successfully operated as a division of 2004 Entered into a joint venture to build division’ which provides printing Aitken Spence & Co. & operate a 100 MW power plant in & packaging services to the local Embilipitiya. 1997 Aitken Spence plantation’s purchased markets. a majority stake in ‘Elpitiya Plantations 2008 Elpitiya Plantations’ installed & 1977 Established ‘Aitken Spence (EPP)’ which owns 15 tea & rubber commissioned a mini hydropower Garments’ even before the birth of estates. plant at its Sheen estate in Nuwara an open economy; with the aim of Eliya. 2002 The first 20 MW thermal power plant manufacturing & exporting garments to apparel importers in the USA & EU. of the Group commences commercial 2012 Aitken Spence Printing re-locates to a operations in Matara. state of the art printing facility which 1985 Aitken Spence Printing (Pvt) Ltd was 2003 The second 20 MW thermal power is the first LEED certified printing incorporated to provide printing and facility in Sri Lanka. plant commences commercial packaging services which was initially operations in Horana. This year too we reaped the benefits of our The joint venture with a Chinese partner to palm oil diversification, which proved to be market speciality black tea in China the first the main profit earner while mid country tea estates also contributed to the strong such investment in the plantation sector in Sri performance, during a year in which the high grown areas recorded losses. Weather Lanka has proven successful. conditions continued to pose a challenge to the plantation industry, as the continuing effects of global warming take their economic The shortage of both skilled and un-skilled enjoyed with GAP over the past, positions us toll. labour is an industry wide issue for the well within the niche segment in which we apparel sector in Sri Lanka. The segment, operate. The tea segment despite many challenges while facing similar challenges, was able on the cost side recorded excellent results to minimise its impact through innovative particularly in the mid grown estates. Land and attractive recruitment campaigns and productivity reached record levels whilst introduction of staff incentive schemes PLANTATIONS overall productivity of other resources too and the enhancement of welfare facilities. Despite many challenges including a 20% showed improvement. Poor prices continued The company currently pays the highest increase in wages, the plantations segment to depress the rubber segment, which is basic salary compared to other competitive recorded a significant performance in the year unlikely to see a recovery of prices in the factories in its geographical vicinity. We have under review. This was the result of a strategy short term. focused on creating a safe and enjoyable of diversification and good agricultural working environment and better work The joint venture with a Chinese partner to practices implemented in the last several life balance; and have enjoyed a cordial market speciality black tea in China the first years. relationship with workers and trade unions. such investment in the plantation sector in The segment effectively returned a strong Sri Lanka has proven successful. China is a The Company’s main customer GAP Inc., a performance during the year despite being significant market with vast potential and our globally renowned retailer with a presence faced with a 20% hike in wages and the presence in China augurs well for us to reap in over 3,500 locations around the world, resultant increase in gratuity provisions. The opportunities with greater volumes in the high has increased its trading volumes with the strength of Elpitiya Plantations lies in the value business. segment. This, together with the exceptional strategic diversification of its asset base, to track record of quality and delivery we have Another significant contributor to profit was build a balanced portfolio of businesses. income from commercial forestry, as a result of the initial investment made in 1997/98 to grow commercial forests in high and mid grown estates. We believe this investment will continue to yield considerable results in the ensuing years. Given the boom in tourism, the Company has also taken steps to exploit our plantations’ resources for eco tourism opportunities in collaboration with the Group’s destination management segment. 86 Aitken Spence PLC Productivity of both employees and land One of the most noteworthy achievements The Government’s continuation of the fertiliser was maintained at impressive levels during of the segment has been the significant subsidy has been a contributing factor for the year with investment in replanting reduction of its overall borrowings on the back the good operational results. Sustaining all three crops and in training and skills of improved operational results and reduced the subsidy however appears to be a major development to enable workers to operate at interest rates. We have also made use of the challenge, and we have already seen supply optimum levels. We will also continue to seek low interest rate regime to obtain low interest shortages from time to time. We encourage opportunities for further mechanisation and loans for development purposes. the government to take measures to ensure process automation to increase productivity. the quality of Ceylon Tea overseas while During the year, we were able to complete assisting the private sector to attract foreign During the year, we formed “core groups” and the second hydropower project of 900KW, markets. It would be vastly beneficial to the “quality circles” which also had an impact and increase our total generation capacity at plantation sector if the government facilitated on productivity. A core group is made up of the estates to 1.5MW. We are now carrying long term loan facilities at subsidised rates for representatives of all categories of employees out pre-construction activities on four more replanting of tea and rubber, and also extend from workers to the estate manager. They hydropower projects at our estates. the lease period of plantation companies to engage in activities designed to improve attract more investments in to the sector. social welfare and quality of work life, train In order to develop the Company’s ICT and develop workers and ultimately improve infrastructure, the sector unrolled an ERP The outlook for the plantation segment is the productivity of the estate. The core groups system named ‘PlantERM’, developed by optimistic and there are ample opportunities fostered improved worker management Aitken Spence Technologies. The systems, to diversify and innovate using the plantation relationships and forged a participatory validated by KPMG, will connect all 13 estates resource base. Tea will always have a great style of management.“Quality circles” are to a single centralised database via IPVPN (a future together with palm oil as seen by tasked with looking into areas such as 5S, web based application). We hope to reap the its success in South East Asia. China is a lean manufacturing and management, and results of this investment over the next year. significant market with vast potential and our organisational health and safety. Annual Report 2013 2014 87 Strategic Investments SECTOr Environmental Performance The garments segment has in place many environmental initiatives that enable resource efficiency. These include measures such as using sky lights and power capacitor banks to save energy. The sustainability team of garments is proactively looking at the possibility of capturing the excess energy generated in the exhaust fans of the evaporative cooling system and have instituted action accordingly. The segment reuses treated waste water for landscaping and is examining the benefits of introducing a system of solar power rain water harvesting in presence in China augurs well for us to reap rains and also to pests and diseases that the coming year. opportunities in the high value business. damage production. In order to combat The printing segment’s LEED certiﬁed green potential issues, we carried out extensive factory in Mawaramandiya uses extensive Tourism is another attractive area to be shading programmes on all estates while rain exploited together with the cultivation of methods to reduce energy usage. Daylight water harvesting pits were cut in tea estates, harvesting is increased by using tall windows, fruits and vegetables. However for all this along with improved drainage systems. to materialise and create growth investors skylights and glass facades. The factory is Green bamboo was planted near natural equipped with LED, CFL, and energy efficient must have the confidence to invest in the water reservoirs to purify and conserve water plantations and receive the support of all T5 Bulbs for lighting. We also take effort to while organic manure was incorporated increase awareness among staff members stakeholders to make the plantations sector with artificial fertilizer where ever possible. Sri Lanka’s pride. on the “switch off” policy. An energy efficient The segment also planted new tea cultivars centralised water cool air conditioning system recommended by TRI considering climate promotes energy savings while the factory The greatest challenge to the segment arises conditions while diversifying crops in the low has aligned power load shifting with the from the impact of global warming including country elevation. production plan, limiting the use of the most inconsistent weather patterns, which give rise to long dry spells, heat waves and heavy energy consuming machines during peak time. Energy Consumption In addition, a waste water treatment plant Diesel: 199,830.04 litres Biomass/ Fuel wood: 11,291,385 kg has been established at the factory, while (i.e. 7,590.57 GJ) (i.e. 165,469.60 GJ) sedimentation is closely managed to prevent Petrol: 12,920.57 litres LPG: 12,372.48 kg erosion. The factory is located in a rural (i.e. 420.46 GJ) (i.e. 569.84 GJ) residential area, and has therefore taken Furnace Oil: 100,298,806 litres Electricity: 7,523,186 kWh ample measures to protect biodiversity, (i.e. 4,046,228.86 GJ) (i.e. 27,083.47 GJ) including sound proofing the generator room and cultivating plants endemic to the Total energy produced from non-renewable sources (GJ) 1,564,317.29 GJ area. During the year, the sector invested Rs. Total energy produced from renewable sources (GJ) 43,627.47 GJ 3.3 million to manage activities aimed at Total Energy Saved 7,991.43 GJ mitigating potential adverse environmental Gross direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions in metric tons of 294,773.67 tonnes impacts. CO2 equivalent The plantations segment’s fortunes are closely Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions in metric tons 5,567.16 tonnes linked with the environment and therefore we of CO2 equivalent take proactive measures to ensure that our The amount of GHG emissions reduced and/ or offset 1,910.82 tonnes operations are of benefit to the environment Total quantified volume of water used (in cubic meters) 133,527.42 m3 in the vicinity of our estates and factories. Total volume of water recycled and/ or reused by the 6,484 m3 The segment is systematically working organization. towards obtaining ISO 50001 energy Total spending on environmental conservation Rs. 103.37 million management system certification for two Total funds channelled for community development Rs. 22.04 million model factories, situated in the up country and low country regions respectively. As part 88 Aitken Spence PLC Waste type Method of handling the waste Total Paper (kg) Sold for recycling/ reuse or disposed of according to standards specified in the Environmental 1,434,099 kg Protection License Cardboard kg Sold for recycling/ reuse or disposed of according to standards specified in the Environmental 2,928 kg Protection License Plastic Sold for recycling/ reuse or disposed of according to standards specified in the Environmental 1,254 items Protection License Polythene kg Sold for recycling/ reuse or disposed of according to standards specified in the Environmental 3,369.4 kg Protection License CFL bulbs Handed over for recycling or disposed of according to standards specified in the Environmental 31 items Protection License Lead Acid Batteries Due to low volume, batteries collected over a time and disposed of according to standards 5 items specified in the Environmental Protection License Alkaline Batteries Due to low volume, batteries collected over a time and disposed of according to standards specified in the Environmental Protection License Tires Reused Scrap Metal Kg Sold for reuse 97,142 kg Glass Low volumes collected are handed over for recycling/ reuse Soiled cotton Kg Handed over to certified vendor for recycling or disposed of according to standards specified in the 12,930 kg Environmental Protection License Food waste Food waste is either handed over to Urban Council as waste or composted and used as organic 25,340 kg fertilizer for agriculture E – waste Sold for reuse or disposed of according to standards specified in the Environmental Protection 9 items License of the effort, the segment upgraded and children living on the estate on good water estate workers and staff on the importance of standardised the skill levels of technical staff management practices and the importance of having a clean atmosphere. at all tea factories, in association with the conserving water. University of Vocational Technology. Waste segregation systems are in place at Biodiversity surveys have been conducted all the divisions, fields, common areas, line The segment also identified several energy at all estates to identify the flora and fauna rooms, offices, factories and crèches across management mechanisms, and during the available at the estates; the findings have all estates. The estates have constructed year, implemented polydrive power systems been recorded accordingly. Estates are compost bins to produce organic manure, in the withering section of the Meddecombra encouraged to conserve flora and fauna by which is used to augment the fertilizer tea factory and replaced inefficient motors maintaining mini forests within their estates. requirement of the fields. The rubber factories with energy efficient models at the Nayapana Elpitiya Plantation PLC., also manages forestry at Bentota and Elpitiya have constructed and New Peacock estates. A solar powered for commercial purposes and maintains the effluent treatment plants to minimise pollution net metering system was installed at the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) certification. of water as a result of their operations. manager’s bungalow on Ketandola estate while a solar water heating system was Emissions from cooking on open hearths are As a best practice, we follow a “polythene installed at the Dunsinane GM’s bungalow. a risk faced by low income households across free fields” policy where workers are now not Sri Lanka, and the company took measures allowed to bring polythene into the fields. The plantation segment’s water resource to provide guidance to estate workers with Having identified lunch packets as the primary management initiatives included rain water a view to mitigating the use of open fires source of polythene pollutants, we provided harvesting through pits cut in tea fields and for cooking. Respirators were provided to workers with a sufficient number of lunch planting green bamboo near natural water all sprayers and factory workers to uplift boxes to carry their food. Non-biodegradable reservoirs to purify and conserve water. their health by controlling the inhalation of waste such as polythene, plastic, glass, CFL Elpitiya Plantations PLC., is making good chemical substances. Furthermore, we have bulbs and scrap metals is collected at a progress towards obtaining the Rainforest also taken steps to lift the chimneys of tea central point at each estate, where actions Alliance Certification, and during the factories to at least 20 meters above ground is taken to minimise environmental damage year, conducted training and awareness level. Awareness was also created among caused by such waste. sessions for workers, non workers and even Annual Report 2013 2014 89 Strategic Investments SECTOr The power segment has carried out evaluations of all aspects of their impact to the environment, and maintains an impact register, which is updated regularly. The segment maintains ISO 14001:2004 standards and has regular audits to ensure that its plants are fully compliant with the regulatory requirements. Aitken Spence Corporate Finance has a dedicated team unrolling an environmental management system covering the operations of all SBUs. Once in place, the system will reduce the energy consumption of the SBU, manage electronic waste more systematically and reduce usage of paper. The SBU also supports other SBUs by providing consultative services and assisted Aitken Spence Property The plantations segment has customer health Development to assess and revise the waste management procedure. and safety as a priority from the moment the tea is plucked from the fields, throughout its Social Performance The garments segment ensures high levels of processing at factories and then its transport to occupational health and safety by conducting training and awareness programmes on Colombo for auctioning. safety aspects for all factory workers and staff members, while providing the necessary The plantations segment has consistently from infrastructure development, managing safety equipment to factory employees. The encouraged awareness of occupational child development centres, healthcare for garments segment’s OHS (Occupational health and safety (OHS) by conducting plantation workers, pre and antenatal care Health and Safety) team has representation training and education programmes. Risk for pregnant workers, alcoholism prevention from each division and routine fire safety and hazard assessments are carried out programmes, elder care programmes and drills are carried out to ensure emergency periodically to identify and mitigate potential other community engagement programmes. preparedness. accidents on estates; workers are given all These engagements, at a cost of over Rs. required personal protective equipment 15 million, benefit the estate communities The segment also extends its support to during their work. OHS activities on estates which include estate workers as well as their the local communities in the vicinity of its are overseen by the estate medical assistant, families. operations; educational assistance to children welfare officer or midwife as well as of the community, educational support for superintendent and representative of each Elpitiya Plantations encourage all estates English, Tamil, Year 5 Scholarships classes estate. The OHS training programmes on to also address the needs of the younger and ongoing support to hospitals. estates are organised with the support of generation of the community; many of whom the Ministry of Health or non governmental focus on education, resulting in the number The printing segment is fully compliant with of estate youth entering university growing organisations working in the segment. the OHSAS 18001 standard for occupational over the last few years. The segment channels health and safety, and has implemented a There is regular dialogue with estate funds to facilitate scholarships to students series of measures in line with the standard. employees on improving health and who pass the ordinary level and advance level safety conditions as well as uplifting living examinations. As part of its community engagement, conditions on estates. Almost all the estates the printing segment coordinates one of The power generation segment is compliant within the Group thus conduct free medical the learning centres of Aitken Spence’s with OHSAS 18001:2007 occupational clinics, eye clinics, and dental clinics for Empowering Sri Lanka First programme. health and safety systems and maintains ISO workers. Specific awareness programmes The centre benefits 60 students from the 9001:2008 quality standards. The segment were also carried out on issues such as teen local community. The entire coordination of has one health, safety and environment pregnancy, HIV/AIDS, Malaria and Dengue, the project is handled by employees who officer appointed from the administrative and cancer prevention. volunteer their time for the project. department, as well as an OHS officer from The plantations segment has a range of each department. The segment spends 95% community engagement activities spanning of its procurement budget on local suppliers. 90 Aitken Spence PLC The sustainability framework of the Group has measures help maintain the security and been strengthened with the Group corporate confidentiality of customers’ property. finance team providing consultation and coordination assistance to other business The segment complies with local and units who have gaps in their sustainability international standards of the industry programmes. These services include guidance including ISO 9001 Quality Management on human resource management, internal Systems, ISO 14001 Environmental audit support for both financial and non Management Systems and OHSAS 18001 financial concerns, consultation to identify Health and Safety Management System. It and mitigate gaps in sustainability activities, also maintains the high standards required by legal advice on environmental concerns, and its customers. We carry out annual customer IT support. satisfaction surveys among all our customers, and the respondents have given us an above Furthermore, as the service centre for the average rating. Group, Aitken Spence Corporate Finance also takes an active role in the management of The plantations segment has customer health the Spence Evoluzione Charitable Trust which and safety as a priority from the moment the carried out the Group level sustainability tea is plucked from the fields, throughout its initiative on education, ‘Empowering Sri processing at factories and then its transport Lanka First’. The project, now in its pilot stage, to Colombo for auctioning. Product labelling is envisaged setting up education centres in critical to the industry as the source of the tea Dambulla, Ahungalla and Mawaramandiya at should be clear to customers. The segment an initial cost of Rs. 7 million. uses distinct identification labels at the point of sale in catalogues, as well as on value In addition, Aitken Spence Corporate Finance added teas. The produce of the plantation sustainability subcommittee maintains Group is marketed via public auctions as well as level activities such as standard human private sales, with the segment focusing on resource practices and occupational health opportunities for value addition and exports and safety (OHS) hazard spotting exercises. where possible. Internal audits activities of the Group are coordinated through the internal audit The products of the plantation segment carry department which is a part of corporate Tea Board panel certiﬁcation, the Certificate finance. of Conformity from the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce. Five estates Dunsinane, New Peacock, Nayapane, Talgaswella, and Deviturai Product Responsibility have also obtained the ISO 22000 HACCP The garments segment maintains high certification for food safety. standards of quality and conforms to the requirements of the Worldwide Responsible The power generation segment which Accredited Production (WRAP) certification supplies to the Ceylon Electricity Board, and rigid compliance requirements of the maintains the quality of product according customers and the industrial pressure groups. to the ISO 9001:2008 standards, which is evaluated regularly. As a packaging supplier to reputed global brands such as Unilever and Glaxo Smith The Group IT department, which functions Kline, and the Ceylon Tea industry, the under the corporate finance arm, is working printing & packaging segment pays strict towards obtaining ISO 27001 on information attention to product quality and safety. This security. includes ensuring zero chemical, physical, microbiological and allergy contamination of the products through the robust standards of hygiene are maintained at the factory. All products are labelled with standard and backward traceable labelling, enabling the identification of individual stock keeping units (SKUs) and recall, if needed. Strict control Annual Report 2013 2014 91 SERVICES SECTOr Inward Money Transfer Elevator Agency Insurance Property Management Information Technology We were the pioneers in the services industry with a presence going back 138 years as the agent for the world renowned insurer Lloyds of London since 1876. This was the first step towards diversification into the service areas such as insurance broking, electronic money transfers, elevator services, information technology services and property management services. With our proven track record of being a leader in the service industry we are well poised to break new grounds with the launch of the Heritage Grove, the pioneering luxury retirement village in the country. 92 Aitken Spence PLC Our Principal, Western Union, is the largest money transfer service globally and also in Sri Lanka, with over 500,000 locations worldwide and 2,500 locations locally. PBT REVENUE RS.180.5 mn RS.598.9 Mn ASSETS EMPLOYEES RS.3.1 bn 525 The Services Sector of Aitken Spence consists achieved a 10.2% growth in profit before tax Our Principal, Western Union, is the largest of companies that have been in operation for to reach Rs. 180.5 million. money transfer service globally and also in Sri over 100 years. The sector is well diversified Lanka, with over 500,000 locations worldwide and enjoys a prominent presence in the Inward Money Transfer and 2,500 locations locally. Capitalising on segments in which it operates, comprising these market developments and with the The year witnessed a growth in the overall of insurance survey and claim settling strength of our principal network worldwide inward remittance market, spurred by the agency, insurance brokering, elevator agency, MMBL Money Transfer (Pvt) Limited (MMBL) Government’s focus on promoting foreign inward money transfer business, property achieved a 6.2% year on year growth in the employment for the skilled and semi-skilled development and information technology total volume of remittances handled. The work force. The largest foreign exchange services. segment showed a revenue growth of 3.1% earner for the country; inward remittances and a profit before tax growth of 17.0% over The consolidated revenue of the sector grew grew by 7.1% year on year to total USD 6.4 the previous year. by 11.5% year on year while the sector has billion in 2013. Annual Report 2013 2014 93 SERVICES SECTOr The segment carried out extensive marketing initiatives with targeted programmes in “Send” countries identified as growth areas in the Asian, European and North American corridors. Locally too, the Company undertook specific marketing initiatives. Western Union recently concluded a programme titled “WU & You” to recognise their top performers in the market MMBL performed exceptionally well claiming 61 out of 89 awards including all 19 platinum awards on offer. The inward remittances business remains a growth market with immense potential; the currently fragmented nature of the market Aitken Spence has maintained its pre-eminent offers many opportunities for willing players. position in large high rise building projects by In this context, the government must be commended on its efforts to limit the illegal supplying OTIS High Speed lifts, which is a market money transfer channels, which have seen a marked reduction since the end of the war. leader globally. Going forward, the segment will focus on targeting key corridors to enhance market share in the short term while leveraging on revenue and profit before tax during the year The segment has an active presence in its network and offering technology based showed a marginal growth of 2.1% and 1.2% Maldives which carries out installation and solutions to attract new segments in the respectively. The outlook for the elevators maintenance of elevators. We are hopeful of medium to long term. segment remains robust and positive over the the potential of this market. long-term, should this pace of development Elevator Agency continue. Insurance The country’s post-war development thrust However the comparatively high price of the Insurance segment showed a 10.3% growth has spurred growth in the construction premium OTIS products and the proliferation of revenue in financial year 2013/2014. industry, with a series of major projects of low-cost suppliers impact our ability to Maintaining the streamlined processes and launched to build hotels, apartment secure more business in the construction cost saving efforts this growth was reflected complexes and mixed developments, sector. Notwithstanding this, Aitken Spence in its profit before tax which also increased many of them involving foreign investment. has maintained its pre-eminent position in by 11.7%. Revenue from commission The segment successfully completed the large high rise building projects by supplying income and settling fees increased during installation of elevators and escalators at OTIS High Speed lifts, which is a market leader the year following the relaxation of vehicle the new House of Fashion store which is the globally. import restrictions in 2012, which led to a largest department store in Sri Lanka. We large influx of claims. Income on surveys have also obtained the contract to install 26 In order to serve the growing needs of remained consistent, with renewed activity elevators and escalators in the Hyatt Regency the market, the segment undertook a of superintendence work for UN World Food Hotel Colombo which is one of the most restructuring of the organisation and Programme (UNWFP) in their local purchases prestigious projects embarked on during increased the availability of skilled personnel of rice for export as well as local distribution. the last several years. Furthermore, we were in all its departments to ensure seamless operation. Attracting skilled personnel There have been several assignments awarded the contracts to install elevators and remains a challenge for the entire segment, involving vessel casualties where our services escalators in a number of low to medium rise necessitating the exploration of utilising were utilised, as independent surveyors which buildings all around the island. external/foreign labour. We are taking is a significant step in a new direction. This Despite the presence of many price wars appropriate steps and measures to face this gives the Lloyd’s Agency a wider appeal, experienced in the construction industry, the challenge. During the year, we also improved extending beyond acting for principles. segment was able to maintain its profitability our systems, procedures and automation to We also retained the long term agreement by being the agents for one of the most enable a more seamless experience for both in respect of local purchases by UNWFP, preferred brands in the market. The segments customers and employees. for a further year. Our engagement with 94 Aitken Spence PLC UNWFP has been consolidated, through our participation in a UNWFP regional workshop 599 3,020 3,085 2,704 537 164 for logistic services in Thailand. 154 482 150 Our interventions in the Maldives has expanded from marine cargo surveys to investigations as well as discharge surveys, which is a further endorsement of the service levels provided by the Lloyd’s agency in all areas of inspections and reporting. The outlook for the immediate future augurs well with our involvement with many state organisations and NGO’s that are involved in infrastructure development. Training of logistic 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 staff of our partners such as UNWFP has Revenue Profit from Operations Total Assets RS. 599 MN RS. 164 MN RS. 3,085 MN strengthened our future prospects by way of ensuring long term relationships with these institutions. for the year ended 31st March for the year ended 31st March as at 31st March Property The property segment which owns and future. The segment was awarded several a growth strategy with investment where manages the Aitken Spence Towers at ERP and software development contracts necessary that will target key strategic Vauxhall Street, recorded year on year during the year and also made steady gains markets and develop its services in such a increase of 16.2% in revenue as a result of in the Oracle University space, partnering with manner as to ensure complementing the the rental area expanding with the completion several professional bodies and organisations strategy of the Government so that we could of the lobby in Tower II, leading to an increase to provide Oracle University accreditation. derive maximum benefit to the country and in rental income from tenants. The aggregate the company. It was also noteworthy that ‘PlantERM’ the rentable area of the two towers is 195,784 comprehensive ERP software for plantations square feet of which 78% is occupied by the Environmental Performance companies developed by the segment was Group. The towers enjoy 100% occupancy as The Aitken Spence Towers have in place a awarded Gold at the National Best Quality at year end. building management system with many Software Awards organised by BCS, the Chartered Institute for IT in Sri Lanka. The energy saving features, including LED lamps Information Technology segment was thus chosen to represent Sri in common areas, T5 fluorescent lamps in The information technology segment ended Lanka at the Asia Pacific ICT Awards. office area, lux level sensors on the perimeters the year on a positive note, with a significant to reduce electricity usage when natural light revenue growth compared to the previous The Government is pursuing its vision to is available, centrally controlled chillers, and year. This segment of our Group which is transform Sri Lanka into an ICT hub, which a capacitor bank for power factor corrections. in its infancy shows great potential for the positions the ICT industry as one with vast The building also employs sensors to growth potential. The company will follow conserve water in the lunchroom and urinals, INPUT VALUE ADDING ACTIVITIES OUTPUT • Customer satisfaction & loyalty • Talent enhancement • Customer satisfaction & loyalty • Skilled & motivated employees • High service standards • Skilled & motivated employees • Positive economic value • Strategic management • Positive economic value • Reliable operational systems • Cultivating partnerships & • Reliable operational systems • Innovative products & services networks • Innovative products & services • Quality assurance • Group synergies • Global reach to customers • Responsiveness Annual Report 2013 2014 95 SERVICES SECTOr 1876 The Group was appointed as agents perishables to Maldives hotels & also 2006 Entering into the financial services for Lloyds of London; position which markets bottled water. market by being the principal agent the company holds to this date by for Western Union Money Transfer 1989 Aitken Spence acquires a majority providing survey & claim settling Services in Sri Lanka; MMBL. stake in ‘Elevators (Pvt) Ltd, which agents for reputed insurance companies. provides marketing, installing & 2008 Aitken Spence Corporate office maintaining services of OTIS lifts, is relocated to ‘Aitken Spence 1973 Incorporated ‘Aitken Spence Exports escalators & other equipment. Tower II, with the completion of the Ltd’ To process and export essential construction of a modern office 1995 Construction and operation of “Aitken oils which now exports dry rations & complex. Spence Tower at Vauxhall Street. while the water flow in cistern tanks is adjusted to reduce waste. It is also equipped MMBL Money Transfer (Pvt) Ltd., has enjoyed with a rain water harvesting system. strong customer loyalty during its 17 year During the year, the Group carried out an assessment of the waste management history, with a continuous year on year growth. procedures at the towers to ensure regulatory requirements were met and that waste This achievement is indicative of the safety and management service providers were adhering reliability of our service. to compliance requirements and best standards. light and have installed T5 fluorescent lamps transfer system. The programmes reach over in the office area while centrally controlling 3,500 individuals annually. Given the nature of the work involved in air conditioning at 24 degrees. The segment maintaining the Aitken Spence Towers, the also ensures that the significant quantities The insurance segment has conducted free property segment ensures that all technical of cotton waste, used oil and lubricants training for staff engaged in logistics work at staff is provided with the required safety generated during their work are disposed of in the UN world food programme, on distribution equipment and that their knowledge is a responsible manner. and storage of commodities in order to updated through training programmes maintain the quality of the commodities. in areas of relevance, including the These commodities are destined for the under Social Performance management of emergencies. Similarly, privileged, displaced and needy as part of As the oldest WU money transfer agent the UN’s efforts to create food security. This the occupants of the Aitken Spence Towers in the country, MMBL Money Transfer engagement has created awareness among are routinely provided awareness of the has taken a leadership role in creating such staff and helped maintain the necessary safety features of the building by the OHS awareness on financial literacy among quality of the commodities. (Occupational Health and Safety) team of the migrant workers. This year, we identified the Towers. underprivileged Dayagama, Agarapathana Product Responsibility The following table shows the energy, community of the NuwaraEliya district as our focus area. The area has a considerable MMBL has an Occupational Health and emissions and waste disposal performance of population of migrant workers, whose level Safety (OHS) manual in place, and all main the Aitken Spence Towers: of understanding on sending and receiving immediate OHS requirements such as a MMBL has in place a documented money was very poor. We launched an productive first aid box, fire extinguishers, and environmental management system which awareness campaign in the area to educate alarms etc. are in place at the work place. has been live for nearly one year. The the people on sending money legally, receive The OHS team also conducts regular briefings company has achieved its target of reducing safely and conveniently, and on its effective on employee safety, road safety and vehicle paper usage and printing materials by 80% management. The project was launched in maintenance. The OHS team, with interby moving to digital documentation over a late January 2014. departmental representation, was selected two year period. based on their ability to communicate The segment also conducts similar monthly internally, public relation skills, and their The elevator segment continues with its briefings on financial literacy for potential level of engagement in the work place. Team environmental commitment by promoting the migrant workers through the 22 islandwide members receive training, both internal and environmental friendly OTIS elevators with training centers of the Sri Lanka Bureau of external programmes, in areas of OHS. regenerative drives, compact machines and Foreign Employment. The programme, which non-lubricated models which reduce energy has been in place for many years, is designed MMBL uses its customer/agent hotline to consumption and operating costs. Internally, to help migrant workers and their families accommodate customer grievances; this they also instituted a ‘switching off’ policy at to become more aware of the legal money number is highlighted in all communication the work place, optimising the use of natural material. 96 Aitken Spence PLC In an effort to promote responsible Energy Consumption consumption among employees, the property Diesel: 1,140 litres Biomass/ Fuel wood: Not used segment set up a display board in the lunch (i.e. 43.3 GJ) room, recording the volume of food wasted on a daily basis which averages around 40kg Petrol: 38,627 litres LPG: Not used per day. The segment also takes measures (i.e. 1,257.01 GJ) to maintain the quality of the premises, by Furnace Oil: Not used Electricity: 3,059,734 kWh ensuring good air quality, well maintained (i.e. 11,015.04 GJ) machines and equipment, and proper Total energy produced from non-renewable 7.68 GJ signage. sources (GJ) The elevators segment strictly complies with Total Energy Saved Sector: No savings achieved due to energy the OTIS World Wide Job Site Safety (WWJSS) consumption increasing with the increase in procedures, maintaining OTIS equipment tenants compliance to EN81.1:1998 & EN 115 safety Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions in metric Sector: 90.25 tonnes rules for the construction and installation tonnes of CO2 equivalent of lifts. This includes assessing health and Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions in Sector: 2,264.2 tonnes safety impacts of items such as safety belts. metric tonnes of CO2 equivalent The segment’s OHS representative conducts Amount of GHG emissions reduced 10.43 tonnes regular awareness sessions for staff on safety (from the recycling of paper) requirements. OHS audits are carried out at the office as well as work sites, and education Total volume of water used (in cubic meters 28,899 m3 is also routinely extended to our customers. or litres) MMBL Money Transfer (Pvt) Ltd., has enjoyed strong customer loyalty during its 17 year history, with a continuous year on year growth. This achievement is indicative of the safety and reliability of our service. We have strived to ensure that our corporate and retailer network is reputed, and financially sound; in order to achieve this, regular sub agent education programmes are conducted to promote aspects such as maintaining privacy and customer service. Total weight of hazardous and non-hazardous waste, by disposal methods Waste type Method of handling the waste Total weight/ volume Paper Collected and sold to a certified recycling service provider 10,428 kg Cardboard 165 kg Plastic 240 cans CFL Bulbs Handed over to a certified recycling service provider 564 bulbs Lead Acid Batteries Sold to a certified vendor 375 batteries Alkaline Batteries 60 batteries Food Waste Segregated and handed over to municipal council waste collectors ~ 40 kg per day Annual Report 2013 2014 97 98 Aitken Spence PLC RULE OF LAW Governance REPORTS Annual Report 2013 2014 99 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Good governance is the cornerstone of sustainability and creation of long term value – both inherently underlying the structures and work processes of Aitken Spence PLC in its 150 year history of being a pioneer in the industries we operate in and in turn one of the best performing companies in the South Asian region. We take pride in doing the right things Corporate Citizenship – holding ourselves Jayawardena as an Executive Director to the the right way – and are committed to the accountable to our national and international Board. highest standards and practices of corporate stakeholders – our customers, our business governance, professionalism as well as partners, our investors, our employees As evident from our Board Member profiles business integrity, accountability, transparency and communities we work with. This is the (pages 46 to 47), our Board comprises of and ethics in our quest and commitment at driving force of each individual across the two Chartered Accountants and a former all levels to the continuous enhancement of group and its subsidiaries to go beyond investment banker.These Directors represent stakeholder value as evident in this integrated the minimum requirements of compliance an optimal mix of professionalism, knowledge Annual Report for the year 2013/2014. with codes, legislation, regulations and and experience with a level of diversity listings requirements – with the Group’s own towards fostering an age neutral working The solid balance sheet achieved in an clearly defined governance and compliance environment amidst the intergenerational economic landscape that continues to expand framework that draws upon the jointly issued dynamic in existence today within an at a subdued pace is a testament in itself to guidelines of the Institute of Chartered employee cadre that span four generations. the management’s commitment in achieving Accountants of Sri Lanka, the Securities and Their academic and/or entrepreneurial the optimal balance between the governance Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka, the financial skills, business acumen, broad expectations of both internal and external Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange practical wisdom and unique perspectives stakeholders of the Group and the goal of and other Codes of Professional Institutes, enable them to impart substantial value, consistent competitive financial returns in our Chambers of Commerce and Industry knowledge and independent judgement pursuit of excellence and growth. Together Associations. towards decision making and the execution of we deploy the vigorous integration of plans matters concerning finance and investment and actions that continuously challenge the in discharging their responsibilities and Board Composition status quo and ensure high standards of providing effective leadership to the Group. decision making, implementation, monitoring Board Balance and Independence and reviewing, with appropriate remedial Two of our Board Members Deshamanya Our Board comprises of a Chairman, D.H.S. Jayawardena and Miss D.S.T. action and revision of decisions being applied Managing and Finance Director and eight Jayawardena are related to each other, where necessary all whilst manoeuvring the other Directors, seven of whom served however, act in the best interest of the Group unpredictable micro and macroeconomic throughout the year, five of whom are Nonin their spirit, intention, purpose and attitude environment with dynamic flexibility to identify Executive Directors as outlined in page 101. in their decision making. the global opportunities in key and emerging business areas to position ourselves to sieve A vacancy was created on the Board with Our Independent Non-Executive Directors them for competitive advantage enhancing the sudden demise of Mr. C. R. De Silva P.C. neither participate in the day-to-day our strategic synergies and partnerships. on 07/11/2013 and as per mandated by management of the Company nor partake in the Articles of Association of the Company, any business dealings/relationships with the An ethical and value based business the Board of Directors, at its meeting held Company (with exceptions in circumstances philosophy lends way to a firm belief that on 01/12/2013, appointed Miss D.S.T. permitted by the applicable regulations). This our ‘license to operate’ is interwoven on us being a Benchmark of Responsible enables them to be free from any conflict of 100 Aitken Spence PLC interest and act as critical friends to the Board in an unbiased manner in discharging their Independence of Non-Executive Directors duties in the best interest of the Company. As Mr. G. C. Wickremasinghe : The Board having considered the circumstances and the such they are responsible for: criterion of independence in relation to Mr. G. C. Wickremasinghe, has construed Mr. G. C. • contributing a wide range of skills with Wickremasinghe to be independent as he refrains from any involvement in the day-to-day rich and versatile experience, including management of the Company or any of its subsidiaries. unbiased independent judgement on Mr. C. H. Gomez : The Board construed Mr. C. H. Gomez as an Independent Director as he issues related to strategy, financial refrains from any involvement in the day-to-day management of the Company or any of its and operational performance, key subsidiaries and the fact that he resides overseas. appointments, and standards of business conduct, ethics and all matters pertaining Mr. N. J. de Silva Deva Aditya : Although a Director of the company and a Director to the Board, of Institutions that hold over 15% of the shares of the Company, is determined as an • offering constructive criticism of Independent Director after taking into consideration all the relevant circumstances, including strategies brought before the Board, the fact that he resides overseas. Furthermore, neither the Institution in which he is a Director nor he directly or indirectly get involved in the day-to-day management of either the • scrutinising and challenging performance Company or its subsidiaries and as such independent of management. across the Group’s business sectors, Mr. V. M. Fernando : Appointed to the Board as an Independent Director. • assessing the risk and the integrity of financial information and controls; and, Mr. R. N. Asirwatham : Appointed to the Board as an Independent Director. • determining the Company’s policy for executive remuneration, and the remuneration packages. Name of Director Involvement/ Board Meetings Direct/Indirect Each Non-Executive Director submits a Interest in Interest in signed declaration of his independence/nonindependence against specific criteria on a Shareholding Supply Contract yearly basis. Chairman 5/5 Indirect Yes Deshamanya D.H.S. Jayawardena Board Commitment Managing and Finance Director 5/5 Direct Yes The Board is aware of the other commitments Mr. J.M.S. Brito of its Directors and is satisfied that these do Executive Directors 4/5 No not conflict nor impair their performance of Dr. R.M. Fernando duties at the optimal level as Directors of the Dr. M.P. Dissanayake 5/5 No Company, with sufficient time being allocated Ms. D.S.T. Jayawardena 1/5 Direct Yes by each member to fulfil the said duties. Each (Appointed w.e.f. 1st December 2013) Director is expected to report his/her intention Independent/Non-Executive Directors 3/5 Direct/ Indirect No to join the Board of another company outside Mr. G. C. Wickremasinghe the Group with relevant changes of their commitments reported to the Board as and Mr. C. H. Gomez 2/5 No when they occur. Mr. N. J. de Silva Deva Aditya / Mr. A.L. Gooneratne 5/5 Yes (Alternate Director to Mr. N.J. de Silva Deva Aditya) Board Meetings Mr. V. M. Fernando 5/5 Yes Mr. R. N. Asirwatham 5/5 Direct Yes The Board convened five times during this Mr. C. R. De Silva P.C. 1/5 No financial year and were presided over by (Appointed w.e.f 8th April 2013 – Expired on 7th the Chairman. The Board Meetings are November 2013) pre-scheduled in advance with a tentative annual calendar circulated amongst Board Dates of Meetings 06/02/2014 Members enabling the Directors to plan 21/11/2013 their commitments and facilitate meaningful 06/08/2013 participation at the meetings. Any instances 27/06/2013 of non-attendance at the meetings were 07/05/2013 due to personal commitments or illness, and Directors were provided with briefing Annual Report 2013 2014 101 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT materials for discussion on a later date with the Chairman or Managing and Finance The Chairman Deshamanya D. H. S. Jayawardena Director. Attendances at the 2013/2014 Board Meetings are indicated in the Table above. One of the most successful and proficient business leaders in the country, our Chairman is responsible for preserving leadership and order at Board Meetings and the The notice of the Board Meetings are provided good corporate governance of our Group whilst facilitating the effective discharge of well in advance along with the agenda and Board functions and business strategies. He is responsible for: Board Papers giving all Directors adequate • ensuring that the Board adheres to procedures and the relevant statutes whilst time to review the Board papers and call for being in complete control of the affairs of the Company, any additional information and clarification. The agenda for the Board Meetings contain • ensuring that its obligations to the various stakeholders and regulatory bodies are detailed transcripts on the items to be met, discussed at the meeting that enables each • encouraging effective participation by both Executive and Non-Executive Directors Director to formulate independent views that on matters taken up for consideration, enable active and effective participation and decision making. • ensuring that all Directors are adequately briefed on issues arising at Board Meetings and that they effectively contribute with their respective capabilities Matters pertaining to the Managing and towards the best benefit of the Company, and Finance Directors’ Report/concerns, up-to-date • ensuring that shareholders are given adequate opportunity to make observations, financial accounts and respective operational express their views and seek clarifications at meetings of shareholders. updates and where applicable reports from the Nomination Committee, Audit Committee, and Remuneration Committee are discussed. Additionally, further discussions pertaining • Ensuring that the Managing and Finance to the approval of our shareholders at the to both commercial and non-commercial Director, Board of Management and the Annual General Meeting, strategy, technology strategy, talent and senior management teams demonstrate the right balance of independence, • Appointing Directors to the Audit, succession planning, partner relationships, knowledge, skill, background and Remuneration and Nomination associated markets and so forth are delved experience to discuss and implement committees who possess the experience into in an in-depth manner when necessary. strategy and initiate fresh perspectives, and expertise to add value to the Minutes of the Board Meetings are accurately committees to which they are appointed, recorded and circulated to the Directors for • Overseeing those delegated with the authority to conduct the operations of • Self-evaluation of the Board that is confirmation of the same at the next meeting. the Company adhere to the policies and conducted on its own performance and Where applicable, any conflicts/concerns procedures of the Group effectively and that of its committees, made aware of by the Directors during the financial year that cannot be unanimously efficiently, • Reviewing and approving the operational resolved are recorded in the Board Minutes. and financial budgets, and monitoring the • Effective implementation of senior When decisions are taken via circular performance of the individual Strategic management succession strategy. resolutions, all relevant information is sent Business Units of the Group, whilst with the circular resolution to enable the • Ensuring that the Company’s values and seeking complete information to form Directors to clearly understand the purpose principles are aligned with the adoption views, critique management and take for which a resolution is being circulated prior of and compliance with appropriate strategic decisions, to obtaining their consent. and applicable statutes, accounting and financial regulations, environmental and • Identification of principal risks and ensure The Role of the Board ethical standards, and compliance with the implementation of suitable systems to regulatory and stakeholder requirements manage and mitigate risks, The Board is responsible for the overall governance conduct and implementation of with satisfactory framework for reporting, • Reviewing the appropriateness and sound business strategies within our Group reliability of the Company’s internal • Approving quarterly, annually audited and has the powers and duties afforded control and risk and management accounts and any audited accounts for within the milieu of relevant laws/regulations information systems to secure the special purposes of the country, international laws, regulatory integrity of all that encompass various authorities, professional institutes and trade • Recommending the appointment or aspects of the businesses. associations. The Board is responsible for: removal of the External Auditors subject 102 Aitken Spence PLC • Evaluation and approval of the Group’s Business Plan that consist all new Managing and Finance Director Mr. J. M.S. Brito businesses and investment proposals in depth prior to creation and/or where necessary termination of existing A fellow member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of London & Wales, with a business activities of the Group. Degree in Law and a Master’s Degree in Business Administration, our Managing and Finance Director is responsible for: • Advising on and approving mergers, • Day-to-day management of the Group’s business operations, with the support of acquisitions and divestures (not our Executive Directors, Board of Management, and our senior management team. excluding strategic business partnerships, • Revision and implementation of the Company’s strategies and policies. acquisitions or disposal of investments and equity interests) that results in • Maintaining a close working relationship with the Chairman, and being a sounding Corporate re-structuring/re-engineering board for the Chairman as and when necessary In addition, the Board of Directors, both individually and collectively, strive to comply • Is accountable for guaranteeing that the Board Effectiveness with best practices on environmental, health, correct Board procedures are followed, safety and ethical standards whilst ensuring and that the applicable rules and Induction and Professional Development that the interest of all stakeholder groups are regulations are reviewed regularly and On appointment, Directors receive a Letter considered when taking decisions. complied with, of Appointment outlining the terms of appointment, duties and responsibilities and • Advises the Board on corporate expected time commitments. Additionally Division of Roles and Responsibilities governance matters and acts as the both Executive and Non-Executive Directors between the Chairman and Managing interface between the management are taken through a tailored formal induction Director and regulatory authorities as and when programme as soon as practicable and jointly Aitken Spence PLC recognises the importance necessary, and coordinated by the Company Secretary and of the separation and clear distinction Managing and Finance Director of the Group. between the functions and responsibilities of • Manages the procedure whereby the our Chairman and our Managing and Finance Directors and the Board can, as needed, The Board recognizes the need for continuous Director. This division of duties ensures a obtain independent professional advice training and development in shaping our balance of power and authority within the at the Company’s expense in discharging Board of skilled leaders for the future and as organisation so that no one person has their/its duties. such subsequent periodic training in respect unfettered powers of decision making and of the areas below is supplemented with oneimplementation. on-one meetings with the management of each subsidiary, visit sites/factories/hotels and Board Support hold meetings with key investors, suppliers, The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Board and is responsible for the collation, review and distribution of all papers submitted to the Board for consideration and Company Structure and Strategy: includes group structure, history, vision, mission, the preparation of the respective agendas. goals, employees, succession plans, Board procedures including ethics and corporate He is present at all Board Meetings and subgovernance practices, Board Committees, Board Minutes, Board effectiveness reviews, Committee meetings. Additionally he: action plans and financial matters. • Assists the Chairman in ensuring that Company’s functions at operational levels: of all business areas, key relationships with the Board Members have full and timely all stakeholders including suppliers and customers, major contracts, Group Risk Profile access to all relevant information/ and our approach to risk. documentation whilst making sure that appropriate facilities are available for the Industry and competitive environment: not limited to customer trends, consumer and proper conduct of meetings and effective regulatory environment, including governance and all relevant consumer and industry decision making, bodies, CSR, environment and sustainability. • Coordinates with the Chairman in the Sentiment and reputation: includes brand positioning and media profile marketing organization of initial formal induction campaigns, brand values, analyst and investor opinion, review of investor surveys, key and subsequent periodic training stakeholder relationships inclusive of employees, customers, suppliers, service providers, programs, opinion leaders, an overview of our remuneration policy and pensions. Annual Report 2013 2014 103 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT customers, service providers and other key an integral part and takes place annually Appointment of Directors stakeholders where appropriate. on a self-appraisal basis within the terms The appointment of Executive Director Miss of reference to its/their key responsibilities D.S.T. Jayawardena was approved by the All Directors are further encouraged to attend outlined on pages 102 to 104 of the Board in consultation with the members seminars/training programmes relevant and Nomination Committee (see page 106). of the Nominations Committee. Upon the useful to them in enhancing their business This also provides an avenue to highlight appointment of a new Director to the Board, acumen and professionalism in carrying out improvement areas and remedial actions on the Company informs the Colombo Stock their duties and have also been invited to the Board’s administration processes with Exchange with a brief resume of the Director, participate in forums and/or seminars in their evaluation of the progress of such areas containing the nature of his/her expertise in capacity as speakers, moderators or panellists identified whilst ensuring that any gaps relevant functional areas, other directorships in their respective areas of expertise. pertaining to Investor Relations and Board held, memberships on Board Committees and administration and processes are rectified. the nature of the appointment. The Remuneration Committee consults the Appraisal of Chief Executives Chairman and the Managing and Finance Re-election of Directors The Board in consultation with the Director regarding the remuneration proposal In accordance with the Companies Act No. Managing and Finance Director reviews including revision of salary packages (as 07 of 2007 and the Articles of Association of and approves the operational and and when necessary) to Executive Directors the Company, the relevant Directors submit financial budgets/targets in line with and the Senior Management, taking into themselves for re-election at the Annual the short-, mediumand long-term consideration the internal and external socioGeneral Meeting to be held on 30/06/2014. objectives of the company that should economic factors. No Director is involved in The Nomination Committee has declared to be met by the respective Managing determining his/her own remuneration. the Board that the contributions made by the Director during the year. Directors offering themselves for re-election A portion of the remuneration is in the form at the Annual General Meeting in 2014 The evaluation of performance is of a ‘performance bonus’, which is based are effective and affirms the Company’s conducted by the Board on a regular upon the achievement of both individual and continuous support of their re-election. basis, as well as bi-annually, along with corporate goals and targets. assessment of whether failure to meet such set targets was reasonable under Non-Executive Directors are remunerated Independent Advice the given circumstances as per the Articles of Association of the The Board acknowledges that certain Company;the fees and reimbursable expenses occasions may arise when one or more of the are payable taking into consideration the Directors may feel it necessary, whether as a basis of contribution/services performed at full Board or in their individual capacities, to Board Evaluation the Board and Committee Meetings, and the seek impartial professional guidance at the Assessment of the performance of the Board, Company’s year-end financial performance. Company’s expense. The agreed upon formal its Committees and individual Directors forms procedure enabling such advice is managed by the Company Secretary and is also extended to all Board Committees to enable the execution of duties in respect of matters The Articles of Association of the Company empower the Board of Directors to either being deliberated. fill a casual vacancy in the directorate or to appoint additional Directors. Directors so appointed hold office until the next Annual General Meeting at which they are eligible for Indemnification of Directors election. In accordance with our Company’s Articles of The Company’s Articles of Association provide for one third of the Directors for the time Association and the Companies Act No. 07 being, or if their number is not a multiple of three the number nearest to one third (but of 2007, Directors are granted an indemnity not exceeding one third) to retire from office by rotation other than the offices of the from the Company in respect of liabilities Chairman and the Managing and Finance Director, who are not subject to retirement by incurred as a result of their office. For this rotation. purpose the Company maintains a Directors’ and Officers’ liability insurance policy The retiring Directors are selected on the basis of those who have been in office the throughout the financial year. Neither our longest since their last election. In the event that more than one Director is appointed on indemnity nor the insurance provides cover in the same date, the retiring Director is determined either by agreement or by lot. A retiring the event that the Director is proven to have Director is eligible for re-election. In order to ensure that the Board comprises of members acted dishonestly or fraudulently (or is liable who add value to the Group, the Board evaluates the contribution made by each retiring for any act or omission in his capacity as a Director before recommending such Director for re-election. Director). 104 Aitken Spence PLC Board Committees Name of Director The Board has established Board Committees Remuneration Nomination Audit to assist with developing and discharging Committee Committee its duties and responsibilities effectively and Committee efficiently. In addition to the Main Board, the Individual Directors are members of the Chairman 2/2 1/1 various subcommittees of the Board: the Deshamanya D. H. S. Jayawardena Present on Invitation Nomination Committee, the Audit Committee Managing and Finance Director 2/2 1/1 5/5 and the Remuneration Committee each of Mr. J. M. S. Brito Present on Invitation Present on Invitation which is attended by the respective Director Executive/Non-Independent Directors after due preparation prior to such meetings. Dr. R. M. Fernando The Directors dedicate sufficient time Dr. M. P. Dissanayake before such meetings to review respective Ms. D.S.T. Jayawardena 1/5 documentation relating to the meeting, and Present on Invitation call for additional information for any further Non-Executive/Independent Directors clarification, in addition to familiarisation of Mr. G. C. Wickremasinghe Chairman Chairman micro and macroeconomic factors, legal risk 2/2 1/1 3/5 and political changes in the global business Mr. C. H. Gomez 1/5 environment. Mr. N. J. de Silva Deva Aditya/ Mr. A. L. 4/5 Gooneratne (Alternate Director to Mr. The committees are provided with all N. J. de Silva Deva Aditya) essential resources to empower them to Mr. V. M. Fernando 2/2 1/1 undertake their duties in an effective manner. Mr. R. N. Asirwatham 2/2 1/1 Chairman The Company Secretary acts as secretary to 5/5 the committees, and the recorded minutes of Dates of Meetings 20/11/2013 30/06/2013 07/02/2014 each committee meeting are circulated to all 28/06/2013 23/01/2014 directors on completion. 14/10/2013 26/06/2013 08/05/2013 Annual Report 2013 2014 105 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT NOMINATION COMMITTEE Composition of the Committee MEMBERS • The Committee consists of a majority of Independent Non-Executive Directors and is also chaired by an Independent Non-Executive Director who possesses a wide portfolio of knowledge and experience. Chairman • The presence of the Chairman and the Managing and Finance Director on the Committee contributes Mr. G.C. Wickremasinghe1 substantially to identify the internal perspective when making recommendations. Members Number of Committee Meetings Deshamanya D H S Jayawardena2 The Committee formally met twice during the year under review when all members were present. Mr. J.M.S. Brito3 Mr. V.M. Fernando1 Terms of Reference of the Committee Mr. R.N. Asirwatham1 • Broaden, balance and diversify the effectiveness and composition of the Board, Secretary to Committee • Identify and recommend suitable candidates as Directors to the Board considering the succession plan and requirements of the Board and the Group, Mr. R.E.V. Casie Chetty • Regularly review the structure, size and composition of the Boards of Group Companies, • Oversee the performance evaluation of the Board, Committees of the Board and Individual Directors, • Ensure the Board comprises of persons possessing a large reservoir of knowledge, experience and entrepreneurial skills to advance the effectiveness of the Board. Key functions performed during the year under review • Considered and promoted Board diversity in making recommendations to the Board, • Reviewed and recommended changes to the Boards of Group Companies by considering the qualifications, competence, independence and conflicts of interests of Directors in relation to the Company, • Evaluated and recommended suitable internal and external candidates to higher levels of management, • Actively contributed to Board discussions and decision making. Methodology of the Committee The Committee works closely with the Board of Directors in relation to the matters referred to it by making appropriate and suitable recommendations. The year ahead The Committee would continue to make decisions and recommendations which are fair, free from any bias and not influenced by personal and business relationships. This will enable the Committee to make sound and measured judgments in attracting the best talent to the Group while retaining the services of talented employees by giving them fair and equal opportunities. G.C. Wickremasinghe Chairman Nomination Committee Colombo 22nd May 2014 1 Independent Non-Executive Director 2 Chairman of Aitken Spence PLC 3 Managing and Finance Director of Aitken Spence PLC 106 Aitken Spence PLC REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Composition of the Committee MEMBERS The Committee consists of Independent Non-Executive Directors and is also chaired by an Independent NonExecutive Director. Chairman Mr. G.C. Wickremasinghe1 Independence of the Committee The Committee is independent of the management and is totally free from any business, personal or other Members relationships that may interfere in making independent judgments. Mr. V. M. Fernando1 Mr. R.N. Asirwatham1 Number of Committee Meetings The Committee formally met once during the year under review when all members were present. Secretary to Committee Mr. R.E.V. Casie Chetty Attendance by Invitation The Chairman and the Managing and Finance Director attended the meetings by invitation and contribute By Invitation substantially in making recommendations. Deshamanya D.H.S. Jayawardena2 Mr. J.M.S. Brito3 Terms of Reference of the Committee • Recommending a remuneration policy for the Directors and the Management team, • Reviewing, monitoring and evaluating the performance of the Managing Directors, Executive Directors, and the individual and collective performance of the Directors and the Senior Management of the Strategic Business Units, • Evaluating and recommending the individual remuneration packages of the Managing Directors, Executive Directors and Senior Management considering the skill, experience, level of responsibility, performance and industry norms, • Determining a compensation package on termination of office of employees, • Executing duties within the framework of the principles of good governance. Key functions performed during the year under review • Approved promotions after evaluating the performance of the Group, Strategic Business Units and the contribution made by employees to their respective Strategic Business Units. • Recommended revision of remuneration packages based on performance, cost of living and comparative industry norms. Methodology of the Committee The Committee adopts a structured and unbiased methodology to evaluate employee performance to ensure equality among employees to prevent discrimination based on gender, age, ethnicity and religion. The year ahead The Committee would continue to propose remuneration policies and practices to attract and retain suitable talent for performance enhancement. G.C. Wickremasinghe Chairman Remuneration Committee Colombo 22nd May 2014 1 Independent Non-Executive Director 2 Chairman of Aitken Spence PLC 3 Managing and Finance Director of Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2013 2014 107 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT AUDIT COMMITTEE MEMBERS Composition of the Committee The Committee consists of Independent NonExecutive Directors and is also chaired by an Chairman Independent Non-Executive Director. Mr. R.N. Asirwatham1, Number of Committee Meetings Members The Committee formally met five times during the year under review. Mr. G.C. Wickremasinghe1, Mr. C.H. Gomez1, Attendance by Invitation Mr. N.J. de. S . Deva Aditya1/ The Managing and Finance Director, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Corporate Officer and Chief Mr. A.L. Gooneratne (Alternate Director Internal Auditor attended the meetings by invitation. for Mr. N.J. de. S. Deva Aditya ), Summary of key terms of reference Secretary to Committee Risk Management Mr. R.E.V. Casie Chetty • Ensuring that the Group’s internal controls and risk management systems are adequate • Ensuring that the business is conducted in accordance with the relevant laws of the country, international laws and codes of regulatory authorities, professional institutes and trade associations Financial Reporting and Financial control • Reviews the operational and any other management information reports submitted to the Committee • Reviews the Group quarterly and annual financial statements that are prepared in strict compliance with the Companies Act No. 7 of 2007, Sri Lanka Accounting Standards currently applicable and the requirements of any other regulatory bodies as applicable • Evaluate the adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups accounting policies and all proposed changes in accounting policies and practices External Audit • Reviews and approves the external audit plan presented by the External Auditors • Reviews and monitors the progress of the external audit • Reviews the management letter issued by the External Auditors, and ensures that the management takes appropriate action to satisfactorily resolve issues • Assesses the independence and effectiveness of the External Auditors on an annual basis • Reviews the fees proposed by the External Auditors and makes recommendations to the Board on their re-appointment which is subject to approval of the shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting which will be effective until the conclusion of the succeeding Annual General Meeting Internal Audit • Reviews, approves and monitors the internal audit plan • Reviews the financial and operational audit reports, IT security reports and risk reports of the Internal Auditors’ and management’s response to same • Evaluates the independence and effectiveness of the internal audit functions 1 Independent Non-Executive Director 108 Aitken Spence PLC Summary of key focus areas in the year ended 31st March 2014 • Reviewed the Risk Management System and highlighted the areas which required attention, • Reviewed the operational and any other management information reports submitted to the Committee, • Reviewed the quarterly and annual financial statements submitted by the Group to the Colombo Stock Exchange, and recommended improvements in the content and presentation, • Evaluated significant accounting issues and recommended appropriate action wherever necessary, • Reviewed, approved, monitored and suggested necessary changes to the external audit and internal audit plans, • Reviewed and ensured the adequacy of the Group’s internal controls and recommended corrective measures where necessary, • Discussed the reports of the Internal Auditors, considered the response from the Management and suggested suitable action, • Assessed the performance of the Internal Auditors and set out guidelines for the effective discharge of duties, • Assessed the independence of External Auditors, • Evaluated the performance of External Auditors, • Reviewed the fees and out of pocket expenses proposed by the External Auditors and made recommendations to the Board. Re-appointment of Auditors The Audit Committee having evaluated the performance of the External Auditors decided to recommend to the Board the re-appointment of Messrs KPMG, Chartered Accountants as the Auditors of the Company for the current year, subject to the approval of the shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting. R.N. Asirwatham Chairman Audit Committee Colombo 22nd May 2014 Annual Report 2013 2014 109 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Relationship with Shareholders and Other Additionally the following external and internal Internal Controls and Risk Management Stakeholders communication platforms enable us to The Board is responsible for formulating and Aitken Spence PLC has a wide array of effectively engage in a two-way dialogue with implementing sound systems of internal stakeholders that include our shareholders/ our existing and potential shareholders as control and risk management for the Group investors, clients and consumers both internal well as all stakeholders – sharing applicable and for periodically reviewing its effectiveness and external, suppliers, industry bodies and comments or observations, seeking and integrity in safeguarding the Company’s role-players, the media, visitors to the main clarifications and a means to respond to assets and prevention of their misuse or Aitken Spence office premises, relevant queries regarding various aspects about the unauthorised disposal. The internal audit industry service providers and all employees company. division assists the Board of Directors and the of the Company scattered across the globe. Audit Committee in carrying out the above External Communication Platforms task. We are committed to maintaining effective • Above-the-line-advertising two-way communication with all investors. Any internal control system has its inherent As such, all stakeholders, seeking non-price• Collaborative marketing platforms limitations. We are aware of the inherent sensitive information is welcome to contact limitations in that the systems are designed • Aitken Spence PLC Integrated Annual us directly throughout the year. To this end, to manage risk, and hence we have taken Report the Board conducts regular discussions appropriate steps to minimise situations of with Institutional Investors based on mutual • Aitken Spence PLC editorials and opinion misstatements or loss. We have an internal understanding of objectives, particularly those pieces placed in relevant media fully-equipped internal audit division to assist relating to governance and strategy. • Aitken Spence PLC Stakeholder/ the maintenance of our sound system of Institutional Investor discussion sessions internal control for purposes of protecting Existing and prospective investors are able stakeholder investment and assets. to make well informed decisions in their • Aitken Spence PLC Sustainability dealings with us via the comprehensive Disclosures Review Effectiveness and balanced reports/financial statements • Aitken Spence PLC Website The Board and the Audit Committee have published quarterly and on an annual basis. The Company further conducts meetings • Digital Signage in Public Spaces reviewed the effectiveness of the financial, between major shareholders on an on-going operational and compliance controls and • Media round tables internal control systems, including risk basis, whilst at the same time answering queries from all shareholders and analysts, • Independently run client satisfaction management for the period and have taken through our Company Secretarial Division surveys appropriate remedial steps where necessary. and/or Communications Team. • Participation in local and international Code of Business Conduct and Ethics The principal communication with individual industry events and trade shows The Company has developed and investors is via the company website, the • Press releases and press conferences institutionalised a strong set of corporate quarterly financial statements, corporate • Social media platforms such as Facebook, values and a Code of Conduct that is disclosures, annual report and through the Twitter, LinkedIn and Foursquare circulated to Directors and all employees. Annual General Meeting at which they are The Board ensures that Directors and encouraged to be present, actively participate employees strictly comply with the Code of in and vote. The Annual General Meeting Internal Communication Platforms Business Conduct and Ethics at all levels provides an opportunity for shareholders • Group Intranet in the performance of their official duties, to make any applicable comments or communications, role modelling and in any observations, seek clarifications, and cast their • Employee Meetings (various structures) other circumstances, so as to prevent the vote on relevant issues. Shareholders are free • Memos tarnishing of our Company’s image in any to informally convene with our Directors after • Departmental Meetings manner. The violation of the code of ethics the conclusion of the meeting. is an offence that is subject to disciplinary • Key Performance Indicators (KPI) Goal action. The comprehensive Annual Report equips Setting and Assessment Meetings both existing and potential stakeholders Furthermore as an industry leader in with up-to-date information and facilitates • The Group’s Newsletters sustainability, Aitken Spence PLC also appropriate decision making. Additionally, subscribes to various international voluntary we encourage all investors/shareholders codes of practice including The United to carry out adequate analysis and obtain Nations Global Compact (UNGC), Global independent advice regarding their investment in our Company. 110 Aitken Spence PLC Reporting Initiatives (GRI) and those outlined Annual Report and the Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock on pages 198 to 209 of this report. The Board of Directors is responsible for Exchange. We have duly complied with all the preparation of the Annual Report and the requirements prescribed by the regulatory Going Concern confirm that the quarterly reports, annual authorities including the Colombo Stock financial statements and the annual review Exchange and the Registrar of Companies. The relevant Declaration/Going Concern of operations of the Company and its Messrs’ KPMG Chartered Accountants audited Statement is set out in the ‘Annual Report of subsidiaries, that are incorporated in this the consolidated financial statements and the the Directors’ on pages 118 to 121 of this Annual Report have been prepared and financial statements of the Company. Annual Report. presented in a reliable manner, based on a Risk Management balanced and comprehensive assessment of the financial performance of the Company An overview of the Group’s framework for and its subsidiaries. identifying and managing risk, both at an operational and strategic level, is set out on All financial statements are in accordance pages 34 to 39. with the Companies Act No. 7 of 2007, the Sri Lanka Accounting and Auditing Standards Act Annual Report 2013 2014 111 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Reference to SEC Compliance Details of Compliance & ICASL Code, CSE Listing Rules 1. Company A. Directors A.1 / 7.10.1(a), 7.10.2(a) and 7.10.3(c-d) The Board (see Pages 44-47) Our Board comprises of a Chairman, a Managing and Finance Director, and eight other Directors, five of whom are Non-Executive Directors that act as critical friends to the Board whilst collaborating with the Board providing strategic direction. The Board considers the long term interest of all stakeholders of our Group in their continuous efforts to ensure good governance and the effective functioning of our Company. The names and profiles of each of the Directors are on pages 44 to 47 of this Annual Report. Except for Deshamanya D.H.S. Jayawardena and Miss. D.S.T. Jayawardena who are related to each other but act for the best interest of the Group, none of the other Directors are related to each other, enabling each of the Directors to express their views independently and objectively. Company Board meetings A.1.1 Complied Please refer Page 101 Responsibilities of the Board A.1.2 Complied Please refer Pages 102 103 Compliance with laws and A.1.3 Complied Please refer Page 104 access to independent professional advice Company Secretary A.1.4 Complied Please refer Page 103, 105 Independent judgment of the A.1.5 Complied Please refer Page 101 Directors Dedicating adequate time and A.1.6 Complied Please refer Pages 101 102,105 effort Training for new and existing A.1.7 Complied Please refer Pages 103 104 Directors A.2. Chairman and Chief Executive Officer There is a clear demarcation of the responsibilities between our Chairman and our Managing and Finance Director who is the Chief Executive Officer. The functions performed by our Chairman and our Managing and Finance Director are distinct and separate, ensuring the balance of power and authority within the organisation, so that no person has unfettered powers of decision-making and implementation. (Please refer pages 102 103) Clear division of responsibilities A.2.1 Complied As mentioned above, our Company has segregated the duties of the Chairman and the CEO between our Chairman and Managing and Finance Director (pages 102 103). A.3 Chairman’s Role The Chairman of our Company is one of the most successful business leaders in this country. He is responsible for preserving order within the Board and good corporate governance of our Group whilst facilitating the effective discharge of Board functions business strategies. Role of Chairman A.3.1 Complied Please refer Page 102 A.4 Financial Acumen Financial acumen A.4 Complied Our Directors with their academic and/or entrepreneurial financial skills, business acumen and wide practical wisdom contribute substantial value, knowledge and independent judgment to decision making on matters concerning finance and investment (see pages 44 47,100 101 ) A.5 Board Balance Presence of Non-Executive A.5.1 Complied Please refer Page 101 Directors 7.10.1(a), 7.10.2(a) and 7.10.3(a) 112 Aitken Spence PLC Reference to SEC Compliance Details of Compliance & ICASL Code, CSE Listing Rules Independence of Non-Executive A.5.2 & 5.3 Complied Please refer Pages 100 101 Directors 5.5 7.10.2(a-b) and 7.10.3(a-b) Annual Declaration of NonA.5.4 Complied Please refer Page 101 Executive Directors 7.10.2(b) Requirement to appoint a ‘Senior A.5.6 and A.5.7 Not applicable This is not relevant to the Company as the Chairman and the Non-Executive Director ‘ Managing and Finance Director roles are segregated. Chairman conducting meetings A.5.9 Complied The Chairman meets with the Independent non-Executive with the Non-Executive Directors Directors as and when necessary. Recording of concerns in the A.5.10 Complied Please refer Page 102 Board minutes A.6 Supply of Information Obligation of the Management A.6.1 Complied The Group has a state-of-the-art management information to provide appropriate and system to process and monitor the performance of the Group. timely information Appropriate and timely information is made available to the Board members who make further inquiries when necessary. Adequate time for circulation of A.6.2 Complied Please refer Page 102 respective Board documents A.7 Appointments to the Board Nomination Committee and the A.7.1 and 7.2 Complied The names of the members of the Committee are on page 119 assessment of composition of and on the inner back cover of this Annual Report. the Board Disclosure to Shareholders A.7.3 Complied Please refer Page 110 A.8 Re-election Re-election of Directors A.8.1 and 8.2 Complied Please refer Page 104 A.9 Appraisal of Board performance Appraisals of the Board and the A.9.1, A.9.2 and A.9.3 Complied Please refer Page 104 subcommittees A.10 Disclosure of information in respect of Directors: Directors’ disclosures A.10.1 Complied The names of the Directors of the Board, their leadership 7.10.3(c-d) expertise, skills, and their profiles are disclosed on pages 44 to 47 of this Annual Report. Directors’ interests in contracts are indicated in Note 44 of the financial statements of this Annual Report. The number of board meetings attended by the Directors is given on page 101 of this Annual Report. Names of the Chairmen and the members of the Board Committees are provided on page 119 and in the inner back cover of this Annual Report. A.11 Appraisal of Chief Executive Setting of the annual targets and A.11.1 and A.11.2 Complied Please refer Page 104 the appraisal of the CEO Annual Report 2013 2014 113 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Reference to SEC Compliance Details of Compliance & ICASL Code, CSE Listing Rules B DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION B.1/ 7.10.5 Remuneration Procedure Establishment of a B.1.1 ,B.1.2 and B.1.3 Complied Please refer Page 105 (Remuneration Committee Report on Remuneration Committee and 7.10.5 (a) and Page 107) its composition 7.10.5 (b) Determination of the B.1.4 Compiled Please refer Page 104 remuneration of the NonExecutive Directors Consultation with the Chairman B.1.5 Complied Please refer Page 104 and the CEO B.2 Level and Makeup of Remuneration Level and makeup of the B.2.1, 2.2 and 2.3 Complied Please refer Page 104, 107 remuneration of Directors and comparison of remuneration with other Companies Performance-based B.2.4 Complied Please refer Page 104 remuneration Executive share options B.2.5 Not applicable As of date, the Company has no share options made available to the Directors, Executives or employees of the Company. Designing the remuneration B.2.6 Complied The procedure followed in deciding the remuneration of employees is set out in the Remuneration Committee report that is given on page 107. Early Termination of Directors B.2.7 and B.2.8 Compiled Is determined by the Articles of Association of the Company. Remuneration of Non-Executive B.2.9 Complied Non-Executive Directors are paid a fee and/or a reimbursement Directors for their participation in Board and Committee meetings as set out under B.1.4. B.3 / 7.10.5 (C) DISCLOSURE OF REMUNERATION Disclosure of remuneration B.3.1 Complied The names of the members of our Remuneration Committee are indicated in page 119 and listed on the inner back cover. The report of the Committee is given on page 107 of this Annual Report. Please refer note 9 to the financial statements for the details of remuneration paid to Board of Directors and key management personnel. C. RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS C.1 Constructive use of Annual General Meeting Use of Proxy C.1.1 Complied We ensure that all proxy votes are counted and the quantum of proxies lodged on each resolution is conveyed to our Chairman. Separate resolution for C.1.2 Complied Separate resolutions are proposed at an Annual General substantially separate issues Meeting on each substantially separate issue. Chairman of Board Committees C.1.3 Complied At the Annual General Meeting the respective Chairmen of the to be present Remuneration, Audit and Nomination Committees are present to provide any clarification to shareholders as necessary. Adequate notice of Annual C.1.4 and C.1.5 Complied The notice and the agenda for the Annual General Meeting General Meeting and summary together with the Annual Report of the Company containing of Procedure the relevant documents are sent to the shareholders giving 15 working days’ notice prior to the date of the Annual General Meeting. 114 Aitken Spence PLC Reference to SEC Compliance Details of Compliance & ICASL Code, CSE Listing Rules C.2 COMMUNICATION WITH SHAREHOLDERS Effective communication with C.2.1, C.2.2, C.2.3, C.2.4 Complied The Board maintains a two-way communication with all the Shareholders investors providing an opportunity to seek non-price sensitive information throughout the year by conducting meetings and discussions and answering queries through our Company Secretarial Division and/or Communications Teams C.3 MAJOR TRANSACTION Disclosures of Major C.3.1 Complied There were no major transactions during the financial year transactions that materially altered our Company’s net asset base or the consolidated Group net asset base. D. ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT D.1 Financial Reporting Board responsibility to present D.1.1 Complied Please refer Pages 111, 117 the financial statements Annual Report of the Directors D.1.2 Complied The Directors have made the required declarations on pages 118 to 121 of this Annual Report. Statement by the Directors and D.1.3 Complied The Statement of Directors’Responsibilities is on page 117 the Auditors of this Annual Report. The Auditor’s Report on the financial statements for the year ended 31st March 2013 is presented on page 124 of this Annual Report. Management discussion and D.1.4 Complied The management discussion and analysis is presented as the analysis operational review of the company and its subsidiaries on pages 19 to 97 of this Annual Report. Declaration by the Board as to D.1.5 Complied The relevant declaration is presented in the Annual Report of the whether the business is a going Directors on page 119 of this Annual Report. concern. Requirement for an Extraordinary D.1.6 Not applicable This is not applicable to us however should the situation arise, General Meeting in a situation an Extraordinary General Meeting would be called upon and our of serious loss of capital shareholders would be notified accordingly. D.2 Internal Control Directors to review Internal D.2.1 Complied Please refer Pages 110, 120 Controls Requirement to review the need D.2.2 Not applicable The Group already has an Internal Audit Division, and as such for an Internal Audit function this is not applicable. Please refer Page 110 D.3 /7.10.6 Audit Committee Composition of the Audit D.3.1 and D.3.2/ Complied Please refer Pages108 109 Committee and its Duties 7.10.6(a) and 7.10.6(b) Terms of Reference of the Audit D.3.3 Complied Please refer Page 108 Committee Disclosures of names of D.3.4 Complied The names of the members of the Audit Committee are the members of the Audit 7.10.6(c) indicated on page 119. Committee The Audit Committee reviews the scope and results of the audits, its effectiveness, and the independence and objectivity of our Internal Audit function. Report of the Audit Committee is on pages 108 109 of this Annual Report. Annual Report 2013 2014 115 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Reference to SEC Compliance Details of Compliance & ICASL Code, CSE Listing Rules D.4 Code of Business Conduct and Ethics We are committed to carrying out all business activities to the highest standards of integrity, ethical values and professionalism, whilst following the laws of the country, international laws and compliance as per our stakeholders’ expectations. Disclosure on a presence of D.4.1 Complied Please refer Page 110 code of business conduct and ethics Affirmation of the code of D.4.2 Complied As per our Chairman’s statement on Page 14 of this Annual conduct and ethics Report, we affirm our adherence to good business conduct and ethics. D.5 Corporate Governance Disclosures Disclosures of Corporate D.5.1 Complied We aim to achieve greater year-on-year growth and value Governance creation, improve stakeholder satisfaction and relationships in all our business activities, whilst adhering to the highest standards of corporate governance as is evident in this Annual Report on pages 99 to 121. 2. SHAREHOLDERS E. INSTITUTIONAL INVESTORS Shareholder voting E.1.1 Complied Please refer Pages 110, 167 F. OTHER INVESTORS F.1 Investing and divesting decision Investing and divesting decision F.1 Complied Please refer Page 110 F.2 Shareholder Voting Individual shareholders’ voting F.2 Complied Please refer Page 110, 167 116 Aitken Spence PLC Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities The Companies Act No.7 of 2007 requires the risk management strategies to identify and their responsibilities. The responsibility of Directors of the Company to be responsible evaluate the risks which the Company could the Independent Auditors in relation to for the preparation and presentation of the be exposed and its impact to the Company. the financial statements is set out in the financial statements and other statutory Independent Auditors Report. reports. The responsibilities of the Directors, in The Directors having considered the Group’s relation to the financial statements of Aitken business plans, and a review of its current The Directors confirm that to the best of Spence PLC and the Consolidated Financial and future operations, are of the view that their knowledge all payments to employees, Statements of the Group are set out in this the Company and the Group have adequate regulatory and statutory authorities due and report. resources to continue in operation. The payable by the Company, its subsidiaries and Directors have adopted the going concern joint ventures have been either duly paid The Directors confirm that the financial basis in preparing the financial statements. or adequately provided for in the financial statements and other statutory reports of the statements. The Directors further confirm Company and its subsidiaries for the year The financial statements presented in this that they promote the highest ethical, ended 31st March 2014 incorporated in this Annual Report for the year ended 31st March environmental and safety standards within report have been prepared in accordance with 2014, have been prepared based on the the Group. The Directors also ensure that the the Companies Act No.7 of 2007, the Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (SLFRS/ relevant national laws, international laws and Sri Lanka Accounting and Auditing Standards LKASs) which came into effect from 1st codes of regulatory authorities, professional Act No. 15 of 1995 and the Listing Rules of January 2012. The Directors have selected institutes and trade associations have been the Colombo Stock Exchange. the appropriate accounting policies and such complied with by the Group. policies adopted by the Group are disclosed The Directors have taken appropriate steps to and explained in the financial statements. ensure that the Companies within the Group maintain adequate and accurate records The Board of Directors confirm that the By order of the Board, which reflect the true financial position of Company and the Group’s Consolidated each such Company and hence the Group. Statements of Financial Position as at 31st The Directors have taken appropriate and March 2014 and the Comprehensive Income reasonable steps to safeguard the assets of Statements for the Company and the Group the Company and the Group. The Directors for the financial year ended 31st March 2014 have instituted appropriate systems of reflect a true and fair view of the Company and the Group. R.E.V. Casie Chetty internal control in order to minimise and Company Secretary detect fraud, errors and other irregularities. The Directors have provided the Auditors with The Directors in maintaining a sound system Colombo every opportunity to carry out any reviews of internal control and in protecting the 27th May 2014 and tests that they consider appropriate assets of the Company, have further adopted and necessary for the performance of Annual Report 2013 2014 117 ANNUAL REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS The details set out herein provide the Annual Report. These reports together with the shareholders of the parent company for the pertinent information required by the audited financial statements of the Company year was Rs. 3,672 million (2013 Rs.3,288 Companies Act No. 7 of 2007, the Colombo and the Group reflect the respective state of million). The segmental profits are disclosed Stock Exchange Listing Rules and the best affairs of the Company and the Group. in note 6 to the financial statements. accounting practices. The Board of Directors of Aitken Spence PLC has the pleasure in 3. Accounting policies and changes 4.2. Donations presenting the Annual Report and the audited during the year During the year, donations amounting to financial statements for the year ended 31st The Company and the Group prepared the Rs. 5.7 million were made by the Company, March 2014 which were approved by the financial statements in accordance with the while the donations made by the other Group Board of Directors on 27th of May 2014. Sri Lanka Accounting Standards(SLFRS /LKAS). entities during the year amounted to Rs. 1.2 The significant accounting policies adopted million. 1. Principal Activities in the preparation of the financial statements Aitken Spence PLC is the holding Company of the Company and the Group are given in 4.3 Taxation that directly or indirectly owns investments pages 132 to 145. in companies which form the Aitken Spence A detailed statement of the income tax rates Group. In addition to the above, the Company The accounting policies adopted by the applicable to the individual companies in the provides management and related services to Group are consistent with those adopted Group and a reconciliation of the accounting the Group Companies. During the year there in the previous financial year except for the profits with the taxable profits are given in were no significant changes in the principal policy on retirement benefits obligations, note 12 to the financial statements. It is the activities of the Company and the Group. which is revised with the adoption of LKAS 19policy of the Group to provide for deferred Employee Benefits. taxation on all known timing differences on The activities of the Group are categorised the liability method. The deferred tax balances into four main sectors namely Tourism, 4. Synopsis of the Income Statement of of the Group are given in notes 23 and 30 to Maritime Cargo Logistics, Strategic the Company and the Group the financial statements. Investments and Services. Companies within each sector and their principal activities are 4.1.Group Revenue and Profits 4.4 Dividends described on pages 211 to 219 of the Annual Revenue generated by the Company during The Directors recommended a dividend Report. the year amounted to Rs. 612 million. payment of Rs.2.00 per share for the year, the (2013 – Rs. 536 million). The Group revenue total dividend is paid out of dividends received 2. Review of Operations was Rs. 36,598 million (2013 – Rs. 37,140 by the Company where 10% withholding A review of operational and financial million). An analysis of Group revenue tax on dividends has been deducted. The performance, the future plans of the Company based on business and geographical Directors are confident that the Company and the Group are described in greater segments is disclosed in note 6 to the would meet the solvency test requirement detail in the Chairman’s Message, Managing financial statements. The profit after tax of under Section 56 (2) of the Companies Act Director’s Review, Management Discussion the Group was Rs. 4,509 million (2013 Rs. No. 7 of 2007 immediately after the payment and Analysis and the Financial Review of the 4,276 million) which is a growth of 5.5%. of the first and final dividend. The Group’s profit attributable to the equity Group Group For the year ended 31 st March 2014 2013 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 The net profit after providing for all expenses, known liabilities and depreciation on property plant and equipment 5,409,111 5,025,481 Provision for taxation including deferred tax (900,476) (749,970) Net profit after tax 4,508,635 4,275,511 Other comprehensive income 1,286,282 242,273 Total comprehensive income for the year 5,794,917 4,517,784 Total comprehensive income attributable to the minority shareholders (997,054) (1,041,635) Total comprehensive income attributable to equity shareholders 4,797,863 3,476,149 Transactions directly recognised in the equity statement 16,432 (9,020) Balance brought forward from the previous year 28,053,257 25,154,522 Amount available for appropriations 32,867,552 28,621,651 Final Dividend for 2012/2013 (2011/2012) (608,994) (568,394) Balance Attributable to equity holders of the Company at the end of the period 32,258,558 28,053,257 118 Aitken Spence PLC 5. Synopsis of the Statement of experience in valuing properties in the locality All the above Directors of the Company Financial Position of the Company of the land being revalued. If the fair value held office during the entire year, with the and the Group of land does not change other than by an exception of Ms. D.S.T. Jayawardena who was insignificant amount at each reporting date appointed w.e.f. 1st of December 2013 and 5.1 Stated Capital and Reserves the Group revalues such land every five years. late Mr. C.R. De Silva P.C. who was appointed As at 31st March 2014 the Company had on 8th April 2013 and expired on 7th of issued 405,996,045 ordinary shares and the Details of the revalued land, revaluation November 2013. stated capital of the Company was Rs. 2,135 surplus, and the original cost are given in million. The Company’s reserves as at 31st note 15.3.1 to the financial statements. Group The profiles of the Directors are given on March 2014 were Rs. 10,794 million (2013records all other assets at cost and check pages 44 to 47 of the Annual Report. Rs. 10,998 million) whereas the total Group’s for any impairment of these assets when the reserves as at 31st March 2014 were Rs. Group identifies any trigger for impairment. 8.2 Board Sub Committees 30,123 million (2013-Rs. 25,918 million). The The following Directors serve as members movement in these reserves is shown in the 5.5 Contingent Liabilities of the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Statement of Changes in Equity – Company The details of contingent liabilities are Committee and the Nomination Committee. and Group on pages 128-129. disclosed in note 42 to the financial statements. Audit Committee 5.2. Property, Plant and Equipment Mr. R.N. Asirwatham (Chairman) The carrying value of property plant and 6. Events occurring after the Reporting Mr. G.C. Wickremasinghe equipment for the Company and the Group Date Mr. C.H. Gomez as at 31st March 2014 amounted to Rs. 144 No event of material significance that requires million and Rs.25,221 million respectively. adjustments to the financial statements has Mr. N.J. de S. Deva Aditya / Mr. A.L. Gooneratne The total expenditure on the acquisition of arisen other than that disclosed in note 47 to (Alternate Director to Mr. N.J. de S. Deva property, plant and equipment during the year the financial statements. Aditya) in respect of new assets by the Company and the Group amounted to Rs. 40 million and Remuneration Committee 7. Going Concern Rs.1,354 million respectively. The Board of Directors is satisfied that the Mr. G.C. Wickremasinghe (Chairman) Company and the Group have adequate Mr. V.M. Fernando 5.3. Investment Property resources to continue their operations without Mr. R.N. Asirwatham The carrying value of land and building any disruption in the foreseeable future. The classified as investment property of the Company’s financial statements are prepared Nomination Committee Company and the Group as at 31st March on a going concern basis. Mr. G.C. Wickremasinghe (Chairman) 2014 amounted to Rs. 3,440 million and Rs. Deshamanya D.H.S. Jayawardena 1,738 million respectively. 8. Information on the Board of Directors and the Board Sub Committees Mr. J.M.S. Brito 5.4 Market Value of Freehold Properties Mr. V.M. Fernando 8.1 Board of Directors Land recognised as property, plant and Mr. R.N. Asirwatham The Board of Directors of the Company as at equipment in the financial statements in 31st March 2014 comprised of: the Group is recorded at either fair value 8.3 Re-election of Directors Deshamanya D.H.S. Jayawardena or revalued amounts. The land carried at Mr. N J de S Deva Aditya who retires in terms Chairman revalued amounts of the Group was revalued of Article 84 of the Articles of Association of by professionally qualified independent Mr. J.M.S. Brito the Company as a Director offers himself for valuers during the financial year, with the Managing and Finance Director re-election at the forthcoming Annual General exception of those owned by Aitken Spence Dr. R.M. Fernando Meeting. Hotel Holdings PLC, Golden Sun Resorts (Pvt) Dr. M.P. Dissanayake Ltd and P.R Holiday Homes Private Limited Deshamanya D.H.S. Jayawardena attained Ms. D.S.T. Jayawardena the age of 70 years on 17th August 2012 which were revalued during the financial year 2011/2012. Revaluation of these lands Mr. G.C. Wickremasinghe and in accordance with Section 210(2) of is performed with sufficient regularity so that Mr. C.H. Gomez the Companies Act No. 7 of 2007, vacates the carrying value of the lands do not differ Mr. N.J. de S. Deva Aditya office at the forthcoming Annual General materially to its market value. Revaluation Meeting. A notice of a resolution has been Mr. V.M. Fernando was performed by professionally qualified received from a shareholder that the age limit independent valuers having appropriate Mr. R.N. Asirwatham of 70 years referred to in Section 210(1) of the said Companies Act shall not apply to Annual Report 2013 2014 119 ANNUAL REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Deshamanya D.H.S. Jayawardena who has are disclosed on page 148 of the financial equitable treatment of shareholders. The attained the age of 71 years and that he be statements. Company’s corporate governance practices re-elected as a Director at the Annual General are set out on pages 99 to 121 of the Annual Meeting. 8.7 Related Party Transactions Report. Mr. G.C. Wickremasinghe attained the age Related party transactions of the Group are disclosed in note 44 to the financial 11. Risk Management of 70 years on 15th August 2003 and in statements. These interests have been duly The Directors have established and adhere accordance with Section 210(2) of the declared by the Directors. to a comprehensive risk management Companies Act No. 7 of 2007, vacates office framework at both Strategic Business Units at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting. and Group levels to ensure the achievements A notice of a resolution has been received 8.8 Subsidiary Board of Directors of their corporate objectives. The categories from a shareholder that the age limit of 70 The names of Directors of the subsidiaries of risks faced by the Group are identified, years referred to in Section 210(1) of the and joint venture companies who held office the significance they pose are evaluated said Companies Act shall not apply to Mr. G.C. as at 31st March 2014 and Directors who and mitigating strategies are adopted by the Wickremasinghe who has attained the age ceased to hold office during the accounting Group. The Board of Directors reviews the of 80 years and that he be re-elected as a period are indicated on pages 211 to 219 of risk management process through the Audit Director at the Annual General Meeting. the Annual Report. Committee. The Risk Management Report of Mr. R.N. Asirwatham attained the age of the Group is on pages 34 to 39 of this report. 70 years on 26th August 2012 and in 9. Human Resources The Human Resources strategies applied and 12. Internal Controls accordance with Section 210(2) of the practiced by the Group have translated into The Board of Directors ensures that the Group Companies Act No. 7 of 2007, vacates office the creation of a dynamic and competent has an effective internal control system which at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting. human resource team with sound succession ensures that the assets of the Company and A notice of a resolution has been received planning and a remarkably low attrition the Group are safeguarded and appropriate from a shareholder that the age limit of 70 rate. The Group’s employment strategies systems are in place to minimise and years referred to in Section 210(1) of the are reviewed periodically by the relevant detect fraud, errors and other irregularities. said Companies Act shall not apply to Mr. R.N. committees and the Board of Directors. The The system ensures that the Group adopts Asirwatham who has attained the age of 71 Human Resource Report is set out on pages procedures which result in financial and years and that he be re-elected as a Director 40 to 43 of the Annual Report. operational effectiveness and efficiency. at the Annual General Meeting. Ms. D S T Jayawardena retires in terms of 10. Governance The Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities Article 90 of the Articles of Association of the The Group has not engaged in any activity, on page 117 and the Audit Committee Report Company and offers herself for election at the which contravenes the national and set out on pages 108 to 109 of this report forthcoming Annual General Meeting. international laws. The Group rigidly adheres provide further information in respect of the to relevant national and international rules above. 8.4 Directors’ Shareholding and their and regulations and codes of Professional Interests Institutes and Associations, Industrial 13. Statutory Payments The Directors’ shareholdings and their Associations, Chambers of Commerce and The Directors to the best of their knowledge interests are provided in the Investor section Regulatory Bodies. The Group complies and belief are satisfied that all statutory on page 196 of the Annual Report. with the Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock financial obligations to the Government Exchange and the Code of Best Practice and to the employees have been either on Corporate Governance issued jointly by duly paid or adequately provided for in the 8.5 Interest Register the Institute of Chartered Accountants of financial statements. A confirmation of same An Interest Register is maintained by the Sri Lanka and the Securities and Exchange is included in the Statement of Directors’ Company as per the Companies Act No. 7 of Commission of Sri Lanka. The Group applies Responsibilities on page 117 of this Annual 2007. The share ownership of the Directors is very high standards to protect and nurture the Report indicated on pages 185 to 188 of the Annual environment in which it operates and ensures Report. strict adherence to all environment laws and 14. Corporate Sustainability practices. The Board of Directors guides and supports 8.6 Directors’ Remuneration the Group’s sustainability strategy. It welcomes The Company has no restrictions with regard The Directors’ remuneration and fees in the implementation of the structured and to shareholders carrying out appropriate respect of the Company and the Group for dynamic integrated sustainability framework. analysis or obtaining independent advice the financial year ended 31st March 2014 Awards and recognition received during the regarding their investment in the Company year are a testament to our commitment and has made all endeavours to ensure the 120 Aitken Spence PLC as we continue to benchmark our practices KPMG Chartered Accountants have stated for permitted audit and non audit related against global standards and best practices in their willingness to continue in office and a services including tax advisory services was a myriad of aspects that affect or potentially resolution to re-appoint them as auditors and Rs. 2,386,515/-. As far as the Directors are affect delivery of growth. More details of the grant authority to the Board to determine their aware the auditors neither have any other Group’s sustainability efforts are included in remuneration will be proposed at the Annual relationship with the Company nor any of the Management Discussion and Analysis of General Meeting. its subsidiaries, joint ventures and equity this report and at www. aitkenspence.com/ accounted investees that would have an sustainability. The fees payable to the Company auditors impact on their independence Messrs KPMG Chartered Accountants was Rs. 950,000 /-. 15. Shareholder Information There were 4,185 shareholders as at 31st In addition to the above Rs.391,479/was March 2014. The distribution schedule of payable by the Company for permitted audit the number of shareholders and their share related and non audit related services. Messrs D.H.S. Jayawardena holdings are detailed in pages 192 to 196 of KPMG Chartered Accountants the auditors of Chairman the Annual Report. The names of the twenty the Company are also the auditors of certain largest shareholders, together with their subsidiaries, joint ventures and associate shareholdings as at 31st March 2014 are companies of the Group. The list of the given on page 195 of the Annual Report. The subsidiaries, joint ventures and associate percentage of the shares held by the public companies audited by them are included on J.M.S Brito as at 31st March 2014 was 38.78%. pages 211 to 217 of the Annual Report. Managing & Finance Director Information relating to earnings per share and The amount payable by the Group to Messrs the net assets per share for the Company and KPMG Chartered Accountants as audit fees Group, the dividend per share and the market was Rs. 10,579,441 /while a further Rs. price per share are given on pages 192 to 1,645,729/was payable for permitted audit 196 of the Annual Report. and non audit related services. In addition R.E.V. Casie Chetty to the above Rs. 6,990,231/was payable to Company Secretary 16. Auditors other auditors for carrying out audits in the Colombo The independent auditors’ report on the subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates 27th May 2014 financial statements is given on page 124 of where the audits were conducted by them. the Annual Report. The retiring auditors Messrs The amount payable to such other auditors Annual Report 2013 2014 121 122 Aitken Spence PLC YEAR ON YEAR Financial STATEMENTS Annual Report 2013 2014 123 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT We have obtained all the information and explanations which to the best of our knowledge and belief were necessary for the purposes of TO THE SHAREHOLDERS OF AITKEN SPENCE PLC our audit. We therefore believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. Report on the Financial Statements We have audited the accompanying financial statements of Aitken Opinion Spence PLC, (“the Company”) and the consolidated financial In our opinion, so far as appears from our examination, the Company statements of the Company and its subsidiaries (“the Group”), which maintained proper accounting records for the year ended 31st March, comprise the statements of financial position as at 31st March, 2014, 2014, and the financial statements give a true and fair view of the the statements of income, comprehensive income, changes in equity financial position of the Company as at 31st March, 2014, and of its and cash flows for the year then ended, and notes, comprising a financial performance and its cash flow for the year then ended in summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards. information set out on pages 125 to 189 of the Annual Report. In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements give a true and Management’s Responsibility for the Financial Statements fair view of the financial position of the Company and its subsidiary dealt with thereby as at 31st March, 2014, and of its financial Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation performance and its cash flows for the year then ended in accordance of these financial statements in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards. Standards. This responsibility includes: designing, implementing and maintaining internal control relevant to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements that are free from material Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements misstatement, whether due to fraud or error; selecting and applying These financial statements also comply with the requirements of appropriate accounting policies; and making accounting estimates Sections 153(2) to 153(7) of the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007. that are reasonable in the circumstances. Scope of Audit and Basis of Opinion Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance whether the financial statements are free from material CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS misstatement. Colombo An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting 27th May, 2014 the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting policies used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. 124 Aitken Spence PLC income statementS GROUP COMPANY For the year ended 31st March 2014 2013 2014 2013 Notes Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Revenue 7 36,598,095 37,139,927 612,246 535,500 Revenue taxes (489,725) (533,641) (11,519) (9,960) Net revenue 36,108,370 36,606,286 600,727 525,540 Other operating income 8 455,093 12,508 650,785 557,466 Changes in inventories of finished goods and work-in-progress 57,895 (11,487) Raw materials and consumables used (10,435,289) (12,913,768) Employee benefits expense (4,381,840) (3,969,275) (375,091) (326,984) Depreciation, amortisation and impairment of 9 (1,499,420) (1,428,073) (63,540) (59,881) property, plant and equipment and goodwill Other operating expenses direct 10 (9,152,620) (8,398,247) Other operating expenses indirect (5,449,197) (4,367,202) (491,257) (265,986) Profit from operations 5,702,992 5,530,742 321,624 430,155 Finance income 11 800,721 760,887 620,066 694,908 Finance expenses 11 (1,250,669) (1,443,964) (518,614) (557,435) Net finance income / (expense) (449,948) (683,077) 101,452 137,473 Share of profit of equity-accounted investees (net of tax) 22 156,067 177,816 Profit before tax 9 5,409,111 5,025,481 423,076 567,628 Income tax expense 12 (900,476) (749,970) (13,653) (11,482) Profit for the year 4,508,635 4,275,511 409,423 556,146 Attributable to: Equity holders of the company 3,671,870 3,287,607 409,423 556,146 Non-controlling interests 836,765 987,904 Profit for the year 4,508,635 4,275,511 409,423 556,146 Earnings per share Basic/Diluted (Rs.) 13 9.04 8.10 1.01 1.37 Dividends per share (Rs.) 14 2.00 1.50 2.00 1.50 The notes on pages 132 through 189 form an integral part of these ﬁnancial statements. Figures in brackets indicate deductions. Annual Report 2013 2014 125 STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME GROUP COMPANY For the year ended 31st March 2014 2013 2014 2013 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Profit for the year 4,508,635 4,275,511 409,423 556,146 Other comprehensive income Revaluation of property, plant and equipment 1,160,838 280,247 Actuarial gains / (losses) on defined benefit obligations (56,676) (27,904) (2,200) (9,758) Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 183,091 (51,107) Net change in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets (24,397) 36,961 (2,476) 3,238 Net change in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets reclassified to profit or loss 1,817 (2,403) (1,014) Share of other comprehensive income of equity-accounted investees (net of tax) 12,885 3,685 Income tax on other comprehensive income (note 12.5) 8,724 2,794 Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax 1,286,282 242,273 (4,676) (7,534) Total comprehensive income for the year 5,794,917 4,517,784 404,747 548,612 Attributable to: Equity holders of the parent 4,797,863 3,476,149 404,747 548,612 Non-controlling interests 997,054 1,041,635 Total comprehensive income for the year 5,794,917 4,517,784 404,747 548,612 The notes on pages 132 through 189 form an integral part of these ﬁnancial statements. Figures in brackets indicate deductions. 126 Aitken Spence PLC STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION GROUP COMPANY As at 31.03.2014 31.03.2013 31.03.2014 31.03.2013 Notes Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 ASSETS Non-Current Assets Property, plant and equipment 15 25,220,920 24,041,780 143,967 141,046 Investment property 16 1,737,575 1,661,596 3,439,945 3,455,995 Intangible assets 17 902,600 654,056 53,059 76,037 Leasehold property 18 1,461,100 1,463,930 Pre-paid operating leases 19 1,010,249 980,731 Finance lease receivables 20 2,245,884 2,325,091 Investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures unquoted 21 5,583,951 4,946,407 Investments in subsidiaries quoted 21 2,458,287 2,458,287 Investments in equity-accounted investees 22 2,094,496 1,931,205 165,000 165,000 Deferred tax assets 23 220,021 222,147 Other financial assets 24 387,248 462,117 181,878 232,403 35,280,093 33,742,653 12,026,087 11,475,175 Current Assets Inventories 25 1,639,400 1,824,723 2,167 2,484 Finance lease receivables 20 146,948 168,964 Trade and other receivables 26 9,312,667 9,972,627 2,768,751 3,315,508 Current tax receivable 241,230 180,918 215,560 168,596 Deposits and prepayments 1,059,688 1,129,843 44,151 53,075 Other financial assets 24 10,587,572 6,764,163 4,274,439 3,227,060 Cash and short-term deposits 2,728,514 2,217,994 62,504 62,885 25,716,019 22,259,232 7,367,572 6,829,608 Assets classified as held for sale 27 149,125 149,125 57,237 57,237 Total Assets 61,145,237 56,151,010 19,450,896 18,362,020 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity Stated capital 28 2,135,140 2,135,140 2,135,140 2,135,140 Reserves 28 13,884,656 12,695,793 6,357,104 6,328,970 Retained earnings 16,238,762 13,222,324 4,437,146 4,669,527 Total equity attributable to equity holders of the company 32,258,558 28,053,257 12,929,390 13,133,637 Non-controlling interests 6,519,706 5,449,444 Total Equity 38,778,264 33,502,701 12,929,390 13,133,637 Non-Current Liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities 29 7,334,466 6,245,351 3,426,394 2,542,500 Deferred tax liabilities 30 639,486 504,743 Employee benefits 31 576,416 447,390 86,426 73,405 8,550,368 7,197,484 3,512,820 2,615,905 Current Liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities 29 1,622,421 1,370,093 371,837 157,500 Provisions 32 462,771 277,103 Trade and other payables 33 6,576,453 7,713,638 2,324,439 2,355,097 Current tax payable 597,793 501,238 Bank overdrafts and other short-term borrowings 4,557,167 5,588,753 312,410 99,881 13,816,605 15,450,825 3,008,686 2,612,478 Total Equity and Liabilities 61,145,237 56,151,010 19,450,896 18,362,020 The above statements of financial position are to be read in conjunction with the notes to the financial statements on pages 132 to 189. I certify that the financial statements for the year ended 31st March 2014 are in compliance with the requirements of the Companies Act No. 7 of 2007. Ms. N. Sivapragasam Chief Financial Officer The Board of Directors is responsible for preparation and presentation of these financial statements. For and on behalf of the Board: D.H.S. Jayawardena J.M.S. Brito Chairman Managing and Finance Director 27th May 2014. Colombo, Sri Lanka Annual Report 2013 2014 127 CONsolidated STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY For the year ended 31st March 2014 Attributable to equity holders of the company Total NonTotal controlling equity Stated Revaluation Other General Exchange Available Retained interests capital reserve Capital reserves fluctuation for sale earnings reserves reserve reserve Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Balance as at 01st April 2012 2,135,140 5,269,337 127,521 6,327,782 743,671 (13,627) 10,564,698 25,154,522 4,708,800 29,863,322 Profit for the period 3,287,607 3,287,607 987,904 4,275,511 Other comprehensive income for the 208,757 (36,607) 37,161 (20,769) 188,542 53,731 242,273 period Total comprehensive 208,757 (36,607) 37,161 3,266,838 3,476,149 1,041,635 4,517,784 income for the period Share of net assets of equity-accounted 419 419 187 606 investees Direct costs on share issues by (8,231) (8,231) (2,859) (11,090) subsidiary companies Effect of acquisitions, disposals and (1,208) (1,208) 4,496 3,288 change in percentage holdings in subsidiaries Transfer to general reserve 31,798 (31,798) Dividends for 2011/2012 (note 14) (568,394) (568,394) (568,394) Dividends paid to shareholders with (302,815) (302,815) non-controlling interest Total contributions and distributions, 31,798 (609,212) (577,414) (300,991) (878,405) recognised directly in equity Balance as at 31st March 2013 2,135,140 5,478,094 127,521 6,359,580 707,064 23,534 13,222,324 28,053,257 5,449,444 33,502,701 Profit for the period 3,671,870 3,671,870 836,765 4,508,635 Other comprehensive income for the 1,063,175 111,818 (16,740) (32,260) 1,125,993 160,289 1,286,282 period Total comprehensive 1,063,175 111,818 (16,740) 3,639,610 4,797,863 997,054 5,794,917 income for the period Share of net assets of equity-accounted 10,385 10,385 (239) 10,146 investees Effect of acquisitions, disposals and 6,047 6,047 439,525 445,572 change in percentage holdings in subsidiaries Transfer to general reserve 30,610 (30,610) Dividends for 2012/2013 (note 14) (608,994) (608,994) (608,994) Dividends paid to shareholders with (366,078) (366,078) non-controlling interest Total contributions and distributions, 30,610 (623,172) (592,562) 73,208 (519,354) recognised directly in equity Balance as at 31st March 2014 2,135,140 6,541,269 127,521 6,390,190 818,882 6,794 16,238,762 32,258,558 6,519,706 38,778,264 The notes on pages 132 through 189 form an integral part of these financial statements. Figures in brackets indicate deductions. 128 Aitken Spence PLC COMPANY STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY For the year ended 31st March 2014 Stated General Available for Retained Total capital reserves sale reserve earnings Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Balance as at 01st April 2012 2,135,140 6,301,070 (6,122) 4,723,331 13,153,419 Profit for the period 556,146 556,146 Other comprehensive income for the period 2,224 (9,758) (7,534) Total comprehensive income for the period 2,224 546,388 548,612 Transfer to general reserve 31,798 (31,798) Dividends for 2011/2012 (note 14) (568,394) (568,394) Total contributions and distributions, recognised directly in equity 31,798 (600,192) (568,394) Balance as at 31st March 2013 2,135,140 6,332,868 (3,898) 4,669,527 13,133,637 Profit for the period 409,423 409,423 Other comprehensive income for the period (2,476) (2,200) (4,676) Total comprehensive income for the period (2,476) 407,223 404,747 Transfer to general reserve 30,610 (30,610) Dividends for 2012/2013 (note 14) (608,994) (608,994) Total contributions and distributions, recognised directly in equity 30,610 (639,604) (608,994) Balance as at 31st March 2014 2,135,140 6,363,478 (6,374) 4,437,146 12,929,390 The notes on pages 132 through 189 form an integral part of these financial statements. Figures in brackets indicate deductions. Annual Report 2013 2014 129 CASH FLOW STATEMENTS GROUP COMPANY For the year ended 31st March 2014 2013 2014 2013 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Cash flows from operating activities Profit before tax 5,409,111 5,025,481 423,076 567,628 Adjustments for Depreciation and amortisation 1,449,420 1,349,568 63,540 59,881 Impairment of property, plant and equipment and goodwill 50,000 78,505 Finance expense 1,146,104 1,327,591 509,732 553,206 (Gain) / loss on disposal of property plant and equipment 95,728 (28,737) (5,688) (8) Loss on disposal of investment property 12,543 12,543 Loss on disposal of group investments 6,523 Gain on disposal of equity securities classified as available-for-sale financial assets (26,570) (11,089) (6,212) Finance income (800,721) (760,887) (620,066) (694,908) Share of profit of equity-accounted investees (net of tax) (156,067) (177,816) Impairment of investments in subsidiaries 159,198 Impairment of inventories 133,177 2,749 Impairment losses / (reversals) and write offs of trade & other receivables 427,285 47,554 26,881 (6) Net unrealised foreign exchange (gain) / loss (77,393) (31,036) (17,969) 4,772 Provision for retirement benefit obligations 105,312 88,657 17,222 13,742 2,358,818 1,891,582 145,393 (69,533) Operating profit before working capital changes 7,767,929 6,917,063 568,469 498,095 (Increase)/decrease in trade and other receivables 561,028 (1,146,278) 519,876 298,950 (Increase)/decrease in inventories 59,193 (44,155) 317 (833) (Increase)/ decrease in deposits and prepayments 131,887 (375,408) 8,924 7,101 Increase/(decrease) in trade and other payables (1,437,801) 1,060,075 (32,091) 25,742 Increase/(decrease) in provisions 185,668 (213,558) (500,025) (719,324) 497,026 330,960 Cash generated from operations 7,267,904 6,197,739 1,065,495 829,055 Interest paid (1,138,136) (1,327,591) (501,764) (553,206) Income tax paid (777,154) (492,804) (60,618) (39,595) Retirement benefit obligations paid (54,937) (59,256) (6,401) (6,489) (1,970,227) (1,879,651) (568,783) (599,290) Net cash generated from/(used in) operating activities 5,297,677 4,318,088 496,712 229,765 Cash flows from investing activities Interest received from deposits 788,137 692,338 606,918 682,907 Investment in subsidiaries, joint ventures and equity-accounted investees (note A) (169,192) (4,595) (796,742) (107,530) Purchase of equity and debt securities (88,986) (88,986) Purchase of property, plant and equipment (1,353,715) (2,588,357) (40,291) (19,238) Purchase of intangible assets (6,834) (76,156) (1,531) (48,461) Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 407,046 83,295 7,535 15 Proceeds from disposal of intangible assets 73 Refund of pre-paid lease rentals 38,067 Receipts on finance lease receivables 176,776 92,314 Proceeds from sale of equity and debt securities 331,096 23,449 47,708 15,930 Proceeds / (purchase) of other financial assets and liabilities (net) (4,063,090) (2,101,040) (1,033,890) (736,697) Dividends paid to shareholders with non-controlling interest (366,078) (302,815) Dividends received from equity-accounted investees 15,807 25,615 Net cash generated from/(used in) investing activities (4,240,047) (4,206,798) (1,210,293) (302,060) (carried forward to next page) 130 Aitken Spence PLC GROUP COMPANY For the year ended 31st March 2014 2013 2014 2013 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 (brought forward from previous page) Cash flows from financing activities Proceeds from interest-bearing liabilities 2,489,427 3,366,073 1,265,363 600,000 Repayment of interest-bearing liabilities (1,474,327) (3,614,550) (172,500) (544,000) Direct cost on share issue by a subsidiary company (11,090) Dividends paid to equity holders of the parent (607,561) (567,039) (607,561) (567,039) Net cash generated from / (used in) financing activities 407,539 (826,606) 485,302 (511,039) Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 1,465,169 (715,316) (228,279) (583,334) Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year (3,293,822) (2,578,506) (21,627) 561,707 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year (note B) (1,828,653) (3,293,822) (249,906) (21,627) Notes to the Cash Flow Statements A. Acquisition of subsidiary During the period under review the Group acquired 51% stake in Ports Terminal Limited., a company incorporated in the Republic of Fiji through a public-private partnership and took over the managerial and operational responsibilities of the company. The fair values of assets and liabilities acquired in respect of this investment are included below; Rs.’000 Property, plant and equipment (475,513) Intangible assets (514) Inventories (7,047) Trade and other receivables (328,353) Deposits and prepayments (61,732) Deferred taxation 47,355 Income taxation (2,333) Interest-bearing liabilities 220,219 Employee benefits 21,721 Trade and other payables 299,184 Cash and cash equivalents (580,050) Total identifiable net assets acquired at fair value (867,063) Non-controlling interest measured at fair value 445,590 Goodwill on acquisition (327,769) Purchase consideration trasferred (749,242) Cash and cash equivalents acquired 580,050 Net cash outflow on acquisition of the company (169,192) B. Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year GROUP COMPANY For the year ended 31st March 2014 2013 2014 2013 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Cash at bank and in hand 2,222,589 1,204,674 62,504 62,885 Short term deposits 505,925 1,013,320 Short-term bank borrowings (4,557,167) (5,588,753) (312,410) (99,881) Cash and cash equivalents as previously reported (1,828,653) (3,370,759) (249,906) (36,996) Effect of exchange rate changes 76,937 15,369 Cash and cash equivalents as restated (1,828,653) (3,293,822) (249,906) (21,627) The notes on pages 132 through 189 form an integral part of these financial statements. Figures in brackets indicate deductions. Annual Report 2013 2014 131 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 Reporting Entity • Retirement benefit obligations are measured at the Aitken Spence PLC., (the “Company”) is a public limited liability present value of defined benefit obligations. Company incorporated and domiciled in Sri Lanka. The ordinary shares of the Company are listed on the Colombo Stock 2.5 Functional currency Exchange. The Company’s registered office and the principal The financial statements are presented in Sri Lankan Rupees, place of business is located at “Aitken Spence Tower II”, 315 which is the Group’s functional currency. All financial Vauxhall Street, Colombo 02. information presented in rupees has been rounded to the nearest thousand. The consolidated financial statements of the Company as at, and for the year ended 31st March 2014 comprise the 2.6 Use of estimates and judgements financial statements of Company and its subsidiaries (together referred to as the “Group” and individually as “Group entities”) The preparation of financial statements of the Group and the and the Group’s interest in equity-accounted investees and Company in conformity with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards jointly controlled entities. requires the management to make judgments, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and The principal activities of the Company and the other entities reported values of assets, liabilities, income and expenses. The consolidated with it are disclosed in pages 211 to 219 of this estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical report. experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form Aitken Spence PLC does not have an identifiable parent. the basis of making a judgment about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other 2 Basis of Preparation sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates. 2.1 Statement of compliance Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are The consolidated financial statements of the Group and recognised in the period in which the estimates are revised the separate financial statements of the Company have and in any future periods affected. been prepared in accordance with the Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (herein referred to as SLFRSs/LKASs) effective from Information about significant areas of estimation, uncertainty 1st January 2012, laid down by The Institute of Chartered and critical judgments in applying accounting policies that Accountants of Sri Lanka (ICASL) and in compliance with the have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in requirements of the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007 and the Sri the financial statements, is provided below: Lanka Accounting and Auditing Standards Act No.15 of 1995. 2.6.1 Impairment 2.2 Responsibility for financial statements In assessing impairment, management estimates the The Board of Directors of the Company is responsible for the recoverable amount of each asset or cash-generating unit preparation and fair presentation of these financial statements based on expected future cash flows and uses an appropriate interest rate to discount them. Management makes certain 2.3 Approval of financial statements by Directors assumptions based on their judgment in forecasting future operating results. The financial statements of the Group and the Company for the year ended 31st March 2014 were authorised for issue by the 2.6.2 Useful lives of depreciable assets Board of Directors on the 27th of May 2014. Management reviews its estimation of the useful lives of depreciable assets at each reporting date based on the 2.4 Basis of measurement expected utility of the assets. Uncertainties in these estimates The financial statements have been prepared on the historical relate to technical obsolescence that may change the useful cost basis, except for measurement of the following material life of certain property, plant and equipment. items in the Statement of Financial Position. • Land under property, plant and equipment is measured at 2.6.3 Business combinations cost on initial recognition and subsequently at fair value Management uses valuation techniques in determining the fair values of the various elements of a business combination. • Financial assets and financial liabilities classified as fair The fair value of contingent consideration is dependent on the value through profit or loss and available for sale financial outcome of many variables that affect future profitability. assets are measured at fair value 132 Aitken Spence PLC 2.6.4 Defined benefit obligation Company has the power, directly or indirectly to govern the Management’s estimate of the defined benefit obligation is financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain based on a number of critical underlying assumptions such benefits from its activities. In assessing control, the Group takes as standard rates of inflation, mortality, discount rate and into consideration potential voting rights that are currently anticipation of future salary increases. Variation in these exercisable. assumptions may significantly impact the defined benefit The Group measures goodwill at the acquisition date, as: obligation amount and the annual defined benefit expense. • the fair value of the consideration transferred; plus • the recognised amount of any non-controlling interests in 2.6.5 Fair value of financial instruments the acquiree; plus Management applies valuation techniques to determine • If the business combination is achieved in stages, the fair the fair value of financial instruments where active market value of the pre-existing interest in the acquiree; less quotes are not available. This requires management to develop estimates and assumptions based on market inputs, • the net recognised amount (generally fair value) of the using observable data that market participants would use in identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed pricing the instrument. Where such data is not observable, measured at the acquisition date. management uses its best estimate. Estimated fair values of Transaction costs, other than those associated with the issue financial instruments may vary from the actual prices that of debt or equity securities, that the Group incurs in connection would be achieved in an arm’s length transaction at the with a business combination are expensed as incurred. reporting date. Any contingent consideration payable is measured at fair 2.6.6 Recognition of deferred tax assets value at the acquisition date. If the contingent consideration is Management applies significant judgment on the extent to classified as equity, then it is not remeasured and settlement is which deferred tax assets can be recognised based on an accounted within equity. Otherwise, subsequent changes in the assessment of the probability of the Group’s future taxable fair value of the contingent consideration are recognised in the income against which the deferred tax assets can be utilised. income statement. In addition, significant judgment is required in assessing the impact of any legal or economic limits or uncertainties in The goodwill arising on acquisition of subsidiaries and joint various tax jurisdictions. ventures is presented as an intangible asset. After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less 2.7 Going concern any accumulated impairment losses. For the purpose The Directors have made an assessment of the Group’s ability of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business to continue as a going concern, and being satisfied that it has combination is, from the acquisition date, allocated to each of the resources to continue in business for the foreseeable future the Group’s cash-generating units that are expected to benefit and confirm that they do not intend either to liquidate or to from the combination, irrespective of whether other assets or cease operations of any business unit of the Group other than liabilities of the acquiree are assigned to those units. those disclosed in the notes to the financial statements. If the Group’s interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the entity 3 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies acquired exceed the cost of the acquisition of the entity, the The accounting policies set out below have been applied surplus, which is a gain on bargain purchase is recognised consistently for all periods presented in the financial immediately in the consolidated income statement statements by the Group and the Company. Where goodwill has been allocated to a cash-generating unit The accounting policies adopted by the Group are consistent and part of the operation within that unit is disposed of, the with those adopted in the previous financial year except for the goodwill associated with the operation disposed of is included policy on retirement benefits obligations, which is revised with in the carrying amount of the operation when determining the the adoption of LKAS 19Employee Benefits. gain or loss on disposal of the operation. Goodwill disposed of in this circumstance is measured based on the relative 3.1 Basis of consolidation values of the operation disposed of and the portion of the cash 3.1.1 Business combinations and Goodwill generating unit retained. Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition 3.1.2 Non-controlling interest method as at the acquisition date, which is the date on which The proportion of the profits or losses after taxation applicable control is transferred to the Group. Control exists when the to outside shareholders of subsidiary companies is included Annual Report 2013 2014 133 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS under the heading “Non – controlling interest “in the 3.1.5 Equity accounted investees (investments in associates) Consolidated Income Statement. Losses applicable to the Equity accounted investees are those entities in which the non-controlling interests in a subsidiary is allocated to the nonGroup has significant influence, but does not have control, over controlling interest even if doing so causes the non-controlling the financial and operating policies. Significant influence is interests to have a deficit balance. presumed to exist when the Group holds between 20% 50% of the voting rights of another entity. The interest of the minority shareholders in the net assets employed of these companies are reflected under the heading The Group’s investments in its equity accounted investees are “Non – controlling interest” in the Consolidated Statement of accounted for using the equity method. Financial Position. Under the equity method Investments in equity-accounted Acquisitions of non-controlling interests are accounted for investees are recognised initially at cost. The carrying amount as transactions with the equity holders in their capacity as of the investment is adjusted at each reporting date to owners and therefore no goodwill is recognised as a result recognise changes in the Group’s share of net assets of the of such transactions. Adjustments to non-controlling interests equity-accounted investees arising since the acquisition date. arising from transactions that do not involve the loss of control Goodwill relating to the equity-accounted investees is included are based on a proportionate amount of the net assets of the in the carrying amount of the investment. Dividends declared subsidiary. by the equity-accounted investees are recognised against the equity value of the Group’s investment. 3.1.3 Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are those entities controlled by the Group. The income statement reflects the Group’s share of the results Existence of control is evident when the Company controls the of operations of the equity accounted investees. When there composition of the Board of Directors, holds more than half of has been a change recognised directly in the equity of the the issued shares of the entity, controls more than half of the entity, the Group recognises its share of any changes, when potential voting rights of the entity, or when control is provided applicable, in the statement of changes in equity. Unrealised by virtue of contractual arrangements. gains and losses resulting from transactions between the Group and the equity-accounted investees are eliminated to Entities that are subsidiaries of another entity which is a the extent of the interest in the equity-accounted investees. subsidiary of the company are also treated as subsidiaries of the company. The Group’s share of profit or loss of equity accounted investees is shown on the face of the income statement and The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the represents profits or loss after tax and non-controlling interests consolidated financial statements from the date of acquisition, in the subsidiaries of the equity-accounted investees. being the date on which the Group obtains control, and continues to be consolidated until the date when such control Adjustments are made if necessary, to the financial statements ceases. of the equity accounted investees to bring the accounting policies in line with those of the Group. After application of the The accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed equity method, the Group determines whether it is necessary when necessary to align them with the policies adopted by the to recognise an impairment loss on its investment in its Group equity accounted investee. The Group determines at each reporting date whether there is any objective evidence that the 3.1.4 Loss of control investment in the equity accounted investee is impaired. If this On the loss of control, the Group immediately derecognises is the case, the Group calculates the amount of impairment as the assets and liabilities of the subsidiary, any non-controlling the difference between the recoverable amount of the equityinterests and the other components of equity related to the accounted investees and its carrying value and recognises the subsidiary. Any surplus or deficit arising on the loss of control amount in ‘share of losses of an equity accounted investee’ in is recognised in profit and loss. If the Group retains any interest the income statement. in the previous subsidiary, then such interest is measured Upon loss of significant influence over the equity accounted at fair value at the date that control is lost. Subsequently, it investee, the Group measures and recognises any retained is accounted for as an equityaccounted investee or as an investment at its fair value. Any difference between the carrying available-for-sale financial asset depending on the level of amount of the equity accounted investee disposed and the influence retained. fair value of the retaining investment and the proceeds from disposal is recognised in the income statement. 134 Aitken Spence PLC 3.1.6 Interest in joint ventures 3.2 Foreign currencies Joint ventures are those entities over whose activities the 3.2.1 Foreign currency transactions Group has joint control, established by contractual agreement Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to the and requiring unanimous consent for strategic financial and respective functional currencies of Group entities at exchange operating decisions. rates at the dates of the transactions. All monetary assets and The Group’s interests in such joint ventures are accounted for liabilities denominated in foreign currency at the reporting on a proportionate consolidation basis. The Group combines date are retranslated to the reporting currency at the exchange its proportionate share of each of the assets, liabilities, income rate prevailing at that date. The foreign currency gain or loss on and expenses of the joint venture with similar items, line by monetary items is the difference between the amortised cost in line, in its consolidated financial statements. The financial the functional currency at the beginning of the period, adjusted statements of the joint venture are prepared for the same for effective interest and payments during the period, and the reporting period as the Group. Adjustments are made where amortised cost in foreign currency translated at the exchange necessary to bring the accounting policies in line with those of rate at the end of the reporting period. the Group Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign The joint venture is proportionately consolidated until the currencies that are measured based on historical cost in a date on which the Group ceases to have joint control over the foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at joint venture. Upon loss of joint control, the Group measures the date of transaction. Non-monetary assets and liabilities and recognises its remaining investment at its fair value. The denominated in foreign currencies that are measured at difference between the carrying amount of the investment fair value are retranslated to the reporting currency at the upon loss of joint control and the fair value of the remaining exchange rate that prevailed at the date the fair value was investment and the proceeds from disposal is recognised determined. in the income statement. When the remaining investment Foreign currency differences arising on retranslation are constitutes significant influence, it is accounted for as an recognised in the income statement, except for differences investment in an equity accounted investee. arising on the re-translation of available for sale equity investments, a financial liability designated as a hedge of the 3.1.7 Reporting date net investment in a foreign operation, or qualifying cash flow All the Group’s subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities and hedges, which are recognised in other comprehensive income equity-accounted investees have the same reporting period as the parent company other than Ports Terminal Limited, a Foreign currency gains and losses are reported on a net basis subsidiary company, whose financial year ends on the 31st of in the income statement. December. 3.2.2 Foreign operations 3.1.8 Intra-group transactions Subsidiaries incorporated outside Sri Lanka are treated Pricing policies of all intra-group sales are identical to those as foreign operations. The assets and liabilities of foreign adopted for normal trading transactions, which are at market operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments prices. arising on acquisition, are translated to the reporting currency at the rate of exchange prevailing on the reporting date. 3.1.9 Transactions eliminated on consolidation Income and expenses of the foreign entities are translated at Intra-group balances and transactions, and any unrealised exchange rate approximating to the actual rate at the dates of gains and losses or income and expenses arising from the transactions. For practical purposes this is presumed to be intra-group transactions, are eliminated in preparing the average rate during each month. the consolidated financial statements. Unrealised gains Foreign currency differences are recognised in other arising from transactions with equity accounted investees comprehensive income and presented in the foreign currency are eliminated to the extent of the Group’s interest in the translation reserve in equity. When a foreign operation is investee. Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way disposed of such that control, significant influence or joint as unrealised gains, but only to the extent that there is no control is lost, the cumulative amount in the translation reserve evidence of impairment. related to that foreign operation is reclassified to the income statement as part of the gain or loss on disposal. When the Group disposes of only part of its interest in a subsidiary that includes a foreign operation, the relevant proportion of the cumulative amount is reattributed to non-controlling interests. When the Group disposes of only part of its investment in Annual Report 2013 2014 135 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS an equity accounted investee or joint venture that includes a 3.3.1.1.2 Loans and receivables foreign operation while retaining significant influence or jointLoans and receivables are financial assets with fixed or control, the relevant proportion of the cumulative amount is determinable payments that are not quoted in an active reclassified to the income statement. market. Such assets are recognised initially at fair value plus any directly attributable transaction costs, if the transaction 3.3 Financial instruments costs are significant. Subsequent to initial recognition loans Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised when a and receivables are measured at amortised cost using the Group company becomes a party to the contractual provisions effective interest rate method (EIR) less any impairment losses. of the instrument. Loans and receivables comprise cash and cash equivalents, The classification of financial instruments at initial recognition trade and other receivables. is dependent on their purpose and characteristics and the management’s intention in acquiring them. 3.3.1.1.3 Held-to-maturity financial assets If the Group has the positive intent and ability to hold debt Financial instruments are initially measured at fair value. securities until maturity, then such financial assets are Transaction costs that are directly attributable to the classified as held-to –maturity. Held-to-maturity financial acquisition or issue of financial assets or financial liabilities assets are recognised initially at fair value plus any directly other than financial instruments recognised as fair value attributable transaction costs. if the transaction costs are through profit and loss, are added to or deducted from the fair significant. Subsequent to initial recognition held-to-maturity value of the financial instruments. Transaction costs, which financial assets are measured at amortised cost using the are insignificant are expensed immediately to the income effective interest method, less any impairment losses. statement. During the financial year the Group has not designated any 3.3.1 Non-derivative financial assets financial assets as held-to-maturity investments. 3.3.1.1 Initial recognition and measurement 3.3.1.1.4 Available-for-sale financial assets Financial assets are classified as financial assets at fair value Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivative financial through profit or loss, loans and receivables, held-to-maturity assets that are designated as available for sale or are not financial assets and available-for-sale financial assets. classified in any of the previous categories of financial assets. The Group initially recognises loans and receivables and Available-for-sale financial assets are recognised initially at fair deposits on the date that they are originated. All other financial value plus any directly attributable transaction costs. assets including assets designated at fair value through profit Subsequent to initial recognition, they are measured at fair or loss are recognised initially on the trade date at which value and any changes therein, other than impairment losses the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of and foreign currency differences on available for sale debt the instrument. The Group determines the classification of its instruments, are recognised in other comprehensive income financial assets at initial recognition. and presented in the fair value reserve in equity. When an investment is derecognised the gain or loss accumulated in 3.3.1.1.1 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss equity is reclassified to the income statement. A financial asset is recognised at fair value through profit or loss, if it is classified as held for trading or is designated as The Group designates listed and unlisted equity investments such upon initial recognition. Financial assets are classified as that are not held for trading purposes as available-for-sale held for trading if they are acquired for the purpose of trading financial instruments. Debt securities in this category are those in the near term. Financial assets at fair value through profit or which are intended to be held for an indefinite period of time loss are measured at fair value, and any changes therein, are and which may be sold or redeemed in response to needs for recognised in the income statement. liquidity or in response to changes in market conditions. Attributable transaction costs of fair value through profit or loss Interest income on available-for-sale debt securities calculated financial assets are recognised in the income statement when using the effective interest method and dividend income on incurred. available for sale quoted and unquoted equity investments are recognised in the income statement. Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss comprise of its portfolio of investments in treasury bills and treasury bonds. 3.3.1.2 Impairment of financial assets The Group has not designated any equity instruments in this A financial asset not carried at fair value through profit or category loss is assessed at each reporting date to determine whether 136 Aitken Spence PLC there is objective evidence that is impaired. A financial asset loss previously recognised in the income statement. Changes is impaired if, there is objective evidence as a result of one or in impairment provisions attributable to time value are more events that has occurred after the initial recognition of reflected as a component of interest income. the financial asset (an incurred ‘loss event’) and the estimated future cash flows of the investment have been affected. If, in a subsequent period, the fair value of an impaired available-for-sale debt security increases and the increase 3.3.1.2.1 Loans & Receivables can be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised in the income statement, the The objective evidence of impairment could include significant impairment loss is reversed, with the amount of the reversal financial difficulty of the issuer or counter party, breach of recognised in the income statement. However, any subsequent contract such as default in interest or principal payments, or it recovery in the fair value of an impaired available-for-sale becomes probable that the borrower will enter bankruptcy or equity security is recognised in other comprehensive income. financial reorganisation The Group considers impairment of trade receivables at both 3.3.1.3 Derecognition of financial assets a specific significant individual debtor level and collectively. The Group derecognises a financial asset when; Any Group company which has any individually significant debtors assesses them for specific impairment. All individually • The right to receive cash flows from the asset have insignificant debtors that are not specifically impaired are expired or the entity has transferred its rights to receive then collectively assessed for any impairment that has been cash flows from the asset or has assumed an obligation incurred but not yet identified by grouping together based on to pay the received cash flows in full without material similar risk characteristics. In assessing collective impairment delay to a third party under a pass-through arrangement, the Group uses historical trends of the probability of default, and either the timing of recoveries and the amount of loss incurred • The entity has transferred substantially all the risks and and adjusted for the management’s judgment. The carrying rewards of the asset, or amount of the trade receivables is reduced through the use • The entity has neither transferred nor retained of the bad debt provision account and the amount of the loss substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, but is recognised in the income statement. If there is no realistic has transferred control of the asset. prospect of future recovery of a debt, the amount is written off. An impairment loss in respect of other financial assets On derecognition of a financial asset, the difference between measured at amortised cost is calculated as the difference the carrying amount of the asset or the carrying amount between its carrying amount and the present value of the allocated to the portion of the asset transferred and the sum estimated future cash flows discounted at the current market of the consideration received together with receivable and rate of return for a similar financial asset. When a subsequent any cumulative gain or loss that had been recognised in other event causes the amount of impairment loss to decrease, the comprehensive income is recognised in the income statement. decrease in impairment loss is reversed through the income statement to the extent that the carrying amount of the 3.3.2 Non-derivative financial liabilities financial asset at the date the impairment is reversed, does 3.3.2.1 Initial recognition and measurement not exceed what the amortised cost would have been had the The Group initially recognises debt securities issued and impairment not been recognised. subordinated liabilities on the date that they are originated. All other financial liabilities (including liabilities designated 3.3.1.2.2 Available for sale. at fair value through profit or loss) are recognised initially on For equity instruments classified as available for sale financial the trade date at which the Group becomes a party to the assets a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of contractual provisions of the instrument. the investment below its cost is considered to be objective evidence of impairment. 3.3.2.1.1 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Impairment losses of an available-for-sale security investment Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss include are recognised by transferring the cumulative loss that has financial liabilities held for trading and financial liabilities been recognised in other comprehensive income to the designated upon initial recognition at fair value through profit income statement as a reclassification adjustment. The loss. cumulative loss that is reclassified from other comprehensive Gains or losses on liabilities held for trading are recognised in income to the income statement is the difference between the income statement. the acquisition cost, net of any principal repayment and amortisation, and the current fair value, less any impairment Annual Report 2013 2014 137 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Group has not designated any financial liabilities upon use, and borrowing costs if the recognition criteria are met. This initial recognition at fair value through profit or loss. also includes cost of dismantling and removing the items and restoring them in the site on which they are located. 3.3.2.1.2 Other financial Liabilities All items of property, plant and equipment are recognised All financial liabilities other than those at fair value through initially at cost. profit and loss are classified as other financial liabilities The Group recognises land owned by it in the statement of All other financial liabilities are recognised initially at fair financial position at their re-valued amount. Revaluations are value plus directly attributable transaction costs. Subsequent performed with sufficient regularity such that the carrying to initial recognition these financial liabilities are measured amount does not differ materially from that which would be at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method. The determined using fair values at the end of each reporting financial liabilities include trade and other payables, bank period. If the fair values of land does not change other than by overdrafts, loans and borrowings, financial guarantee contracts. an insignificant amount at each reporting period the Group will revalue such land every 5 years. 3.3.2.2 Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities The Group derecognises a financial liability when its Any revaluation increase arising on the revaluation of such contractual obligations are discharged, cancelled or expired. land is recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity, except to the extent that it reverses a 3.3.3 Offsetting of financial instruments revaluation decrease for the same asset previously recognised Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net in the income statement, in which case the increase is amount reported in the consolidated statement of financial credited to the income statement to the extent of the decrease position if, and only if, there is a currently enforceable legal previously expensed. A decrease in the carrying amount arising right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention on a revaluation of land is recognised in the income statement to settle on a net basis, or to realise the assets and settle the to the extent that it exceeds the balance, if any, held in the liabilities simultaneously. property’s revaluation reserve relating to a previous revaluation of the same land. 3.3.4 Derivative financial instruments Upon disposal, any related revaluation reserve is transferred The Group enters into a variety of derivative financial from the revaluation reserve to retained earnings and is not instruments to manage its exposure to interest rate and foreign taken into account in arriving at the gain or loss on disposal. exchange risks, including foreign exchange forward contracts, The details of revaluation of land are disclosed in note 15.3.1 interest rate swaps and cross currency swaps. to the financial statements. Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date the derivative contracts are entered into and are subsequently 3.4.2 Significant components of property plant & equipment remeasured to their fair value at the end of each reporting When parts of an item of property, plant and equipment period. have different useful lives than the underlying asset, they are identified and accounted separately as major components 3.3.5 Share capital of property, plant and equipment and depreciated separately Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Incremental costs based on their useful life. directly attributable to the issue of ordinary shares are recognised as a deduction from equity. 3.4.3 Subsequent cost The Group recognises in the carrying amount of property, plant 3.4. Property, plant & equipment and equipment the cost of replacing a part of an item, when it is probable that the future economic benefits embodied in 3.4.1 Recognition and measurement the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be Items of property, plant and equipment other than land, measured reliably. The carrying amounts of the parts that are are measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and replaced are derecognised from the cost of the asset. The cost accumulated impairment losses. of day-to-day servicing of property, plant and equipment are recognised in the income statement as and when incurred. The cost of an item of property, plant and equipment comprises its purchase price and any directly attributable 3.4.4 Depreciation costs of bringing the asset to working condition for its intended Depreciation is based on the cost of an asset less its residual use. The cost of self-constructed assets includes the cost of value. materials, direct labour and any other costs directly attributable to bringing the asset to the working condition for its intended 138 Aitken Spence PLC Depreciation is recognised in the income statement on a to the estimated useful lives of the assets on a straight-line straight line basis over the estimated useful lives of each method. component of an item of property, plant and equipment. Leased Assets Over the periods of the lease Depreciation of an asset begins when it is available for use Buildings Over 20 50 years and ceases at the earlier of the date that the asset is classified as held for sale or on the date that the asset is disposed. In the consolidated financial statements, properties which are Leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the lease occupied by companies within the Group for the production term and their useful lives unless it is reasonably certain that or supply of goods and services or for administrative purposes the Group will obtain ownership by the end of the lease term. is treated as property, plant and equipment, while these properties are treated as investment property in the financial The estimated useful lives are as follows: statements of the company owning the asset. Leased Assets Over the periods of the lease Buildings 20 50 years 3.6 Leases Plant and Machinery 10 20 years Equipment 04 05 years 3.6.1 Finance leases Power Generation Plants 10 20 years Leases in terms of which the Group assumes substantially all Motor Vehicles 04 10 years the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance Furniture and Fittings 10 years leases. On initial recognition, the leased assets under property, Computer Equipment 3-5 years plant and equipment, is measured at an amount equal to Crockery, Cutlery and Glassware 3-5 years the lower of its fair value and the present value of minimum Speed Boats 5 years lease payments. Subsequent to initial recognition, the asset Soft Furnishing 5-10 years is accounted for in accordance with the accounting policy applicable to that asset. Power generation plants of some of the Group companies in the renewable energy segment that are not depreciated as Minimum lease payments under finance leases are above are depreciated on the unit of production basis. apportioned between the finance expense and the reduction of the outstanding liability. The finance expense is allocated to The cost of replacement of components of assets recognised each period during the lease term so as to produce a constant in the carrying amount of property, plant and equipment is periodic rate interest on the remaining balance of the liability. depreciated over the balance useful life of the asset. 3.6.2 Operating leases The cost of major planned overhauls capitalised are Leases where the lessor effectively retains substantially all the depreciated over the period until the next planned risks and rewards of ownership over the assets are classified maintenance. as operating leases. Payments under operating leases are recognised as an expense in the income statement on a 3.5 Investment properties straight-line basis over the term of the lease or any other basis 3.5.1 Recognition and measurement more representative of the time pattern of the benefits derived from the lease. Investment property is land and buildings that are held to earn rental income or for capital appreciation or for both, 3.6.3 Leasehold property but not for sale in the ordinary course of business, for use in the production or supply of goods and services or for The initial cost of acquiring leasehold property is treated as administrative purposes. Investment property is measured an operating lease and is amortised over the period of the at cost at initial recognition and subsequently at cost less lease in accordance with the pattern of benefits expected to aggregate depreciation. However, if there is impairment in be derived from the lease. The carrying amount of leasehold value, other than of a temporary nature, the carrying amount is property is tested for impairment annually. reduced to recognise the decline. 3.6.4 Determining whether an arrangement contains a lease 3.5.2 Depreciation At the inception of an arrangement, the Group determines No depreciation is provided on land treated as investment whether such an arrangement is a lease or contains a lease. property. This will be apparent if the following two criteria are met: Depreciation of other investment property of the Group is • the fulfilment of the arrangement is dependent on the provided for on a consistent basis, over the period appropriate use of a specific asset or assets; and • the arrangement contains a right to use the asset(s). Annual Report 2013 2014 139 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At the inception or on reassessment of the arrangement, the life is reviewed at least at the end of each reporting date. Group separates payments and other consideration required Changes in the expected useful life or the expected pattern by such an arrangement into those in respect of the lease of consumption of future economic benefits embodied in the and those for other elements, on the basis of their relative fair asset is accounted for by changing the amortisation period values. In respect of a finance lease, If the Group concludes or method, as appropriate, and are treated as changes in that it is impracticable to separate the payments reliably, accounting estimates. The amortisation expense on intangible then an asset and a liability are recognised at an amount assets with finite lives is recognised in the income statement equal to the fair value of the underlying asset. Subsequently as payments are made the liability is reduced and imputed Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are not amortised, finance cost on the liability is recognised using the Group’s but are tested for impairment annually, either individually or incremental borrowing rate. at the cash-generating unit level. The assessment of indefinite life is reviewed annually to determine whether the indefinite life continues to be supportable. If not, the change in useful life 3.7 Intangible assets from indefinite to finite is made on a prospective basis. 3.7.1 Initial Recognition and measurement The Group recognises intangible assets if it is probable that 3.7.4 Intangible assets recognised by the Group. the expected future economic benefits that are attributable to 3.7.4.1 Computer software the asset will flow to the entity and the cost of the asset can be All computer software cost incurred and licensed for use by measured reliably the Group, which does not form an integral part of related Separately acquired intangible assets are measured on initial hardware, which can be clearly identified and reliably recognition at cost. The cost of such separately acquired measured with the probability of leading to future economic intangible assets include the purchase price, import duties, benefits, are capitalised under intangible assets non-refundable purchase taxes and any directly attributable The Group amortises computer software over period of 3 to 5 cost of preparing the asset for its intended use. years. The cost of intangible assets acquired in a business combination is the fair value of the asset at the date of 3.7.4.2 Website Costs acquisition. Costs incurred on development of websites are capitalised as intangible assets when the entity is satisfied that the web site The cost of an internally generated intangible asset arising will generate probable economic benefits in the future. from the development phase of an internal project which is capitalised includes all directly attributable costs necessary The Group amortises website costs over a period of 3 to 5 to create, produce, and prepare the asset to be capable years. of operating in the manner intended by the Management. Other development expenditure and expenditure on research 3.7.4.3 Goodwill activities, undertaken with the prospect of gaining new Goodwill that arises upon the acquisition of subsidiaries is technical knowledge and understanding is expensed in the included in intangible assets. The policy on measurement of income statement as and when incurred. goodwill at initial recognition is given in note 3.1.1. 3.7.2 Subsequent costs 3.7.5 Subsequent measurement Subsequent expenditure on intangible assets is capitalised Goodwill is measured at cost less accumulated impairment only when it increases the future economic benefits embodied losses. In respect of equity accounted investees, the carrying in the specific asset to which it relates. amount of goodwill is included in the carrying amount of the investment, and an impairment loss on such an investment 3.7.3 Subsequent measurement is allocated to the carrying amount of the equity accounted After initial recognition an intangible asset is stated at its costs investee. less any accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses. 3.8 Inventories The useful economic life of an intangible asset is assessed to Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net be either finite or indefinite. realisable value. The cost of inventories is based on a weighted average cost. The cost includes expenditure incurred Intangible assets with finite lives are amortised over the useful in acquiring the inventories and bringing them to their economic life of the asset. The amortisation period and the existing location and condition. In the case of manufactured amortisation method for an intangible asset with a finite useful 140 Aitken Spence PLC inventories, cost includes an appropriate share of factory 3.10.1 Calculation of recoverable amount overheads The recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is the greater of its value in use and its fair value less costs to Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the sell. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows ordinary course of business, less the estimated costs of are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount completion and selling expenses based on normal operating rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value capacity. of money and the risks specific to the asset or cash-generating unit. 3.9 Non-current assets held for sale Non-current assets that are expected to be recovered primarily 3.10.2 Reversal of impairment through a disposal rather than through continuing use are An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed. In classified as held for sale. Immediately before classification as respect of other assets, impairment losses recognised in prior held for sale, these assets (or components of a disposal group) periods are assessed at each reporting date for any indications are re-measured in accordance with the Group’s accounting that the loss has decreased or no longer exists. An impairment policies. Thereafter the assets (or disposal group) are loss is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates measured at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value used to determine the recoverable amount. less cost to sell. Any impairment loss on the above assets is first allocated to goodwill and then to the remaining assets and An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the liabilities on a pro rata basis, except that no loss is allocated asset’s carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount to inventories, financial assets, deferred tax assets, employee that would have been determined, net of depreciation or benefit assets and investment property, which are continued amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised. to be measured in accordance with the Group’s accounting Reversals of impairment losses are recognised in the income policies. Impairment losses on initial classification as held-forstatement. sale and subsequent gains or losses on re-measurement are recognised in the income statement. Gains are not recognised 3.11 Liabilities and provisions in excess of any cumulative impairment loss. Liabilities classified as current liabilities in the statement of financial position are those which fall due for payment on 3.10 Impairment – Non-financial assets demand of the creditor or within one year of the reporting The carrying amounts of the Group’s non financial assets, other date. Non-current liabilities are those balances that become than inventories and deferred tax assets are reviewed at each repayable after one year from the reporting date. reporting date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If any such indication exists, the recoverable All known liabilities have been accounted for in preparing the amounts of such assets are estimated. financial statements. The recoverable amount of goodwill is estimated at each 3.12 Employee benefits reporting date, or as and when an indication of impairment is identified. 3.12.1 Short-term employee benefits Short-term employee benefit obligations are measured on an An impairment loss is recognised if the carrying amount of undiscounted basis and are expensed as the related service is an asset or its cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable provided. A liability is recognised for the amount expected to be amount. A cash-generating unit is the smallest identifiable paid under short-term cash bonus if the Group has a present asset group that generates cash flows that are largely legal or constructive obligation to pay this amount as a result independent from other assets. Impairment losses are of past service rendered by the employee, and the obligation recognised in the income statement. can be measured reliably. Impairment losses recognised in respect of cash-generating 3.12.2 Defined contribution plan units on acquisition of subsidiaries are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit, and A defined contribution plan is a post employment benefit then to reduce the carrying amount of the other assets in the plan under which an entity pays a fixed employee benefit unit (or group of units) on a pro rata basis. contribution into a separate entity and will have no further legal or constructive obligations to pay any additional amounts. Obligations for contributions to a defined contribution plan are recognised as an employee benefit expense in the income statement in the periods during which services are rendered by employees. Annual Report 2013 2014 141 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.12.2.1 Employee provident fund and Employee trust fund cost of the actual overhaul carried out is set off against the The Group contributes a sum not less than 12% of the gross provision. The adequacy of the provision balance is reviewed at emoluments of employees employed in Sri Lanka as provident a consistent frequency, and any under / over provision which fund benefits and 3% as trust fund benefits. arises due to a change in estimate and the timing of the major overhauls, is adjusted in the income statement for the period in 3.12.2.2 Employee pension scheme – Maldives which such under / over provision is identified. All Maldivian employees of the Group are members of the retirement pension scheme established in the Maldives. 3.14 Revenue The Group contributes 7% of the pensionable wage of such Group revenue represents sales to customers outside the employees to this scheme Group and excludes value added tax. 3.12.3 Defined benefit plan retiring gratuity 3.14.1 Revenue recognition A defined benefit plan is a post employment benefit plan other Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that than a defined contribution plan. The liability recognised in the the economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue statement of financial position in respect of defined benefit can be reliably measured, regardless of when the payment plans is the present value of the defined benefit obligation at is being received. Revenue is measured at the fair value of the reporting date. The defined benefit obligation is calculated the consideration received or receivable, taking into account annually using the projected unit credit method. The present contractually defined terms of payment. value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash flows using interest rates The Group also assesses its revenue arrangements against that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will specific criteria in order to determine if it is acting as principal be paid, and that have terms of maturity approximating to the or agent. terms of the liability. 3.14.2 Sale of goods Provision has been made in the financial statements for retiring Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised on accrual basis gratuities from the first year of service for all employees. when the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have been transferred to the buyer. However, according to the Payment of Gratuity Act No. 12 of 1983, the liability for payment to an employee arises only after 3.14.3 Rendering of services the completion of 5 years continued service. Revenue from rendering of services is recognised by reference The liability is not externally funded. to the stage of completion of the transaction at the end of the reporting period With the adoption of the revised LKAS 19 – Employee Benefits, the Group recognises all actuarial gains and losses 3.14.3.1 Hotel operation arising from defined benefit plans immediately in the other In respect of the Group’s hotel operations, apartment revenue comprehensive income as they occur. This has been adopted is recognised on the rooms occupied on a daily basis, and by the group with retrospective effect. food and beverage sales are accounted for at the time of sale. 3.13 Provisions 3.14.3.2 Loyalty points programme of Hotel Companies, A provision is recognised if, as a result of past events, the ‘Diamond Club” a loyalty programme, allows customers to Group has a present legal or constructive obligation that can accumulate points when they patronise the Group hotels which be estimated reliably, and it is probable that an outflow of could be redeemed for future hotel accommodation, subject economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation. to a minimum number of points being obtained. Consideration received on hotel rooms occupied is allocated between the Provisions are determined by discounting the expected current sales and the points issued, with the consideration future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market allocated to the points equal to their fair value. Fair value of assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific the points is determined by applying a statistical analysis. The to the liability. The unwinding of the discount is recognised as fair value of the points issued is deferred and recognised as finance cost. revenue when the points are redeemed. The Group has not included extensive disclosure regarding the loyalty programme 3.13.1 Provision for major overhauls as the amounts are not significant. Provision is made on a monthly basis for major overhaul costs based on the estimated overhauls to be carried out within the estimated interval between two major overhauls. The 142 Aitken Spence PLC 3.14.3.3 Lease income 3.16 Finance Income / (Expenses) Minimum lease payments receivable under a finance lease are Finance income comprises of interest income on funds apportioned between the finance income and the reduction of invested, net changes in fair value of financial assets classified the outstanding receivable. The finance income is allocated to as fair value through profit or loss, and gains on the disposal each period during the lease term so as to produce a constant of interest generating investments whether classified under periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the fair value through profit or loss or available-for-sale financial financial asset. assets. 3.14.3.4 Installation of elevators Finance expenses comprise interest expense on borrowings and leases, and impairment losses recognised on financial Revenue on installation of elevators is recognised in the assets. Borrowing costs that are not directly attributable to the income statement by reference to the stage of completion acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset are of the transaction at the reporting date. Stage of completion recognised in the income statement using the effective interest is measured by reference to cost incurred to date as a method. However, borrowing costs that are directly attributable percentage of estimated total cost for each installation. to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset that takes a substantial period of time to get ready for 3.14.3.5 Commission income its intended use or sale, are capitalised as part of the asset. When the Group acts in the capacity of an agent rather than Borrowing costs capitalised are disclosed in note 11 to the the principal in a transaction, the revenue recognition is the financial statements. net amount of commission earned by the Group. 3.17 Government grants and subsidies. 3.14.4 Use by others of entity assets Government grants are recognised where there is reasonable 3.14.4.1 Interest income assurance that the grant will be received and all attached Interest income is recognised as it accrues in the income conditions will be complied with. statement. For all financial instruments measured at amortised cost and interest bearing financial assets classified as When the grant relates to an expense item, it is recognised as available-for-sale the interest income is recorded using the income on a systematic basis over the periods that the costs, effective interest rate (EIR). EIR is the rate that exactly discounts which it is intended to compensate, are expensed. the estimated future cash payments or receipts through the Grants and subsidies which intend to compensate an expense expected life of the financial instrument or a shorter period or loss already incurred or received for the purpose of where appropriate, to the net carrying amount of the financial immediate financial support with no future related costs, are asset or liability. For interest bearing financial assets carried recognised in the income statement in the period in which the at fair value, interest is recognised on discounted cash flow grant becomes receivable. method. Interest income is included under finance income in the income statement. Grants and subsidies related to assets are immediately recognised in the statement of financial position as deferred 3.14.4.2 Dividend income income, and recognised in the income statement on a Dividend income is recognised in the income statement on the systematic and rational basis over the useful life of the asset. date that the Group’s right to receive payment is established, which is generally when the dividend is declared. When the Group receives non-monetary grants, the asset and the grant are recorded gross at nominal amounts and 3.14.4.3 Rental income recognised in the income statement over the expected useful life in a pattern of consumption of the benefit of the underlying Rental income arising from renting of property, plant and asset. equipment and investment properties is recognised as revenue on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. When loans or similar assistance are provided by governments or related institutions with an interest rate below the applicable 3.15 Expenditure market rate, the effect of this favourable interest is regarded as a government grant. All expenditure incurred in the running of the business and in maintaining the capital assets in a state of efficiency has been charged to revenue in arriving at the profit for the year. 3.18 Income tax expense Income tax expense comprises of current and deferred tax. The income tax expense is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to the items recognised directly in the statement of other comprehensive income or Annual Report 2013 2014 143 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS statement of changes in equity, in which case it is recognised liable turnover at specified rates. Economic service charge is directly in the respective statements. deductible from the income tax liability. Any unclaimed liability can be carried forward and set off against the income tax 3.18.1 Current tax payable as per the relevant provisions in the Act. The current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantially 3.19 Operating Segments enacted at the reporting date, and any adjustment to tax An operating segment is a distinguishable component of payable in respect of previous years. the Group that engages in business activities from which it earn revenues and incurs expenses, including revenues Taxation for the current and previous periods to the extent and expenses that relate to transactions with Group’s other unpaid is recognised as a liability in the financial statements. segments. When the amount of taxation already paid in respect of current and prior periods exceeds the amount due for those The operations of the Group are categorised under four periods, the excess is recognised as an asset in the financial segments based on the nature of the products or services statements. provided by each segment and the risks and rewards associated with the economic environment in which these 3.18.1.1 Companies incorporated in Sri Lanka segments operate. The performance of the Group is evaluated Provision for current tax for companies incorporated in Sri based on the performance of these four main segments by the Lanka has been computed in accordance with the Inland Group’s Managing Director (chief operating decision maker). Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 and its amendments thereto. The internal management reports prepared on these segments are reviewed by the Group’s Managing Director on a monthly 3.18.1.2 Companies incorporated outside Sri Lanka basis. Details of the Group companies operating under each Provision for current tax for companies incorporated outside Sri segment and the products and services offered under each Lanka have been computed in accordance to the relevant tax segment are provided under Group Companies in pages 211 statutes as disclosed in note 12.3 to the financial statements. to 219. 3.18.2 Deferred taxation 3.20 Movement of reserves Deferred tax is recognised in respect of temporary differences Movements of reserves are disclosed in the statement of between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for changes in equity. financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes. Deferred tax is not recognised for temporary 3.21 Cash flow differences arising on initial recognition of goodwill, the initial The cash flow statement is reported based on the “indirect recognition of assets or liabilities in a transaction that is not method”. a business combination and that affects neither accounting nor taxable profit, and the differences relating to investments in subsidiaries and jointly controlled entities to the extent that 3.22 Commitments and contingencies they probably will not reverse in the foreseeable future. Contingencies are possible assets or obligations that arise from a past event and would be confirmed only on the Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to occurrence or non-occurrence of uncertain future events, be applied to temporary differences when they reverse, based which are beyond the Group’s control. on the laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date. Commitments and Contingent liabilities are disclosed in Note 38 and 42 to the financial statements. A deferred tax asset is recognised for unused tax losses and deductible temporary differences, to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against 3.23 Earnings per share which they can be utilised. Deferred tax assets are reviewed at The Group presents basic and diluted earnings per share (EPS) each reporting date and are reduced to the extent that it is no for its ordinary shares. Basic EPS is calculated by dividing longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised. the profit or loss attributable to ordinary shareholders of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares Deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised by individual outstanding during the period. Diluted EPS is determined by companies within the Group are disclosed separately as assets adjusting the profit or loss attributable to ordinary shareholders and liabilities in the Group statement of financial position and and the weighted average number of ordinary shares are not offset against each other. outstanding for the effects of all dilutive potential ordinary shares. 3.18.3 Economic service charge As per the provisions of the Economic Service Charge Act No 13 of 2006, economic service charge is payable on the 144 Aitken Spence PLC 3.24 Events occurring after the reporting date the market values. This is the estimated amount for which land All material events after the reporting date have been could be exchanged on the date of the valuation between a considered, disclosed and adjusted where applicable. willing buyer and a willing seller in an arm’s length transaction. 5.3 Investment property 4 New Accounting Standards issued but not effective as Investment property is valued for disclosure purposes by the at the reporting date directors based on the market value, being the estimated The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka has issued amount for which the property could be exchanged on the the following standards which become effective for annual reporting date between a willing buyer and a willing seller in periods beginning after the current financial year. Accordingly an arm’s length transaction. these standards have not been applied in preparing theses financial statements. The Group expects that these standards 5.4 Equity securities when applied will have substantial impact on the financial performance, financial position and disclosures. The Group will The fair value of the equity securities is determined by be adopting these standards when they become effective. reference to their quoted share price at the reporting date if quoted; or if unquoted either using discounted cash flow SLFRS 9 : Financial Instruments effective for annual analysis using expected future cash flows and a market related periods beginning on or after 1st of January discounted rate, or based on the net assets of the investee 2015 company SLFRS 10 : Consolidated Financial Statements effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1st of 5.5 Financial instruments other than equity securities carried January 2014 at fair value through profit or loss and available-for-sale SLFRS 11 : Joint Arrangements effective for annual periods investments beginning on or after 1st of January 2014 Fair value of these financial instruments is estimated by SLFRS 12 : Disclosure of Interest in other entities effective discounting the difference between the contractual price of for annual periods beginning on or after 1st of the instrument price and the currentprice of the instrument for January 2014 the residual maturity of the contract based on quoted price, or SLFRS 13 : Fair value measurement effective for annual obtained from brokers if not quoted, using a credit adjusted risk periods beginning on or after 1st of January free interest rate. 2014 5.6 Defined benefit plan – retirement benefit obligations 5 Determination of fair values The define benefit plan is valued by a professionally qualified A number of the Group’s accounting policies and disclosures external actuary using the projected unit credit method using require the determination of fair values, for both financial the standard rate of inflation, an appropriate discount rate and and non financial assets and liabilities. Fair values have anticipation of future salary increases. been determined for measurement and disclosure purposes based on the following methods. Where applicable further 5.7 Contingent consideration information about the assumptions made in determining fair The fair value of contingent consideration arising in a business values is disclosed in the notes specific to that asset or liability. combination is calculated based on the expected payment amount and their associated probabilities discounted to 5.1 Property, plant and equipment acquired in business present value when appropriate. combinations The fair value of Property, plant and equipment recognised as a result of a business combination is the estimated amount for which a property could be exchanged on the date of acquisition between a willing buyer and a willing seller in an arm’s length transaction. The fair value of items of plant, equipment fixtures and fittings is based on market prices for similar items when available and depreciated replacement cost when appropriate. 5.2 Property, plant and equipment owned by the Group External, independent qualified valuers having appropriate experience in valuing properties in locations of properties being valued, value the land owned by the Group based on Annual Report 2013 2014 145 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6 Operating segments 6.1 Business segments 6.1.1 Business segment analysis of group revenue and profit Tourism sector Maritime cargo Strategic investments Services sector Total logistics sector 2013/2014 2012/2013 2013/2014 2012/2013 2013/2014 2012/2013 2013/2014 2012/2013 2013/2014 2012/2013 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Total revenue generated 16,965,336 15,503,153 7,326,724 6,351,822 15,337,171 18,286,145 819,643 734,952 40,448,874 40,876,072 Inter segmental revenue ( 45,379) ( 24,254) ( 292,738) (399,065 ) (208,230 ) (189,267 ) (194,151) (178,168) (740,498) (790,754) Intra-segmental revenue (1,710,134) (1,415,907) (238,093) (209,501) ( 60,654) (188,463) (26,587) (19,412) (2,035,468) (1,833,283) Total revenue with equity-accounted 15,209,823 14,062,992 6,795,893 5,743,256 15,068,287 17,908,415 598,905 537,372 37,672,908 38,252,035 investees Share of equity-accounted (1,074,813) (1,112,108) (1,074,813) (1,112,108) investees’ revenue Revenue from external customers 15,209,823 14,062,992 6,795,893 5,743,256 13,993,474 16,796,307 598,905 537,372 36,598,095 37,139,927 Profit from operations 4,250,842 3,451,361 735,552 593,707 552,276 1,336,170 164,322 149,504 5,702,992 5,530,742 Finance income 318,297 278,440 53,994 52,198 407,685 412,051 20,745 18,198 800,721 760,887 Finance expenses (244,462) (347,490) (80,384) (82,466) (921,208) (1,010,095) (4,615) (3,913) (1,250,669) (1,443,964) Share of profit of equity-accounted 34,987 70,442 121,080 107,374 156,067 177,816 investees (net of tax) Profit before tax 4,359,664 3,452,753 709,162 563,439 159,833 845,500 180,452 163,789 5,409,111 5,025,481 Income tax expense (635,271) (517,694) (145,090) (143,611) (78,755) (57,588) (41,360) (31,077) (900,476) (749,970) Profit for the year 3,724,393 2,935,059 564,072 419,828 81,078 787,912 139,092 132,712 4,508,635 4,275,511 Depreciation and amortisation 807,631 775,994 244,744 162,745 322,503 339,592 74,542 71,237 1,449,420 1,349,568 Impairment losses / (reversals) and (1,193) 33,121 8,024 8,500 601,066 86,875 2,565 312 610,462 128,808 write offs Other non cash expenses 32,249 63,073 29,038 31,250 35,793 40,804 8,232 7,609 105,312 142,736 There were no impairment losses or any reversals of impairment losses recognised directly in equity during the year. Rs. 11.7 billion of revenue, which amounts to 32% of the Group’s total revenue for the year, is attributable to one customer (state owned enterprise) recorded under the strategics investments sector. 6.1.2 Business segment analysis of group assets and liabilities Tourism sector Maritime cargo Strategic investments Services sector Total logistics sector 2013/2014 2012/2013 2013/2014 2012/2013 2013/2014 2012/2013 2013/2014 2012/2013 2013/2014 2012/2013 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Segment assets 25,826,279 22,522,866 7,588,941 5,746,893 21,608,719 22,265,162 3,084,568 3,020,419 58,108,507 53,555,340 Investments in equity-accounted 1,340,495 1,306,279 754,001 624,926 2,094,496 1,931,205 investees Goodwill on consolidation 793,109 515,340 Assets classified as held for sale 149,125 149,125 Total assets 27,166,774 23,829,145 7,588,941 5,746,893 22,362,720 22,890,088 3,084,568 3,020,419 61,145,237 56,151,010 Segment liabilities 7,681,898 7,440,288 2,118,556 2,063,977 11,961,082 12,605,121 526,265 506,566 22,287,801 22,615,952 Eliminations / adjustments 79,172 32,357 Total liabilities 7,681,898 7,440,288 2,118,556 2,063,977 11,961,082 12,605,121 526,265 506,566 22,366,973 22,648,309 Additions to non current assets 930,147 1,413,330 248,805 209,928 131,305 771,179 50,292 270,076 1,360,549 2,664,513 146 Aitken Spence PLC 6. 2 Geographical information Geographical analysis of the Group’s revenue and non current assets is stated based on the country where the sale occurred or the service was rendered. 6.2.1 Geographical information revenue Total revenue generated Revenue from external customers 2013/2014 2012/2013 2013/2014 2012/2013 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Sri Lanka 28,800,023 30,835,950 25,967,185 27,910,056 Maldives 10,254,397 9,749,291 9,262,460 8,942,208 Other countries 1,394,454 290,831 1,368,450 287,663 40,448,874 40,876,072 36,598,095 37,139,927 6.2.2 Geographical information non current assets Non current assets 2013/2014 2012/2013 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Sri Lanka 23,924,273 23,193,216 Maldives 7,789,909 7,818,153 Other countries 678,306 284,739 32,392,488 31,296,108 Investments in equity-accounted investees 2,094,496 1,931,205 Goodwill on consolidation 793,109 515,340 35,280,093 33,742,653 7 Revenue Group Company 2013/2014 2012/2013 2013/2014 2012/2013 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rendering of services 33,810,017 34,821,773 547,152 490,048 Sale of goods 2,303,296 1,814,497 Lease interest income 484,782 503,657 Royalty income 65,094 45,452 36,598,095 37,139,927 612,246 535,500 8 Other operating income Group Company 2013/2014 2012/2013 2013/2014 2012/2013 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Dividends from subsidiaries and joint ventures 639,479 548,066 Dividends from available-for-sale financial assets 4,138 6,870 125 100 Loss on disposal of subsidiaries (6,523) Gain on disposal of available-for-sale financial assets re-classified from equity 26,570 11,089 6,212 Gain / (loss) on disposal of property, plant and equipment (95,728) 28,737 5,688 8 Loss on disposal of investment property (12,543) (12,543) Insurance income arising from loss of operation * 391,365 Government grants 496 634 Net foreign exchange gain / (loss) 129,315 (45,990) 17,966 (4,772) Sundry income 11,480 17,691 70 7,852 455,093 12,508 650,785 557,466 * During the year sixteen ocean villas of ADS Resorts (Pvt) Ltd – Maldives (Adhaaran Select Huduranfushi) was destroyed due to a fire. Insurance income reflected above is the compensation agreed by the insurance company for the loss of operations due to business interruption. Annual Report 2013 2014 147 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 9 Profit before tax Profit before tax is stated after charging the following: Group Company 2013/2014 2012/2013 2013/2014 2012/2013 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Cost of inventories and services 24,517,368 25,831,349 361,072 316,445 Directors’ remuneration and fees 331,320 315,467 72,790 67,443 Auditors’ remuneration KPMG 10,579 9,870 950 860 Other auditors 6,990 4,840 Fees paid to Auditors for non-audit services KPMG 1,646 5,377 391 806 Other auditors 2,387 1,269 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment and investment property 1,345,245 1,255,293 39,031 38,920 Amortisation of intangible assets and operating leases 104,175 94,275 24,509 20,961 Impairment losses / (reversals) and write offs Impairment of property, plant and equipment and goodwill 50,000 78,505 Impairment losses / (reversals) and write offs of trade & other receivables 427,285 47,554 26,881 (6) Impairment of inventories 133,177 2,749 Impairment of investments in subsidiaries 159,198 Operating lease payments 328,141 324,389 Legal Expenses 9,373 11,308 73 433 Defined contribution plan cost EPF & ETF 288,845 280,271 35,709 33,206 Employee pension scheme Maldives 18,944 19,514 Defined benefit plan cost Retirement benefits 105,312 88,657 17,222 13,742 10 Other operating expenses direct Direct operating expenses as disclosed in the income statement refers to the cost of services other than staff costs which are directly related to revenue. Since most of the companies in the Group operate in service industries, other direct operating expenses represents a substantial portion of the total operating costs. 11 Finance income and finance expenses Group Company 2013/2014 2012/2013 2013/2014 2012/2013 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Finance income Interest income on financial assets classified as fair value through profit or loss 158,568 153,914 158,568 153,914 Interest income on loans and receivables 642,153 550,425 449,685 529,181 Dividend income on preference shares 11,813 11,813 Net change in fair value of financial assets classified as fair value through profit or 56,548 loss 800,721 760,887 620,066 694,908 Finance expenses Interest expense on financial liabilities measured at amortised cost (1,145,540) (1,327,591) (509,732) (553,206) Net change in fair value of financial assets classified as fair value through profit or (564) loss Other finance charges (104,565) (116,373) (8,882) (4,229) (1,250,669) (1,443,964) (518,614) (557,435) There were no borrowing costs capitalised by the Group on qualifying assets during the financial year. (2012/2013 Rs. 10.2 million). (Company-nil) 148 Aitken Spence PLC 12. Income Tax Expense The income tax provision of Aitken Spence PLC., its subsidiaries, joint ventures and equity accounted investees which are resident in Sri Lanka has been calculated on their adjusted profits at 28% in terms of the Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 and amendments thereto (other than in respect of companies set out in notes 12.1, 12.2 and 12.3 below). Tax status of companies in the Group which are; • Enjoying income tax exemptions/concessionary tax rates are given in note 12.1 • Incorporated in Sri Lanka and operating outside Sri Lanka are given in note 12.2 • Incorporated and operating outside Sri Lanka are given in note 12.3 12.1 Companies exempt from income tax / liable to tax at concessionary rates Companies exempt from tax Company Statute Period Ace Power Embilipitiya (Pvt) Ltd Section 17 of BOI Law No. 4 of 1978 10 Years Ending 2014/2015 Logilink (Pvt) Ltd Section 17 of BOI Law No. 4 of 1978 5 Years Ending 2014/2015 Branford Hydropower (Pvt) Ltd Section 17 of BOI Law No. 4 of 1978 5 Years Ending 2018/2019 Ace Wind Power (Private) Limited Section 17 of BOI Law No. 4 of 1978 5 Years Ending 2018/2019 Aitken Spence Hotels (International) Ltd Section 13(b) of the Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 Indefinite Aitken Spence C & T Investments (Pvt) Ltd Section 17A of the Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 10 Years from 1st Year of Profit Aitken Spence Resorts (Pvt) Ltd Section 17A of the Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 10 Years from 1st Year of Profit Companies liable to tax at concessionary rates Company Tax Rate & Statute Period Aitken Spence Hotels Ltd 12% under Section 46 of the Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 Indefinite Aitken Spence Hotel Holdings PLC 12% under Section 46 of the Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 Indefinite Aitken Spence Hotel Managements (Pvt) Ltd 12% under Section 46 of the Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 Indefinite Hethersett Hotels Ltd 12% under Section 46 of the Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 Indefinite Kandalama Hotels Ltd 12% under Section 46 of the Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 Indefinite MPS Hotels Ltd 12% under Section 46 of the Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 Indefinite Golden Sun Resorts (Pvt) Ltd 12% under Section 46 of the Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 Indefinite Aitken Spence (Garments) Ltd 12% under Section 52 of the Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 Indefinite Aitken Spence Apparels (Pvt) Ltd 12% under Section 56 of the Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 Indefinite Ace Container Repair (Pvt) Ltd 12% under Section 52 of the Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 Ending 2014/2015 Ace Exports (Pvt) Ltd 12% under Section 52 & 56 of the Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 Ending 2014/2015 Vauxhall Property Developments (Pvt) Ltd 2% of Turnover under Section 17 of BOI Law No. 4 of 1978 15 Years Ending 2018/2019 Aitken Spence Property Developments (Pvt) Ltd 10% under Section 17 of BOI Law No. 4 of 1978 2 Years Ending 2014/2015 20% under Section 17 of BOI Law No. 4 of 1978 Indefinite Aitken Spence Plantation Managements PLC 12% under Section 46 of Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 Indefinite Elpitiya Plantations PLC Agricultural Profits Liable for Tax at 10% under Section 48A of Indefinite Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 In addition to the above, the following income tax exemptions and concessions are available to companies operating in the Group in terms of the Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 and amendments thereto; • Profits and income earned in foreign currency (other than any commission, discount or similar receipt) from services rendered in or outside Sri Lanka to a party outside Sri Lanka is exempt from income tax in terms of section 13 (ddd) of above. • Profits and income from transshipment agency fees are liable for tax at 12%. • Profits and income from any undertaking for the operation and maintenance of facilities for storage, development of software and educational services carried out in Sri Lanka are liable for tax at 10%. • Maximum of 25% qualifying payment deduction for expansions under section 34, for investments not less than Rs. 50 million in fixed assets made by any undertaking on investments specified in section 16C or section 17A. Annual Report 2013 2014 149 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 12.2 Companies incorporated in Sri Lanka and operating outside Sri Lanka Company Countries Operated Tax Status Port Management Container Service (Pvt) Ltd South Africa Business profits liable to tax at 28% in South Africa and exempt from tax in Sri Lanka, under Section 13 (b) of the Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 Aitken Spence Hotel Managements Asia (Pvt) Ltd Oman Business profits liable to tax at 12% in Oman and exempt from tax in Sri Lanka, under Section 13 (b) of the Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 12.3 Companies incorporated and operating outside Sri Lanka Company Country Tax Status Jetan Travel Services Company (Pvt) Ltd Republic of Maldives Liable at 15% as per Maldives Tax Law Cowrie Investments (Pvt) Ltd Republic of Maldives Liable at 15% as per Maldives Tax Law Crest Star Ltd Hong Kong Nil Crest Star (BVI) Ltd British Virgin Islands Nil ADS Resorts (Pvt) Ltd Republic of Maldives Liable at 15% as per Maldives Tax Law Unique Resorts (Pvt) Ltd Republic of Maldives Liable at 15% as per Maldives Tax Law Spence Maldives (Pvt) Ltd Republic of Maldives Liable at 15% as per Maldives Tax Law Aitken Spence Hotel Services (Pvt) Ltd India Liable at 30.9% as per Indian Tax Law Aitken Spence Hotel Managements (South India) Pvt Ltd India Liable at 30.9% as per Indian Tax Law P.R.Holiday Homes (Pvt) Ltd India Liable at 30.9% as per Indian Tax Law Ace Bangladesh Ltd Bangladesh Liable at 37.5% as per Bangladesh Tax Law Ports Terminal Ltd Republic of Fiji Liable at 20% as per Fiji Tax Law Profits and income derived from the provision of services to non-resident companies operating in Republic of Maldives and Republic of Fiji are subject to withholding tax at 10% and 15% respectively. 12.4 Tax recognised in the income statement Group Company 2013/2014 2012/2013 2013/2014 2012/2013 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Current tax expense Tax on current year profits (note 12.6) 721,442 645,335 13,653 12,879 Under / (over) provision in respect of previous years 767 (27,298) (1,397) Withholding tax on dividends paid by subsidiaries 83,497 68,200 805,706 686,237 13,653 11,482 Deferred tax expense Deferred tax expense (note 12.7) 94,770 63,733 900,476 749,970 13,653 11,482 Income tax expense excludes, the Group’s share of tax expense of the Group’s equity-accounted investees recognised in profit/(loss) of Rs. 35.1 million (2012/2013 Rs. 43.9 million) which has been included in ‘share of profit of equity-accounted investees (net of tax)’. 150 Aitken Spence PLC 12.5 Tax recognised in the statement of other comprehensive income Group 2013/2014 2012/2013 Before tax Tax (expense) Net of tax Before tax Tax (expense) Net of tax / income / income Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Revaluation of property, plant and equipment 1,160,838 1,160,838 280,247 280,247 Actuarial gains / (losses) on defined benefit obligations (56,676) 8,724 (47,952) (27,904) 2,794 (25,110) Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 183,091 183,091 (51,107) (51,107) Net change in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets (24,397) (24,397) 36,961 36,961 Net change in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets 1,817 1,817 (2,403) (2,403) reclassified to profit or loss Share of other comprehensive income of equity-accounted 12,885 12,885 3,685 3,685 investees (net of tax) 1,277,558 8,724 1,286,282 239,479 2,794 242,273 Tax recognised in other comprehensive income excludes, the Group’s share of tax expense of the Group’s equity-accounted investees of Rs. 1.7 million (2012/2013 Rs. 0.7 million) which has been included in ‘share of other comprehensive income of equity-accounted investees (net of tax)’. 12.6 Reconciliation of the accounting profit and tax on current year Group Company 2013/2014 2012/2013 2013/2014 2012/2013 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Profit before tax 5,409,111 5,025,481 423,076 567,628 Consolidation adjustments 50,000 55,292 Profit after adjustments 5,459,111 5,080,773 423,076 567,628 Income not liable for income tax (1,527,446) (1,678,328) (12,743) (16,184) Effect of revenue subject to tax at source 685,298 540,383 36,531 48,789 Adjusted profit / (loss) 4,616,963 3,942,828 446,864 600,233 Non taxable receipts / gains (20,501) (49,922) (651,417) (573,926) Aggregate disallowed expenses 2,333,407 1,738,065 426,399 190,801 Capital allowances (2,219,472) (1,314,798) (52,780) (57,080) Aggregate allowable deductions (2,241,264) (554,780) (80,833) (69,546) Utilisation of tax losses (134,525) (118,929) (18,096) (15,576) Qualifying payment deductions (83,176) (84,486) Current year tax losses not utilised * 2,454,981 438,594 Taxable income 4,706,413 3,996,572 70,137 74,906 Income tax charged at; Standard rate of 28% 126,750 186,935 10,000 8,000 Concessionary rate of 10%, 12% or 15% 105,395 76,195 Other rates 750 675 Varying rates on off shore profits 488,547 381,530 3,653 4,879 721,442 645,335 13,653 12,879 * Current year tax losses not utilised include the tax loss on disposal of the thermal power plant owned by Ace Power Horana (Pvt) Ltd. Annual Report 2013 2014 151 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 12.7 Deferred tax expense Group Company 2013/2014 2012/2013 2013/2014 2012/2013 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Origination of temporary differences 94,770 64,576 Change in unrecognised other temporary differences (15) Recognition of previously unrecognised tax losses (828) 94,770 63,733 12.8 Tax losses carried forward Group Company 2013/2014 2012/2013 2013/2014 2012/2013 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Tax losses brought forward 2,458,649 2,310,574 151,296 174,356 Adjustments to tax losses brought forward and tax losses arising during the year 2,695,211 273,141 (205) (7,544) Utilisation of tax losses (135,949) (125,066) (18,096) (15,516) 5,017,911 2,458,649 132,995 151,296 As specified above, some companies in the Group have carried forward tax losses which are available to be set off against the future tax profits of those companies. Deferred tax assets not accounted in respect of these losses amounted to Rs. 912 million (2012/2013 Rs. 79 million). Deferred tax asset not accounted on the carried forward losses of the Company amounted to Rs. 37 million (2012/2013 Rs. 42 million). 13 Earnings per share Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the net profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the company, by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year. The following reflects the income and share data used in the basic earnings per share computations. Group Company 2013/2014 2012/2013 2013/2014 2012/2013 Net profit attributable to ordinary shareholders of the parent (Rs.) 3,671,870,041 3,287,606,835 409,422,660 556,146,451 Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue 405,996,045 405,996,045 405,996,045 405,996,045 Earnings per share (Rs.) 9.04 8.10 1.01 1.37 There were no potentially dilutive ordinary shares outstanding at any time during the year, hence diluted earnings per share is equal to the basic earnings per share. 14 Dividends per share 2013/2014 2012/2013 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Final ordinary dividend recommended Rs.2.00 per share (2012/2013 Rs.1.50 per share) 811,992 608,994 811,992 608,994 The Directors have recommended a final dividend payment of Rs. 2.00 per share for the year ended 31st March 2014 to be approved at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 30th June 2014. In compliance with Sri Lanka Accounting Standard LKAS 10 Events after the reporting period, the final dividend recommended is not recognised as a liability in the financial statements as at 31st March 2014. 152 Aitken Spence PLC 15 Property, plant and equipments 15.1 Group Freehold Freehold Plant Motor Leasehold Furniture Capital Total Land buildings machinery vehicles motor and work-inand vehicles fittings progress equipment Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Cost or revaluation Balance as at 01.04.2013 7,487,369 13,822,106 8,782,316 1,441,552 22,134 1,489,943 808,823 33,854,243 Surplus on revaluation 1,160,838 1,160,838 Companies acquired during the year 130,051 1,255,652 13,391 1,399,094 Exchange difference (13,416) 196,062 46,333 33,337 3,018 9,795 84 275,213 Additions 109,716 56,183 486,154 129,792 30,683 86,245 454,942 1,353,715 Transfers (89,274) 28,455 2,738 1,696 546 (53,688) (109,527) Disposals / write-off (354,363) (1,046,871) (68,990) (9,918) (23,015) (71,932) (1,575,089) Balance as at 31.03.2014 8,655,233 13,748,443 8,400,721 2,793,039 45,917 1,576,905 1,138,229 36,358,487 Accumulated depreciation / impairment Balance as at 01.04.2013 3,599,663 4,483,320 765,794 13,244 919,482 30,960 9,812,463 Companies acquired during the year 101,165 812,257 10,159 923,581 Exchange difference 66,198 31,019 22,182 2,464 7,699 129,562 Charge for the year 394,030 610,536 221,618 15,613 102,696 1,344,493 Transfers (15,560) 14,512 200 631 (217) Disposals / write-off (196,144) (764,878) (47,400) (9,918) (23,015) (30,960) (1,072,315) Balance as at 31.03.2014 3,848,187 4,475,674 1,774,651 21,403 1,017,652 11,137,567 Carrying amount as at 31.03.2014 8,655,233 9,900,256 3,925,047 1,018,388 24,514 559,253 1,138,229 25,220,920 Carrying amount as at 31.03.2013 7,487,369 10,222,443 4,298,996 675,758 8,890 570,461 777,863 24,041,780 The value of property, plant and equipment pledged by the Group as security for facilities obtained from banks amounted to Rs. 5,643 million (2012/2013Rs. 5,519 million). Capital work-in-progress represents the amount of expenditure recognised under property plant and equipment during the construction of a capital asset. The exchange difference has arisen as a result of the translation of property, plant and equipment of foreign operations which are accounted for in foreign currencies and translated to the reporting currency at the closing date. In compliance with the accounting policy, the Group revalues land owned by Group companies by independent professional valuers at least once in every five years. Details of the revalued land are given in the note 15.3.1 to the financial statements. There were no tax implications or tax liabilities arising due to the revaluation of land. On re-assessment of the fair value of the Group’s assets, it has been identified that there is no permanent impairment of property plant & equipment which requires provision in the financial statements other than those already written off. Property plant and equipment as at 31st March 2014 includes fully depreciated assets having a gross carrying amount (cost) of Rs. 1,398 million that is still in use. Annual Report 2013 2014 153 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 15.2 Company Plant Motor Furniture Total machinery and vehicles and fittings equipment Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Cost Balance as at 01.04.2013 125,394 115,156 91,486 332,036 Additions 7,731 32,510 50 40,291 Disposals (513) (13,605) (11) (14,129) Balance as at 31.03.2014 132,612 134,061 91,525 358,198 Accumulated depreciation / impairment Balance as at 01.04.2013 101,046 56,305 33,639 190,990 Charge for the year 11,322 16,196 8,006 35,524 Disposals (425) (11,851) (7) (12,283) Balance as at 31.03.2014 111,943 60,650 41,638 214,231 Carrying amount as at 31.03.2014 20,669 73,411 49,887 143,967 Carrying amount as at 31.03.2013 24,348 58,851 57,847 141,046 There were no property plant and equipment pledged by the Company as security for facilities obtained from banks. Property plant and equipment as at 31st March 2014 includes fully depreciated assets having a gross carrying amount (cost) of Rs. 113 million that are still in use. 15.3 Freehold land 15.3.1 Land carried at revalued amount Company Location Last Extent Carrying Revaluation Carrying revaluation amount surplus amount date as at at cost 31.03.2014 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Aitken Spence PLC. b 316, K. Cyril C. Perera Mw., Colombo 13 14.06.2013 1 A 0 R 20.40 P 402,570 397,579 4,991 Aitken Spence PLC. a 170, Sri Wickrema Mw., Colombo 15 27.01.2014 3 A 3 R 31.00 P 313,000 270,039 42,961 Aitken Spence PLC. a Moragalla, Beruwala 21.01.2014 10 A 1 R 23.97 P 540,750 539,796 954 Aitken Spence PLC. a 290/1, Inner Harbour Road, Trincomalee 15.03.2014 0 A 1 R 4.95 P 14,500 14,500 Ace Containers (Pvt) Ltd.a 775/5, Negombo Road, Wattala 24.01.2014 22 A 0 R 24.88 P 1,329,300 1,233,909 95,391 Ace Containers (Pvt) Ltd.a 385, Colombo Road, Welisara 24.01.2014 8 A 3 R 12.23 P 458,975 372,302 86,673 Ace Distriparks (Pvt) Ltd. a 80, Negombo Road, Wattala 24.01.2014 2 A 2 R 17.03 P 417,000 47,438 369,562 Ace Power Generation Matara (Pvt) Ltd. a Hittetiya Matara 05.03.2014 0 A 0 R 5.68 P 284 84 200 Ahungalla Resorts Ltd. a Meeraladuwa Island, Balapitiya 23.01.2014 29 A 2 R 9.00 P 441,000 350,568 90,432 Ahungalla Resorts Ltd. d “Ahungalla Resorts”, Galle Road, 05.04.2013 10 A 2 R 39.25 P 639,039 600,001 39,038 Ahungalla Ahungalla Resorts Ltd. d “Ahungalla Resorts”, Galle Road, 05.04.2013 2 A 0 R 35.92 P 125,000 65,998 59,002 Ahungalla Aitken Spence (Garments) Ltd.a * 222, Agalawatte Road, Matugama 08.02.2014 2A3R0P 12,650 10,070 2,580 Aitken Spence Hotel Holdings PLC.a “Heritance Ahungalla”, Galle Road, 31.03.2012 11 A 3 R 34.02 P 565,000 547,559 17,441 Ahungalla Aitken Spence Property Developments “Creamland Farm”, Mawaramandiya. 06.02.2014 3 A 0 R 25.08 P 50,500 26,072 24,428 Ltd. a Aitken Spence Resorts Ltd. a Kudawaskaduwa, Kalutara 21.01.2014 1 A 3 R 23.20 P 86,000 34,022 51,978 Aitken Spence Resorts Ltd. a Kudawaskaduwa, Kalutara 21.01.2014 0 A 1 R 34.30 P 16,700 2,725 13,975 154 Aitken Spence PLC Company Location Last Extent Carrying Revaluation Carrying revaluation amount surplus amount date as at at cost 31.03.2014 Branford Hydropower (Pvt) Ltd. a 263, 1st lane, Gangabada Road, 14.03.2014 2 A 0 R 14.00 P 13,350 2,817 10,533 Kaludewala, Matale Clark Spence and Co., Ltd. a 24-24/1, Church Street, Galle 04.03.2014 0 A 1 R 27.90 P 169,750 169,715 35 Golden Sun Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. a 418, Parallel Road, Kudawaskaduwa, 20.10.2012 5 A 1R 37.90 P 280,500 260,727 19,773 Kalutara Golden Sun Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. a 49, Sea Beach Road, Kalutara 20.10.2012 0 A 1R 30.32 P 21,000 19,520 1,480 Heritance (Pvt) Ltd. a Moragalla, Beruwala 23.01.2014 5 A 3 R 6.80 P 278,000 266,920 11,080 Kandalama Hotels Ltd. a Kandalama, Dambulla 23.01.2014 169 A 2 R 22.00 P 9,000 1,616 7,384 Logilink (Pvt) Ltd. a 309/4 a, Negombo Road, Welisara 24.01.2014 2 A 1 R 9.50 P 129,325 46,834 82,491 M.P.S. Hotels Ltd. a 200/21, Peradeniya Road, Kandy 29.01.2014 3 A 3 R 1.52 P 300,500 59,324 241,176 Neptune Ayurvedic Village (Pvt) Ltd. a Ayurvedic village Moragalla, 23.01.2014 0 A 0 R 19.30 P 4,425 362 4,063 Beruwala PR Holiday Homes (Pvt) Ltd. c Cochin Kerala 31.03.2012 16 A 3 R 24.00 P 188,931 44,791 144,140 Vauxhall Investments Ltd. b 316, K. Cyril C. Perera Mw., Colombo 13 14.06.2013 0 A 1 R 21.08 P 137,430 115,591 21,839 Vauxhall Property Developments Ltd. a 305, Vauxhall Street, Colombo 02 31.03.2014 0 A 2 R 24.73 P 549,832 535,101 14,731 8,401,406 6,941,918 1,459,488 * Denotes the land owned by joint venture companies. The extent of the land is the total owned by the respective company while the carrying value is the Group’s share recognised in the consolidated financial statements. The above land has been revalued by independent, qualified valuers on the basis of current market value. a Valuation of the land was carried out by Mr. K.C.B. Condegama, A.I.V (Sri Lanka) b Valuation of the land was carried out by Mr. Arthur Perera, A.M.I.V. (Sri Lanka) c Valuation of the land was carried out by Mr. T.T. Kripananda Singh, B.S.C.(Engg.) Civil, MICA, FIE, FIV, C.(Engg.) of N. Raj Kumar and Associates, India. d Valuation of the land was carried out by Mr. W. Nanda De Silva, A.I.V. (Sri Lanka) 15.3.2 Land carried at cost / fair value Company Location Acquisition Extent Carrying date amount as at 31.03.2014 Rs.’000 Colombo International Nautical & Engineering College * Millennium Drive, IT Park, Malabe 27.10.2011 7 A 1 R 26.72 P 157,435 Colombo International Nautical & Engineering College * Mirishena, Ethnamadala, Kalutara North 27.10.2011 1 A 1 R 6.00 P 4,120 Aitken Spence Hotel Holdings PLC. “Heritance Ahungalla”, Galle Road, Ahungalla 05.06.2013 0 A 0 R 39.26 P 5,207 Ace Containers (Pvt) Ltd. No.377, Negombo Road, Welisara, Ragama 18.07.2013 1 A 1 R 17.80 P 87,065 253,827 * Denotes the land owned by joint venture companies. The extent of the land is the total owned by the respective company while the carrying value is the Group’s share recognised in the consolidated financial statements. 15.3.3 Total carrying amount of land Carrying amount as at 31.03.2014 Rs.’000 Land carried at revalued amount 8,401,406 Land carried at cost 253,827 8,655,233 Annual Report 2013 2014 155 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 16 Investment property 16.1 Movement during the year Group Company 2013/2014 2012/2013 2013/2014 2012/2013 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Cost Balance at the beginning of the period 1,663,350 1,663,350 3,509,088 3,509,088 Transfer from property, plant and equipment 89,274 Disposals / write-off (15,049) (15,049) Balance at the end of the period 1,737,575 1,663,350 3,494,039 3,509,088 Accumulated depreciation / impairment Balance at the beginning of the period 1,754 1,001 53,093 51,783 Charge for the year 752 753 3,507 1,310 Disposals / write-off (2,506) (2,506) Balance at the end of the period 1,754 54,094 53,093 Carrying amount as at 31st March 1,737,575 1,661,596 3,439,945 3,455,995 16.2 Details of land under investment property Location Extent Carrying value of investment property Number of buildings Group Company Rs.’000 Rs.’000 315, Vauxhall Street, Colombo 02 1 A 0 R 12.78 P 900,000 2 316, K. Cyril C. Perera Mw., Colombo 13 1 A 0 R 20.40 P 223,650 3 170, Sri Wickrema Mw., Colombo 15 3 A 3 R 31.00 P 194,539 8 Moragalla, Beruwala 10 A 1 R 23.97 P 550,255 9 290/1, Inner Harbour Road, Trincomalee 0 A 1 R 4.95 P 12,700 1 Irakkakandi Village, VC road, Nilaweli 113 A 1 R 1.00 P 1,630,801 1,558,801 Uluambalama Kadirana, Negombo 30 A 0 R 00 P 89,274 3/2, Seewali lane, Kudaedanda, Wattala 0 A 0 R 36.10 P 17,500 1,737,575 3,439,945 Properties which are occupied by the companies within the Group for the production or supply of goods and services or for administration purposes are treated as property plant and equipment in the consolidated financial statements. These properties are treated as investment property in the relevant company’s statement of financial position, if such company has rented out the property to other Group companies. 16.3 Market value Investment properties in the Group are accounted for on the cost model. The open market value of the above properties based on the Directors valuation as at 31st March 2014 for the Group was Rs. 3,973 million (2012/2013 Rs. 3,021 million), and for the company was Rs. 3,794 million (2012/2013 Rs. 4,681 million). 16.4 Income earned from investment property Total rent income earned by the company from the investment property during the year was Rs. 15.7 million (2012/2013 Rs. 15.7 million) (Group-nil). There were no direct operating expenses arising on any of the above investment properties. There were no restrictions on the realisability of any investment property or on the remittance of income or proceeds of disposal. 156 Aitken Spence PLC 17 Intangible assets 17.1 Group Goodwill Software Other Total intangibles Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Cost or valuation Balance as at 01.04.2013 564,109 310,112 1,696 875,917 Companies acquired during the year 327,769 1,311 329,080 Exchange difference 1,077 1,077 Additions 6,646 188 6,834 Transfer from property, plant and equipment 20,253 20,253 Disposals / write-off (4,859) (4,859) Balance as at 31.03.2014 891,878 334,540 1,884 1,228,302 Accumulated amortisation / impairment Balance as at 01.04.2013 48,769 172,802 290 221,861 Companies acquired during the year 797 797 Exchange difference 693 693 Charge for the year 56,791 202 56,993 Impairment during the year 50,000 50,000 Transfer from property, plant and equipment 217 217 Disposals / write-off (4,859) (4,859) Balance as at 31.03.2014 98,769 226,441 492 325,702 Carrying amount as at 31.03.2014 793,109 108,099 1,392 902,600 Carrying amount as at 31.03.2013 515,340 137,310 1,406 654,056 There were no intangible assets pledged by the Group as security for facilities obtained from banks. Intangible assets as at 31st March 2014 includes fully amortised assets having a gross carrying amount (cost) of Rs. 80 million that are still in use. The recoverable amount of goodwill is determined based on value-in-use calculations. These calculations use cash flow projections based on financial budgets approved by management covering five year periods. The key assumptions used are given below; Business growth – Based on the long term average growth rate for each business unit. The weighted average growth rate used is consistent with the forecast included in industry reports. Inflation – Based on current inflation rate. Discount rate – Risk free rate adjusted for the specific risk relating to the industry. Margin – Based on past performance and budgeted expectations. Annual Report 2013 2014 157 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 17.2 Company Software 2013/2014 2012/2013 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Cost or valuation Balance at the beginning of the period 158,381 109,920 Additions 1,531 48,461 Balance at the end of the period 159,912 158,381 Accumulated amortisation / impairment Balance at the beginning of the period 82,344 61,383 Charge for the year 24,509 20,961 Balance at the end of the period 106,853 82,344 Carrying amount as at 31st March 53,059 76,037 There were no intangible assets pledged by the Company as security for facilities obtained from banks. Intangible assets as at 31st March 2014 includes fully amortised assets having a gross carrying amount (cost) of Rs. 41 million that are still in use. 18 Leasehold property Group 2013/2014 2012/2013 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Cost Balance at the beginning of the period 1,776,460 1,789,901 Exchange difference 53,760 (13,441) Balance at the end of the period 1,830,220 1,776,460 Accumulated amortisation Balance at the beginning of the period 312,530 268,800 Exchange difference 9,458 (2,998) Amortisation during the year 47,132 46,728 Balance at the end of the period 369,120 312,530 Carrying amount as at 31st March 1,461,100 1,463,930 The acquisition cost of the leasehold rights of the Island of Vadoo in the Republic of Maldives is recognised under leasehold properties. 19 Pre-paid operating leases Group 2013/2014 2012/2013 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Balance at the beginning of the period 980,731 1,028,164 Amortisation for the period (50) (1,688) Adjustments for exchange difference 29,568 (7,678) Refund of overpayment of pre-paid rentals (38,067) Balance at the end of the period 1,010,249 980,731 Prepaid lease rentals for the Islands of Meedhupparu, Hudhuranfushi and Rannalhi in the Republic of Maldives and properties at Biyagama and Katunayake are recognised under pre-paid operating leases. 158 Aitken Spence PLC 20 Finance lease receivables The power plant owned by Ace Power Embilipitiya (Pvt) Ltd., which is being operated in accordance with a power purchase agreement entered in to with the Ceylon Electricity Board, is recognised under IFRIC 4, and the arrangement is accounted as a finance lease where Ace Power Embilipitiya (Pvt) Ltd., is treated as the lessor. The non escalable capacity charge in the tariff which is included in income is treated as the capital and interest recovery of the lease. 20.1 Movement during the year Group 2013/2014 2012/2013 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Balance at the beginning of the period 2,494,055 2,603,899 Settlements during the period (176,776) (92,314) Adjustments for exchange difference 75,553 (17,530) Balance at the end of the period 2,392,832 2,494,055 Current portion of finance lease receivables 146,948 168,964 Non current portion of finance lease receivables 2,245,884 2,325,091 20.2 Ageing of gross finance lease receivables and present value of lease receivables 31.03.2014 31.03.2013 Gross investUnearned Present value Gross investUnearned Present value ment income ment income Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Not Later than one year 600,118 453,170 146,948 637,027 468,063 168,964 One to five years 2,245,884 2,245,884 2,762,406 437,315 2,325,091 Over five years 2,846,002 453,170 2,392,832 3,399,433 905,378 2,494,055 21 Investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures 21.1 Investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures unquoted Number of Company Group 31.03.2014 31.03.2013 shares holding holding % % Rs.’000 Rs.’000 a) Ordinary Shares Subsidiary companies Ace Cargo (Pvt) Ltd. (c) 990,000 100.00 100.00 245,173 245,173 Ace Container Repair (Pvt) Ltd. (c) 2,250,000 100.00 100.00 22,500 22,500 Ace Container Terminals (Pvt) Ltd. (c) 1,550,002 100.00 100.00 15,500 15,500 Ace Containers (Pvt) Ltd. (c) 4,010,000 100.00 100.00 40,100 40,100 Ace Distriparks (Pvt) Ltd. (c) 8,900,000 100.00 100.00 89,000 89,000 Ace Exports (Pvt) Ltd. 1,400,000 100.00 100.00 14,000 14,000 Ace Freight Management (Pvt) Ltd. (c) 5,222,500 100.00 100.00 36,307 36,307 Ace International Express (Pvt) Ltd. (c) 10,000 100.00 100.00 100 100 Ace Printing & Packaging (Pvt) Ltd. 10,000 100.00 100.00 100 100 Ace Windpower (Pvt) Ltd 13,250,000 100.00 100.00 132,500 132,500 Aitken Spence Apparels (Pvt) Ltd. 1,500,000 100.00 100.00 15,000 15,000 Aitken Spence Cargo (Pvt) Ltd. (c) 10,000 100.00 100.00 820 820 Aitken Spence Exports (Pvt) Ltd. 52,500 100.00 100.00 514 514 Aitken Spence Group Ltd. (b) (c) 10,000 100.00 100.00 100 100 Aitken Spence Hotel Managements (Pvt) Ltd. 4,020,000 100.00 100.00 40,200 40,200 Annual Report 2013 2014 159 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Number of Company Group 31.03.2014 31.03.2013 shares holding holding % % Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Aitken Spence Insurance (Pvt) Ltd. 10,000 100.00 100.00 100 100 Aitken Spence Insurance Brokers (Pvt) Ltd. 150,000 100.00 100.00 1,500 1,500 Aitken Spence Maritime Ltd. (c) 140,000 100.00 100.00 1,400 1,400 Aitken Spence Printing & Packaging (Pvt) Ltd. 10,000,000 100.00 100.00 100,000 100,000 Aitken Spence Shipping Ltd. (c) 2,038,072 100.00 100.00 132,717 132,717 Aitken Spence Technologies (Pvt) Ltd. (b) 1,577,506 100.00 100.00 13,888 13,888 Branford Hydropower (Pvt) Ltd. 16,400,100 100.00 100.00 223,000 223,000 Logilink (Pvt) Limited. (c) 30,000,000 100.00 100.00 222,690 222,690 Royal Spence Aviation (Pvt) Ltd. 50,000 100.00 100.00 500 500 Spence International (Pvt) Ltd. (c) 1,500,000 100.00 100.00 15,000 15,000 Spence Logistics (Pvt) Ltd. (c) 25,000 100.00 100.00 650 650 Triton (Pvt) Ltd. 10,000 100.00 100.00 50 50 Vauxhall Cargo Logistics (Pvt) Ltd. (c) 10,000,000 100.00 100.00 50,000 50,000 Vauxhall Investments (Pvt) Ltd. 1,320,000 100.00 100.00 13,200 13,200 Vauxhall Property Developments (Pvt) Ltd. 11,270,000 100.00 100.00 153,401 153,401 Aitken Spence Developments (Pvt) Ltd. (c) 46,000 92.00 92.00 1,825 1,825 Aitken Spence Property Developments (Pvt) Ltd. (b) 74,865,000 90.00 99.96 748,650 748,650 Western Power Company (Pvt) Ltd. 80 80.00 80.00 200,000 200,000 Aitken Spence Moscow (Pvt) Ltd. 37,500 75.00 75.00 375 375 Ace Power Embilipitiya (Pvt) Ltd. (a) 124,033,413 74.00 74.00 1,404,415 1,404,415 Elevators (Pvt) Ltd. (a) 133,500 66.75 66.75 7,302 7,302 Ace Alliance Power Ltd. (a) 6,400 64.00 64.00 96 96 Ace Power Generation Horana (Pvt) Ltd. (b) 20,046,998 51.00 51.00 200,470 200,470 Ace Power Generation Matara (Pvt) Ltd. (b) 21,523,362 51.00 51.00 215,234 215,234 Alliance Spence Power Ltd. (a) 5,100 51.00 51.00 80 80 Ace Aviation Services (Pvt) Ltd. (c)* 10,001 50.00 100.00 263 263 Aitken Spence Hotel Management Asia (Pvt) Ltd. (b)* 4,924,500 49.00 86.99 49,245 49,245 Aitken Spence Hotels International (Pvt) Ltd. * 10,323,225 49.00 86.99 99,000 99,000 Kandalama Hotels (Pvt) Ltd. * 6,000,000 37.00 82.99 182,050 182,050 Ports Terminal Ltd. (a) (c) 1,572,993 51.00 51.00 749,242 Aitken Spence Corporate Finance (Pvt) Ltd. 2 100.00 100.00 Aitken Spence Aviation (Pvt) Ltd. (a) * 100.00 Aitken Spence Resources (Pvt) Ltd. * 100.00 Aitken Spence Shipping Services Ltd. (c)* 100.00 A E Lanka (Pvt) Ltd. * 100.00 Clark Spence & Company (Pvt) Ltd. (c) * 100.00 Port Management Container Services (Pvt) Ltd. (c)* 100.00 ADS Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. * 86.99 Aitken Spence Hotel Managements (South India) (Pvt) Ltd. * 86.99 Aitken Spence Hotel Services (Pvt) Ltd.* 86.99 Unique Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. * 86.99 Ahungalla Resorts Ltd. * 74.49 Aitken Spence Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. * 74.49 Crest Star (BVI) Ltd. (a)* 74.49 Crest Star Ltd. * 74.49 Golden Sun Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. * 74.49 M.P.S. Hotels (Pvt) Ltd. * 74.49 Neptune Ayurvedic Village (Pvt) Ltd. * 74.49 PR Holiday Homes (Pvt) Ltd. * 73.57 160 Aitken Spence PLC Number of Company Group 31.03.2014 31.03.2013 shares holding holding % % Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Heritance (Pvt) Ltd. * 73.00 Aitken Spence Hotels Ltd. * 72.99 Jetan Travel Services Company (Pvt) Ltd. * 70.77 Hethersett Hotels Ltd. * 65.22 Hapag-Lloyd Lanka (Pvt) Ltd. (a) (c)* 60.00 Cowrie Investments (Pvt) Ltd. (a)* 44.69 Joint ventures Aitken Spence Travels (Pvt) Ltd. (a) 1,704,000 50.00 50.00 60,876 60,876 Aitken Spence (Garments) Ltd. 998,750 50.00 50.00 26,257 26,257 Aitken Spence C & T Investments (Pvt) Ltd. (a) (b) 14,170,000 50.00 50.00 141,700 94,200 MMBL Money Transfer (Pvt) Ltd. (a) 750,000 50.00 50.00 35,566 35,566 Spence Maldives (Pvt) Ltd. (c) * 60.00 Delta Shipping (Pvt) Ltd. * 51.00 Ace Travels & Conventions (Pvt) Ltd. * 50.00 Aitken Spence Overseas Travel Services (Pvt) Ltd. * 50.00 Shipping & Cargo Logistics (Pvt) Ltd. (a) (c)* 50.00 Ace Bangladesh Ltd. (a) * 49.00 Colombo International Nautical and Engineering College (Pvt) Ltd. (a) (c)* 40.00 5,702,656 4,905,914 b) Preference Shares Aitken Spence Aviation (Pvt) Ltd. 500,000 100.00 100.00 5,000 5,000 Aitken Spence Hotel Holdings PLC. (a) 16,500,000 100.00 100.00 165,000 165,000 Aitken Spence (Garments) Ltd. 4,000,000 72.70 72.70 40,000 40,000 210,000 210,000 Provision for impairment of investments (328,705) (169,507) Carrying amount as at 31st March 5,583,951 4,946,407 During the period under review the Company impaired its investments in the power sector and recognised an impairment loss of Rs.159 million which is reflected under other indirect operating expenses in the income statement. 21.2 Investment in subsidiaries quoted Number of Company Group 31.03.2014 31.03.2013 shares holding holding % % Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Aitken Spence Hotel Holdings PLC. (a) (Ordinary Shares) 239,472,667 71.20 74.49 2,458,287 2,458,287 Carrying amount as at 31st March 2,458,287 2,458,287 Market value as at 31st March 16,763,087 17,720,977 * Investments are held by one of the following companies Aitken Spence Hotel Holdings PLC., Aitken Spence Hotels Ltd., Aitken Spence Travels (Pvt) Ltd., Ace Cargo (Pvt) Ltd., Triton Ltd., Aitken Spence Shipping Ltd., Aitken Spence Cargo (Pvt) Ltd., Aitken Spence Maritime Ltd., Aitken Spence Hotels (International) Ltd., Crest Star (BVI) Ltd., Aitken Spence Hotel Management Asia (Pvt) Ltd., Clark Spence & Company Ltd., Aitken Spence Hotel Management (Pvt) Ltd., Vauxhall Property Developments (Pvt) Ltd., or Port Management Container Services (Pvt) Ltd. Jetan Travel Services Company (Pvt) Ltd., Cowrie Investments (Pvt) Ltd., ADS Resorts (Pvt) Ltd., Unique Resorts (Pvt) Ltd., and Spence Maldives (Pvt) Ltd. are incorporated in the Republic of Maldives, Crest star (BVI) Ltd. is incorporated in the British Virgin Islands, Crest star Ltd. is incorporated in Hongkong, Ace Bangladesh Ltd., Ace Alliance Power Ltd., and Alliance Spence Power Ltd., are incorporated in Bangladesh, PR Holiday Homes (Pvt) Ltd., Aitken Spence Hotel Services (Pvt) Ltd. and Aitken Spence Hotel Management (South India) (Pvt) Ltd. are incorporated in India, Ports Terminal Ltd., is incorporated in Fiji Islands, while all other companies are incorporated in Sri Lanka. The value of shares pledged by the Group as securities for facilities obtained from banks amounted to Rs.223 million. a,b,c refer note 44 Annual Report 2013 2014 161 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 22 Investments in equity-accounted investees 22.1 Investment in equity-accounted investees unquoted Group Company No. of Holding 31.03.2014 31.03.2013 No. of Holding 31.03.2014 31.03.2013 shares shares % Rs.’000 Rs.’000 % Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Aitken Spence Plantation Managements PLC (b) 8,300,000 38.97 165,000 165,000 8,300,000 38.97 165,000 165,000 (Ordinary shares) (consolidated with Elpitiya Plantations PLC (a) (b)) Carrying amount as at 31st March 165,000 165,000 165,000 165,000 Share of movement in equity value 589,001 459,926 Equity value of investments 754,001 624,926 165,000 165,000 22.2 Investment in equity-accounted investees quoted Group Company No. of Holding 31.03.2014 31.03.2013 No. of Holding 31.03.2014 31.03.2013 shares shares % Rs.’000 Rs.’000 % Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Browns Beach Hotels PLC. (a) (Ordinary shares) 48,627,103 27.96 928,077 928,077 (consolidated with Negombo Beach Hotels (Pvt) Ltd.) Carrying amount as at 31st March 928,077 928,077 Share of movement in equity value 412,418 378,202 Equity value of Investments 1,340,495 1,306,279 Market value of quoted investments as at 31st March 923,915 836,386 Equity value unquoted 754,001 624,926 Net book valueunquoted 165,000 165,000 Equity value quoted 1,340,495 1,306,279 Net book value quoted Equity value as at 31st March 2,094,496 1,931,205 Net book value as at 31st March 165,000 165,000 22.3 Summarised financial information of equity-accounted investees 31.03.2014 Total assets Total liabilities Net assets Revenue Share of Profit recognised (net of tax) Dividends In profit or loss In other comprehensive income Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’001 Rs.’000 Aitken Spence Plantation Managements PLC 2,001,705 1,247,704 754,001 1,074,813 121,080 12,719 15,807 (consolidated with Elpitiya Plantations PLC.) Browns Beach Hotels PLC. 1,345,223 4,728 1,340,495 34,987 166 (consolidated with Negombo Beach Hotels (Pvt) Ltd.) 3,346,928 1,252,432 2,094,496 1,074,813 156,067 12,885 15,807 a,b refer note 44 162 Aitken Spence PLC 22.3 Summarised financial information of equity-accounted investees Contd. 31.03.2013 Total assets Total liabilities Net assets Revenue Share of Profit recognised (net of tax) Dividends In profit or loss In other comprehensive income Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Aitken Spence Plantation Managements PLC 1,682,439 1,057,513 624,926 1,112,108 107,374 3,685 25,615 (consolidated with Elpitiya Plantations PLC. ) Browns Beach Hotels PLC. (consolidated with 1,316,430 10,151 1,306,279 70,442 Negombo Beach Hotels (Pvt) Ltd.) 2,998,869 1,067,664 1,931,205 1,112,108 177,816 3,685 25,615 23 Deferred tax assets 23.1 Movement in deferred tax assets Group 2013/2014 2012/2013 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Balance at the beginning of the year 222,147 209,769 Exchange gain / (loss) 541 (3,061) Reversal of temporary differences transferred from/ (to) income statement Recognised in profit / (loss) (7,819) 13,283 Recognised in other comprehensive income 5,152 2,156 Balance at the end of the year 220,021 222,147 23.2 Composition of deferred tax assets Group 31.03.2014 31.03.2013 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Deferred tax assets attributable to; Defined benefit obligations 60,580 48,284 Tax losses carried forward 240,411 273,612 Other items 23,080 23,935 Property, plant and equipment (104,050) (123,684) Net deferred tax assets 220,021 222,147 Annual Report 2013 2014 163 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 23.3 Movement in tax effect of temporary differences Group As at Recognised Recognised Exchange As at Recognised Recognised Exchange As at 31st March in profit/ in other gain / 31st March in profit/ in other gain / 1st April 2014 (loss) comprehensive (loss) 2013 (loss) comprehensive (loss) 2012 income income Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Deferred tax assets Defined benefit obligations 60,580 7,144 5,152 48,284 9,053 2,156 37,075 Tax losses carried forward 240,411 (33,201) 273,612 15,852 257,760 Other items 23,080 1,081 (1,936) 23,935 6,433 (3,061) 20,563 324,071 (24,976) 5,152 (1,936) 345,831 31,338 2,156 (3,061) 315,398 Deferred tax liability Property, plant and equipment (104,050) 17,157 2,477 (123,684) (18,055) (105,629) (104,050) 17,157 2,477 (123,684) (18,055) (105,629) Net deferred tax assets 220,021 (7,819) 5,152 541 222,147 13,283 2,156 (3,061) 209,769 24 Other financial assets Group Company 31.03.2014 31.03.2013 31.03.2014 31.03.2013 Notes Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Other non-current financial assets Unquoted debt securities and equity securities 24.1 387,248 462,117 181,878 232,403 387,248 462,117 181,878 232,403 Other current financial assets Bank deposits 24.3 9,022,868 5,369,255 2,743,481 2,119,069 Government securities 24.4 1,519,339 1,096,713 1,519,339 1,096,713 Quoted equity securities 24.2 29,632 281,898 3,641 3,300 Unquoted debt securities and equity securities 24.1 15,450 15,450 7,978 7,978 Forward foreign exchange contracts 25.5 283 847 10,587,572 6,764,163 4,274,439 3,227,060 24.1 Unquoted debt securities and equity securities Group Company No. of shares 31.03.2014 31.03.2013 No. of shares 31.03.2014 31.03.2013 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Sumiko Lanka Hotels (Pvt) Ltd. (Redeemable Debentures) 159,027 206,735 159,027 206,735 Rainforest Ecolodge (Pvt) Ltd. (Ordinary shares) 3,000,000 30,000 30,000 3,000,000 30,000 30,000 Palm Village Hotels Ltd. (Ordinary shares) 907,837 4,410 4,410 934,707 1,766 1,766 Business Process Outsourcing LLC. (Ordinary shares) 7,500 8,640 8,640 7,500 8,640 8,640 Poovar Island Resorts (Ordinary shares) 988,764 126,650 126,650 Barefoot Resorts and Leisure (Pvt) Ltd. (Ordinary shares) 25,000 86,590 86,590 Cargo Village Ltd. (Ordinary shares) 38,571 357 357 Ingrin Institute of Printing & Graphics Sri Lanka Ltd. (Ordinary shares) 10,000 100 100 Skynet Worldwide Express Management Company Ltd. (Ordinary shares) 99 415,774 463,581 199,433 247,141 Adjustment for fair value of investments (13,076) 13,986 (9,577) (6,760) Carrying amount as at 31st March 402,698 477,567 189,856 240,381 Current unquoted debt and equity securities (15,450) (15,450) (7,978) (7,978) Non current unquoted debt and equity securities 387,248 462,117 181,878 232,403 164 Aitken Spence PLC 24.2 Quoted equity securities Group Company No. of shares 31.03.2014 31.03.2013 No. of shares 31.03.2014 31.03.2013 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 DFCC Bank (Ordinary shares) 24,770 399 399 24,770 399 399 Overseas Realty (Ceylon) PLC. (Ordinary shares) 3,750 37 37 3,750 37 37 Colombo Dockyard PLC. (Ordinary shares) 13,543 123 123 Hatton National Bank PLC. (Ordinary shares) 191,400 4,060 4,060 Distilleries Company of Sri Lanka PLC. (Ordinary shares) 256,817 4,619 261,436 436 436 Adjustment for fair value of investments 25,013 20,462 3,205 2,864 Carrying amount as at 31st March 29,632 281,898 3,641 3,300 24.3 Bank deposits Bank deposits include fixed deposits, call deposits and bank reverse repos which are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate. These financial assets are expected to be recovered through contractual cash flows. 24.4 Government securities Government Securities represents the financial assets (treasury bills and treasury bonds) measured at fair value through profit or loss which are held for trading purposes. 24.5 Forward foreign exchange contracts Group’s financial assets at fair value through profit or loss include forward contracts to convert US Dollars, reflect the financial assets recognised for both financial years against capital exposure as follows ; 31.03.2014 31.03.2013 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Capital exposure to banks 2,134 1,875 Derivative financial assets recognised 283 847 25 Inventories Group Company 31.03.2014 31.03.2013 31.03.2014 31.03.2013 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Raw materials 1,359,341 1,278,903 Work-in-progress and finished goods 112,915 77,314 Consumables 309,459 477,644 2,167 2,484 1,781,715 1,833,861 2,167 2,484 Impairment of inventories (142,315) (9,138) 1,639,400 1,824,723 2,167 2,484 During the year Group impaired inventories valued at Rs. 133.2 million (2012/2013 Rs. 2.7 million ) to the net realisable value which included an impairment loss of Rs. 131 million recognized on the expiration of the power purchase agreements signed between the Ceylon Electricity Board and Ace Power Horana (Pvt) Ltd., and Ace Power Matara (Pvt) Ltd. These impairment losses are recognised in the other direct operating expenses in the income statement. Value of inventories pledged as security for facilities obtained by the Group from banks, amounted to Rs. 73 million as at 31st March 2014 (2012/2013-Rs. 72 million) (Company-nil). Annual Report 2013 2014 165 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 26 Trade and other receivables Group Company 31.03.2014 31.03.2013 31.03.2014 31.03.2013 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Trade receivables 7,536,100 7,829,687 26,924 Other receivables 2,103,914 2,182,759 438,788 526,283 Amounts due from subsidiaries and joint ventures 2,296,849 2,754,980 Amounts due from equity-accounted investees 9,202 12,288 7,270 10,591 Loans to employees 33,592 31,529 25,801 23,654 9,682,808 10,056,263 2,795,632 3,315,508 Impairment of trade and other receivables (370,141) (83,636) (26,881) 9,312,667 9,972,627 2,768,751 3,315,508 The Group has recognised an impairment loss of Rs. 315.8 million, an impairment reversal of Rs. 4.8 million and write offs of Rs. 116.3 million for the current financial year, where as the impairment loss for the Company amounts to Rs. 26.9 million. The above impairment loss in the Group included an impairment of Rs 277 million recognised on the expiration of the Power Purchase Agreements signed between the Ceylon Electricity Board and Ace Power Horana (Pvt) Ltd., and Ace Power Matara (Pvt) Ltd. Impairment losses, reversals and write offs in the Group and Company are recognised in other indirect operating expenses of the income statement. The movement of loans above Rs. 20,000/given to executive staff is as follows: Company 2013/2014 2012/2013 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Balance as at the beginning of the year 23,654 17,228 Loans granted during the year 14,275 11,850 37,929 29,078 Recoveries during the year (12,128) (5,424) Balance at the end of the year 25,801 23,654 No loans have been given to the Directors of the company. 27 Assets classified as held for sale Consequent to the decision made by the Group to divest from the ship owning business in 2007/08 and the sale of ships by the Group’s ship owning companies, the Group recognised the fair values of the investments in Ceyaki Shipping (Pvt) Ltd. & Ceyspence (Pvt) Ltd. under assets held for sale. The liquidation of these companies are not yet concluded. Group Company 31.03.2014 31.03.2013 31.03.2014 31.03.2013 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Share of net assets of equity-accounted investees classified as held for sale 141,446 141,446 57,237 57,237 Net current assets of group companies classified as held for sale 7,679 7,679 149,125 149,125 57,237 57,237 There were no discontinued operations recognised in the income statement during the period. 166 Aitken Spence PLC 28 Stated capital and reserves 28.1 Stated capital 31.03.2014 31.03.2013 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Stated capital as at 31st March 2,135,140 2,135,140 31.03.2014 31.03.2013 No. of Shares No. of Shares No. of shares as at 31st March 405,996,045 405,996,045 The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per individual present at meetings of the shareholders or one vote per share in the case of a poll. 28.2 Reserves Revaluation reserve Revaluation reserve relates to the amount by which the Group has revalued its property, plant and equipment. There were no restrictions on distribution of these balances to the shareholders. General reserve General reserve reflects the amount the Group has reserved over the years from its earnings. Exchange fluctuation reserve Exchange fluctuation reserve comprises of all foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of foreign subsidiaries in the Group and the portion of exchange gain or loss arising from the translation of the hedge instruments in relation to cash flow hedges. Other capital reserves This represents the portion of share premium of subsidiaries attributable to the Group. Available-for-sale reserve This represents the cumulative net change in the fair value of available-for-sale financial assets until the investments are derecognised or impaired. 29 Interest-bearing liabilities 29.1 Movement of interest-bearing liabilities 29.1.1 Group Lending institution Balance Transaction Impact of Companies New loans Capital Balance Total as at cost exchange acquired obtained repayment as at interest 31.03.2014 amortised rate during the during the 01.04.2013 paid fluctuation year year 2013/2014 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 HSBC 3,204,746 77,795 1,157,741 (600,129) 2,569,339 87,533 DFCC Bank 1,761,203 6,196 24,158 (261,293) 1,992,142 206,426 Hatton National Bank PLC. 1,716,658 10,881 20,000 (558,785) 2,244,562 212,507 DEG 1,307,300 (2,600) 1,309,900 16,136 Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC. 788,995 19,310 (12,861) 782,546 100,935 Fiji Ports Corporation Ltd. 209,448 5,192 220,219 (15,963) 5,826 Sampath Bank PLC. 4,438 2,855 (1,635) 3,218 405 Premier Leasing & Finance Ltd., of 668 9 (391) 1,050 Bangladesh Nations Trust Bank PLC. 683 (23,270) 22,587 302 Transaction cost to be amortised (36,569) 7,968 (44,537) 8,956,887 7,968 98,156 220,219 2,489,427 (1,474,327) 7,615,444 630,070 Current portion of interest (1,622,421) (1,370,093) bearing liabilities Non Current interest -bearing liabilities 7,334,466 6,245,351 Annual Report 2013 2014 167 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 29.1.2 Company Lending institution Balance Transaction Impact of New loans Capital Balance Total as at cost exchange obtained repayment as at interest paid 31.03.2014 amortised rate during the 01.04.2013 2013/2014 fluctuation year Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 DEG 1,307,300 (2,600) 1,309,900 16,136 DFCC Bank. 1,187,500 (112,500) 1,300,000 140,853 Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC. 692,500 (7,500) 700,000 89,054 Hatton National Bank PLC. 647,500 (52,500) 700,000 75,146 Transaction cost to be amortised (36,569) 7,968 (44,537) 3,798,231 7,968 (2,600) 1,265,363 (172,500) 2,700,000 321,189 Current portion of interest -bearing liabilities (371,837) (157,500) Non Current interest -bearing liabilities 3,426,394 2,542,500 29.2 Analysed by capital repayment 29.2.1 Group as at 31 March 2014 Lending institution Payable in Payable Payable within Payable within Payable after Total less than 3 within 3 to 12 1 2 years 2 5 years 5 years months months Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 HSBC 152,460 565,814 727,539 1,358,028 400,905 3,204,746 DFCC Bank 69,583 261,249 460,831 858,133 111,407 1,761,203 Hatton National Bank PLC 122,972 419,772 443,341 605,938 124,635 1,716,658 DEG 261,460 784,380 261,460 1,307,300 Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC 7,861 31,082 93,943 596,109 60,000 788,995 Fiji Ports Corporation Ltd. 116 346 461 1,384 207,141 209,448 Sampath Bank PLC 352 1,056 1,407 1,623 4,438 Premier Leasing & Finance Ltd. of Bangladesh 105 316 247 668 Transaction cost to be amortised (2,662) (8,001) (9,446) (15,562) (898) (36,569) 350,787 1,271,634 1,979,783 4,190,033 1,164,650 8,956,887 29.2.2 Company as at 31 March 2014 Lending institution Payable in Payable Payable Payable Payable Total less than 3 within 3 to within 1 2 within 2 5 after 5 years months 12 months years years Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 DFCC Bank. 47,500 195,000 372,500 572,500 1,187,500 DEG 261,460 784,380 261,460 1,307,300 Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC. 2,500 15,000 72,500 542,500 60,000 692,500 Hatton National Bank PLC. 17,500 105,000 192,500 332,500 647,500 Transaction cost to be amortised (2,662) (8,001) (9,446) (15,562) (898) (36,569) 64,838 306,999 889,514 2,216,318 320,562 3,798,231 168 Aitken Spence PLC 29.3 Analysed by Interest Rate Group Company As at 31.03.2014 31.03.2013 31.03.2014 31.03.2013 Total Net book Total Net book Total Net book Total Net book borrowing value of borrowing value of borrowing value of borrowing value of collateral collateral collateral collateral pledged pledged pledged pledged Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Term loans linked to AWPLR DFCC Bank 1,578,650 391,151 1,700,325 556,055 1,187,500 1,300,000 Hatton National Bank PLC. 1,085,712 438,212 1,182,476 659,150 647,500 700,000 Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC. 788,995 96,495 782,546 289,981 692,500 700,000 3,453,357 925,858 3,665,347 1,505,186 2,527,500 2,700,000 Term loans linked to LIBOR HSBC 3,204,673 2,580,308 2,569,227 2,511,780 DEG 1,307,300 1,307,300 Hatton National Bank PLC. 183,107 183,107 359,559 214,004 DFCC Bank 182,553 182,553 208,009 187,000 Nations Trust Bank PLC. 22,586 60,161 4,877,633 2,945,968 3,159,381 2,972,945 1,307,300 Term loans linked to AWDR Hatton National Bank PLC. 441,908 694,848 831,000 DFCC Bank. 70,000 120,000 441,908 764,848 951,000 Fixed rate debentures and term loans Fiji Ports Corporation Ltd. 209,448 HSBC 73 111 Hatton National Bank PLC. 5,931 7,681 Sampath Bank PLC. 4,438 3,218 Premier Leasing & Finance Ltd. 668 1,049 DFCC Bank. 13,809 116,600 220,558 25,868 116,600 Transaction cost to be amortised (36,569) (36,569) Total interest bearing loans and borrowings 8,956,887 3,871,826 7,615,444 5,545,731 3,798,231 2,700,000 Secured bank loans are secured over the carrying amount of property, plant & equipment of Rs. 2,906 million, inventory of Rs. 5 million, financial assets of Rs. 149 million and corporate guarantees of Rs. 812 million. 29.4 Analysed by currency equivalent in rupees Group Company As at 31.03.2014 31.03.2013 31.03.2014 31.03.2013 Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Equivalent Equivalent Equivalent Equivalent % Rs.’000 Rs.’000 % Rs.’000 Rs.’000 United States Dollars 54 4,877,634 3,159,382 33 1,307,300 Sri Lankan Rupees 44 3,906,374 4,456,062 67 2,527,500 2,700,000 Other currencies 2 209,448 Transaction cost to be amortised (36,569) (36,569) 100 8,956,887 7,615,444 100 3,798,231 2,700,000 Annual Report 2013 2014 169 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 30 Deferred tax liabilities 30.1 Movement in deferred tax liabilities Group 31.03.2014 31.03.2013 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Balance at the beginning of the year 504,743 429,238 Companies acquired during the year 47,355 Exchange gain / (loss) 4,009 (873) Origination of temporary differences transferred to / (from) income statement Recognised in profit / (loss) 86,951 77,016 Recognised in other comprehensive income (3,572) (638) Balance at the end of the year 639,486 504,743 30.2 Composition of deferred tax liabilities Group 31.03.2014 31.03.2013 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Deferred tax liabilities attributable to ; Property, plant and equipment 629,605 517,652 Undistributed profits of consolidated entities 79,173 32,356 Deferred interest expense 300 Defined benefit obligations (35,286) (21,593) Tax losses carried forward (33,150) (23,972) Other items (856) Net deferred tax liabilities 639,486 504,743 30.3 Movement in tax effect of temporary differences Group As at Recognised Recognised Exchange Companies As at Recognised Recognised Exchange As at 31st March in profit / in other gain / (loss) acquired 31st March in profit / in other gain / (loss) 1st April 2014 (loss) compre2013 (loss) comprehen2012 hensive sive income income Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Deferred tax liabilities Property, plant and equipment 629,605 53,044 4,164 54,745 517,652 63,620 (873) 454,905 Undistributed profits of consolidated 79,173 46,817 32,356 23,768 8,588 entities Deferred interest expense (300) 300 (577) 877 708,778 99,561 4,164 54,745 550,308 86,811 (873) 464,370 Deferred tax assets Defined benefit obligations (35,286) (3,334) (3,572) (137) (6,650) (21,593) 2,906 (638) (23,861) Tax losses carried forward (33,150) (9,178) (23,972) (12,701) (11,271) Other items (856) (98) (18) (740) (69,292) (12,610) (3,572) (155) (7,390) (45,565) (9,795) (638) (35,132) Net deferred tax liabilities 639,486 86,951 (3,572) 4,009 47,355 504,743 77,016 (638) (873) 429,238 170 Aitken Spence PLC 31 Employee benefits 31.1 Retirement benefits obligations Group Company 31.03.2014 31.03.2013 31.03.2014 31.03.2013 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Present value of unfunded obligations 576,416 447,390 86,426 73,405 Total present value of the obligation 576,416 447,390 86,426 73,405 31.2 Movement in present value of the defined benefit obligations Group Company 31.03.2014 31.03.2013 31.03.2014 31.03.2013 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Defined benefit obligations at the beginning of the period 447,390 391,409 73,405 56,394 Expenses recognised in profit or loss Current service cost 52,941 42,337 8,414 6,975 Interest cost 52,371 46,320 8,808 6,767 Expenses recognised in other comprehensive income Actuarial (gains) / losses arising from ; financial assumptions 52,270 5,470 demographic assumptions experience adjustment 4,406 27,904 (3,270) 9,758 Exchange difference 254 129 Others Benefits paid by the plan (54,937) (59,256) (6,401) (6,489) Defined benefit obligations of companies acquired during the year 21,721 Defined benefit obligations of companies disposed during the year (1,453) Defined benefit obligations at the end of the period 576,416 447,390 86,426 73,405 The provision for retirement benefits obligations for the year is based on the actuarial valuation carried out by professionally qualified actuaries, Messrs. Actuarial & Management Consultants (Pvt) Ltd., as at 31st March 2014. The actuarial present value of the promised retirement benefits as at 31st March 2014 amounted to Rs. 576,416,055/(Company Rs. 86,426,308/-). The liability is not externally funded. Annual Report 2013 2014 171 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31.3 Actuarial assumptions The principal actuarial assumptions used in determining the cost are given below; 2013/2014 2012/2013 31.3.1 Financial assumptions Discount rate 10.5% p.a. 12.0% p.a. Salary increments * Executive staff 11.0% p.a. 11.0% p.a. * Non executive & other staff 7.5% p.a. 7.0% p.a. It is also assumed that the company will continue in business as a going concern. 31.3.2 Demographic assumptions Mortality & Disability Based on published statistics and mortality tables. Retirement age 55 years 55 years Staff turnover rates at each age category * 20 years 0.07 0.07 * 25 years 0.05 0.05 * 30 years 0.05 0.05 * 35 years 0.04 0.04 * 40 years 0.03 0.03 * above 40 years 0.00 0.00 31.3 Sensitivity analysis The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to reasonably possible changes at the reporting date in the key assumptions employed with all other variables held constant in the employment benefit liability measurement. The sensitivity of the comprehensive income and the financial position to the effect of the assumed changes in discount rate and salary increment rate is given below: Discount rate Salary increments 1% 1% 1% 1% increase decrease increase decrease Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Impact on comprehensive income 35,926 (44,458) (45,702) 37,631 Impact on financial position (35,926) 44,458 45,702 (37,631) 32 Provisions Group 31.03.2014 31.03.2013 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Balance at the beginning of the period 277,103 490,661 Additional provision for the year 377,114 1,158,767 Amounts used during the year (191,446) (1,372,325) Balance at the end of the period 462,771 277,103 Provision is made on a monthly basis for major overhaul costs of the power plant in Embilipitiya based on the estimated overhauls to be carried out within the interval between two major overhauls. The cost of the actual overhaul carried out is set off against this provision. Estimated time between two major overhauls is 18 months. 172 Aitken Spence PLC 33 Trade and other payables Group Company 31.03.2014 31.03.2013 31.03.2014 31.03.2013 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Trade payables 2,384,781 3,017,937 Other payables 4,181,042 4,686,132 267,584 257,813 Amounts due to subsidiaries and joint ventures 2,049,285 2,091,253 Amounts due to equity-accounted investees 260 136 130 24 Unclaimed dividends 7,440 6,007 7,440 6,007 Deferred grants 2,930 3,426 6,576,453 7,713,638 2,324,439 2,355,097 33.1 Deferred grants Group 31.03.2014 31.03.2013 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Balance as at the beginning of the year 3,426 4,802 Grants received for the year 1,099 Amortised during the year (496) (2,475) Balance as at the end of the year 2,930 3,426 Government grants have been received for the purchase of certain items of property, plant and equipment. The basis of amortisation is 12.5% p.a. There are no unfulfilled conditions or contingencies attached to these grants. Annual Report 2013 2014 173 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 34 Financial instruments 34.1 Carrying amounts and fair values of financial instruments 34.1.1 Carrying amounts and fair values of financial instruments Group Notes Trading at fair Loans and Available for Other finanNon financial Total carrying Fair value value receivables sale cial liabilities instruments amount Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 As at 31st March 2014 Financial assets Trade and other receivables 26 9,274,738 37,929 9,312,667 9,312,667 Deposits and prepayments 104,493 955,195 1,059,688 1,059,688 Other financial assets 24 Unquoted debt securities and 159,027 243,671 402,698 402,698 equity securities Quoted equity shares 29,632 29,632 29,632 Other bank deposits 9,022,868 9,022,868 9,022,868 Government securities 1,519,339 1,519,339 1,519,339 Forward foreign exchange contracts 283 283 283 Cash and short-term deposits 2,728,514 2,728,514 2,728,514 1,519,622 21,289,640 273,303 993,124 24,075,689 24,075,689 Financial liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities 29 8,956,887 8,956,887 8,956,887 Trade and other payables 33 4,932,412 1,644,041 6,576,453 6,576,453 Bank overdrafts and other short-term 4,557,167 4,557,167 4,557,167 borrowings 18,446,466 1,644,041 20,090,507 20,090,507 Notes Trading at fair Loans and Available for Other finanNon financial Total carrying Fair value value receivables sale cial liabilities instruments amount Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 As at 31st March 2013 Financial assets Trade and other receivables 26 9,357,076 615,551 9,972,627 9,972,627 Deposits and prepayments 84,128 1,045,715 1,129,843 1,129,843 Other financial assets 24 Unquoted debt securities and 206,735 270,832 477,567 477,567 equity securities Quoted equity shares 281,898 281,898 281,898 Other bank deposits 5,369,255 5,369,255 5,369,255 Government securities 1,096,713 1,096,713 1,096,713 Forward foreign exchange contracts 847 847 847 Cash and short-term deposits 2,217,994 2,217,994 2,217,994 1,097,560 17,235,189 552,729 1,661,266 20,546,744 20,546,744 Financial liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities 29 7,615,444 7,615,444 7,615,444 Trade and other payables 33 5,921,637 1,792,001 7,713,638 7,713,638 Bank overdrafts and other short-term 5,588,753 5,588,753 5,588,753 borrowings 19,125,834 1,792,001 20,917,835 20,917,835 174 Aitken Spence PLC 34.1.2 Carrying amounts and fair values of financial instruments Company Notes Trading at fair Loans and Available for Other finanNon financial Total carrying Fair value value receivables sale cial liabilities instruments amount Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 As at 31st March 2014 Financial assets Trade and other receivables 26 2,756,413 12,338 2,768,751 2,768,751 Deposits and prepayments 704 43,447 44,151 44,151 Other financial assets 24 Unquoted debt securities and 159,027 30,829 189,856 189,856 equity securities Quoted equity shares 3,641 3,641 3,641 Other bank deposits 2,743,481 2,743,481 2,743,481 Government securities 1,519,339 1,519,339 1,519,339 Cash and short-term deposits 62,504 62,504 62,504 1,519,339 5,722,129 34,470 55,785 7,331,723 7,331,723 Financial liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities 29 3,798,231 3,798,231 3,798,231 Trade and other payables 33 2,131,924 192,515 2,324,439 2,324,439 Bank overdrafts and other short-term 312,410 312,410 312,410 borrowings 6,242,565 192,515 6,435,080 6,435,080 Notes Trading at fair Loans and Available for Other finanNon financial Total carrying Fair value value receivables sale cial liabilities instruments amount Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 As at 31st March 2013 Financial assets Trade and other receivables 26 3,272,756 42,752 3,315,508 3,315,508 Deposits and prepayments 704 52,371 53,075 53,075 Other financial assets 24 Unquoted debt securities and 206,735 33,646 240,381 240,381 equity securities Quoted equity shares 3,300 3,300 3,300 Other bank deposits 2,119,069 2,119,069 2,119,069 Government securities 1,096,713 1,096,713 1,096,713 Cash and short-term deposits 62,885 62,885 62,885 1,096,713 5,662,149 36,946 95,123 6,890,931 6,890,931 Financial liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities 29 2,700,000 2,700,000 2,700,000 Trade and other payables 33 2,159,294 195,803 2,355,097 2,355,097 Bank overdrafts and other short-term 99,881 99,881 99,881 borrowings 4,959,175 195,803 5,154,978 5,154,978 34.1.3 The Group and the Company does not have any financial instruments designated as fair value through profit or loss on initial recognition as at 31st March 2014. Total value of financial assets pledged by the Group and the Company as securities for facilities obtained from banks amounted to Rs. 447 million (2012/2013 Rs.38 million) and Rs. 297 million (2012/2013 nil) respectively. Annual Report 2013 2014 175 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 34.2 Fair value hierarchy The Group and the Company uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments by valuation techniques: Level 1: quoted (unadjusted) prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities Level 2: other techniques for which all inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, either directly or indirectly Level 3: techniques which use inputs that have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable market data 34.2.1 Fair value hierarchy Group Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 As at 31st March 2014 Other financial assets Unquoted debt securities and equity securities 243,671 243,671 Quoted equity shares 29,632 29,632 Government securities 1,519,339 1,519,339 Forward foreign exchange contracts 283 283 1,548,971 283 243,671 1,792,925 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 As at 31st March 2013 Other financial assets Unquoted debt securities and equity securities 270,831 270,831 Quoted equity shares 281,898 281,898 Government securities 1,096,713 1,096,713 Forward foreign exchange contracts 847 847 1,378,611 847 270,831 1,650,289 34.2.2 Fair value hierarchy Company Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 As at 31st March 2014 Other financial assets Unquoted debt securities and equity securities 30,829 30,829 Quoted equity shares 3,641 3,641 Government securities 1,519,339 1,519,339 1,522,980 30,829 1,553,809 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 As at 31st March 2013 Other financial assets Unquoted debt securities and equity securities 33,645 33,645 Quoted equity shares 3,300 3,300 Government securities 1,096,713 1,096,713 1,100,013 33,645 1,133,658 There were no transfers between Level 1, Level 2 and Level 3 during 2013/2014 and 2012/2013. 176 Aitken Spence PLC 34.2.3 Reconciliation of fair value measurement of “Level 3” financial instruments The Group and the Company carries unquoted equity shares as available-for-sale financial instruments classified as Level 3 within the fair value hierarchy. Group Company 2013/2014 2012/2013 2013/2014 2012/2013 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Balance at the beginning of the period 270,832 262,037 33,646 28,648 Purchases 5,000 5,000 Sales (99) (5,660) (1,767) Total gains and losses recognised in other comprehensive income (27,062) 9,455 (2,817) 1,765 Balance at the end of the period 243,671 270,832 30,829 33,646 35 Financial risk management objectives and policies The Group’s risk management structure process and procedures are explained in the risk report on page 34 to 39 of the annual report. The objective of the financial risk management strategy of the Group to minimize the impact of risks that arise due to the use of financial instruments. The risks that are unmanaged can potentially result in the Group being unable to achieve its budgeted profits in a given financial year. Hence, a top priority is given by the Group to manage financial risks. To achieve this objective the Group has established a number of policies and guidelines that are followed across all business sectors. Such policies and guidelines are subject to periodic review in order to maintain their relevance in the evolving financial markets in which the Group operates. In this part of the report we would be covering the financial impact that would arise from market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk, the most important elements of the financial risk that the Group is subjected to. Market risk management The Group is subjected to market risk when the actual future cashflow derived from a financial instrument differs from the expected cashflow due to the impact of external factors such as the changes in market interest rates and exchange rates. Since the market risks could have a potential adverse impact on revenues and expenses of the Group and the profits attributable to the shareholders, the management has implemented a number of market risk management policies and procedures. The objective of this exercise is to identify, manage and minimise the potential adverse impact of market risks on the Group. 35.1 Currency risk Currency risk arises when a financial transaction is denominated in a currency other than that of the reporting currency of a company. Business operations of the Group are spread across many geographies and industry sectors in which the transactions take place in a multitude of currencies. This exposes the Group to currency risk in the form of transaction and translation exposure. Transaction exposure arises where there are contracted cashflows (receivables and payables) whose values are subject to unanticipated changes in exchange rates due to the contract being denominated in a foreign currency. Translation exposure arises to the extent to which financial reporting is affected by exchange rate movements when the reporting currency is different to those currencies in which revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities are denominated. The Group transacts in many foreign currencies other than the functional reporting currency. Therefore the Group is exposed to currency risk on revenue generation, expenses, investments and borrowings. The Group has significant investments in the Republic of Maldives and the Republic of Fiji whose net assets are exposed to foreign currency translation risk. Revenue generations and expenses incurred in these countries are exposed to foreign currency transaction risk. The Groups total USD denominated borrowings amounted to Rs 4.8 billion. During the financial year 2013/2014, the Company entered into an agreement to borrow USD 20 million from a foreign lending institution to finance its equity investments in several projects. Of the amount that has been drawn down approximately 60% has been invested in an overseas project which generates cashflows mainly in USD. The balance 40% has been utilised to acquire USD denominated assets. These investments have eliminated the translation exposure resulting from the USD borrowing to a great extent. A major portion of the Group’s foreign currency borrowings have been made by Strategic Business Units (SBU) with matching incomes which acts as a natural hedge against translation exposure. Transaction exposures are minimised by selectively entering into forward contracts when future cashflows can be estimated with reasonable accuracy. The Group treasury monitors foreign exchange markets on a continuous basis and advises SBUs with appropriate risk minimising strategies. Annual Report 2013 2014 177 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Significant movement of Exchange rates for the year ended 31st March 2014. Highest Level Lowest Level Spread Year end rate Rate Date Rate Date USD/LKR 133.91 29-08-2013 125.52 12/16-04-2013 8.39 130.73 EUR/USD 1.3934 18-03-2014 1.2781 09-07-2013 0.1153 1.3792 35.1.1 Foreign currency sensitivity The main foreign currencies in which the Group transacts are US Dollar, Sterling and Euro, whilst the exposure to other foreign currencies is not considered here as it is insignificant. As an estimation of the approximate impact of the currency risk with respect to financial instruments, was used 5% as volatility in USD/ LKR exchange rates. During the last year the actual maximum movement in the exchange rate was 6.27%. In calculation of this risk it is assumed that all other variables are held constant. This relates only to the assets and liabilities reflected in the financial statement as at balance sheet date. Group 2013/2014 2012/2013 Effect on profit before tax Effect on equity Effect on profit before tax Effect on equity Rs. '000 % Rs. '000 % Rs. '000 % Rs. '000 % LKR depreciates against the USD by 5% (12,440) (0.28) 230,754 0.60 (63,922) (1.50) 202,849 0.61 LKR appreciates against the USD by 5% 12,440 0.28 (230,754) (0.60) 63,922 1.50 (202,849) (0.61) The effect on the equity arises from the investments made by the Group in the Republic of Maldives and Republic of Fiji. We have not accounted for the sensitivity arising in any of the other investments as the Group’s exposure to such is not significant. Company 2013/2014 2012/2013 Effect on profit before tax Effect on profit before tax Rs.'000 % Rs.'000 % LKR depreciates against the USD by 5% (19,332) (3.54) 21,665 3.97 LKR appreciates against the USD by 5% 19,332 3.54 (21,665) (3.97) 35.2 Interest rate risk Interest rate risk arises from fluctuations in the present value of future cashflows of financial instruments as a result of changes in market interest rates. Variations in interest rates can result in the market values of financial instruments increasing or declining during marking to market of investment portfolios. Such changes would have an impact on the reported financial results. The Group has acquired financial instruments with both fixed and variable interest rates. Both types of financial instruments could be subject to interest rate risk. Liabilities with variable interest rates would expose the Group to cashflow risks as the quantum of interest payable will change with the fluctuations of market rates. Investments with fixed interest rates would expose the Group to variations in fair values when the marking to market of investment portfolios. In order to manage the interest rate risk the Group prefers to obtain borrowings with fixed interest rates when feasible. Entering into interest rate swaps are used when there is a need to hedge the risks on debt instruments with variable rates. Appropriate risk management strategies are used by the group treasury to manage the interest rate risk in portfolio investments. For example, when a down turn in market interest rates are expected the majority of portfolio investments would be made on long tenures to lock in high interest rates. The group treasury continuously monitors the interest rate environment to advise SBUs on the most suitable strategy with regard to borrowings. The Group’s long term borrowings are usually negotiated at fixed rate, when the market interest rates are depressed. Interest rates significant movements for the year ended 31st March 2014 Highest Level Lowest Level Spread Year end rate Rate Period Rate Period LKR Interest rate 11.35% Apr 2013 7.05% March 2014 4.30% 7.05% USD Interest rate 0.28% July 2013 0.23% March 2014 0.05% 0.23% 178 Aitken Spence PLC 35.2.1 Interest rate sensitivity At the reporting date the interest rate sensitivity profile of the Group’s interest bearing financial instruments and its impact on the profit before tax was as follows. Group 2013/2014 2012/2013 Financial Rupee finanUSD finanFinancial Rupee finanUSD finanassets cial liabilities cial liabilities assets cial liabilities cial liabilities Rs’000 Rs’000 Rs’000 Rs’000 Rs’000 Rs’000 Carrying amount as at 31st March 1,519,339 3,895,265 4,877,634 1,096,713 4,430,193 3,159,382 Impact on profit before tax Decrease of 100 basis points in rupee interest rates 6,484 38,953 5,473 44,302 Increase of 100 basis points in rupee interest rates (6,415) (38,953) (5,411) (44,302) Decrease of 10 basis points in US dollar interest rates 4,878 3,159 Increase of 10 basis points in US dollar interest rates (4,878) (3,159) At the reporting date the interest rate profile of the Company’s interest bearing financial instruments was as follows Company 2013/2014 2012/2013 Financial Rupee finanUSD finanFinancial Rupee finanUSD finanassets cial liabilities cial liabilities assets cial liabilities cial liabilities Rs' 000 Rs’ 000 Rs’ 000 Rs’ 000 Rs’ 000 Rs’ 000 Carrying amount as at 31st March 1,519,339 2,527,500 1,307,300 1,096,713 2,700,000 Impact on profit before tax Decrease of 100 basis points in rupee interest rates 6,484 25,275 27,000 Increase of 100 basis points in rupee interest rates (6,415) (25,275) (27,000) Decrease of 10 basis points in US dollar interest rates 1,307 Increase of 10 basis points in US dollar interest rates (1,307) 35.3 Equity Price risk The Group has adopted that its investment in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associate companies are recorded at cost as per LKAS 27 and 28 standards and therefore scoped out from LKAS 32 and 39 Financial Instruments. The Investments made by the Group which do not belong to the above category are classified as financial assets and categorized as available for sale (AFS). At the reporting date the value of investments classified as AFS is as follows Listed equity instruments 30 million Unlisted equity instruments 244 million We have not carried out the sensitivity analysis of the above as the Groups exposure to the such is not material. 35.4 Liquidity Risk Management Liquidity refers to the ability of a business to meet the demand for funds. Funds are required for operational needs, investments, and to service borrowings. Liquidity risk arises from the possibility that a business may not possess sufficient financial resources that are immediately available to meet demands for funds. The Aitken Spence Group maintains sufficient financial resources to meet all its funding requirements. Head of finance of SBU’s as well as the corporate finance division of the Group place a special emphasis on managing liquidity, as insufficient liquidity could have an adverse impact on business operations. Additionally, a liquidity shortage could have a negative impact on stakeholder confidence in the Group. The Group has adequate bank facilities in reserve. Approved and undrawn bank facilities at the end of the financial year amounted to over Rs 10.9 billion and these could be utilised at short notice. The Group maintains a healthy relationship with most commercial banks and maintains a constant dialogue in order to obtain more facilities at competitive rates. Working capital management takes a high priority within the Group. Shortening the working capital cycle by managing receivables receives a special attention from all heads of finance of SBUs. The Group has implemented procurement and vendor evaluation policies to prevent the payment of excessive prices for supplies and to obtain maximum supplier credit in order to ensure a strong working capital position. The Group pays special attention to cash inflows and Annual Report 2013 2014 179 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS outflows both at a consolidated and SBU levels. The maturity profile of the Group’s investments has been constructed so as to meet expected future cash outflows in the short, medium and long terms. Funding requirements at SBU’S and consolidated levels are evaluated at regular intervals by analysing business expansion strategies. The Group has adopted a conservative investment strategy in order to preserve the scarce capital. At opportune moments funds are mobilised by accessing capital markets and the Group ensures that future interest expenses are minimised on borrowings by negotiating attractive interest rates with the respective lenders. The Table below summarises the maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities based on contractual undiscounted payments. Group Year ended 31st March 2014 On less than 3 3 to 12 1 to 2 2 to 5 More than Total demand Months Months Years Years 5 Years Rs '000 Rs '000 Rs '000 Rs '000 Rs '000 Rs '000 Rs '000 Interest bearing liabilities 350,786 1,271,634 1,979,784 4,190,033 1,164,650 8,956,887 Bank overdrafts and other short term borrowings 4,557,167 4,557,167 Trade payables 1,758,099 353,679 273,003 2,384,781 Other Payables 592,118 1,332,265 623,248 2,547,631 6,907,384 2,036,730 2,167,885 1,979,784 4,190,033 1,164,650 18,446,466 Year ended 31st March 2013 On less than 3 3 to 12 1 to 2 2 to 5 More than Total demand Months Months Years Years 5 Years Rs '000 Rs '000 Rs '000 Rs '000 Rs '000 Rs '000 Rs '000 Interest bearing liabilities 316,624 1,053,469 1,482,369 3,813,230 949,752 7,615,444 Bank overdrafts and other short term borrowings 5,588,753 5,588,753 Trade payables 1,798,281 710,453 509,338 3,018,072 Other Payables 612,203 1,403,623 887,739 2,903,565 7,999,237 2,430,700 2,450,546 1,482,369 3,813,230 949,752 19,125,834 The Table below summarises the maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities based on contractual undiscounted payments. Company Year ended 31 st March 2014 On less than 3 3 to 12 1 to 2 2 to 5 More than Total demand Months Months Years Years 5 Years Rs '000 Rs '000 Rs '000 Rs '000 Rs '000 Rs '000 Rs '000 Interest bearing liabilities 64,838 306,999 889,514 2,216,318 320,562 3,798,231 Bank overdraft and other short term borrowings 312,410 312,410 Other payables 2,062,742 19,182 50,000 2,131,924 2,375,152 84,020 356,999 889,514 2,216,318 320,562 6,242,565 Year ended 31 st March 2013 On less than 3 3 to 12 1 to 2 2 to 5 More than Total demand Months Months Years Years 5 Years Rs '000 Rs '000 Rs '000 Rs '000 Rs '000 Rs '000 Rs '000 Interest bearing liabilities 157,500 367,500 1,890,000 285,000 2,700,000 Bank overdraft and other short term borrowings 99,881 99,881 Other payables 2,091,277 18,017 50,000 2,159,294 2,191,158 18,017 207,500 367,500 1,890,000 285,000 4,959,175 180 Aitken Spence PLC Liquidity Position Group Company 31.03.2014 31.03.2013 31.03.2014 31.03.2013 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Cash in hand and at bank 2,728,514 2,217,994 62,504 62,885 Trade & other receivable within 30 days 3,375,531 2,987,548 465,712 526,283 Short Term deposit 10,542,207 6,465,968 4,262,820 3,215,782 Total Liquid assets 16,646,252 11,671,510 4,791,036 3,804,950 LessBank overdraft and other short term borrowing 4,557,167 5,588,753 312,410 99,881 Interest bearing liabilities payable at on demand Trade payable on demand 1,758,099 1,798,281 Other payable on demand 592,118 612,203 2,062,742 2,091,277 Total on demand liabilities 6,907,384 7,999,237 2,375,152 2,191,158 Excess / short Liquidity through operating cycle 9,738,868 3,672,273 2,415,884 1,613,792 Undrawn approved bank facilities 10,930,867 6,258,489 6,022,990 2,962,503 Market value of discounted securities 1,519,339 1,519,339 1,096,713 1,096,713 Liquidity available on demand 12,450,206 1,519,339 7,119,703 1,096,713 35.5 Credit Risk Credit risk refers to the risk carried by the Group owing to a counter party defaulting on its contractual obligations in relation to a financial instrument or customer contract. The Group is exposed to credit risk from its operating activities and from its financing activities, including deposits with banks, foreign exchange transactions and other financial instruments. The maximum credit risk of the Group and the Company is limited to the carrying value of these financial assets as at reporting date. Group Company 31.03.2014 31.03.2013 31.03.2014 31.03.2013 Amount Exposure Amount Exposure Amount Exposure Amount Exposure Rs. ‘000 % Rs. ‘000 % Rs. ‘000 % Rs. ‘000 % Trade receivables and other receivables 9,274,738 40.18 9,357,076 49.55 2,756,413 37.88 3,272,756 48.16 Deposits and prepayments 104,493 0.45 84,128 0.45 704 0.01 704 0.01 Other financial assets 10,974,820 47.55 7,226,280 38.26 4,456,317 61.25 3,459,462 50.91 Cash and Short term deposits 2,728,514 11.82 2,217,995 11.74 62,504 0.86 62,885 0.93 Total 23,082,565 100.00 18,885,479 100.00 7,275,938 100.00 6,795,807 100 The credit risk arising from the deposits made in financial institutions are managed by the group treasury in accordance to the policy directions provided by the Board. The group treasury advises the SBU’s regarding the investment opportunities available and guidance is provided in order to minimize the risk of default. The Group transacts only with a limited number of institutions all of which have stable credit ratings. The Group’s exposure and credit ratings of counterparties are continuously monitored and a diversified investment portfolio is maintained to minimize any unsystematic risk. 35.5.1 Trade receivables Trade receivables consist of recoverables from a large number of customers spread across diverse industries, segments and geographical areas. The majority of the Group’s trade receivables are due for settlement within 90 days comprising of 95% of trade receivables as at the end of the financial year. The credit policy for each segment of business varies due to the diversity of operations in the Group. The credit policies that best suit their respective business environment are developed for each sector and the responsibility for this rests with the head of finance and the senior management teams. The credit policies of SBUs are prepared subsequent to analysing the credit profile of a customer. In this regard factors such as the credit history, legal status, market share, geographical locations of operations, and industry information are considered. Reference from bankers or credit information databases are obtained when it is considered necessary. Each SBU has identified credit limits for each of its customers and if the customer does not meet the criteria or the stipulated benchmark on a transaction, then the business is carried out with such customers only up to the value of the collaterals or advances obtained. Apart from the state owned enterprise who is the largest customer of the Strategic Investments sector, the Group does not have a significant credit risk exposure to any other single counterparty. Concentration of credit risk of the state owned enterprise is 60.8 % of total trade receivables of the Group as at 31st March 2014. Annual Report 2013 2014 181 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Trade receivable settlement frequency 31.03.2014 31.03.2013 Amount Amount Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Less than 30 days 3,375,531 2,987,548 More than 30 days but less than 60 days 2,172,575 1,795,903 More than 60 days but less than 90 days 1,646,304 1,589,424 More than 90 days but less than 180 days 102,516 1,139,594 More than 180 days but less than 365 days 26,152 268,770 More than 365 days 213,022 48,448 Total gross trade receivables 7,536,100 7,829,687 Impairment provision for trade receivables (51,326) (45,377) Total net trade receivables 7,484,774 7,784,310 35.5.2 Collateral acquired for mitigating credit risk The Group as a policy does not offer credit to individuals unless collateral in the form of bank guarantees or advances are provided to cover the receivable. The total collateral obtained on trade receivables of Rs. 216 million as at the balance sheet date, consists of bank guarantees and corporate guarantees which have no restrictions on enforcement if such debts fall irrecoverable. The Group focuses on quality and the realisability of such collateral to mitigate potential credit losses. 36 Capital management The capital management strategy of the Aitken Spence Group is fundamentally aimed at ensuring that there is adequate capital for long term investments and growth, while maintaining sufficient liquidity for the continuation of business operations in an uninterrupted manner. The Group’s management is also acutely conscious of the need to maintain the financial health of the organisation to enable it to withstand economic cycles while maintaining stakeholder confidence in the Group and has integrated this requirement to the capital management strategy. 36.1 Types of Capital Financial capital of the Group consists of equity and debt. The components of equity capital are the stated capital, retained earnings, and reserves while the debt capital consists of long and short term debt obtained from lending institutions and capital markets. The Group periodically evaluates its projected capital requirements for the future considering investment needs and other capital utilisation requirements. Such evaluations may point out gaps in the required capital which would be filled through either the issue of new equity or debt. The debt to equity ratio (defined as the ratio between non-current interest bearing borrowings to the total equity and minority interest) is carefully monitored to ensure the efficient use of shareholder’s equity. Managing the debt to equity ratio is a vital element of capital management as it has a direct bearing on the Group’s ability to raise low cost capital. Sourcing of debt capital is carried out subsequent to detailed evaluation of lender proposals. Many factors are taken into account in this evaluation including interest rates, repayment period and amounts, and financial and other covenants. Minimising the Weighted Average Cost of Capital is also one of the key objectives. Whilst raising of capital is carried out both at Group and Strategic Business Unit (SBU) levels the Group treasury plays an active role in ensuring that the cost of capital is maintained at the optimum level and the financial and other covenants linked to the sourcing arrangements are acceptable. 36.2 Capital Allocation and Investment The Group has a long term strategy for growth. Implementation of this strategy requires continuous capital investments in the multitude of sectors in which the Group carries out business. The allocation of limited capital available is done pursuant to careful evaluation of investment opportunities to determine expected returns. The Group’s capital investment decisions are supported by complex financial modeling, thorough sensitivity analysis and legal, financial and technical due diligence. IRR hurdle rates are consistently used to both identify and rank suitable investment opportunities. Once a decision is taken to make a capital investment the Group takes relevant steps to ensure that the investment decision is carried out in the optimum manner. When the investment involves external shareholders, the Group take steps to ensure its rights by entering into carefully drafted legal agreements. Post investment evaluations are carried out at frequent intervals to ensure that the returns envisaged at the evaluation stage are actually delivered. Exposure limits are used to control the default risk especially in portfolio investments. At the evaluation stage for capital investments financial modeling, sensitivity analysis, and the calculation of IRR are carried out either by the Group’s Corporate Finance division, or the respective SBU through which the investment will take place with the assistance of the former. 182 Aitken Spence PLC 36.3 Adequate Financial Reserves The Group constantly endeavours to maintain adequate reserves of capital so as to ensure the long term financial health of the organization. Possible risks that could result in financial losses are identified and steps are taken to mitigate the probabilities. Sound cashflow planning practices have been implemented Groupwide ensuring efficient collection of receivables and shortening the cash cycle. A special emphasis is placed on minimizing operating costs through critical evaluation and justification of all cost elements. The Group policies regarding managing receivables have been communicated to respective head of finance of all SBUs. The corporate finance division of the Group monitors the Group-wide status of receivables and submits exception reports to the management for advise on required action. 36.4 Capital Management Policy The Group’s capital management policy fundamentally stems from various decisions the Board of Directors has taken regarding capital investments and the optimum utilization of cash resources. This policy is a reflection of the current thinking of the Board on present and future industry, market and economic risks and conditions. Potential investments and divestments are discussed at length by Group directors and various aspects of risk and return parameters are considered prior to making capital investment decisions. Exception reports on receivables are discussed either by the Board or the Audit Committee and appropriate decisions are taken. The group treasury and the corporate finance division play a vital role in implementing the capital management policy. The corporate finance division provides management information necessary to base policy decisions such as Key Performance Indicators of SBUs highlighting financial performances. Some of the important parameters which guide the capital management policy include the tolerance for gearing, interest risk appetite and the view on the exchange rate movement. The underlying variables such as the market borrowing and lending rates, exchange rates, inflation and other macroeconomic indicators are constantly monitored by the group treasury and recommendations regarding the appropriate policy changes are made to the management. 37 Joint ventures The Group’s interest in joint ventures and their principal activities are described in note 21.1 and pages 211 to 219 respectively. Included in the consolidated financial statements are the following items that represent the Group’s interest in the assets and liabilities, revenue and expenses of the joint ventures. 31.03.2014 31.03.2013 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Income 4,530,334 4,158,054 Expenses 4,188,356 3,713,864 Current assets 1,318,143 1,478,389 Non-current assets 666,042 661,036 Current liabilities 1,231,402 1,511,049 Non-current liabilities 143,671 130,134 38 Contracts for capital expenditure The following commitments for capital expenditure approved by the Directors as at 31st March have not been provided for in the financial statements. 31.03.2014 31.03.2013 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Approximate amount approved but not contracted for 20,593,356 1,773,260 Approximate amount contracted for but not incurred 1,083,263 823,310 21,676,619 2,596,570 The above includes contractual commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment of Rs. 21,556 million and for the acquisition of intangible assets of Rs. 121 million. Annual Report 2013 2014 183 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 39 Lease commitments Lease rentals due on non-cancellable operating leases of the Group are as follows; 31.03.2014 31.03.2013 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Lease rentals payable within one year 331,427 321,707 Lease rentals payable between one and five years 1,657,848 1,609,245 Lease rentals payable after five years 6,037,655 6,189,725 8,026,930 8,120,677 39.1 Details of leases under operating lease Company Location of the leased properties Unexpired lease periods Kandalama Hotels Ltd. Dambulla, Sri Lanka 28 years Hethersett Hotels Ltd. Nuwara Eliya, Sri Lanka 80 years Jetan Travel Services Company (Pvt) Ltd. Republic of Maldives 27 years Cowrie Investments (Pvt) Ltd. Republic of Maldives 34 years ADS Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. Republic of Maldives 12 years Unique Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. Republic of Maldives 31 years Ace Container Terminals (Pvt) Ltd. Biyagama, Sri Lanka 73 years Ace Container Terminals (Pvt) Ltd. Katunayake, Sri Lanka 73 years 40 Cessation of Power Purchase Agreements of Ace Power Generation Matara (Pvt) Ltd and Ace Power Generation Horana (Pvt) Ltd. Upon the expiration of the Power Purchased Agreements signed between the Ceylon Electricity Board and Ace Power Matara (Pvt) Ltd and Ace Power Horana (Pvt) Ltd on 26th March 2012 and 19th December 2012 respectively, Ace Power Horana (Pvt) Ltd disposed the 20 Megawatt thermal power plant owned by the company to an overseas buyer. Hence the financial statements of Ace Power Horana (Pvt) Ltd are prepared on a nongoing concern basis. However Ace Power Matara (Pvt) Ltd is presently in the process of negotiating an extension for the said the Power Purchase Agreement for a further period. In the circumstances the financial statements of the company are prepared on going concern basis. 41 Generation licence Ace Power Embilipitiya (Pvt) Ltd. Ace Power Embilipitiya (Pvt) Ltd. a subsidiary company, is currently supplying power to the Ceylon Electricity Board based on a generation licence validly obtained on 14th January 2004 for which payments have been received regularly. However the Sri Lanka Electricity (Amendment) Act, No. 31 of 2013 which amended the requirements of the Sri Lanka Electricity Act Number 20 of 2009, with respect to the eligibility of companies to apply for generation licences, included companies operating a plant to generate electricity over and above the generation capacity of 25 MW, having a valid power purchase agreement executed with the Ceylon Electricity Board and which was in operation before 8th April 2009, the date on which the Act came into force. Accordingly Ace Power Embilipitiya has applied for a new generation licence under this Act. 42 Contingent liabilities The contingent liabilities as at 31.03.2014 on guarantees given by Aitken Spence PLC to third parties amounted to Rs. 1,688 million. Of this sum Rs. 1,454 million and Rs. 234 million relates to facilities obtained by subsidiaries and joint ventures respectively and none to equity-accounted investees. Liabilities as at 31.03.2014 on guarantees given by subsidiaries to third parties amounted to Rs. 9,697 million. None of the above guarantees were in relation to facilities obtained by companies other than companies within the Group. There were no guarantees given in relation to facilities obtained by Aitken Spence PLC. Cey Spence (Pvt) Ltd which was previously an equity accounted investee now under liquidation, and the share of net assets of which is reflected under assets classified as held for sale in the consolidated financial statements of the Group was issued an income tax assessment under the Inland Revenue Act in relation to the year of assessment 2007/2008. The Tax Appeals Commission hearing the appeal has determined the income tax assessment in favour of the Department of Inland Revenue. Pursuant to the determination of the Tax Appeals Commission the company has appealed against the determination to the Court of Appeal. The contingent liability to the Group is estimated to be Rs. 70 million inclusive of any penalties. Based on expert advice the Directors are confident that the ultimate resolution of the case will not have a material adverse impact on the financial statements of the Group. 184 Aitken Spence PLC 43 Directors’ fees The Directors of the Company have received fees amounting to Rs. 122,400 /from subsidiaries for the year ended 31st March 2014. 44 Related party transactions The Group carries out transactions in the ordinary course of business with parties who are defined as related parties as per Sri Lanka Accounting Standard-LKAS 24 Related Party Disclosures, which are transacted at normal business terms. The pricing policy applicable to such transactions are comparable with those that would have been charged from unrelated companies. Mr. D.H.S. Jayawardena Chairman of the company is also the Chairman or a Director of Aitken Spence Hotel Holdings PLC, and Aitken Spence Hotel Management Asia (Pvt) Ltd., which are Subsidiaries of the Group. He is also the Chairman of Browns Beach Hotels PLC., and Negombo Beach Resorts (Pvt) Ltd., associate companies and the Chairman, Managing Director or a Director of companies indicated by “*” in the list of companies disclosed under note 44.4. Mr. J.M.S. Brito, Managing and Finance Director of the company is also the Chairman or a Director of the subsidiaries, joint ventures and equity-accounted investees that are indicated by “a” in notes 21 and 22 to the financial statements. Mr. J.M.S Brito was also the Chairman of DFCC Bank during the year (Resigned w.e.f. 21.03.2014) and is the Chairman of DFCC Vardhana Bank PLC. Dr. R.M. Fernando a Director of the company is also the Managing Director or a Director of the companies marked by “b” in note 21 and 22 to the financial statements. Dr. P. Dissanayake a Director of the company is also the Chairman, Managing Director or a Director of the companies marked by “c” in note 21 to the financial statements. Mr.C. H. Gomez a Director of the company is also a Director of Aitken Spence Hotel Holdings PLC. Mr. N. J. de S Deva Aditya a Director of the company is also a Director of Aitken Spence Hotel Holdings PLC. He is also a Director of Distilleries Company of Sri Lanka PLC and Melstacorp Ltd. Mr. V.M. Fernando a Director of the company is also the Chairman of Shipping and Cargo Logistics (Pvt) Ltd., which is a joint venture company of the Group. He is also the Chairman or a Director of Hyundai Lanka (Pvt) Ltd., Sri Lankan Airlines Ltd. and Dynamic AV Technologies (Pvt) Ltd. Mr. R.N. Asirwatham a Director of the company is also a Director of Aitken Spence Hotel Holdings PLC. He is also a Director of CIC Holdings PLC, Ceylon Agro Industries Ltd., Colombo City Holdings PLC., Dialtex Industries Ltd., Rajawella (Holdings) Pvt Ltd., Renuka Hotels (Pvt) Ltd., Royal Ceramics Lanka PLC and Dankotuwa Porcelain PLC. Miss. D.S.T. Jayawardena a Director of the company is also the Chairperson / Director of Splendor Media (Pvt) Ltd. Transactions and outstanding balances between the companies within the Group and related parties are given in note no. 44.1 44.7. Annual Report 2013 2014 185 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Details of significant related party disclosures are given below. 44.1 Transactions with subsidiary companies Transactions with Transactions with Aitken Spence PLC Group companies 2013/2014 2012/2013 2013/2014 2012/2013 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Income from services rendered 504,331 464,264 N/A N/A Rent income received 15,735 15,735 N/A N/A Allocation of common personnel and administration expenses 49,980 57,729 N/A N/A Purchase of goods and services 47,051 70,289 N/A N/A Interest income received 71,774 162,161 N/A N/A Interest paid 50,160 145,295 N/A N/A Transactions with A D S Resorts (Pvt) Ltd., A E Lanka (Pvt) Ltd., Ace Alliance Power Ltd., Ace Aviation Services (Pvt) Ltd., Ace Cargo (Pvt) Ltd., Ace Container Repair (Pvt) Ltd., Ace Container Terminals (Pvt) Ltd., Ace Containers (Pvt) Ltd., Ace Distriparks (Pvt) Ltd., Ace Exports (Pvt) Ltd., Ace Freight Management (Pvt) Ltd., Ace International Express (Pvt) Ltd., Ace Power Embilipitiya (Pvt) Ltd., Ace Power Generation Horana (Pvt) Ltd., Ace Power Generation Matara (Pvt) Ltd., Ace Printing & Packaging (Pvt) Ltd., Ace Wind Power (Pvt) Ltd., Ahungalla Resorts Ltd., Aitken Spence Apparels (Pvt) Ltd., Aitken Spence Aviation (Pvt) Ltd., Aitken Spence Cargo (Pvt) Ltd., Aitken Spence Developments (Pvt) Ltd., Aitken Spence Exports (Pvt) Ltd., Aitken Spence Hotel Holdings PLC, Aitken Spence Hotel Managements (Pvt) Ltd., Aitken Spence Hotel Managements Asia (Pvt) Ltd., Aitken Spence Hotels International (Pvt) Ltd., Aitken Spence Hotels Ltd., Aitken Spence Insurance (Pvt) Ltd., Aitken Spence Insurance Brokers (Pvt) Ltd., Aitken Spence Maritime Ltd., Aitken Spence Moscow (Pvt) Ltd., Aitken Spence Printing & Packaging (Pvt) Ltd., Aitken Spence Property Developments (Pvt) Ltd., Aitken Spence Resorts (Pvt) Ltd., Aitken Spence Resources (Pvt) Ltd., Aitken Spence Shipping Ltd., Aitken Spence Shipping Services Ltd., Aitken Spence Technologies (Pvt) Ltd., Alliance Spence Power Ltd., Branford Hydropower (Pvt) Ltd., Clark Spence & Company (Pvt) Ltd., Cowrie Investment (Pvt) Ltd., Crest Star (BVI) Ltd., Crest Star Ltd., Elevators (Pvt) Ltd., Golden Sun Resorts (Pvt) Ltd., Hapag-Lloyd Lanka (Pvt) Ltd., Heritance (Pvt) Ltd., Hethersett Hotels Ltd., Jetan Travel Services Company (Pvt) Ltd., Kandalama Hotels (Pvt) Ltd., Logilink (Pvt) Ltd., M.P.S. Hotels (Pvt) Ltd., Neptune Ayurvedic Village (Pvt) Ltd., Port Management Container Services (Pvt) Ltd., Royal Spence Aviation (Pvt) Ltd., Spence International (Pvt) Ltd., Spence Logistics (Pvt) Ltd., Unique Resorts (Pvt) Ltd., Vauxhall Cargo Logistics (Pvt) Ltd., Vauxhall Investments (Pvt) Ltd., Vauxhall Property Developments (Pvt) Ltd., Western Power Company (Pvt) Ltd., are reflected under transactions with subsidiary companies above. 44.2 Transactions with joint venture companies Transactions with Transactions with Aitken Spence PLC Group companies 2013/2014 2012/2013 2013/2014 2012/2013 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Sale of goods and services 86,057 50,339 N/A N/A Purchase of goods and services 863 789 N/A N/A Interest paid 69,517 66,348 N/A N/A Transactions with Ace Travels & Conventions (Pvt) Ltd., Aitken Spence (Garments) Ltd., Aitken Spence C & T Investments (Pvt) Ltd., Aitken Spence Overseas Travel Services (Pvt) Ltd., Aitken Spence Travels (Pvt) Ltd., Delta Shipping (Pvt) Ltd., MMBL Money Transfer (Pvt) Ltd., Shipping & Cargo Logistics (Pvt) Ltd., Spence Maldives (Pvt) Ltd., are reflected under transactions with joint venture companies above. 44.3 Transactions with equity-accounted investees Transactions with Transactions with Aitken Spence PLC Group companies 2013/2014 2012/2013 2013/2014 2012/2013 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Sale of goods and services 6,123 4,066 21,822 14,172 Purchase of goods and services 1,153 1,126 4,997 4,574 Sales of assets 5,300 5,300 Transactions with Aitken Spence Plantation Managements PLC Group and Browns Beach Hotels PLC Group are reflected under transactions with equityaccounted investees above. 186 Aitken Spence PLC 44.4 Transactions with other related companies Transactions with Transactions with Aitken Spence PLC Group companies 2013/2014 2012/2013 2013/2014 2012/2013 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Sale of goods and services 316,741 223,349 Purchase of goods and services 264,979 168,110 457,647 450,178 Interest income received 20,600 9,654 Interest paid 140,853 168,244 206,426 225,324 Loans obtained 24,158 144,524 Repayment of loans and debentures 112,500 261,293 145,852 Short/ long term facilities as at 31st March N/A 1,300,000 N/A 2,198,599 Transactions with Ambewela Livestock Company Ltd.*, Ambewela Products (Pvt) Ltd.*, Bell Solutions (Pvt) Ltd.*, Ceylon Gardner Coir (Pvt) Ltd.*, Distilleries Company of Sri Lanka PLC.*, Lanka Bell (Pvt) Ltd.8, Lanka Dairies (Pvt) Ltd.8, Lanka Milk Foods (CWE) PLC.*, Melsta Corp (Pvt) Ltd.*, Milford Exports (Ceylon) (Pvt) Ltd.*, Pattipola livestock company Ltd.*, Periceyl (Pvt) Ltd.*, Stassen Exports (Pvt) Ltd.*, Stassen Foods (Pvt) Ltd.*, Stassen International (Pvt) Ltd.*, Stassen Natural Foods (Pvt) Ltd.*, Telecom Frontier (Pvt) Ltd.*, Texpro Industries Ltd.*, Ceylon Agro Industries Ltd., CIC Holdings PLC, Continental Insurance Lanka Ltd., Dankotuwa porcelain PLC, DFCC Bank., DFCC Vardhana Bank PLC., Dialtex Industries Ltd., Dynamic AV Technologies (Pvt) Ltd., Hyundai Lanka (Pvt) Ltd., Rajawella (Holdings) (Pvt) Ltd., Royal Ceramics PLC, Splendor Media (Pvt) Ltd., Sri Lankan Airlines Ltd., Colombo City Holdings PLC, Renuka Hotels (Pvt) Ltd., are reflected under transactions with other related companies, above. 44.5 Transactions with post-employment benefit plans Transactions with Transactions with Aitken Spence PLC Group companies 2013/2014 2012/2013 2013/2014 2012/2013 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Contributions to the provident fund 164,950 154,167 29,210 27,155 Contributions to the Aitken Spence & Associated Companies Executive Staff Provident Fund., and the Aitken Spence & Associated Companies Clerical Staff Provident Fund., are reflected under transactions with post-employment benefit plans, above. 44.6 Amounts due from related parties Balances with Balances with Aitken Spence PLC Group companies 31.03.2014 31.03.2013 31.03.2014 31.03.2013 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Fully owned subsidiaries 1,582,167 1,645,313 N/A N/A Partly owned subsidiaries 669,022 1,070,194 N/A N/A Joint ventures 45,660 39,473 N/A N/A Amount due from subsidiaries & joint ventures 2,296,849 2,754,980 N/A N/A Equity-accounted investees 7,270 10,591 9,202 12,288 Other related companies 47,334 10,747 Annual Report 2013 2014 187 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 44.7 Amounts due to related parties Balances with Balances with Aitken Spence PLC Group companies 31.03.2014 31.03.2013 31.03.2014 31.03.2013 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Fully owned subsidiaries 720,021 718,241 N/A N/A Partly owned subsidiaries 104,739 88,535 N/A N/A Joint ventures 1,224,525 1,284,477 N/A N/A Amount due to subsidiaries & joint ventures 2,049,285 2,091,253 N/A N/A Equity-accounted investees 130 24 260 136 Other related companies 1,300,000 702 1,996,327 44.8 Transactions with key management personnel Aitken Spence PLC., considers its Board of Directors as the key management personnel of the company. The Board of Directors, Vice Presidents and Assistant Vice Presidents of subsidiary companies are considered as key management personnel of group companies. There were no loans given to Directors of the company during the financial year. Compensation paid to / on behalf of key management personnel of the Company is as follows ; Company Group Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Short term employee benefits 72,790 450,002 Post employment benefits 10,737 No post-employment benefits were paid to key management personnel of Aitken Spence PLC during the financial year. The Company/Group did not have any material transactions with its key management personnel or their close family members during the year. 45 Foreign currency translation The principal exchange rates used for translation purposes were; 31.03.2014 31.03.2013 United States Dollar 130.73 126.89 British Pound 217.41 192.04 Euro 179.67 162.14 Oman Rial 339.49 329.49 Fiji Dollar 70.84 71.12 South African Rand 12.33 13.69 Indian Rupee 2.18 2.33 Maldivian Rufiyaa 8.39 8.24 Bangladesh Taka 1.68 1.62 46 Number of employees The number of employees of the Group at the end of the year was 6,305 (2013 6,207) The number of employees of the Company at the end of the year was 205 (2013 201). 47 Events occurring after the reporting date The Board of Directors of the Company resolved to recommend a first and final ordinary dividend of Rs. 2.00 per share for the year 2013/2014 to be approved at the Annual General Meeting. Details of the dividend is disclosed in note 14 to the financial statements. There were no other material events that occurred after the reporting date that require adjustments to or disclosure in the financial statements. 188 Aitken Spence PLC 48 Comparative information The accounting policies adopted by the Group are consistent with those adopted in the previous financial year except for the policy on retirement benefits obligations which is revised with the adoption of LKAS 19Employee Benefits. The presentation and classification of the financial statements of the previous period have been adjusted on adoption of the above accounting policy as follows; 48.1 Effect on income statement of 2012/2013 Group Company Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Employee benefits expense 27,904 9,758 Profit from operations 27,904 9,758 Share of profit of equity-accounted investees (net of tax) (3,685) Profit before tax 24,219 9,758 Income tax expense (2,794) Profit for the year 21,425 9,758 Attributable to: Equity holders of the company 20,769 9,758 Non-controlling interests 656 Profit for the year 21,425 9,758 Earnings per share Basic (Rs.) 0.05 0.02 48.2 Effect on other comprehensive income statement of 2012/2013 Group Company Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Acturial gains / (losses) on defined benefit obligations (27,904) (9,758) Share of other comprehensive income of equity-accounted investees (net of tax) 3,685 Income tax on other comprehensive income 2,794 Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax (21,425) (9,758) Annual Report 2013 2014 189 Consolidated Financial statements in USD CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT IN USD For the year ended 31st March 2014 2013 USD’000 USD’000 Revenue 279,952 292,694 Revenue taxes (3,746) (4,206) Net revenue 276,206 288,488 Other operating income 3,481 99 Changes in inventories of finished goods and work-in-progress 443 (91) Raw materials and consumables used (79,823) (101,771) Employee benefits expense (33,518) (31,281) Depreciation, amortisation and impairment of property, plant and equipment and goodwill (11,470) (11,254) Other operating expenses direct (70,012) (66,185) Other operating expenses indirect (41,683) (34,417) Profit from operations 43,624 43,588 Finance income 6,125 5,996 Finance expenses (9,567) (11,380) Net finance expense (3,442) (5,384) Share of profit of equity-accounted investees (net of tax) 1,194 1,401 Profit before tax 41,376 39,605 Income tax expense (6,888) (5,910) Profit for the year 34,488 33,695 Attributable to: Equity holders of the company 28,087 25,909 Non-controlling interests 6,401 7,786 Profit for the year 34,488 33,695 Earnings per share Basic/Diluted (Rs.) USD cents = 6.92 6.38 Exchange rate USD = 130.73 126.89 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME IN USD For the year ended 31st March 2014 2013 USD’000 USD’000 Profit for the year 34,488 33,695 Other comprehensive income Revaluation of property, plant and equipment 8,880 2,209 Actuarial gains / (losses) on defined benefit obligations (434) (220) Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 1,401 (403) Net change in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets (187) 291 Net change in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets reclassified to profit or loss 14 (19) Share of other comprehensive income of equity-accounted investees (net of tax) 99 29 Income tax on other comprehensive income 67 22 Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax 9,840 1,909 Total comprehensive income for the year 44,328 35,604 Attributable to: Equity holders of the parent 36,701 27,395 Non-controlling interests 7,627 8,209 Total comprehensive income for the year 44,328 35,604 Exchange rate USD = 130.73 126.89 Figures in brackets indicate deductions. 190 Aitken Spence PLC Consolidated Financial statements in USD CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION IN USD As at 31.03.2014 31.03.2013 USD’000 USD’000 ASSETS Non-Current Assets Property, plant and equipment 192,924 189,469 Investment property 13,291 13,095 Intangible assets 6,904 5,155 Leasehold property 11,176 11,537 Pre-paid operating leases 7,728 7,729 Finance lease receivables 17,180 18,324 Investments in equity-accounted investees 16,022 15,220 Deferred tax assets 1,683 1,751 Other financial assets 2,962 3,642 269,870 265,922 Current Assets Inventories 12,540 14,380 Finance lease receivables 1,124 1,332 Trade and other receivables 71,236 78,593 Current tax receivable 1,845 1,426 Deposits and prepayments 8,106 8,904 Other financial assets 80,988 53,307 Cash and short-term deposits 20,871 17,480 196,710 175,422 Assets classified as held for sale 1,141 1,175 Total Assets 467,721 442,519 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity Stated capital 16,332 16,827 Reserves 106,209 100,053 Retained earnings 124,216 104,203 Total equity attributable to equity holders of the company 246,757 221,083 Non-controlling interests 49,872 42,946 Total Equity 296,629 264,029 Non-Current Liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities 56,104 49,219 Deferred tax liabilities 4,892 3,978 Employee benefits 4,409 3,526 65,405 56,723 Current Liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities 12,410 10,797 Provisions 3,540 2,184 Trade and other payables 50,305 60,792 Current tax payable 4,573 3,950 Bank overdrafts and other short-term borrowings 34,859 44,044 105,687 121,767 Total Equity and Liabilities 467,721 442,519 Exchange rate USD = 130.73 126.89 Annual Report 2013 2014 191 INVESTOR INFORMATION Stock Exchange Listing Aitken Spence PLC is a public quoted company, the issued ordinary shares of which are listed on the Colombo Stock Exchange. Stock exchange code for Aitken Spence PLC share is “SPEN”. Market Sector : Diversified Holdings Ordinary Shares Share Trading Information 2013/2014 2012/2013 2011/2012 Number of transactions 3,755 3,256 6,772 No. of shares traded during the year 35,111,754 137,137,807 100,909,029 Value of shares traded during the year (Rs. Million) 3,965 15,429 12,144 Percentage of total value transacted (%) 2.03 8.13 2.77 Market Value 2013/2014 2012/2013 2011/2012 Highest (Rs.) 140.00 136.30 169.50 Lowest (Rs.) 95.00 100.00 100.00 Closing (Rs.) 97.90 119.60 112.70 The market value of the ordinary share as at 26th May 2014 was Rs. 101.00. NO. OF SHARES TRADED MARKET VALUE PER SHARE for the year ended 31st March for the year ended 31st March 'ooo 137,138 169.50 136.30 140.00 100,909 119.60 112.70 97.90 100.00 100.00 95.00 35,112 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 Highest (Rs.) Lowest (Rs.) Closing (Rs.) SHARE PRICES VS INDICES 2013/2014 12 Month Trend Index Rs. Level ASI S&P SL20 Diversiﬁed holdings sector Share Price 9,000 160.00 8,000 140.00 7,000 120.00 6,000 100.00 5,000 80.00 4,000 3,000 60.00 2,000 40.00 1,000 20.00 0 0.00 Apr-13 May-13 Jun-13 Jul-13 Aug-13 Sep-13 Oct-13 Nov-13 Dec-13 Jan-14 Feb-14 Mar-14 192 Aitken Spence PLC Market Capitalisation 31st March 2014 31st March 2013 31st March 2012 Market capitalisation (Rs. Million) 39,747 48,557 45,756 Percentage of total market capitalisation (%) 1.59 2.20 2.27 MARKET CAPITALISATION As at 31st March Rs. Mn 39,747 2014 2013 48,557 45,756 2012 Earnings 2013/2014 2012/2013 2011/2012 Earnings per share Basic/Diluted (Rs.) 9.04 8.10 8.59 Price earnings ratio (P/E) (Times) 10.82 14.77 13.12 EARNINGS PER SHARE PRICE EARNINGS RATIO for the year ended 31st March as at 31st March Rs. Times 9.04 10.82 2014 2014 2013 8.10 2013 14.77 8.59 13.12 2012 2012 Net Assets per share 31st March 2014 31st March 2013 31st March 2012 The Group (Rs.) 79.46 69.10 61.96 The Company (Rs.) 31.85 32.35 32.40 Annual Report 2013 2014 193 INVESTOR INFORMATION Dividends An ordinary dividend of Rs. 2.00 per share (2012/2013 Rs. 1.50 per share) has been recommended to the shareholders for approval at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting. History of dividend per share and dividend cover for the past 10 years Year Dividend per share Dividend cover DIVIDEND PER SHARE & DIVIDEND COVER (Rs.) (Times) for the year ended 31st March 2004/2005* 0.40 6.88 2005/2006* 0.43 6.90 2.00 6.14 2006/2007* 0.43 8.30 5.40 2007/2008* 0.47 9.72 1.40 1.50 4.52 2008/2009* 0.63 7.93 2009/2010* 0.67 7.61 2010/2011 1.00 6.25 2011/2012 1.40 6.14 2012 2013 2014 2012/2013 1.50 5.40 Dividend Per Share (Rs.) Dividend Cover (Times) 2013/2014 2.00 4.52 * The Above figures are restated taking into consideration the subdivision of shares. Analysis of shareholder base Distribution of shares Range of shareholding 31st March 2014 31st March 2013 No. of shareholders No. of shares % No. of shareholders No. of shares % 1 1,000 2,519 788,838 0.19 2,573 849,788 0.21 1,001 10,000 1,218 4,130,911 1.02 1,244 4,237,855 1.04 10,001 100,000 342 10,659,558 2.63 346 10,451,988 2.57 100,001 1,000,000 76 21,252,946 5.23 69 20,304,372 5.00 1,000,001and above 30 369,163,792 90.93 29 370,152,042 91.17 Total 4,185 405,996,045 100.00 4,261 405,996,045 100.00 There were 4,185 voting registered shareholders as at 31st March 2014 (31st March 2013 4,261). Individuals / Institutions INDIVIDUALS / INSTITUTIONS 31st March 2014 31st March 2013 as at 31st March No. of Shares % No. of Shares % Institutions 368,115,685 90.67 368,041,727 90.65 90.67% 9.33% Individuals 37,880,360 9.33 37,954,318 9.35 2014 405,996,045 100.00 405,996,045 100.00 90.65% 9.35% 2013 90.50% 9.50% 2012 Institutions Individuals 194 Aitken Spence PLC Nationals / Non-Nationals NATIONALS / NON-NATIONALS 31st March 2014 31st March 2013 as at 31st March No. of Shares % No. of Shares % Nationals 234,350,357 57.72 221,941,146 54.67 57.72% 42.28% Non-Nationals 171,645,688 42.28 184,054,899 45.33 2014 405,996,045 100.00 405,996,045 100.00 54.67% 45.33% 2013 As per the rule No 7.6 (iv) of Colombo Stock Exchange, percentage 54.34% 45.66% of public holding as at 31st March 2014 was 38.78%. 2012 Nationals Non-Nationals Twenty largest shareholders as at 31st March 2014 Name No. of Shares % 1 Melstacorp Limited 166,826,598 41.09 2 Rubicond Enterprises Limited 65,990,145 16.25 3 HSBC International Nominees Limited BPSS Lux Aberdeen Global -Asian Smaller Companies Fund 33,563,942 8.27 4 HSBC Intl Nom Ltd BP2S London Aberdeen Asia Pacific Equity Fund 17,192,300 4.24 5 Mr. G.C. Wickremasinghe 7,308,240 1.80 6 Employees Provident Fund 6,922,452 1.71 7 HSBC Intl Nom Ltd BP2S Luxembourg Aberdeen Global Frontier Markets Equity Fund 6,780,000 1.67 8 HSBC International Nominees Ltd SSBT Aberdeen Institutional Commingled Funds, LLC 5,795,500 1.43 9 Placidrange Holdings Limited 5,521,500 1.36 10 HSBC Intl Nom Ltd SSBT National Westminster Bank PLC AS Depositary of First State Asia Pacific 4,662,254 1.15 Fund A Sub Fund of First State Investments LCVC 11 HSBC Intl Nominees Ltd BP2S London Aberdeen New Dawn Investment Trust XCC6 4,503,555 1.11 12 Milford Exports (Ceylon) (Pvt) Limited 4,321,500 1.06 13 Mellon Bank N.A. Florida Retirement System 3,849,615 0.95 14 HSBC Intl Nominees Ltd-BP2S London Aberdeen Asia Smaller Companies Investment Trust 3,400,000 0.84 15 Stassen Exports Limited 3,244,500 0.80 16 Ms. A.T. Wickremasinghe 3,211,975 0.79 17 Ms. K. Fernando 3,135,070 0.77 18 Mr. G. Wickremasinghe 3,019,090 0.74 19 Banque Pictet & Cie SA 2,789,753 0.69 20 Employees Trust Fund Board 2,621,870 0.65 Total 354,659,859 87.37 Annual Report 2013 2014 195 INVESTOR INFORMATION Shareholding of Directors Shareholding of Directors together with their spouses in Aitken Spence PLC 31st March 2014 31st March 2013 Mr. J.M.S. Brito 304,495 294,495 Mr. G.C. Wickremasinghe 7,308,240 7,308,240 Mr. R.N. Asirwatham 1,000 1,000 Ms. D.S.T. Jayawardena (Appointed w.e.f. 01.12.2013) 27,839 N/A 7,641,574 7,603,735 Indirect holding by Directors 31st March 2014 31st March 2013 Mr. G.C. Wickremasinghe Manohari Enterprises Ltd 298,830 298,830 Deshamanya D.H.S. Jayawardena Stassen Exports Ltd 3,244,500 3,244,500 Milford Exports (Ceylon) Ltd 4,321,500 4,321,500 Distilleries Company of Sri Lanka PLC 186,500 186,500 Periceyl (Pvt) Limited 21,200 21,200 8,072,530 8,072,530 Shareholding in Group Companies 31st March 2014 31st March 2013 Aitken Spence Hotel Holdings PLC Mr. J.M.S. Brito 106,596 106,596 Mr. G.C. Wickremasinghe 2,082,241 2,852,241 Mr. R.N. Asirwatham 1,000 1,000 Ms. D.S.T. Jayawardena (Appointed w.e.f. 01.12.2013) 16,000 N/A Hethersett Hotels Limited Mr. G.C. Wickremasinghe 1,041,500 1,041,500 SHARE PRICES VS INDICES 10 Year Trend (1st April 2004 to 31st March 2014) Index Rs. Level 9000 250.00 8000 7000 200.00 6000 150.00 5000 4000 100.00 3000 2000 50.00 1000 0 0 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 Share Price ASI 196 Aitken Spence PLC TEN YEAR SUMMARY Year ended 31st March 2014 ** 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Operating Results Revenue 36,598,095 37,139,927 31,021,623 25,143,811 24,168,970 29,307,818 27,515,960 19,765,632 13,593,263 10,063,989 Profit before taxation 5,409,111 5,025,481 5,183,354 3,815,555 3,353,169 3,396,916 3,064,792 2,582,088 1,910,115 1,721,123 Taxation 900,476 749,970 746,090 387,335 366,193 328,385 235,110 298,018 197,623 162,599 Profit after taxation 4,508,635 4,275,511 4,437,264 3,428,220 2,986,976 3,068,531 2,829,682 2,284,070 1,712,492 1,558,524 Profit attributable to Aitken Spence PLC 3,671,870 3,287,607 3,487,669 2,535,956 2,059,636 2,040,010 1,841,150 1,459,774 1,213,661 1,116,776 Equity & Liabilities Stated capital 2,135,140 2,135,140 2,135,140 2,135,140 2,135,140 2,135,140 2,135,140 2,135,140 2,135,140 2,134,326 Reserves 13,884,656 12,695,793 12,454,684 11,071,652 9,317,199 7,227,545 3,505,284 2,673,510 2,370,383 2,306,075 Retained earnings 16,238,762 13,222,324 10,564,698 8,309,395 7,442,131 7,715,269 6,263,600 5,122,472 4,022,929 3,126,517 Non-controlling interest 6,519,706 5,449,444 4,708,800 5,129,687 4,566,388 4,553,439 3,881,704 3,193,710 2,679,745 1,774,362 Non-current liabilities 8,550,368 7,197,484 6,563,195 4,746,363 5,730,436 6,677,114 6,903,834 6,832,112 5,815,540 4,476,808 Current liabilities 13,816,605 15,450,825 14,558,490 8,752,588 8,352,184 8,072,337 8,495,631 6,393,881 6,182,957 3,288,637 61,145,237 56,151,010 50,985,007 40,144,825 37,543,478 36,380,844 31,185,193 26,350,825 23,206,694 17,106,725 Assets Property, plant and equipment 25,220,920 24,041,780 22,585,836 23,925,653 23,328,896 22,635,636 16,982,305 16,770,495 15,450,267 11,005,913 Investment property 1,737,575 1,661,596 1,662,349 102,799 28,936 28,936 28,936 28,936 28,936 28,936 Intangible assets 902,600 654,056 643,600 134,026 154,185 109,164 122,520 159,407 191,811 170,058 Leasehold property 1,461,100 1,463,930 1,521,101 1,354,028 1,462,903 1,499,514 1,351,259 Pre paid operating leases 1,010,249 980,731 1,028,164 5,455 5,546 5,637 5,728 Finance lease receivables 2,245,884 2,325,091 2,512,923 Investments in equity-accounted investees 2,094,496 1,931,205 1,770,117 1,335,002 767,498 752,636 764,489 697,111 690,374 672,513 Deferred tax assets 220,021 222,147 209,769 138,314 56,823 74,008 39,342 Other financial assets 387,248 462,117 392,737 473,945 483,580 404,946 263,576 170,098 213,234 529,963 Current assets 25,716,019 22,259,232 18,509,286 12,494,114 11,093,448 10,721,243 11,465,087 8,524,778 6,632,072 4,699,342 Assets classified as held for sale 149,125 149,125 149,125 181,489 161,663 149,124 161,951 61,145,237 56,151,010 50,985,007 40,144,825 37,543,478 36,380,844 31,185,193 26,350,825 23,206,694 17,106,725 Share Information Earnings per share (Rs.) 9.04 8.10 8.59 6.25 * 5.07 * 5.02 * 4.53 * 3.60 * 2.99 * 2.75 Market value per share (Rs.) 97.90 119.60 112.70 162.30 post share sub division Market value per share (Rs.) 1,373.75 315.00 430.00 380.00 339.00 380.00 pre share sub division Market capitalisation on 31st March (Rs. Mn) 39,747 48,557 45,756 65,893 37,182 8,526 11,639 10,285 9,176 10,282 Price earnings ratio 10.82 14.77 13.12 25.97 18.05 4.18 6.32 7.05 7.56 9.20 Net assets per share (Rs.) 79.46 69.10 61.96 53.00 * 46.54 * 42.06 * 29.32 * 24.46 * 21.01 * 18.64 Employees Information No. of employees 6,305 6,207 5,791 5,328 5,042 5,045 5,090 4,199 4,209 4,209 Value added per employee (Rs.‘000) 2,050 1,979 1,915 1,884 1,770 1,635 1,503 1,467 1,038 857 Ratios & Statistics Ordinary dividend (Rs.‘000) 811,992 608,994 568,394 405,996 270,664 257,131 189,465 175,931 175,931 162,341 Dividend per share (Rs.) 2.00 1.50 1.40 1.00 * 0.67 * 0.63 * 0.47 * 0.43 * 0.43 * 0.40 Dividend cover (times covered) 4.52 5.40 6.14 6.25 7.61 7.93 9.72 8.30 6.90 6.88 Dividend payout ratio 0.22 0.19 0.16 0.16 0.13 0.13 0.10 0.12 0.14 0.15 Current ratio (times covered) 1.86 1.44 1.27 1.43 1.33 1.33 1.35 1.33 1.07 1.43 Debt-equity ratio 0.19 0.19 0.19 0.16 0.22 0.29 0.41 0.49 0.48 0.45 ROE (%) 12.18 12.36 15.01 12.55 11.45 14.08 16.86 15.82 15.08 15.79 Interest cover ratio 16.21 9.55 23.08 23.48 6.44 6.54 5.78 4.93 6.38 9.66 Note: * The above figures are restated taking into consideration the sub division of shares in October 2010. ** The presentation and classification of information for 2012/2013 have been revised with the adoption of LKAS 19 Employee Benefits, which is effective from annual periods commencing on or after 01st January 2013. Annual Report 2013 2014 197 United Nations Global Compact The United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) is a voluntary strategic policy initiative launched by the UN in order to encourage businesses to align their operations and strategies with 10 universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour standards, environment and anti-corruption. Aitken Spence PLC is a signatory of the Global Compact since 28th May 2002 and a member of the Global Compact Network Sri Lanka’s Board and the steering committee, since inception. The Local Network’s role is to root the Global Compact within Sri Lanka and to facilitate the progress of companies engaged in the Global Compact with respect to implementation of the ten principles, create opportunities for multi-stakeholder engagement, collective action and to deepen the learning experience of all participants through their own activities and promote action in support of broader UN goals. Action taken by Aitken Spence PLC and our Group companies are summarised in this section of the report. A more detailed overview is presented in the Management Discussion & Analysis. More content, including the integrated sustainability policy of Aitken Spence PLC in Sinhala, Tamil and English, is also available on the Sustainability Page of the Group’s corporate website at www.aitkenspence.com/sustainability. Aitken Spence PLC was one of the first organisations in the World to become signatory to the Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEP) in 2010. Over the years, we have conducted gap assessments and incorporated action points into the existing systems and procedures to conform to the requirements of the 7 WEPs. A progress chart of the WEP action is presented at the end of this section. General Action: During the year, a fresh study was conducted to review the requirements of the IFC Performance Standards to complement the development of the Aitken Spence Social and Environmental Governance Policy and Procedure. This is meant to be another supporting resource to guide the SBU on key areas of concern for management decision making. The GRI G4 Index will present the indicators relevant to the UNGC principles. Progress Made on Internalising the UNGC 10 Principles Human Rights • Assessment, of Sustainability Team members and staff members chosen randomly at different locations, on awareness about the Human Rights Protection Framework during inspections conducted for the Sustainability Awards 2013 • Perusal of the IFC Performance Standards and development of the Aitken Spence Social and Environmental Governance Policy and Procedure Environment • Adopting a systems approach to mitigate adverse impacts on the environment from business activities. • Maintaining 43 Environmental Management Systems, 12 of which are certified • Screening of waste resource management suppliers on legal requirements and environmental standards • Conducting a Mobile Video Competition to mark World Environment Day (WED) 2013 to create awareness on sustainability. Categories for video submissions included many key aspects of sustainability such was Resource Efficiency, Innovation, Promotion of Sustainability Values and the WED theme of 2013 Think.Eat.Save. Shortlisted videos have been uploaded into a YouTube channel created especially for the contest. (YouTube Channel: ASMobile VideoCompetition) • Incorporating a viva section to the assessment of SBU performance in the Sustainability Awards 2013. • Launching the Peer Education Forum for the Environmental Management Representatives to ensure the persons responsible to maintain the system requirement have the right awareness, knowledge and contacts to fulfil the responsibility. 198 Aitken Spence PLC Labour Standards • Sri Lanka has become signatory to and ratified the core conventions of the International Labour Organisation which are in the areas of Freedom of Association, Forced Labour, Discrimination and Child Labour. • The Group rigidly complies with the labour laws of Sri Lanka and the ILO conventions with respect to employment of persons. The Group offers equal opportunities to existing and potential employees irrespective of gender, race, or religion. • All eligible persons are given the opportunity to secure employment and thereafter continue in an appropriate career path. The Recruitment Policy of the company ensures that discrimination is discouraged and no persons below the legal minimum age are offered employment. The common practice of the Company is to match the skill sets of employees to the job description rather than allocating specific quotas to different groups. General practices of Aitken Spence PLC have been reviewed against the Human Rights Framework as explained above. • An assessment has also been conducted of the Company’s Group-wide practices in line with the Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEP) and action points which can be implemented have been identified. Further discussions are still in place to implement the principles within the Group strategies. An improvement from 2011/12 was the appointment of the Group’s first female Main Board Director. We have also seen an increase in the number of female representatives in the Management Teams of the Company. Our progress in implementing the WEP is illustrated at the end of this section. Anti Corruption • Company Code of Ethics has stringent instructions on anti-corruption. The Internal Audit Department of the Company audits all units periodically to make sure that adequate internal control systems are in place to prevent and detect fraud. • All employees including new recruits are required to know the stipulated procedures and carry out their business activities in accordance with them. Even at our estates all executive staff receives training and awareness at Group learning programmes. Company procedures on anti-corruption and ethical behaviour are mentioned in all appointment letters. • Group’s Corporate Governance procedures, Risk Management and Audit practices also contribute towards prevention of corruption within the company operations. Progress Made on implementing the women’s empowerment principles. The Women’s Empowerment Principles; Annual Report 2013 2014 199 United Nations Global Compact c. Strive to offer health insurance or other needed services – 50% including for survivors of domestic violence – and ensure equal access for all employees. d. Respect women and men workers’ rights to time off for medical Establish high-level corporate leadership for gender equality care and counselling for themselves and their dependents. a. Affirm high-level support and direct top-level policies for gender e. In consultation with employees, identify and address security equality and human rights. issues, including the safety of women travelling to and from work b. Establish company-wide goals and targets for gender equality and and on company-related business. include progress as a factor in managers’ performance reviews. f. Train security staff and managers to recognize signs of violence c. Engage internal and external stakeholders in the development of against women and understand laws and company policies on company policies, programmes and implementation plans that human trafficking, labour and sexual exploitation. advance equality. d. Ensure that all policies are gender-sensitive – identifying factors that impact women and men differently – and that corporate 75% culture advances equality and inclusion. Promote education, training and professional development for women a. Invest in workplace policies and programmes that open avenues 67% for advancement of women at all levels and across all business areas, and encourage women to enter nontraditional job fields. Treat all women and men fairly at work – respect and support b. Ensure equal access to all company-supported education and human rights and nondiscrimination training programmes, including literacy classes, vocational and a. Pay equal remuneration, including benefits, for work of equal value information technology training. and strive to pay a living wage to all women and men. c. Provide equal opportunities for formal and informal networking and b. Ensure that workplace policies and practices are free from gendermentoring. based discrimination. d. Offer opportunities to promote the business case for women’s c. Implement gender-sensitive recruitment and retention practices empowerment and the positive impact of inclusion for men as well and proactively recruit and appoint women to managerial and as women. executive positions and to the corporate board of directors. c. Assure sufficient participation of women – 30% or greater – in decision-making and governance at all levels and across all business areas. d. Offer flexible work options, leave and re-entry opportunities to 40% positions of equal pay and status. e. Support access to child and dependent care by providing services, Implement enterprise development, supply chain and marketing resources and information to both women and men. practices that empower women a. Expand business relationships with women-owned enterprises, including small businesses, and women entrepreneurs. 50% b. Support gender-sensitive solutions to credit and lending barriers. c. Ask business partners and peers to respect the company’s Ensure the health, safety and well-being of all women and men commitment to advancing equality and inclusion. workers d. Respect the dignity of women in all marketing and other company a. Taking into account differential impacts on women and men, materials. provide safe working conditions and protection from exposure e. Ensure that company products, services and facilities are not used to hazardous materials and disclose potential risks, including to for human trafficking and/or labour or sexual exploitation. reproductive health. b. Establish a zero-tolerance policy towards all forms of violence at work, including verbal and/or physical abuse, and prevent sexual harassment. 200 Aitken Spence PLC 40% 50% Community Leadership and Engagement: Promote equality Measure and publicly report on progress to achieve gender through community initiatives and advocacy equality. a. Lead by example – showcase company commitment to gender a. Make public the company policies and implementation plan for equality and women’s empowerment. promoting gender equality. b. Leverage influence, alone or in partnership, to advocate for gender b. Establish benchmarks that quantify inclusion of women at all equality and collaborate with business partners, suppliers and levels. community leaders to promote inclusion. c. Measure and report on progress, both internally and externally, c. Work with community stakeholders, officials and others to eliminate using data disaggregated by gender. discrimination and exploitation and open opportunities for women d. Incorporate gender markers into ongoing reporting obligations. and girls. d. Promote and recognize women’s leadership in and contributions to, their communities and ensure sufficient representation of women in any community consultation. e. Use philanthropy and grants programmes to support company commitment to inclusion, equality and human rights. www.unglobalcompact.org www.weprinciples.org Annual Report 2013 2014 201 GRI INDEX GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES General Disclosure Title Page Number ISO 26000 clauses Standard (or Link) Disclosures G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision maker of the 11 to 18 • Respect for international norms of organisation behaviour – 4.7 G4-2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities 21 to 25 • Organisational governance – 6.2 34 to 39 • Setting the direction of an organisation for social responsibility – 7.4.2 ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE G4-3 Name of the organisation Inner Back Cover • Fundamental principles and rights at work – 6.3.10 G4-4 Primary brands, products and services 21, 19 to 97 • Labour practices – 6.4.1 – 6.4.2 211 to 219 • Employment and employment G4-5 Location of the organisation’s headquarters Inner Back Cover relationships – 6.4.3 G4-6 Locations of the organisation’s operations 4 to 5 • Conditions of work and social protection 211 to 219 – 6.4.4 • Social dialogue – 6.4.5 G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form Inner Back Cover • Employment creation and skills G4-8 Markets served 21, 19 to 97 development – 6.8.5 211 to 219 • Voluntary initiatives for social development – 7.8 G4-9 Scale of the organisation 3 to 9, 21 G4-10 Workforce breakdown G4-11 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements G4-12 Organisation’s supply chain 19 to 97 G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period 11 to 18 G4-14 Addressing the precautionary approach 19 to 97 G4-15 Voluntary endorsement of policies/ charters 198 to 201 G4-16 Membership associations and affiliations IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES G4-17 Entities excluded from the organization’s reporting boundary 3 • Recognizing social responsibility – 5.2 G4-18 Process for defining the report content and the Aspect 30 to 33 • Determining relevance and significance Boundaries of core subjects and issues to an organization – 7.3.2 G4-19 Material Aspects 3 to 33 • An organization’s sphere of influence – G4-20 Aspect Boundary within the organization 7.3.3 • Establishing priorities for addressing G4-21 Aspect Boundary outside the organization issues – 7.3.4 G4-22 Effect of any restatements of information 123 to 197 G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods 11 to 18, 21 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-24 Stakeholder groups engaged 28 • Stakeholder identification and engagement – 5.3 G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom 26 to 28 to engage 19 to 97 G4-26 Organization’s approach G4-27 Key topics and concerns raised through stakeholder 26 to 28 engagement www.aitkenspence.com/sustainability 202 Aitken Spence PLC General Disclosure Title Page Number ISO 26000 clauses Standard (or Link) Disclosures REPORT PROFILE G4-28 Reporting period 1 April 2013 to 31 • Types of communication on social March 2014 responsibility – 7.5.3 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report 31 March 2013 • Enhancing the credibility of reports and claims about social responsibility – 7.6.2 G4-30 Reporting cycle Annual G4-31 Contact point for questions about the report Inner Back Cover 227 to 228 G4-32 The ‘in accordance’ option chosen Core G4-33 Organization’s policy and current practice on seeking external Not Assured assurance for the report GOVERNANCE WEP G4-34 Governance structure of the organization 44 to 58 • Organisational governance – 6.2 G4-35 Delegation of authority for economic, environmental and social 99 to 116 • Building social responsibility into an topics organisation’s governance systems and G4-36 Executive-level position and positions with responsibility for 46 to 58 procedures – 7.4.3 economic, environmental and social topics 99 to 116 • Improving performance – 7.7.5 G4-37 Consultation between stakeholders and the highest governance 28 body on economic, environmental and social topics. G4-38 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees 101 G4-39 Role of the Chair of the highest governance body 99 to 116 G4-40 Nomination and selection processes for the highest governance 99 to 116 body and its committees G4-41 Processes for the highest governance body to avoid/ manage 99 to 116 conflicts of interest G4-42 Role of the highest governance body and senior executives in 99 to 116 the development, approval, and updating of the organization’s guiding principles and business models G4-43 Capacity building for the highest governance body’s collective 99 to 116 knowledge on economic, environmental and social topics. 40 to 43 G4-44 Evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance on the 99 to 116 governance of economic, environmental and social topics. G4-45 The highest governance body’s role in the identification and 99 to 116 management of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities. G4-46 Role of the highest governance body in reviewing the 99 to 116 effectiveness of the organization’s risk management processes 34 to 39 G4-47 Frequency of the highest governance body’s review of economic, 99 to 116 environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities. G4-48 The highest position for formal review and approval of the Managing & Finance organization’s sustainability disclosures Director G4-49 The process for communicating critical concerns to the highest 99 to 116 governance body. G4-50 Addressing and resolving them critical concerns communicated 99 to 116 to the highest governance body G4-51 Remuneration policies for the highest governance body and 99 to 116 senior executives G4-52 Process for determining remuneration. 99 to 116 Annual Report 2013 2014 203 GRI INDEX General Disclosure Title Page Number ISO 26000 clauses Standard (or Link) Disclosures ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4-56 The organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of • Ethical behaviour – 4.4 behaviour such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics. • Anticorruption – 6.6.3 G4-57 The internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice 99 to 116 on ethical and lawful behavior, and matters related to organisational integrity, such as helplines or advice lines. G4-58 The internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behaviour, and matters related to organisational integrity, such as escalation through line management, whistleblowing mechanisms or hotlines. 204 Aitken Spence PLC Tourism sector: Maritime Cargo Logistics Strategic Investments sector: Services sector: SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES DISCLOSURES ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH Economic Disclosures • Guidance on social responsibility core subjects 66 to 73 • Economic Performance –6 74 to 81 • Market Presence • Due diligence – 7.3.1 82 to 91 • Indirect Economic Impacts 92 to 97 • Building social responsibility into an • Procurement Practices organisation’s governance systems and procedures – 7.4.3 Environmental Disclosures 66 to 73 • Reviewing an organisation’s progress and • Energy 74 to 81 performance on social responsibility – 7.7.3 • Water 82 to 91 • Improving performance – 7.7.5 • Biodiversity 92 to 97 • Emissions • Effluents and Waste • Compliance • Overall Social Disclosures 66 to 73 • Employment 74 to 81 • Labour/ Management Relations 82 to 91 • Occupational Health & Safety 92 to 97 G4-DMA • Training & Education • Equal Remuneration for Women and Men • Labour Practices Grievance Mechanisms Human Rights Disclosures 66 to 73 • Investment 74 to 81 • Security Practices 82 to 91 92 to 97 198 to 199 Society Disclosures 66 to 73 • Local Communities 74 to 81 • Anticorruption 82 to 91 • Compliance 92 to 97 Product Responsibility Disclosures 66 to 73 • Customer Health and Safety 74 to 81 • Product and Service Labelling 82 to 91 • Marketing Communications 92 to 97 • Customer Privacy • Compliance Annual Report 2013 2014 205 GRI INDEX Standard Disclosure Requirements Page Number ISO 26000 clauses Disclosure (or Link) CATEGORY: ECONOMIC ASPECT: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE G4-EC1 The direct economic value generated and • Community involvement and development – 6.8.1 to 6.8.2 66 to 73 distributed (Socio Economic Value Generated 74 to 81 • Wealth and income creation – 6.8.7 and Distributed) 82 to 91 • Social investment – 6.8.9 92 to 97 123 to 189 G4-EC3 Liabilities that are met by the organization’s 123 to 197 • Wealth and income creation – 6.8.7 general resources, the percentage of salary contributed by employee or employer ASPECT: MARKET PRESENCE G4-EC6 The percentage of senior management at • Employment and employment relationships – 6.4.3 66 to 73 significant locations of operation that are hired • Community involvement and development – 6.8.1 & 6.8.2 from the local community. • Employment creation and skills development – 6.8.5 • Wealth and income creation – 6.8.7 ASPECT: INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS G4-EC7 Significant infrastructure investments and • Economic, social and cultural rights – 6.4.3 66 to 73 services supported. 82 to 91 • Community involvement and development ASPECT: PROCUREMENT PRACTICES G4-EC9 Percentage of the procurement budget used on • Employment and employment relationships – 6.4.3 66 to 73 suppliers local to that operation 82 to 91 • Promoting social responsibility in the value chain – 6.6.6 • Community involvement development – 6.8.1 & 6.8.2 • Wealth and income creation – 6.8.7 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL UNGC ASPECT: ENERGY G4-EN3 Total fuel consumption from non-renewable • Sustainable resource use – 6.5.4 66 to 73 sources 74 to 81 G4-EN6 Amount of reductions in energy consumption 82 to 91 • Sustainable resource use – 6.5.4 92 to 97 • Climate change mitigation and adaptation – 6.5.5 ASPECT: WATER G4-EN8 Total volume of water withdrawn • Sustainable resource use – 6.5.4 66 to 73 74 to 81 82 to 91 92 to 97 G4-EN9 Total number of water sources significantly None • Sustainable resource use – 6.5.4 affected by withdrawal G4-EN10 Total volume of water recycled and reused by • Sustainable resource use – 6.5.4 66 to 73 the organization. 82 to 91 ASPECT: BIODIVERSITY G4-EN11 Operational site owned, leased, managed in, or • Protection of the environment, biodiversity and restoration of adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high natural habitats – 6.5.6 biodiversity value outside protected areas. G4-EN12 Nature of significant direct and indirect impacts • Protection of the environment, biodiversity and restoration of on biodiversity natural habitats – 6.5.6 206 Aitken Spence PLC Standard Disclosure Requirements Page Number ISO 26000 clauses Disclosure (or Link) G4-EN13 Size and location of all habitat protected areas • Protection of the environment, biodiversity and restoration of or restored areas natural habitats – 6.5.6 ASPECT: EMISSIONS G4-EN15 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions in metric tons • Climate change mitigation and adaptation – 6.5.5 66 to 73 of CO2 equivalent 74 to 81 G4-EN16 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions in 82 to 91 • Climate change mitigation and adaptation – 6.5.5 metric tons of CO2 equivalent 92 to 97 G4-EN19 The amount of GHG emissions reductions • Climate change mitigation and adaptation – 6.5.5 achieved ASPECT: EFFLUENTS AND WASTE G4-EN23 Total weight of hazardous and non-hazardous • Prevention of pollution – 6.5.3 66 to 73 waste, by disposal methods 74 to 81 • Sustainable resource use – 6.5.4 82 to 91 92 to 97 G4-EN24 Total number and total volume of recorded • Prevention of pollution – 6.5.3 66 to 73 significant spills. 74 to 81 82 to 91 92 to 97 G4-EN26 Water bodies and related habitats that are • Prevention of pollution – 6.5.3 prevented from being affected by water • Sustainable resource use – 6.5.4 discharges of the organisation • Protection of the environment, biodiversity and restoration of natural habitats – 6.5.6 ASPECT: COMPLIANCE G4-EN29 Significant fines and non-monetary sanctions None • Respect for the rule of law – 4.6 for non-compliance with laws or regulations ASPECT: OVERALL G4-EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures Rs. 109.4 Mn • The environment – 6.5.1 & 6.5.2 CATEGORY: SOCIAL SUB-CATEGORY: LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK UNGC ASPECT: EMPLOYMENT G4-LA1 Turnover during the reporting period 197 • Employment and employment relationships – 6.4.3 G4-LA2 Benefits which are standard for full-time employees of the • Conditions of work and social protection – 6.4.4 organization • Bonus/ Salary increments on performance basis • Festival advance • Medical benefits • Retirement benefits obligations ASPECT: LABOR/MANAGEMENT RELATIONS UNGC G4-LA4 Minimum notice period 1 month • Employment and employment relationships – 6.4.3 • Social dialogue – 6.4.5 ASPECT: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY G4-LA5 Level at which each subsidiary’s OHS rep19 to 97 • Health and safety at work – 6.4.6 resentative/committee operates within the organization Annual Report 2013 2014 207 GRI INDEX Standard Disclosure Requirements Page Number ISO 26000 clauses Disclosure (or Link) ASPECT: TRAINING AND EDUCATION G4-LA9 Average hours of training provided to employ7 • Human development and training in the workplace – 6.4.7 ees during the reporting period G4-LA10 Type and scope of programs implemented and 40 to 43 • Human development and training in the workplace – 6.4.7 assistance provided to upgrade employee skills. • Employment creation and skills development – 6.8.5 G4-LA11 Percentage of total employees by gender and 100% • Human development and training in the workplace – 6.4.7 by employee category who received a regular executive staff performance and career development review ASPECT: EQUAL REMUNERATION FOR WOMEN AND MEN WEP G4-LA13B Ratio of the basic salary and remuneration of 1:1 • Discrimination and vulnerable group – 6.3.7 women to men • Fundamental principles and rights at work – 6.3.10 • Employment and employment relationships – 6.4.3 • Conditions of work and social protection – 6.4.4 ASPECT: LABOUR PRACTICES GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS G4-LA16 Total number of grievances about labour prac02 • Resolving grievances – 6.3.6 tices filed through formal grievance mechanisms during the reporting period. SUB-CATEGORY: HUMAN RIGHTS UNGC ASPECT: INVESTMENT G4-HR2 Total number of hours in the reporting period 198 to 199 • Avoidance of complicity – 6.3.5 devoted to training on human rights policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations and the percentage of employees trained ASPECT: NON DISCRIMINATION UNGC/WEP G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and None • Resolving grievances – 6.3.6 corrective action taken • Discrimination and vulnerable groups – 6.3.7 • Fundamental principles and rights at work – 6.3.10 • Employment and employment relations – 6.4.3 ASPECT: SECURITY PRACTICES G4-HR7 Percentage of security personnel who have 198 to 199 • Human rights risk situations – 6.3.4 received formal training in the organization’s • Avoidance of complicity – 6.3.5 human rights policies • Promoting social responsibility in the value chain – 6.6.6 SUB-CATEGORY: SOCIETY ASPECT: LOCAL COMMUNITIES UNGC G4-SO1 Local community engagement, impact assess• Economic, social and cultural rights – 6.3.9 66 to 73 ments, and development programs 74 to 81 • The environment – 6.5.1 & 6.5.2 82 to 91 • Prevention of pollution – 6.5.3 92 to 97 • Community involvement and development – 6.8 ASPECT: ANTI-CORRUPTION UNGC G4-SO3 Total number and percentage of operations 100% • Fair operating practices – 6.6.1 & 6.6.2 assessed for risks related to corruption • Anticorruption – 6.6.3 208 Aitken Spence PLC Standard Disclosure Requirements Page Number ISO 26000 clauses Disclosure (or Link) G4-SO4 Total number and percentage of governance 34 to 39 • Fair operating practices – 6.6.1 & 6.6.2 body members, employees, business partners 198 to 199 • Anticorruption – 6.6.3 that the organization’s anti-corruption policies • Promoting social responsibility in the value chain and procedures have been communicated to G4-SO5 Total number and nature of confirmed inciNone • Fair operating practices – 6.6.1 & 6.6.2 dents of corruption • Anticorruption – 6.6.3 ASPECT: COMPLIANCE G4-SO8 Significant fines and non-monetary sanctions None • Respect for the rule of law – 4.6 for non -compliance with laws or regulations SUB-CATEGORY: PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY ASPECT: CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY G4-PR1 Percentage of significant product and service • Consumer issues – 6.7.1 & 6.7.2 66 to 73 categories for which health and safety impacts 74 to 81 • Protecting consumers’ health and safety – 6.7.4 are assessed for improvement 82 to 91 • Sustainable consumption – 6.7.5 92 to 97 • Health – 6.8.8 G4-PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance None • Respect for the rule of law – 4.6. with regulations and voluntary codes concern• Consumer issues – 6.7.1 & 6.7.2 ing the health and safety impacts of products • Protecting consumers’ health and safety – 6.7.4 and services during their life cycle, by type of • Sustainable consumption – 6.7.5 product • Health – 6.8.8 ASPECT: PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELLING G4-PR5 Results or key conclusions of customer satis• Consumer issues – 6.7.1 & 6.7.2 66 to 73 faction surveys 74 to 81 • Consumer service, support and complaint dispute resolution – 6.7.6 82 to 91 92 to 97 ASPECT: MARKETING COMMUNICATIONS G4-PR7 The total number of incidents of non-compliNone • Respect for the rule of law – 4.6. ance with regulations and voluntary codes • Consumer issues – 6.7.1 & 6.7.2 concerning marketing communications • Fair marketing, factual and unbiased information and fair contractual practices – 6.7.3 ASPECT: CUSTOMER PRIVACY G4-PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints None • Consumer issues – 6.7.1 & 6.7.2 received concerning breaches of customer • Consumer data protection and privacy – 6.7.7 privacy ASPECT: COMPLIANCE G4-PR9 The total monetary value of significant fines None • Respect for the rule of law – 4.6. for non-compliance with laws and regulations • Consumer issues – 6.7.1 & 6.7.2 concerning the provision and use of products • Consumer service, support and complaint dispute resolution and services – 6.7.6 Annual Report 2013 2014 209 Awards & Recognition 2013 2014 Aitken Spence PLC − Second Runner Up at the Best Corporate Citizen Sustainability − Platinum Ranked and rated amongst the top 3 companies in the Award 2013 STING Corporate Accountability Index of 2014. − Winner of the Category Award for Environmental Management at − Silver award winner in the diversified holdings (above 5 the Best Corporate Citizen Sustainability Award 2013 companies) sector at the Annual Report Awards 2013 of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka Tourism Sector Aitken Spence Hotel Holdings PLC Heritance Kandalama − Leisure & Services sector winner at the ACCA Sustainability − Responsible Hotels of the World member certification by Reporting Awards 2013 Responsible Travel.Com − Hospitality Sector winner at the National Business Excellence − Champions at the Bocuse D’Or Culinary Competition 2013 Awards 2013 − First runner up in the overall competition at the 15th Culinary Art − Excellence in Environmental Sustainability category winner at the Competition organised by the Chefs Guild of Sri Lanka National Business Excellence Awards 2013 − Diversey Special Recognition Award winner for 2013 at the Skål − Gold award winner of the Hospitality Sector at the Annual Report International Sustainable Development in Tourism Awards Awards 2013 of the Institute of Chartered Accountants − Winner of the Large Resorts Doing It All category at the Conde − Honoured with a Merit Award in the Outstanding Energy Manager Nast World Saver Award 2013 Category at the National Energy Efficiency Awards 2013 − Finalist in the Resource Efficiency category at the Wild Asia Responsible Tourism Award 2013, awarded by Responsible Tourism Heritance Ayurveda Maha Gedara Asia Pacific − Honoured with a Merit Award in the large scale hotel category Heritance Tea Factory at the Energy Efficiency Awards 2013 presented by Sri Lanka Sustainable Energy Authority and Ministry of Power and Energy − Responsible Hotels of the World member certification by Responsible Travel.Com − Best Ayurveda Resort at the 4th FIT Health & Wellness Awards awarded by FIT-Reisen Germany − First organic certification in Sri Lanka by the Sri Lanka Standards Institute for the cultivation and processing of tea − Best CSR Project Category winner at the Best Corporate Citizen Sustainability Award 2013 for the Arts & Crafts Centre Aitken Spence Managed Hotels Heritance Ahungalla − Desert Nights Camp was voted one of the best hotels in their global portfolio by the clients of Studiosus. Desert Nights Camp − Responsible Hotels of the World member certification by won the Studiosus quality award for the year 2012. Responsible Travel.Com − Responsible Hotels of the World member certification awarded to − Silver Flame Award winner at the Energy Efficiency Awards 2013 Earl’s Regency hotel by Responsible Travel.Com − Most Outstanding Culinary Team, Best Regional Team and Most Outstanding Hotel in Sri Lanka at the 15th Culinary Art Competition, 2013, organised by the Chefs Guild of Sri Lanka Strategic Investments Sector Services Sector Aitken Spence Printing Aitken Spence Technologies − Winner of 4 Gold awards, 3 Silver awards and 1 Bronze award at − plantERM, a comprehensive solution developed for the plantations the Lanka Star Awards 2013 in the Consumer, Transport and Student industry by Aitken Spence Technologies won the Gold Award category organised by the Sri Lanka Institute of Packaging competing in the category of General Applications, at the National Best Quality ICT Awards 2013 210 Aitken Spence PLC GROUP COMPANIES & DIRECTORATE TOURISM MARITIME CARGO LOGISTICS STRATEGIC INVESTMENTS SERVICES • Hotels • Maritime Services • Power Generation • Inward Money Transfer • Inbound & Outbound Travel • Integrated Logistics • Printing & Packaging • Information Technology • Airline GSA • Freight Forwarding • Garment Manufacture • Elevator Agency • Courier Services • Plantation • Insurance • Holding Company • Property Management TOURISM SECTOR INBOUND TRAVEL Aitken Spence Overseas Travel Services (Private) Limited ** Aitken Spence Travels (Private) Limited ** Was an IATA-accredited travel agent and General Sales Agent for Leading destination management company in Sri Lanka. A joint Tradewinds and Rail Europe. Organises outbound tours and holiday venture with TUI one of the largest tourism companies in the world. packages, the company did not carry out operations during the year. Directors: Directors: J.M.S. Brito (Chairman), N.A.N. Jayasundera, N.A.N. Jayasundera (Managing Director), S.T.B. Ellepola, D.C. Schelp, H.P.N. Rodrigo. P.A. Mitchell, Royal Spence Aviation (Private) Limited S.T.B. Ellepola (Alternate Director to Mr. J.M.S. Brito) (Appointed w.e.f. Former General Sales Agents for Kingfisher Airlines. 01.06.2013), Directors: J.C. Munar (Alternate Director to Mr. D.C. Schelp) (Appointed w.e.f. 08.06.2013). N.A.N. Jayasundera, S.T.B. Ellepola. OUTBOUND TRAVEL CONVENTION SERVICES Aitken Spence Aviation (Private) Limited Ace Travels & Conventions (Private) Limited ** General Sales Agents for Singapore Airlines and Singapore Airlines Cargo. Professional conference exhibition & event organiser. Also offers destination management services. Directors: Directors: J.M.S. Brito (Chairman), S.K.R.B. Jayaweera (Managing Director). N.A.N. Jayasundera, S.T.B. Ellepola, Ace Aviation Services Maldives Private Limited ** P.L. Perera. General Sales Agent for Sri Lankan Airlines in the Maldives. Directors: HOTELS S.T.B. Ellepola (Chairman), A.D.S. Resorts Private Limited ** M. Firaq, Owns and operates Adaaran Select Hudhuranfushi Maldives. N.A.N. Jayasundera, K.R.T. Peiris (Appointed w.e.f. 29.11.2013), Directors: D.L. Warawita. S.M. Hapugoda (Managing Director), C.M.S. Jayawickrama, Aitken Spence Moscow (Private) Limited ** M. Mahdy. General Sales Agent for Transaero Airlines. Ahungalla Resorts Limited ** Directors: Owns a land for a proposed hotel project. Dr. J.W.A. Perera (Managing Director), S.T.B. Ellepola. Directors: S.M. Hapugoda, C.M.S. Jayawickrama, R.E.V. Casie Chetty. ** The Companies’ ﬁnancial statements are audited by KPMG. Annual Report 2013 2014 211 GROUP COMPANIES & DIRECTORATE TOURISM SECTOR Aitken Spence Hotel Holdings PLC ** Aitken Spence Resorts (Private) Limited ** The holding company of the group’s hotel interests. Owns and To operate a future hotel project. operates the Heritance Ahungalla Hotel. Directors: Directors: S.M. Hapugoda, Deshamanya D.H.S. Jayawardena (Chairman), C.M.S. Jayawickrama, J.M.S. Brito (Managing Director), R.E.V. Casie Chetty. R.E.V. Casie Chetty, Aitken Spence Resources (Private) Limited ** S.M. Hapugoda, C.M.S. Jayawickrama, Human resource management foreign employment & recruitment G.P.J. Goonewardena, company. R.N. Asirwatham, Directors: C.H. Gomez, S.M. Hapugoda, N.J. de Silva Deva Aditya. C.M.S. Jayawickrama, Aitken Spence Hotel Managements (Private) Limited ** G.P.J. Goonewardena. Manages resorts in Sri Lanka. Cowrie Investment Private Limited ** Directors: Owns and operates Adaaran Select Meedhupparu Island Resort S.M. Hapugoda (Managing Director), Maldives. C.M.S. Jayawickrama, Directors: R.E.V. Casie Chetty. J.M.S. Brito (Chairman/Managing Director), Aitken Spence Hotel Managements (South India) Private Limited S.M. Hapugoda, I.M. Didi, Manages resorts in India. M. Salih, Directors: C.M.S. Jayawickrama. J.M.S. Brito (Appointed w.e.f. 28.08.2013), Crest Star (B.V.I.) Limited S.M. Hapugoda, (Managing Director) C.M.S. Jayawickrama, The holding company and managing agents of Jetan Travel Services C.L.B. Ekanayake (Resigned w.e.f. 31.10.2013), Company Private Limited. K.A.A.C. Perera (Appointed w.e.f. 17.10.2013). Directors: Aitken Spence Hotel Managements Asia (Private) Limited ** J.M.S. Brito (Chairman), S.M. Hapugoda, Manages resorts in India, Oman and in the Maldives. C.M.S. Jayawickrama. Directors: Crest Star Limited Deshamanya D.H.S. Jayawardena, Dr. R.M. Fernando, Directors: Ms. N. Sivapragasam, S.M. Hapugoda, G.P.J. Goonewardena. C.M.S. Jayawickrama, Aitken Spence Hotel Services Private Limited R.E.V. Casie Chetty. Local marketing company of Indian hotels in India. Golden Sun Resorts (Private) Limited ** Directors: Owns and operates the resort ‘The Sands’. R.S. Rajaratne, Directors: M.P. Wijesekara. S.M. Hapugoda, Aitken Spence Hotels International (Private) Limited ** C.M.S. Jayawickrama, R.E.V. Casie Chetty. Owns resorts in the Maldives and provides international marketing services to overseas resorts. Heritance (Private) Limited ** Directors: Owns a land for a proposed hotel project. R.E.V. Casie Chetty, Directors: S.M. Hapugoda, S.M. Hapugoda, C.M.S. Jayawickrama, C.M.S. Jayawickrama, V.M. Gunatilleka (Appointed w.e.f. 01.04.2014). R.E.V. Casie Chetty. Aitken Spence Hotels Limited ** Hethersett Hotels Limited ** Owns and operates Heritance Ayurveda Maha Gedara. Holding Owns and operates Heritance Tea Factory. Company of Kandalama Hotels (Private) Limited and Heritance Directors: (Private) Limited. S.M. Hapugoda, Directors: C.M.S. Jayawickrama, S.M. Hapugoda, R.E.V. Casie Chetty. C.M.S. Jayawickrama, Jetan Travel Services Company Private Limited ** N. Ratwatte. ** The Companies’ ﬁnancial statements are audited by KPMG. 212 Aitken Spence PLC TOURISM SECTOR Owns and operates Adaaran Club Rannalhi Maldives. PR Holiday Homes Private Limited Directors: Owns an island resorts in Cochin India which is currently under S.M. Hapugoda (Managing Director), construction. C.M.S. Jayawickrama, Directors: H. Mohamed, S.M. Hapugoda, M. Mahdy. C.M.S. Jayawickrama, Kandalama Hotels (Private) Limited ** C.L.B. Ekanayake (Resigned w.e.f. 31.10.2013), Owns and operates Heritance Kandalama. K. Khadar, M. Narayanan, Directors: K.A.A.C. Perera (Appointed w.e.f. 15.11.2013). S.M. Hapugoda, C.M.S. Jayawickrama, The Galle Heritage (Private) Limited R.E.V. Casie Chetty. Proposed for constructing and operating a heritage hotel within the M.P.S. Hotels (Private) Limited ** Fort of Galle. Directors: Owns and operates Hotel Hilltop Kandy. S.M. Hapugoda (Appointed w.e.f. 01.04.2013), Directors: C.M.S. Jayawickrama (Appointed w.e.f. 01.04.2013), S.M. Hapugoda, R.E.V. Casie Chetty (Appointed w.e.f. 01.04.2013). C.M.S. Jayawickrama, R.E.V. Casie Chetty. Triton (Private) Limited Neptune Ayurvedic Village (Private) Limited ** The holding company of Aitken Spence Aviation (Private) Limited. Directors: Leases company owned land and buildings to Aitken Spence Hotels Limited. S.M. Hapugoda, R.E.V. Casie Chetty, Directors: C.M.S. Jayawickrama. S.M. Hapugoda, C.M.S. Jayawickrama, Unique Resorts Private Limited ** R.E.V. Casie Chetty. Owns and operates Adaaran Prestige Vaadhoo Resort Maldives. Nilaveli Holidays (Private) Limited ** Directors: To operate a future hotel project. S.M. Hapugoda (Managing Director), C.M.S. Jayawickrama, Directors: M.S. Hassan, S.M. Hapugoda, T.D.U.D. Peiris. C.M.S. Jayawickrama, R.E.V. Casie Chetty. Nilaveli Resorts (Private) Limited ** To operate a future hotel project. Directors: S.M. Hapugoda, C.M.S. Jayawickrama, R.E.V. Casie Chetty. ** The Companies’ ﬁnancial statements are audited by KPMG. Annual Report 2013 2014 213 GROUP COMPANIES & DIRECTORATE MARITIME CARGO LOGISTICS SECTOR FREIGHT FORWARDING & COURIER Directors: Dr. P. Dissanayake (Deputy Chairman), Ace Aviation Services (Private) Limited A.M.M. Amir, Operates as General Sales Agents for airline cargo. I.S. Cuttilan, Directors: A. Jayasekera, Dr. P. Dissanayake (Deputy Chairman), N.P. Wakwella (Appointed w.e.f. 29.04.2014). K.R.T. Peiris, Ace Container Repair (Private) Limited ** J.E. Brohier. Undertakes container repairs and garments on hanger conversion. Ace Bangladesh Limited Directors: Provides international freight forwarding services in Bangladesh. Dr. P. Dissanayake (Deputy Chairman), Directors: A.M.M. Amir, A. Mannan (Chairman), A. Jayasekera, R. Rahman (Managing Director), N.P. Wakwella (Appointed w.e.f. 29.04.2014). J.M.S. Brito, Ace Container Terminals (Private) Limited ** Ms. F.R. Ahmed, K.R.T. Peiris, Provides container storage, customs, brokerage and warehousing A. Rahman. services. Directors: Ace Cargo (Private) Limited Dr. P. Dissanayake (Deputy Chairman), Provides international freight forwarding services. A.M.M. Amir, Directors: A. Jayasekera, Dr. P. Dissanayake (Chairman), N.P. Wakwella (Appointed w.e.f. 29.04.2014). K.R.T. Peiris, Ace Distriparks (Private) Limited ** J.E. Brohier. Provides total logistics support and warehousing with multi country Ace International Express (Private) Limited cargo consolidation. Provides international air express, domestic delivery and international Directors: mailing. Dr. P. Dissanayake (Deputy Chairman), Directors: A.M.M. Amir, K.R.T. Peiris (Managing Director), A. Jayasekera, Dr. P. Dissanayake, N.P. Wakwella (Appointed w.e.f. 29.04.2014). J.E. Brohier. Ace Freight Management (Private) Limited Aitken Spence Cargo (Private) Limited Undertakes clearing, forwarding and operates an inland container International freight forwarding & general sales agents for airline depot. cargo. Directors: Directors: Dr. P. Dissanayake (Deputy Chairman), Dr. P. Dissanayake (Deputy Chairman), A.M.M. Amir, K.R.T. Peiris (Managing Director), A. Jayasekera, J.E. Brohier. N.P. Wakwella (Appointed w.e.f. 29.04.2014). Spence International (Private) Limited Logilink (Private) Limited ** Regional operating headquarters to manage operation overseas. Acts as a container freight station and deal in the deconsolidation of Directors: imports and storing, distribution and consolidation of exports. K.R.T. Peiris, Directors: Dr. P. Dissanayake, Dr. P. Dissanayake (Deputy Chairman), J.E. Brohier. K.R.T. Peiris, A.M.M. Amir, Spence Maldives Private Limited A. Jayasekera, Provides air express & freight forwarding services in the Maldives. N.P. Wakwella (Appointed w.e.f. 29.04.2014). Directors: K.R.T. Peiris (Managing Director), MARITIME SERVICES Dr. P. Dissanayake, Aitken Spence Maritime Limited ** M. Firaq, J.E. Brohier, Holding company of Hapag-Lloyd Lanka (Private) Limited and Port A. Ghiyas. Management Container Services (Private) Limited. Directors: INTEGRATED LOGISTICS Dr. P. Dissanayake, I.S. Cuttilan, Ace Containers (Private) Limited ** D.R.C. Hindurangala (Resigned w.e.f. 31.12.2013). Operates an inland container depot and a freight station. ** The Companies’ ﬁnancial statements are audited by KPMG. 214 Aitken Spence PLC MARITIME CARGO LOGISTICS SECTOR Aitken Spence Shipping Limited ** Port Management Container Services (Private) Limited ** Liner cruise and tramp agency representation NVOCC and an Operating & productivity enhancement management in ports. international freight forwarder. Directors: Directors: Dr. P. Dissanayake (Managing Director), Dr. P. Dissanayake (Chairman), I.S. Cuttilan, A. Jayasekera, D.R.C. Hindurangala (Resigned w.e.f. 31.12.2013), I.S. Cuttilan, W.L.P. Wijewardena (Appointed w.e.f. 15.08.2013). Ms. T.D.M.N. Anthony, Ports Terminal Limited K.R. Aluwihare (Resigned w.e.f. 09.09.2013). A joint venture with Fiji Ports Corporation Limited, to operate, manage, Aitken Spence Shipping Services Limited ** maintain and develop the two major ports of Suva and Lautoka in Fiji. Shipping agent. Directors: Directors: H. Patel (Chairman) (Appointed w.e.f. 30.09.2013), Dr. P. Dissanayake, N. Cook (Appointed w.e.f. 30.09.2013), I.S. Cuttilan, V. Chand (Appointed w.e.f. 30.09.2013), A. Jayasekera. J.M.S. Brito (Appointed w.e.f. 29.07.2013), Clark Spence & Company (Private) Limited ** Dr. P. Dissanayake (Appointed w.e.f. 29.07.2013), Ms. N. Sivapragasam (Appointed w.e.f. 29.07.2013), Shipping and bunkering agents in the ports of Colombo, Galle and I.S. Cuttilan (Appointed w.e.f. 29.07.2013). Trincomalee and an international freight forwarder. Shipping & Cargo Logistics (Private) Limited ** Directors: Dr. P. Dissanayake (Managing Director), Liner agency representation. I.S. Cuttilan, Directors: R.E.V. Casie Chetty. V.M. Fernando (Chairman), Colombo International Nautical & Engineering College (Pvt) Ltd J.M.S. Brito (Managing Director), Dr. P. Dissanayake, Sri Lanka’s largest private maritime and higher education campus. K.M.A.T.B. Tittawella, Directors: I.S. Cuttilan, H.K. Jayanetti, K.M. Fernando. Capt. P.A.P. Peiris, Spence Logistics (Private) Limited ** Dr. P. Dissanayake, J.M.S. Brito, NVOCC freight forwarding operator. C.L. Wikramanayake, Directors: E.P. Komrowski, Dr. P. Dissanayake, Ms. N. Sivapragasam, A.M.M. Amir, Ms. N.W. de A. Guneratne, I.S. Cuttilan, R.G. Pandithakorralage, A. Jayasekera. Capt. H.N.C. Peiris (Resigned w.e.f. 30.09.2013), SpenceMac Bangladesh (Private) Limited S.A.R.S. Karunanayake , Capt. I.I. Dobrev (Resigned w.e.f. 20.11.2013), Handles shipping operations in Bangladesh. D. Malais (Appointed w.e.f. 20.11.2013), Directors: B. Sprotte (Alternate Director to D. Malais) (Appointed w.e.f. 20.11.2013), Dr. P. Dissanayake, H.D.J.B. Ranchigoda (Appointed w.e.f. 25.11.2013). M. Rashid, Delta Shipping (Private) Limited ** C.M.L. Kamal. Provides international freight forwarding services. Tandem Global Logistics Colombo (Private) Limited Directors: Directors: M. Shabir (Managing Director), Dr. P. Dissanayake, K.R.T. Peiris, Ms. T.D.M.N. Anthony, J.E. Brohier. I.S. Cuttilan. Hapag-Lloyd Lanka (Private) Limited ** Vauxhall Cargo Logistics (Private) Limited ** Liner agency representation. Holding company of certain maritime transport sector companies. Directors: Directors: J.M.S. Brito (Chairman), Dr. P. Dissanayake, Dr. P. Dissanayake, Ms. N. Sivapragasam, M.E.G. Elizalde (Resigned w.e.f. 04.10.2013), R.E.V. Casie Chetty. A.M. Thakkar, K.R. Aluwihare (Resigned w.e.f. 09.09.2013), N.H.Fraemke (Appointed w.e.f. 01.10.2013). ** The Companies’ ﬁnancial statements are audited by KPMG. Annual Report 2013 2014 215 GROUP COMPANIES & DIRECTORATE STRATEGIC INVESTMENTS SECTOR MANUFACTURING SECTOR PRINTING & PACKAGING POWER GENERATION Ace Exports (Private) Limited ** Ace Power Embilipitiya (Private) Limited Provides printing & packaging services to the export market. Owns and operates a 100MW thermal power plant in Embilipitiya to Directors: supply power to the national grid. P. Karunatilake (Managing Director), Directors: Ms. N. Sivapragasam, J.M.S. Brito (Chairman), D.V.H. de Mel (Resigned w.e.f. 01.05.2013). D.V.H. de Mel (Managing Director) (Resigned w.e.f. 01.05.2013), Ace Printing & Packaging (Private) Limited ** L. Wickremarachchi, Ms. N. Sivapragasam, Provides printing & packaging services to the local market. Ms. M. Spoelgen, Directors: Ms. A.M. Fernando. P. Karunatilake (Managing Director), Ace Power Generation Horana (Private) Limited Ms. N. Sivapragasam, D.V.H. de Mel (Resigned w.e.f. 01.05.2013). Previously owned and operated a 24MW power plant in Horana, in terms of a Power Purchase Agreement with the Ceylon Electricity Aitken Spence Printing & Packaging (Private) Limited ** Board. The company is currently not operational and the plant has Provides printing & packaging services to the local market. been disposed of subsequently. Directors: Directors: P. Karunatilake (Managing Director), L. Wickremarachchi, Ms. N. Sivapragasam. Deshamanya D.H.S. Jayawardena (Resigned w.e.f. 08.08.2013), J.M.S. Brito (Ceased to be the Alternate Director to Deshamanya GARMENT MANUFACTURING D.H.S. Jayawardena w.e.f. 08.08.2013) (Appointed as the Alternate Director to Ms. N.W. de A. Guneratne w.e.f. 07.10.2013), Ace Apparels (Private) Limited Ms. N. Sivapragasam, To carry out the business to manufacture apparels for export. R. Gupta, Directors: B.K. Sharma (Alternate Director to R. Gupta), R.E.V. Casie Chetty (Appointed w.e.f. 21.02.2014), A. Malla, J.S.A. Fernando (Appointed w.e.f. 21.02.2014). D.V.H. de Mel (Managing Director) (Resigned w.e.f. 01.05.2013), Dr. R.M. Fernando (Appointed w.e.f. 09.09.2013), Aitken Spence (Garments) Limited M. Vuksanovic (Resigned w.e.f. 10.10.2013), Manufacturer and exporter of high quality men’s, boys’, ladies’ & girls’ D. Sinnadurai, shirts and blouses to prestigious departmental stores and apparel Ms. N.W. de A. Guneratne (Appointed w.e.f. 09.09.2013), importers in USA and EU. V.S. Premawardhana (Appointed w.e.f. 09.09.2013), Directors: V. Gopalakrishnan (Appointed w.e.f. 25.11.2013), R.E.V. Casie Chetty, A.S. Sulaiman (Alternate Director to Mr. V. Gopalakrishnan) R.G. Pandithakorralage, (Appointed w.e.f. 17.02.2014). J.S.A. Fernando. Ace Power Generation Matara (Private) Limited Aitken Spence Apparels (Private) Limited Owns a 24MW power plant in Matara which has not been in Manufacturer and exporter of high quality men’s, boys’ ladies & girls’ operation consequent to the expiry of the Power Purchase Agreement shirts and blouses to prestigious departmental stores and apparel with the Ceylon Electricity Board. Discussions are underway with the importers in USA and EU. Ceylon Electricity Board for potential extension of the Power Purchase Directors: Agreement. R.E.V. Casie Chetty, Directors: D.V.H. de Mel (Resigned w.e.f. 01.05.2013), L. Wickremarachchi, J.S.A. Fernando. Deshamanya D.H.S. Jayawardena (Resigned w.e.f. 08.08.2013), J.M.S. Brito (Ceased to be the Alternate Director to Deshamanya Clark Spence Garments Limited D.H.S. Jayawardena w.e.f. 08.08.2013) (Appointed as the Alternate The company is under liquidation. Director to Ms. N.W. de A. Guneratne w.e.f. 07.10.2013), Directors: Ms. N. Sivapragasam, R.E.V. Casie Chetty, R. Gupta, J.S.A. Fernando, B.K. Sharma (Alternate Director to R. Gupta), R.G. Pandithakorralage. A. Malla, D.V.H. de Mel (Managing Director) (Resigned w.e.f. 01.05.2013), Dr. R.M. Fernando (Appointed w.e.f. 09.09.2013), M. Vuksanovic (Resigned w.e.f. 10.10.2013), D. Sinnadurai, Ms. N.W. de A. Guneratne (Appointed w.e.f. 09.09.2013), V.S. Premawardhana (Appointed w.e.f. 09.09.2013), V. Gopalakrishnan (Appointed w.e.f. 25.11.2013), ** The Companies’ ﬁnancial statements are audited by KPMG. 216 Aitken Spence PLC STRATEGIC INVESTMENTS SECTOR A.S. Sulaiman (Alternate Director to Mr. V. Gopalakrishnan) CORPORATE ADVISORY (Appointed w.e.f. 17.02.2014). Aitken Spence Corporate Finance (Private) Limited ** Ace Wind Power (Private) Limited Provides corporate services including that of corporate finance, Owns and operates a 3MW wind power plant in Ambewela to supply treasury, legal, secretarial, human resource development, information electricity to the national grid. technology, financial shared service and security services to the Directors: group companies. D.V.H. de Mel (Resigned w.e.f. 01.05.2013), Directors: L. Wickremarachchi (Appointed w.e.f. 04.04.2013), Ms. N. Sivapragasam (Managing Director), Ms. N. Sivapragasam, R.E.V. Casie Chetty, G.P.B.N. Gunarathne (Resigned w.e.f. 01.05.2013). Ms. N.W. de A. Guneratne, Ace Alliance Power Limited R.G. Pandithakorralage, V.M. Gunatilleka. Set up to construct, commission and operate a thermal power plant in Bangladesh. Aitken Spence Group Limited ** Directors: Overall management of the Aitken Spence Group of companies. J.M.S. Brito, Directors: D.V.H. de Mel (Resigned w.e.f. 01.05.2013), Dr. R.M. Fernando, Ms. N. Sivapragasam, R.E.V. Casie Chetty, G.P.B.N. Gunarathne (Resigned w.e.f. 01.05.2013), K.R.T. Peiris, M.T. Rahman, Ms. N. Sivapragasam, S.A.J. Rizvi, D.V.H. de Mel (Resigned w.e.f. 01.05.2013), S.Y.H. Rizvi, Dr. P. Dissanayake, S.N.H. Rizvi S.M. Hapugoda, L. Wickremarachchi (Appointed w.e.f. 31.03.2013). Ms. N.W. de A. Guneratne, Alliance Spence Power Limited C.M.S. Jayawickrama, R.G. Pandithakorralage, Set up to construct, commission and operate a thermal power plant D.S. Mendis, in Bangladesh. V.M. Gunatilleka, Directors: P. Karunatilake. J.M.S. Brito, D.V.H. De Mel (Resigned w.e.f. 01.05.2013), G.P.B.N. Gunarathne (Resigned w.e.f. 01.05.2013), M.T. Rahman, S.A.J. Rizvi, S.Y.H. Rizvi, S.N.H. Rizvi, Q. Khuda, L. Wickremarachchi (Appointed w.e.f. 31.03.2013), Ms. N. Sivapragasam (Appointed w.e.f. 31.03.2013). Branford Hydropower (Private) Limited Owns a 2.5MW hydro power plant in Matale to supply electricity to the national grid. Directors: D.V.H. de Mel (Resigned w.e.f. 01.05.2013), L. Wickremarachchi (Appointed w.e.f. 04.04.2013), S.A.W. Manawadu (Resigned w.e.f. 18.06.2013), Ms. N. Sivapragasam, G.P.B.N. Gunarathne (Resigned w.e.f. 01.05.2013). Western Power Company (Private) Limited Set up to construct, commission and operate a 10MW Waste to Energy Power Project, to supply electricity to the national grid. Directors: D.V.H. de Mel (Resigned w.e.f. 01.05.2013), L. Wickremarachchi (Appointed w.e.f. 04.04.2013), Ms. N. Sivapragasam, P. Benihin, S.R.S.L. Karunanayake, Ms. N.W. de A. Guneratne (Appointed w.e.f. 16.07.2013). ** The Companies’ ﬁnancial statements are audited by KPMG. Annual Report 2013 2014 217 GROUP COMPANIES & DIRECTORATE SERVICES SECTOR PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT INSURANCE BROKERING Aitken Spence C & T Investments (Private) Limited ** Aitken Spence Insurance Brokers (Private) Limited ** Proposed to construct and operate a luxury retirement home Placement of life insurance & general insurance business with complex in Negombo. insurance companies in Sri Lanka. Directors: Directors: A.Y. Atapattu (Chairman), Ms. N.W. de A. Guneratne, J.M.S. Brito, A.N. Seneviratne, S, Chandramohan, R.G. Pandithakorralage. Dr. R.M. Fernando, D.S. Mendis, ELEVATOR AGENCY S.G. Atapattu. Elevators (Private) Limited ** Aitken Spence Developments (Private) Limited ** Exclusive agents and distributors in Sri Lanka and in the Maldives for Property development company. marketing, installing, commissioning and maintaining OTIS elevators, Directors: escalators and other equipment’s the world leader in elevators, Dr. P. Dissanayake (Deputy Chairman), escalators, moving walkways and dumb waiters. A.M.M. Amir, Directors: A. Jayasekera. J.M.S. Brito (Chairman), Aitken Spence Property Developments (Private) Limited ** R.E.V. Casie Chetty, R.G. Salgado, Owns and operates the multi-storied office complex; “Aitken Spence Ms. T.L. Cordes-Frei. Tower II” which serves as the Group’s corporate office at Vauxhall Street in Colombo. Interlifts International Private Limited ** Directors: Provides technical support, servicing, installation, repairing & Dr. R.M. Fernando, maintaining of elevators, escalators, travolators, dumbwaiters & Ms. N. Sivapragasam, chairlifts. R.G. Salgado. Directors: Vauxhall Investments (Private) Limited R.E.V. Casie Chetty (Appointed w.e.f. 19.05.2013), R.G. Salgado (Managing Director) (Appointed w.e.f. 19.05.2013), Owns buildings and land in Bloemendhal street. M.P. Wijesekera (Appointed w.e.f. 19.05.2013), Directors: M.M. Ahamed (Appointed w.e.f. 19.05.2013). D.V.H. de Mel (Resigned w.e.f. 01.05.2013), P. Karunatilake (Managing Director), INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SERVICES Ms. N. Sivapragasam. Aitken Spence Technologies (Pvt) Ltd ** Vauxhall Property Developments (Private) Limited ** Provision of IT enabled services. Owns and operates the multi-storied office complex; “Aitken Spence Directors: Tower I”. Dr. R.M. Fernando, Directors: D.S. Mendis, Ms. N. Sivapragasam, Ms. N. Sivapragasam, R.G. Pandithakorralage. R.G. Pandithakorralage, V.M. Gunatilleka. INSURANCE SURVEY & CLAIM SETTLING AGENCY Aitken Spence Insurance (Private) Limited ** FINANCIAL SERVICES Survey and claim settling agents for several reputed insurance MMBL Money Transfer (Private) Limited ** companies and organisations worldwide including Lloyd’s CESAM Principal agent for Western Union money transfer services in Sri PICC and Tokio Marine & Fire Insurance Company Limited Oriental Lanka. Insurance Company of India. Superintendents for UN World Food Directors: Programme in Sri Lanka and the Maldives. M.D.D. Peiris (Chairman), Directors: D.S. Mendis (Managing Director), Ms. N.W. de A. Guneratne (Managing Director), J.M.S. Brito, A.N. Seneviratne, Ms. Y.N. Perera, R.G. Pandithakorralage. K. Balasundaram, Ms. N. Sivapragasam, J.V.A. Corera. ** The Companies’ ﬁnancial statements are audited by KPMG. 218 Aitken Spence PLC SERVICES SECTOR Aitken Spence Exports (Private) Limited ** Aitken Spence Tawoos Agriculture (Private) Limited Bottles and markets “Hethersett bottle water”. To carry out vegetable farming and to manage agricultural farms. Directors: Directors: S.M. Hapugoda, J.M.S. Brito, C.M.S. Jayawickrama, Dr. R.M. Fernando. R.E.V. Casie Chetty, C.D.D Perera. EQUITY ACCOUNTED INVESTEES PLANTATIONS HOTELS Aitken Spence Plantation Managements PLC ** Browns Beach Hotels PLC ** Managing agents for Elpitiya Plantations PLC. Owns the property of Negombo Beach Resorts (Private) Limited. Elpitiya Plantations PLC Negombo Beach Resorts (Private) Limited ** Owns 15 tea and rubber estates in the Pundaluoya, Pussellawa and Proposed for constructing, owning and operating a beach resort in Galle regions with a total land extent of 8851 hectares. Negombo. ** The Companies’ ﬁnancial statements are audited by KPMG. Annual Report 2013 2014 219 Glossary of Terms Assets Held for Sale Contract Effective Rate of Dividend The carrying amount of the asset value An agreement between two or more parties Rate of dividend per share paid on the which will be recovered through a sale that has clear economic consequences number of shares ranking for dividend at the transaction rather than through continuing that the parties have little, if any discretion time of each payment. use. to avoid usually because the agreement is enforceable by law. Effective Rate of Interest Asset Turnover Total long-term and short-term interest Total revenue divided by average total assets. Credit Risk divided by average long-term and short-term Risk that the counterparty to a transaction liabilities at the beginning and end of the Available-for-Sale fails to meet its contractual obligations year. Any non-derivative financial assets in accordance to the agreed terms and designated on initial recognition as available conditions. Equity Instruments for sale or any other instruments that are not A contract that evidences a residual interest classified as loans and receivables, held-toCurrent Ratio in the assets of an entity after deducting all maturity investments or financial assets at Current assets divided by current liabilities. of its liabilities. fair value through profit or loss. Debenture Fair Value AWDR A long-term debt instrument issued by a The amount at which an asset is exchanged The Average Weighted Deposit Rate is corporate. or a liability settled, between knowledgeable calculated by the Central Bank monthly and and willing parties in an arm’s length half yearly based on the weighted average Debt/Equity Ratio transaction. of all outstanding interest bearing deposits Non-current interest bearing borrowing of commercial banks and the corresponding divided by the total equity and minority Fair Value Through Profit or Loss (FVPL) interest rates. interest. It shows the extent to which the firm Financial instruments that are held for is financed by debt. trading and are designated as at fair value AWPLR through profit and loss. The Average Weighted Prime Lending Derivatives Rate is calculated by the Central Bank Financial contracts whose values are derived Financial Asset weekly, monthly and half yearly based on from the values of underlying assets. Any asset that is cash or an equity commercial bank’s lending rates offered to instrument of another entity or a contractual Dividend Cover right to receive cash or another financial their prime customers. Net profit attributable to the ordinary asset from another entity or a contractual Capital Expenditure shareholders divided by the total dividend. right to exchange financial instruments with The total of additions to property, plant & another entity under conditions that are Dividend – Payout Ratio equipment, intangible assets, investment potentially favourable. Dividends per share divided by earnings property and the purchase of outside per share. This indicates the percentage of Financial Instruments investments. the Company’s earning that is paid out to Any contract that gives rise to a financial Capital Reserves shareholders in cash. assets of one entity and financial liability or Reserves identified for specific purposes and equity instrument of another entity. Dividend Yield considered not available for distribution. Dividend per share divided by the market Financial Leverage Carrying Amount value of a share. Total average assets divided by total average The amount at which as asset is recognised equity. Dividends per Share (DPS) in the statement of financial position. Dividends paid and proposed, divided by the Financial Liability Collateral number of issued shares, which ranked for A contractual obligation to deliver cash or Monetary or non monetary asset pledged or those dividends. another financial asset to another entity or received as security in lieu of a loan or credit exchange financial instruments with another Earnings per Share (EPS) terms obtained or provided. entity under conditions that are potentially Net profit for the period attributable to unfavourable. Collective Impairment provision ordinary shareholders divided by the Impairment provision is measured on a weighted average number of ordinary shares Forward Exchange Contract collective basis for homogeneous groups of in issue during the period. Agreement between two parties to exchange debtors that are not considered individually one currency for another at a future date at a EBITDA significant. rate agreed upon today. Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization. 220 Aitken Spence PLC Goodwill on Consolidation Liquidity Risk Return on Equity The excess of the cost of acquisition over the The risk that an entity will encounter difficulty Profit attributable to equity holders of the fair value of the share of net assets acquired in meeting obligations associated with company divided by average equity less when purchasing an interest in a company. financial liabilities. non-controlling interest at the beginning and end of the year. Gross Treasury Bill Rate Loans and receivables Weighted average treasury bill rate gross of A financial asset with fixed and determinable Revaluation Surplus withholding tax published by Central Bank payments that are not quoted in an active Surplus amount due to revaluing assets in of Sri Lanka at the auction immediately market and do not qualify as trading assets. accordance with its fair value. preceding an interest determination date. Market Capitalisation Revenue Reserves Guarantees The number of ordinary shares in issue Reserves set aside for future distributions A contractual obligation made by a third multiplied by the market price per share. and investments. party (Guarantor), who is not a party to a contract between two others, that the Market Risk Total Equity guarantor will be liable if the guarantee fails Possibility of loss arising from changes in the Total of share capital, reserves, retained to fulfill the contractual obligations under value of a financial instrument as a result of earnings and non-controlling interest. that said contract. changes in market variables such as interest rates, exchange rates, credit spreads and Total Shareholder Return (TSR) Held-to-Maturity other asset prices. Change in market price of the share between A financial asset with fixed and determinable end and beginning of the financial year, plus payments and fixed maturity, other than loan Net Assets per Share dividend for the year, divided by the market and receivables, for which there is a positive Total assets less total liabilities including price of the share at the beginning of the intention and ability to hold to maturity. minority interest divided by the number of financial year. shares in issue as at 31st March. Impairment Treasury Bill Occurs when recoverable amount of an Net Profit Margin Short term debt instrument of 3,6 or 12 asset is less than its carrying amount. Net profit for the period divided by the months issued by the Government of Sri revenue. Lanka. Intangible Assets An identifiable non-monetary asset without Non-controlling Interest Treasury Bond physical substance held for use in the Part of the net results of operations and of Medium to long term debt instrument of 2 production or supply of goods or services net assets of a subsidiary attributable to to 20 years issued by the Government of Sri for rental to others or for administrative interest which are not owned, directly or Lanka which carries a coupon (interest) paid purposes. indirectly through subsidiaries, by the parent. on semiannual basis. Interest Cover Operating Profit Margin (EBIT Margin) Unquoted Shares Operating profit before interest divided by the Earnings before interest and tax divided by Share which are not listed in the Stock net interest. revenue. Exchange. Interest Rate Swap Price Earnings Ratio (PER) Yield to Maturity An arrangement whereby two parties swap Market value per share divided by the The discount rate that equals present value interest rate commitments with each other to earnings per share. of all expected interest payment and the reduce interest rate risks on fixed or floating repayment of principal. Price to Book Value Ratio (PBV) rate loans. Market price per share divided by net assets Young Managers Investment Property per share. Executives in managerial positions (Assistant Investments in land and buildings that Manager and above), and under 35 years Quick Asset Ratio of age. are held to earn rentals or for capital Total current assets less inventories divided appreciation or for both. by total current liabilities. Working Capital LIBOR Current assets less current liabilities. Related Parties The London Inter Bank Offer Rate is an Parties who could control or significantly interest rate at which banks can borrow influence the financial and operating funds, in marketable size, from other banks in decisions of the business. the London interbank market. Annual Report 2013 2014 221 NOTES 222 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2013 2014 223 NOTICE OF MEETING Notice is hereby given that the Sixty Second Annual General Meeting of Aitken Spence PLC will be held at the Institute of the Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, 30 A, Malalasekara Mawatha, Colombo 07, at 10.00 a.m. on Monday, June 30, 2014, for the following purposes :• To receive and consider the Annual Report of the Board of Directors together with the Financial Statements of the Company and the Report of the Auditors thereon for the year ended 31st March 2014. • To declare a dividend as recommended by the Directors. • To re-elect Mr. N.J. de S Deva Aditya who retires in terms of Article 84 of the Articles of Association, as a Director. • To re-elect Mr. G.C. Wickremasinghe who is over 70 years, as a Director by passing the following resolution: “That the age limit stipulated in Section 210 of the Companies Act No. 7 of 2007 shall not apply to Mr. G C Wickremasinghe who has attained the age of 80 years and that he be re-elected a Director of the Company” • To re-elect Deshamanya D.H.S. Jayawardena who is over 70 years, as a Director by passing the following resolution: “That the age limit stipulated in Section 210 of the Companies Act No. 7 of 2007 shall not apply to Deshamanya D H S Jayawardena who has attained the age of 71 years and that he be re-elected a Director of the Company” • To re-elect Mr. R.N. Asirwatham who is over 70 years, as a Director by passing the following resolution: “That the age limit stipulated in Section 210 of the Companies Act No. 7 of 2007 shall not apply to Mr. R N Asirwatham who has attained the age of 71 years and that he be re-elected a Director of the Company” • To elect Ms. D.S.T Jayawardena who retires in terms of Article 90 of the Articles of Association, as a Director. • To authorise the Directors to determine contributions to charities. • To re-appoint the retiring Auditors, Messrs. KPMG Chartered Accountants and authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration. • To consider any other business of which due notice has been given. BY ORDER OF THE BOARD R.E.V. Casie Chetty F.C.A, F.C.M.A, M.C.M.I. J Dip. M.A. Company Secretary Colombo 27th May, 2014 Notes : 1. A member entitled to attend and vote at the meeting is entitled to appoint a Proxy to attend, speak and vote in his/her stead and a Form of Proxy is enclosed for this purpose. A Proxy need not be a member of the Company. 2. The completed Form of Proxy must be deposited at the Registered Office of the Company at No. 315, Vauxhall Street, Colombo 2, not less than forty-eight hours before the time fixed for the meeting. 3. It is proposed to post the dividend warrants on 9th July 2014 provided the dividend recommended is approved. In accordance with the rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange, the shares of the Company will be quoted exdividend with effect from 1st July 2014. 224 Aitken Spence PLC FORM OF PROXY I/We ...................................................................................................................................................................................................... of .........................................................................................................................................................................being a member / members of Aitken Spence PLC hereby appoint ..................................................................... of ............................................................. (whom failing) Don Harold Stassen Jayawardena of Colombo (whom failing) Joseph Michael Suresh Brito of Colombo (whom failing) Rohan Marshall Fernando of Colombo (whom failing) Mahinda Parakrama Dissanayake of Colombo (whom failing) Don Stasshani Therese Jayawardena of Colombo (whom failing) Gaurin Chandraka Wickremasinghe of Colombo (whom failing) Charles Humbert Gomez of Gibraltar (whom failing) Niranjan Joseph de Silva Deva Aditya of United Kingdom (whom failing) Vernon Manilal Fernando of Colombo (whom failing) Rajanayagam Nalliah Asirwatham of Colombo as my/our Proxy to represent me/us, to speak and to vote for me/us and on my/our behalf at the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held on the 30th day of June 2014, and at any adjournment thereof and at every poll which may be taken in consequence thereof. Signed this ................................................................ day of June Two Thousand Fourteen. ................................................................ Signature Note : Instructions as to completion are noted on the reverse hereof. INSTRUCTIONS AS TO COMPLETION Kindly perfect the form of proxy by filling in legibly your full name and address, signing in the space provided and filling in the date of signature. If the proxy form is signed by an Attorney, the relative power of attorney should also accompany the proxy form for registration, if such power of attorney has not already been registered with the Company. In the case of a Company/Corporation, the proxy must be under its Common Seal (if required), which should be affixed and attested in the manner prescribed by its Articles of Association. The completed form of proxy should be deposited at the Registered Office of the Company, No. 315 Vauxhall Street, Colombo 2 before 10.00 a.m. on June 28, 2014, being 48 hours before commencement of the meeting. Aitken Spence PLC | Shareholder Feedback Form Name (Optional) : .................................................................................................................................................... Address (Optional) : .................................................................................................................................................... Telephone No. (Optional) : .................................................................................................................................................... Number of shares held (Optional) : .................................................................................................................................................... 1. Please rate the following areas on a scale of 1 (lowest) to 5 (highest); 1 2 3 4 5 a) Interaction with the Company personnel { { { { { b) Overall ambience of the Company { { { { { c) Speed of response to comments/ queries/ clarifications { { { { { d) Efficiency of remedial action and follow up measures { { { { { e) Overall efficiency of services of the Company personnel { { { { { f) Hospitality of Company personnel { { { { { g) Usefulness of the information in the Interim Financial Statements { { { { { h) Quality and presentation of the Annual Report { { { { { i) Contents of the Annual Report { { { { { j) Usefulness of the information in the Annual Report { { { { { k) Usefulness of the environmental information in the Annual Report { { { { { l) Usefulness of the social information in the Annual Report { { { { { m) Quality and content of the Corporate website { { { { { n) User – friendliness of the Corporate website { { { { { o) Usefulness of the information in the Company’s social media sites { { { { { p) Quality of the health and safety measures adopted by the Company { { { { { q) Adequacy of risk management strategies { { { { { r) Compliance with corporate, statutory and regulatory standards { { { { { s) Comprehensiveness of the shareholder feedback form { { { { { Please tick more than one where applicable: 2. How do you generally obtain information / news about the Company: { News articles { Social media { Advertisements { Internet/Company website { Annual Report { Others Aitken Spence PLC | Shareholder Feedback Form Please tick more than one where applicable: 3. The majority of the stocks you own are (Optional): { Less than 6 months { Between 6 months to 1 year { More than 1 year 4. Will the information from the Company regarding its economic, social and environmental management approach and performance help your investment making decision? { Yes { No { Not relevant 5. What type of communication would you like from the Company? ............................................................................................................................................................................................................. ............................................................................................................................................................................................................. ............................................................................................................................................................................................................. ............................................................................................................................................................................................................. 6. Suggestions / recommendations ............................................................................................................................................................................................................. ............................................................................................................................................................................................................. ............................................................................................................................................................................................................. ............................................................................................................................................................................................................. ............................................................................................................................................................................................................. ............................................................................................................................................................................................................. ............................................................................................................................................................................................................. ............................................................................................................................................................................................................. .............................................................................................................................................................................................................. The completed Feedback Form could be handed over to a Company representative at the end of the Annual General Meeting or mailed or hand delivered to the Company Secretary at the Registered Office of the Company at No. 315, Vauxhall Street, Colombo 02, Sri Lanka. Corporate Information Name Audit Committee Aitken Spence PLC R.N. Asirwatham Chairman G.C. Wickremasinghe Legal Form C.H. Gomez A Public quoted Company with limited liability, N.J. de S. Deva Aditya/ A L Gooneratne incorporated in Sri Lanka in 1952. (Alternate Director to N.J.de S. Deva Aditya) Company Registration Number Remuneration Committee PQ 120 G.C. Wickremasinghe Chairman V.M. Fernando Registered Office R.N. Asirwatham No.315 Vauxhall Street Colombo 2 Nomination Committee Sri Lanka G.C. Wickremasinghe Chairman D.H.S. Jayawardena Directors J.M.S. Brito D.H.S. Jayawardena Chairman V.M. Fernando J.M.S. Brito LLB, FCA, MBA Managing & Finance Director R.N. Asirwatham R.M Fernando Ph.D., MBA, FCIM (UK) M.P. Dissanayake MBA, Ph.D., Postgraduate. Dip Marketing FCIM, Company Secretary FICS, FCILT (UK), (GLE) Harvard Business School R.E.V. Casie Chetty D.S.T. Jayawardena (appointed w.e.f 01.12.2013) FCA, FCMA, M.C.M.I., J.Dip.M.A. G.C. Wickremasinghe C.H. Gomez Auditors N.J.de S. Deva Aditya DL, FRSA, MEP KPMG V.M. Fernando Attorney-at-Law Chartered Accountants R.N. Asirwatham FCA C.R. De Silva, P.C. (deceased on 07.11.2013) Contact Details No.315 Vauxhall Street Alternate Director Colombo 2, Sri Lanka A.L. Gooneratne FCA T: +94 (11) 230 8308 (Alternate Director to N.J.de S. Deva Aditya) F: +94 (11) 244 5406 www.aitkenspence.com Designed & produced by Photography by Dimitri Crusz Digital plates & printing by Aitken Spence Printing & Packaging (Pvt) Ltd AITKEN SPENCE PLC 315 Vauxhall Street Colombo 2 Sri Lanka T : +(94) 11 230 8308 F : +(94) 11 244 5406 www.aitkenspence.com
