IiI Communication on Progress Period covered (27 November 2013 to 27 November 2014) ·3 November 2014 Statement of continued support by Chief Executive Officer To our stakeholders I am pleased to confirm that SPAGroup reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areasof Human Rights,Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress,we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our businessstrategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. SincerelyYours Melvyn Pun CEO Page 1 of 7 SERGE PUN & ASSOCIATES (MYANMAR)LIMITED FMI CENTRE, LEVEL 10 & 11,380 BOGYOKE AUNG SAN ROAD, PABEDANTOWNSHIP,YANGON,MYANMAR TEL: +95 1 240363,240373 FAX: +95 1 246 881,246882 Human Rights Principles Ii' Principle 1: Businessesshould support and respectthe protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Assessment, Policy and Goals • SPA Group fully supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights to which all human beings are inherently entitled to. We respect and endorse all articles published by the United Nations in terms of equal opportunity, anti-discrimination, right to life, liberty, and security of person. • Furthermore, in accordance with Article 18 and 19, SPAGroup respects individuals' right to freedom of thought, conscience,and religion including freedom of opinion and expressionwithout interference. • SPAGroup Employee Handbook was prepared in accordancewith Universal Declaration of Human Rights, ILO Core Conventions, and local applicable laws providing detailed information on the individual's rights and benefits within the businessframework that the group operates. -e • SPAGroup will not enter into or engagein any activity prohibited by the United Nations Security Council Resolution, under Chapter VII of the United Nations Charter (action with respect to threats to the peace, breachesof the peace,and acts of aggressions). • 'Corporate Governance and Operational Compliance Requirements' document (which is also publicly available), provides guidelines on International Finance Corporation's Performance Standards, and SafeguardPolicyStatement of Asia Development Bank. Implementation • Group Code of Conduct provides foundation and guideline to all employees and business partners on importance of proper businessconduct. It outlines prohibited improper behavior including (but not limited to), discrimination or harassment in any form such as bullying, intimidation, threats, ridicule, sexual, racial or verbal abuse, insults, gestures,willful or serious insubordination, physicalviolence etc. The Codeclearly states that SPAGroup will not tolerate these behaviours, and any breacheswill be resulted in disciplinary action including termination or dismissal. • The Code is supplemented by Group's 'Procedures for Reporting Improprieties' and 'Whistle Blowing Policy', providing background and information on compliant process. These policies encourage individuals to contact senior management as well as the Audit and RiskManagement Committee directly should any employee and business associates wish to make a disclosure or raise a concern. As part of Corporate Governance and Operational Compliance Requirements, abovementioned policies and procedures were implemented acrossthe group, and ensured all stakeholders were aware ofthe process. • Due Diligence processesare conducted, as part of Corporate Governance,on any potential business opportunities to ensure our future businesspartners are not complicit in Human Right abuses. • SPAGroup ensure that all business activities are in compliant with International Finance Corporation's Performance Standards, and Safeguard Policy Statement of Asia Development Bank, including equal employment opportunity. • SPAGroup explicitly express the intention to support individual human rights and compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, which are also clearly stated in the Group Employee Handbook. Page2 of 7 SERGE PUN & ASSOCIATES (MYANMAR)LIMITED FMI CENTRE, LEVEL 10 & 11,380 BOGYOKE AUNG SAN ROAD, PABEDANTOWNSHIP,YANGON,MYANMAR TEL: +95 1 240363,240373 FAX: +95 1 246 881, 246 882 IiI Measurement of outcomes • SPAGroup conduct regular RiskAssessmentsincluding Human Right Riskassessmentas part of the Annual Internal Audit program. It is noted that no casesof Human Right breaches,violations or complaints were identified nor reported during this reporting period. Page 3 of 7 SERGE PUN & ASSOCIATES (MYANMAR)LIMITED FMI CENTRE, LEVEL 10 & 11,380 BOGYOKE AUNG SAN ROAD, PABEDANTOWNSHIP,YANGON,MYANMAR TEL: +95 1 240363,240373 FAX: +95 1 246 881,246882 Labour Principles , Principle 3: Businessesshould uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment, Policy and Goals • SPAGroup encourage and support collective bargaining and individual's rights to raise concerns including improprieties, sexual harassments, physical violations and discrimination within the work place, and are clearly disclosed in the Employeehandbook. • In support of fair and equal engagement, the Group hasadopted an effective grievance mechanism,which is clearly stated in the Employee Handbook, to ensure employee safety, security and moral development, as part of Human ResourceManagement. • The Group Employee Handbook fully supports and respects ILO eight fundamental core conventions, local employment laws, IFe's Performance Standard 2: Labor and Working Conditions, and ADB's policy on Gender and Development as the key strategy for promoting gender equality and women's empowerment acrossthe Group. Implementation • SPAGroup encourageselimination of forced and/or compulsory labor, as well as child labor employment, which is clearly stated in the Employeehandbook, and implemented throughout the supply chain. • In addition, in support of elimination of discrimination in workplace, Group's EmployeeHandbookprovides information on individual's rights and freedom at work, working hours, leave entitlements, career development, salary review and performance appraisal, education and assistance training, grievance procedure, and standards of conducts. • Terms and conditions of employment are clearly stated in the job advertisements, which are then clarified and confirmed at the interview. Written employment contracts are also provided to employees outlining terms and conditions of the employment including salary & benefits, leave policies, working hours, rights & responsibilities, performance appraisalsand disciplinary procedures. • Annual performance appraisal and salary review are conducted where all employees are consulted on their performance, career plans and training requirements, and are recorded on a standard form. Annual remuneration increment and bonus payments (if applicable) are made accordingly in recognition of their past contribution and future potential. • Employee Induction Program also ensures awarenessof rights and policies acrossthe group. Page4 of 7 SERGE PUN & ASSOCIATES (MYANMAR)LIMITED FMI CENTRE, LEVEL 10 & 11,380 BOGYOKE AUNG SAN ROAD, PABEDANTOWNSHIP,YANGON,MYANMA~R TEL: +95 1 240363,240373 FAX: +95 1 246881,246882 Measurement of outcomes IiI • SPAGroup HRmonitors and provides monthly report on employee demographics by diversity factors, which is supplemented by RiskManagement & Assurancereview of gender equality in the employment. • Monthly Occupational Health & Safety reports are independently reviewed by Risk Management and Assurance,as part of labour risk assessment. • Annual remuneration adjustment recommendations were randomly audited by Risk Management to ensure consistency,fairness and transparency acrossthe board. • It is noted that there were no casesof breaches,violations or complaints were identified nor reported during this reporting period. Page S of7 SERGE PUN & ASSOCIATES (MYANMAR)LIMITED FMI CENTRE, LEVEL 10 & 11,380 BOGYOKE AUNG SAN ROAD, PABEDANTOWNSHIP,YANGON,MYANrvIAR TEL: +95 1 240363,240373 FA.X:+95 1 246 881, 246882 Environmental Principles IiI Principle 7: Businessesshould support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encouragethe development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assessment, Policy and Goals • SPAGroup hasadopted Corporate Environmental and SocialManagement System(ESMS)acrossthe group, providing guidelines as per International Finance Corporation Performance Standards of sustainability framework, and SafeguardPolicyStatement of Asia Development Bank. • Group Corporate Social Responsibility Committee takes the lead in promoting group wide initiatives on greater environmental responsibility acrossthe group. • Corporate ESMSoutlines the framework to conduct Environmental and SocialImpact Assessments,such as Initial Environmental Exam, Environmental & Social Assessment Plan, and encourages to implement Environmental Management plan if and when applicable. Implementation • Paperlessculture is promoted acrossthe group and electronic communications is usedwhere possible. This is further supported by introduction of 'cloud based files sharing system' eliminating the need to print, photocopy and send paper-based documents. • Group Compliance Policiesadopt policy on Environmental and Social Sustainability and ADB's Safeguard policy in compliance with local performance practices. • Non-recycledwastes are discharged in accordancewith local and internal guidelines and requirements. • Employees, contractors and suppliers are encouraged to commit sustainable practices such as reuse, retreat and recycle, which is evident by waste water treatment plants installed at various development projects, to provide sustainable and environmentally friendly water resources. • Where applicable, the Group conducts pre-environmental assessmentto identity material adverseimpacts to local environment and corrective actions are implemented accordingly. Measurement of outcomes • The Group has publicly disclosed Environmental and SocialAction Plan, Initial Environmental Examination, Corporate Environmental and Social Management System (ESMS),and Environmental and Social Review Summary (ESRS),in support of leading sustainable performances. • In addition to the internal audit program, Environmental and SocialImpact Assessmentsare conducted as part ofthe internal audit program, and due diligence processto ensure precautionary approach is taken to addressthe environmental challenges. • It is noted that no casesof adverse environmental impacts were identified nor reported during this reporting period. Page 6 of 7 SERGE PUN & ASSOCIATES (MYANMAR)LIMITED FMI CENTRE, LEVEL 10 & 11,380 BOGYOKE AUNG SAN ROAD, PABEDANTOWNSHIP, YANGON,MYANMAR TEL: +95 1 240363,240373 FAX: +951246881,246882 Anti-Corruption Principles IiI Principle 10: Businessesshould work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Assessment, Policy and Goals • SPAGroup has implemented Code of Conduct expressingexplicitly prohibition in the acceptance of gifts, bribes or entertainments under obligatory circumstances. • In support of anti-corruption principles, the Group adopts 'zero tolerance' approach to fraud, and the Whistle Blower Policy sets out the procedures for reporting and investigating fraud and corruption throughout its supply chain. Implementation • Group Corporate Social Responsibility Committee takes the lead in promoting rigorous corruption prevention and management measures, which is supported by top management ensuring that anticorruption becomes part of the corporate culture at all levels. • Group wide implementation of 'Code of Code' and 'Whistle Blower Policy' clearly provide guidelines in dealing with giving or receiving gifts or entertainment, restricting in giving and receiving of bribes and or making a transparent system of payment. • Group Whistle Blower policy provides guidelines on dealing with 'Improprieties' and 'Procedures for Reporting Improprieties' further clarifies how to combat corruption, and reinstate Group's zero tolerance to corruption including extortion and bribery. • Mandatory reporting and declarations of all purchasesare required at all levels, and audited as part of the Annual Internal Audit program. Measurement of outcomes • Fraud Riskassessmentis conducted acrossthe group as part of the Annual Internal Audit program to ensure consistencywith anti-corruption commitment. • Depending on the nature and magnitude of the incident, in consultation with the relevant stakeholders appropriate discipllnarv actions were taken including termination, dismissal, as well as compensation for damage caused. Page 7 of 7 SERGE PUN & ASSOCIATES (MYANMAR)LIMITED FMI CENTRE, LEVEL 10 & 11,380 BOGYOKE AUNG SAN ROAD, PABEDANTOWNSHIP, YANGON,MYANMAR TEL: +951240363,240373 FAX: +95 1 246 881, 246 882
