Annual and Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 2 Atresmedia Communications Department Av. Isla Graciosa nº 13 San Sebastián de los Reyes 28703 (Madrid) www.atresmediacorporacion.com comunicacion@atresmedia.com responsabilidad.corporativa@atresmedia.com Telephone: (+ 34) 91 623 05 00 Fax: (+ 34) 91 654 92 04 MATERIALITY MATTERS AT THE TIME OF PUBLICATION THE 2014 CORRECTLY LOCATED IN THIS G4 CONTENT INDEX AND FINAL REPORT. This report was approved by the Board of Directors of Atresmedia Corporación de Medios de Comunicación, S.A. 26 February 2014. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 3 Letter from the Chairman | p.4 Message from the CEO | p.7 Key figures of Atresmedia | p.11 1 2 Highlights of the year | p.13 3 4 Atresmedia | p.22 Atresmedia Televisión | p.54 Atresmedia Radio | p.77 Atresmedia Cine | p.88 Atresmedia Digital | p.91 Atresmedia Publicidad | p.99 Human resources | p.122 Society | p.139 5 6 Environment | p.162 Appendices | p.173 Continuing with the trend initiated in 2009, this report combines the financial and non financial (social, environmental and Good Governance) aspects of Atresmedia. This is another example of the commitment made by the company with the complete integration of Corporate Responsibility in its business model. All Corporate Responsibility information in this Report has been highlighted in green. In addition and as the most important novelty, Atresmedia is the leading media group in Europe that produces its report according to the “comprehensive” level criteria established by the new GRI G.4 guide, which guarantees that its content covers aspects that are most relevant to its stakeholders. Any material identified aspects have been highlighted in the report (which has been verified by AENOR and GRI) with the label “RELEVANT ASPECT”, in addition to pagination to facilitate reading. Furthermore and based on this line of information transparency and accessibility , Atresmedia has created a specific microsite for the Annual and Corporate Responsibility Reports, hosted on the corporate website www.atresmediacorporacion.com, to consult and download all the information included in this report. This new communications channel has enabled us to eliminate the printed version of the Annual and CR Reports for the first time and strengthen the commitment of the Company with an efficient use of natural resources. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 4 Letter from the Chairman ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Letter from the Chairman 5 Atresmedia had a historic year and was strengthened due to its accurate strategy and placed itself in a magnificent position to address 2014, which we hope will be the turning point towards José Manuel Lara growth. We ended the 2013 financial year with the satisfaction of having done a good job and surpassed our most optimistic expectations in a year which was marked by a market in crisis. In this complicated context, Atresmedia had a historic year and was strengthened due to its accurate strategy and placed itself in a magnificent position to address 2014, which we hope will be the turning point towards growth. Atresmedia is the most profitable audio-visual group in our country, and in 2013 it was consolidated in all the markets where it operates: television, radio, advertising, internet and cinema. Its offer, which is based on plurality, quality, talent, creativity and support to the industry has won the respect of the market, the advertisers, the public and the audio-visual sector, which has meant not only the improvement in our earnings and audiences, but also the revaluation of the Company on the Stock Market. I trust that the worst has passed and that the 2014 financial year will enable us to establish the bases to address 2015 brimming with new opportunities. 2013 was also marked by the merger with laSexta, a challenge we overcame successfully in record time, and which made us bigger and consolidated Atresmedia as the referential communications group in our country. We directly manage seven television channels, three radio stations. We produce successful cinema, we lead the advertising market and are pioneers in the new digital communication. All our divisions grew throughout 2013 and all of them amply surpassed the objectives we had planned. 2013 was the grand year of Atresmedia Televisión which registered an average historic audience of 28.8%, three points more than those obtained in 2012, which made it co-leaders in audience. Antena 3 ended 2013 with 13.4% audience share, its best result in four years. laSexta was strengthened in the first year of the merger, it obtained the best result in the last three financial years and surpassed Cuatro for the first time. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Letter from the Chairman 6 The merger suited Atresmedia Televisión very well, as well as Atresmedia Publicidad which again grew above the market level one more year, investing in innovation and new advertising formulas which increased the 2013 was also efficacy of its campaigns and made it the company with the highest evalmarked by uation among the advertisers. the merger Atresmedia Radio again confirmed its strength by achieving an audience with laSexta, of almost five million listeners. It should be pointed out that a new brand a challenge was created: Melodía FM. There were also positive results for Onda Cero, we overcame which maintained its efficacy with the best profitability rate per listener and is the only generalist radio which grew as compared to the previous successfully in year. Europa FM again surpassed two million followers and climbed posirecord time, and tions until it situated itself as the third musical station in Spain. which made Atresmedia Cine again demonstrated that it is possible to make quality us bigger and cinema which is also profitable. During 2013, we released seven of the ten consolidated biggest box office hits with takings amounting to more than 40 million Atresmedia as euros. the referential Atresmedia Digital continues to be at the forefront and was again a piocommunications neer with the launch of Atresplayer, an audio-visual platform which, for group in our the first time, offered all the video and audio content of the Group on all the devices possible, thus adapting to the demands of the consumers. country. As regards Corporate Responsibility, Atresmedia maintains the policy put into practice some years ago and the commitment to the UN Global Compact's principles. Much was achieved in the 2013 financial year. Outstanding among these was our joining the Corporate Social Responsibility Forum, composed of large international communication companies. Moreover, all the media of the Company actively participated in the three social campaigns undertaken together with the Red Cross, Aldeas Infantiles (Children’s Villages) and the Banco de Alimentos (Food Bank). In total, more than €2,060,000 were collected which will make it possible to help more than 8,000 families, more than 4,000 children to have their basic needs covered and more than 1.5 million persons to avail themselves of the food distributed by the Food Banks. Five years after its launch, the initiative Ponle Freno (Put the Brake On It) continued with its achievements. Outstanding among these was the start-up of the Ponle Freno-AXA Study Centre for Road Safety, dedicated to research for the prevention of accidents. Furthermore, El Estirón (The Growth Spurt) and Hazte Eco (Pass It On) continued their social awareness work regarding the importance of instilling healthy life habits in children and care for the environment, respectively. In 2013, the Fundación Atresmedia chose education as the axis of its activities. As an example, mention should be made of the execution of projects focused on the improvement of the educational environment and the recognition of the teacher, with the Premios iniciativas que educan (Initiatives which Educate Awards) and the event Gracias, profes (Thanks, Teachers). 2013 was a historic year. We are eager to discover the new opportunities which will arrive and whether we were able to give our best when we had to head into the wind. The promising future which awaits us is beyond my imagination. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 7 Message from the CEO ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Message from the CEO 8 Atresmedia was consolidated as the most profitable audio-visual company in Spain, adding its best historical audience figures to an impeccable brand. Silvio González Undoubtedly 2013 was a magnificent year. Likely, one of the best for Atresmedia. A financial year in which, once again, the crisis was unable to stop us, on the contrary, some of the major transformations of the Company occurred during this period. Atresmedia was consolidated as the most profitable audio-visual company in Spain, adding its best historical audience figures to an impeccable brand. However, what has marked that financial year was the challenge of the integration of laSexta, a complex process which was carried out successfully in much less time than was expected. The merger was completed perfectly and was recognized by the audience, advertisers and investors. We finished 2013 in a much stronger position. The capacity to adapt ourselves to new times, regardless of the circumstances, led us to mark out our own route with determination and enthusiasm to continue to grow above expectations and become what we are today: the first audio-visual group in the country. For the fifth consecutive time, Atresmedia again surpassed the market pattern and not only generated substantial confidence among the interest groups, but has the recognition of the Audio-visual and Advertising industries due to a clearly recognizable model based on a plural quality offer, to the team efforts and work, to the support given to talent, to creativity and to the industry; in particular, to consistency. 2013 was a historic year from the economic point of view and from the point of view of the audiences. Atresmedia obtained excellent results despite the persistent economic and advertising crisis. Net revenues reached 829.8 million euros and the EBITDA Margin was 9.7%. The net profits amounted to 46.1 million euros. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Message from the CEO 9 Atresmedia Televisión ended a magnificent financial year in its first complete year after the merger with laSexta. The group of channels of Atresmedia grew by three points and reached 28.8% of audience share, which We ended has placed us as co-leaders as regards audiences with one channel less 2013 with the than our competitors. certainty that It was also a marvellous year for Antena 3. It had an average audience we had done a share of 13.4%, its best figure in four years and we have achieved the pogood job. We sition of co—leader in audiences. It is the absolute leader as regards comhad been able to mercial target (13.4%) and won most slots in 2013: morning, afternoon and evening. The channel was leader in 6 of the 12 months of the year. It get through the should be pointed out that Antena 3 Noticias (Antena 3 News) obtained difficult times, we its best figures since 2010. Furthermore, Noticias 1 (News 1) seized the demonstrated leadership from “Telediario 1” (Telenews 1) with 15% in the weekly average. the strength of We are very happy to have created a brand with our way to make televiour model, and sion. A brand which became a reference due to quality products and to we now address successes such as El tiempo entre costuras (Time among Seams), Tu cara me suena (Your Face Sounds Familiar) and El secreto de Puente Viejo our future with (The Secret of Puente Viejo). confidence. The merger strengthened laSexta, which had its best figures in three years in 2013, growing in all the slots and during all the months. This was quite an achievement thanks to programmes such as El Intermedio (The Interval), Pesadilla en la cocina (Nightmare in the Kitchen) and Salvados (Saved), successes which are added to by releases such as Encarcelados (Imprisoned), produced by our producer Verte, En el aire (On Air) , Más vale tarde (Better Late), laSexta Noche (laSexta Night) and El Objetivo (The Lens). The thematic channels are also an outstanding part of our strategy as we build up the grand offer of Atresmedia Televisión with these. As a group, although each one has a different, recognizable identity, grew by 0.9 points as compared to 2012, achieving co-leadership. Besides, Neox, Nova, xplora and Nitro are leaders in their genres and public. Atresmedia Publicidad was able to take advantage of the merger with laSexta and optimized its opportunities, achieving a notable increase in revenues. It has been growing for several years above the market figures owing to its constant efforts to provide the advertisers with new advertising formulas and offer exclusive products which are adapted to the needs of communication. Consequently, it was recognized by the market as the first force in sales in 2013 as regards the service quality and the advertising efficacy. Atresmedia Radio also registered very positive results with an EBITDA which grew by 54%. In 2013, it again demonstrated its stability despite the fall in the market figures. Onda Cero continues to increase its weight within the Group little by little, as it has done before, contributing more and more to our economic results and is the most profitable radio station in our country. Melodía FM is a good example of the eagerness to innovate and open up routes through a new brand. Europa FM surpasses two million followers and is now the third musical station in Spain. Atresmedia Cine maintains its obligatory support for the Spanish Cinema Industry. Throughout 2013, we participated in 15 feature films. Seven of these form part of the ten biggest box office hits. The total takings surpassed 40 million euros, which demonstrates that, if it is understood well, Spanish cinema can be profitable. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Message from the CEO 10 The times of crisis are when innovation becomes a necessity. Atresmedia Digital is a good example of the capacity of the Group to continue to make progress in new communication, marking out the pattern with regard to the creation of new trends. The launch of the Atresplayer platform set up a landmark which unites all the video and audio offer of the Group with magnificent quality through any kind of device. In 2013, we created a new department, Atresmedia Diversificación, which groups together all the activity which does not depend on traditional earnings from advertising under a common strategy in order to bolster an additional source of growth. Finally, I do not wish to end without mentioning our actions regarding Corporate Responsibility. Atresmedia is the first Spanish communication group to join the Media Corporate Social Responsibility Forum (Media CSR Forum), a forum specialized in Corporate Responsibility of the media, composed of some of the largest international communications companies such as the BBC, The Guardian, BSkyB and RTL Group. In addition, we continue to back transparency with our interest groups. This is shown by the quarterly information provided to the CNMV (National Commission of the Securities Market) concerning non-financial aspects of the Company and the annual meeting with our principal stakeholders in order to hear opinions on the key themes which concern the media with regard to Corporate Responsibility. We ended 2013 with the certainty that we had done a good job. We had been able to get through the difficult times, we demonstrated the strength of our model, and we now address our future with confidence. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 11 Key figures of Atresmedia ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Key figures of Atresmedia 12 The following table is an executive summary with the key figures of Atresmedia grouped into three areas: Business, social and environmental. Business figures 2011 2012 2013 Total net income (millions of €)* 805.2 741.2 829.8 Gross margin (millions of €)* 124.4 39.5 80.2 Net profit (millions of €)* 93.4 29.5 46.1 Distributed business value (millions of €)* 638.1 618.3 585.9 Business aids received from the Public Sector (millions of €)* 11.6 2.5 1.0 Advertising efficiency ratio (adults) 1.81 1.71 1.52 Advertising efficiency ratio (individuals) 1.81 1.72 1.49 Number of advertiser 17,964 18,105 16,877 Number of suppliers of goods and services – 1,084 1,040 Number of producers 16 9 17 Average audience share Antena 3 Televisión (%) 11.5 12.5 13.4 Average Audience share laSexta (%) – 5.45* 6.0 Average audience share Neox (%) 2.7 2.60 2.30 Average audience share Nova (%) 1.5 1.60 2.10 Average audience share Nitro (%) 1.4 1.58 1.71 Average audience share xplora (%) – 1.49* 1.66 Average audience share laSexta3 (%) – 1.40* 1.58 Share Onda Cero (%) 20.3 19.3 19.5 Share Europa FM (%) 8.1 10.5 10.0 No. of listeners Onda Cero* 2,454,000 2,615,000 2,598,000 No. of listeners Europa FM* 1,579,000 2,121,000 2,045,000 No. unique users of Atresmedia websites 6.9 9.1 12.0 Note: Business details include results of laSexta as of October 2012. * This detail changes compared to last year, which included the number of listeners during the last wave of the period. This year we have included the average number of listeners for each year as the most relevant detail. Social figures 2011 2012 2013 Hours of children program broadcasts 2,509 3,337 2,347 Total hours of subtitles 10,491 29,940 35,881 Headcount 1,849 1,773 1,829 % of women in headcount 48.6 48.1 Investment in training (€) 424,858 395,700 372,487 Hours of training per employee 29.5 30 19.1 Hours of corporate volunteering donated to the community – 1,360 1,429 Income of the Foundation contributed by Atresmedia (€) 360,000 500,000 300,000 Donations to NGOs through programs of Atresmedia (€) – 288,000 2,157,000 Non fulfilments Code of Self-regulation 2 0 0 Cost of opportunity broadcast social advertising slots at no cost on television (€) 3,715,759 8,300,820 5,542,630 Cost of opportunity broadcast social advertising slots at no cost on radio (€) 1,735,430 1,652,155 4,697,455 Dimensión ambiental 2011 2012 2013 Consumption of white paper (sheets) 6,117,500 5,672,500 5,425,000 Consumption of printer toner and cartridges (units) 791 742 703 Consumption of fluorescent lamps (units) 1,695 1,301 1,635 Solid urban waste (tones) 352 324.8 314 Gas consumption (m3) 10,270 12,579 12,517 Consumption heating oil (liters) 420,040 419,643 458,148 Electricity consumption (kWh)** 19,400,980 29,070,214 28,276,898 Water consumption (m3)** 46,856 50,553 44,297 GHG emissions (tm of equivalent CO) 2,680.31 1,337 2,280.17 Environmental investment (€) 148,540 25,670 14,363 ** The data include the Centre in SS de los Reyes, A3TV and Onda Cero offices, not reported in 2011. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 13 Highlights of the year ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Highlights of the year 14 Karlos Arguiñano en tu cocina, La ruleta de la suerte and Antena 3 Noticias news team. Atresmedia Televisión closes a record breaking 2013 Atresmedia Televisión, with 28.8%, grew 3 points in what was its first full year after the merger with laSexta. It is co-leader with Mediaset, which has an additional channel. In addition, the stations of Atresmedia as a whole are once again the absolute leaders during prime time, the slot of greatest TV audience. Antena 3 and laSexta obtained the highest success index in its premieres. Of the 19 formats launched last year, ten of them remained on grid, which is a 53% success, compared to 26% of Telecinco and 21% of La 1. Likewise, laSexta obtained a 56% compared to 38% of Cuatro. Antena 3 was co-leader in 2013 with 13.4%, its best annual figure in four years, absolute leader in commercial target (13.4%) and the brand that conquers most slots in 2013: morning, afternoon and evening. The station leads 6 of 12 months of the year. __ Antena 3 Noticias achieves its best year since 2010. Antena 3 Noticias 1 takes the leadership from “Telediario 1” with 15% on average from M-F. This edition is also the absolute leader during weekends. __ Antena 3 conquers two new slots. In addition to the morning slot (14.4%), with Espejo público in its most viewed year (485,000 and 16.9%), Karlos Arguiñano en tu cocina (14.6%, one percent more than 2012) and La ruleta de la suerte, unbeatable (1,112,000 and 18%); Antena 3 won two new slots in 2013: afternoon (13.6%) and evening (16%), becoming the station that leads the most slots. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Highlights of the year 15 El tiempo entre costuras, La Biblia, the Fórmula 1 team, La Cúpula, El secreto de Puente Viejo and Amar es para siempre. __ Antena 3 is with laSexta, the station that grew the most during prime time (1.2 points vs. 2012) thanks to El hormiguero 3.0 and a differentiated program, which the audience has recognized every day: El tiempo entre costuras, Vive cantando, Con el culo al aire, Tu cara me suena, Top chef, Me resbala and El peliculón are some of its top examples. __ El tiempo entre costuras set a new way of producing fiction in Spain and is the non sporting event most viewed 2013 (4.8 million viewers and 25.3% media share). In addition, La Cúpula and La Biblia were the most viewed foreign series of the year. __ Amar es para siempre and El secreto de puente viejo led Antena 3 to the top of the afternoon slot in 2013, slot that produced most growth (+1.5 points compared to 2012). El peliculón and Multicine are the leading movie containers in their respective slots. __ Yet another year, it was the preferred television station for the younger audience profiles, as well as the favorite on weekends. __ Formula 1 is the most efficient sporting competition in terms of audiences and absolute leader of Motorsports. In terms of market share, the Formula 1 World Championship broadcast on Antena 3 has become the most competitive sporting event. With a share of 35.6% (2013), it has exceeded even the Champions League, Eurocup or Confederations Cup. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Highlights of the year 16 Encarcelados, Salvados, En el aire, El Intermedio and Alberto Chicote. laSexta, with its best figures in three years (6%), beats Cuatro for the first time, which recorded its lowest values, and grows in all slots every month. Programs such as El intermedio, Pesadilla en la cocina and Salvados, combined with new premieres such as Encarcelados, En el aire and El Objetivo have been the perfect combination of its success. __ The news programs of laSexta achieved their best year, both in first and second edition and extended their lead compared to Cuatro (9.1% on average of its editions compared to 6.8% of Cuatro). __ El intermedio obtained the best season start in its history: 11.1% and for the first time exceeds two million viewers. __ Salvados was the leading program in its slot with an average (during its last season) of 14.9% and 3,041,000 viewers. __ Encarcelados: with an average of 9.4% and 1,755,000 viewers, it was the most impacting program in 2013, while Pesadilla en la cocina confirmed its welcome this year with an average this last season of 13% and 2,431,000 viewers, exceeding its first season by 1.2 points (11.8). Themed channels, leaders in their genre and audience. Increasing 0.9 points compared to 2012 up to 9.3% (only 0.3 points from the themed channels of Mediaset, which include an additional channel). Neox is the absolute leader among younger audiences (7.4%); Nova among female audiences with the best year of its trajectory; xplora (1.7%), passing Discovery Max, was the absolute leader during early morning, even before more general content channels. Nitro (1.7%) also beat Energy (1.2%). ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Highlights of the year 17 Atresmedia Publicidad once again better than the market Atresmedia Publicidad grew above the advertising market average, which it exceeded by almost four points. Atresmedia Publicidad in 2013 was the best valued sales force on a global level. According to a Mediascope survey, the company was recognized by the advertising market as the first sales force in the following attributes: “quality of sales service”, “fulfillment of agreements” and “quality of grid”. Antena 3 and laSexta are the most watched private TV stations by professionals of the advertising industry. Atresmedia radio, almost five million listeners 2013 confirmed the strength and implementation of radio products of Atresmedia in the Spanish market, accumulating an audience of 4,812,000 listeners from Monday to Friday. Onda Cero increased its weight in the Group and continued to hold the best profitability per listener index, as well as leadership in listening minutes per person, with 165 minutes. It is the only generalistic radio that grows (5 minutes) compared to the previous year. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Highlights of the year 18 Atresmedia Cine Atresmedia Cine exceeded 40% of Spanish movie market share in 2013 and three of the long feature movies it was involved are among the blockbuster films of the year. Atresmedia Cine closed 2013 as the leader in Spanish movie productions. It has been involved in fifteen feature films, with box office sales exceeding 40.3 million Euros. Atresmedia Cine has been involved in seven of the ten blockbuster productions of the year, three of which rank in the top places. Mamá adaptation of Guillermo del Toro, became the most viewed movie in movie theaters, followed by 3 bodas de más, of Javier Ruiz Caldera, and Zipi y Zape y el Club de la Canica. The movies produced in 2013 obtained 10 Goya and 7 Gaudi Awards. Atresmedia Digital created Atresplayer Atresplayer emerged, the new online audio and video platform of Atresmedia Digital to allow users to easily and freely access contents from the Group’s TV stations as well as its radio stations. Atresmedia Digital closed 2013 with an average of 12 million unique users per month, which represents a 31% increase compared to 2012. Stock market, revaluation by 208.2% The share of Atresmedia increased 208.2% and is positioned as the company with the best evolution in Europe. It closed the year with a share value of 12.02€, compared to 3.90€ during the previous year. The average revaluation of TV companies in Europe was 84%. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Highlights of the year 19 Solidarity Special Program of Tu cara me suena for Red Cross. Corporate Responsability Atresmedia, top Spanish media group to join Media CSR Forum Atresmedia is the first Spanish media group to join the Media Corporate Social Responsibility Forum (Media CSR Forum): a forum specialized on Corporate Responsibility of media groups, consisting of some of the leading international media groups such as BBC, The Guardian, BSkyB or RTL Group. The only company in the media industry to produce its CR Report inline with the new GRI G.4 guide. Atresmedia is the first media group in Europe that produces its corporate responsibility report based on criteria established under the “comprehensive” level of the GRI G.4 guide. The use of this new standard guarantees the relevance of matters covered in the report for stakeholders. The report was reviewed by GRI (Global Reporting Initiative), which has awarded its “Materiality Matters” seal. Over 2,060,000 Euros collected for Red Cross, Aldeas Infantiles and Federación Española de Bancos de Alimentos All Atresmedia media groups have worked in 2013 on the three social campaigns initiated with Red Cross, Aldeas Infantiles and Banco de Alimentos (Food bank). In total, more than 2,060,000 Euros have been collected which will help more than 8,000 families about to lose their home – in the case of the Red Cross campaign – more than 4,000 children to have their basic needs covered for an entire year – in the case of Aldeas Infantiles – and more than 1.5 million persons to have access to food distributed by the Food Banks. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Highlights of the year 20 V Carrera Ponle Freno and Atresmedia, awarded with the Golden Medal of the Red Cross. Important achievements and recognition of the Ponle Freno campaign Five years after its launch, the Ponle Freno initiative has continued to obtain major achievements. Some of these are the start of the Centre of Road Safety Studies Pone Freno-Axa, dedicated to research on accident prevention, and the participation and collection records achieved by the V Carrera Ponle Freno, with over 17,000 runners and more than 162,000 Euros collected. The Comisariado Europeo del Automovil (CEA) Foundation recognized Atresmedia for its social activities in favor of traffic accident prevention with Ponle Freno. Agreement with the Ministry of Health, Social Services and Equality to promote healthy habits Atresmedia and the Ministry of Health, Social Services and Equality have signed a collaboration agreement to jointly execute awareness campaigns in order to prevent childhood obesity, in the new campaign El Estirón. Education, leading role in Fundación Atresmedia Fundación Atresmedia has chosen education as the main focus of its activities in 2013. It obtained advice from a group of experts consisting of teachers, students, families, representatives of civilian society and institutions, which worked on the execution of projects focused on improving the educational environment and recognition of the teacher figure. The Premios iniciativas que educan (Educational Initiatives Awards) or the event Gracias, profes (Thanks teachers) are some of the initiatives that have been specifically promoted with these objectives. Production of a Corporate Responsibility materiality study with the help of stakeholders Atresmedia gathered its interest groups to indentify their perceptions, demands and expectations with regards to the Company and identify the key subjects concerning a media group in terms of Corporate Responsibility (CR). The conclusions have helped, together with a study by the Complutense University of Madrid, to identify the material matters in terms of CR for the Group. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Highlights of the year 21 The Minister for Health, Ana Mato and the Chief Executive Officer of Atresmedia, Silvio Gonzalez, signed a cooperation agreement within the framework of El Estirón. More environmental, social and good governance information for investors Atresmedia has made a commitment to transparency and gives Corporate Responsibility a strategic nature. An example is the quarterly inclusion, in the document sent to the National Stock Market Commission, with the financial results for the period, a summary of the main Corporate Responsibility activities promoted by the Company during this period. Leader in the media industry in the Carbon Disclosure Project Atresmedia achieved 60D score in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), the highest in its segment. This rating, better than the previous year, shows the commitment of the Group against climate change. Atresmedia best media group in quality of public information For the second consecutive year, Atresmedia has been recognized as the best media group in terms of public financial and non-financial information according to the Reporta 13 Report. The report values the capacity of companies to approach their shareholders and stakeholders to identify and appraise the performance of the company and take informed decisions with certainty. Recognition to the solidarity activities of Atresmedia and its employment attractiveness Red Cross awarded Atresmedia with the Gold Cross for “efficient and meritorious task promoting activities for cooperation and social integration of vulnerable persons”. In addition and for the second consecutive year the Randstad Employer Branding 2013 Report has distinguished the Group as one of the media companies with greatest employment attractiveness. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 22 Atresmedia ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Atresmedia 23 ASPECTO RELEVANTE (pág. 23) Financial results In the year of the merger with laSexta, and in a reduced advertising market and business weakness scenario, Atresmedia however obtained excellent results. __ The Net Revenues of Atresmedia totaled 829.8 million Euros (compared to 741.2 million Euros in 2012), which represents a 12% increase. __ EBITDA Margin was 80.1 million Euros, which represents a Margin of 9.7% and a 103% increase compared to 2012. __ Net Profits were 46.1 million Euros compared to 31.9 million Euros in 2012. __ The Distributed Economic Value was 585.9 million Euros. Net Revenues Net Profits 829.8 million Euros 46.1 million Euros 2013 2013 12% 44.5% 2012 2012 Atresmedia Televisión The Atresmedia TV segment achieved good results, wining the market in a year in which advertising, on TV dropped around 6%. __ Net Revenues reached 728.5 million Euros. __ EBITDA Margin was 52.0 million Euros, which represents a Margin of 7.1% Atresmedia Radio Onda Cero continues to strengthen its position in the Spanish radio scene. In 2013 Onda Cero had 2,598,000 listeners. In addition, Europa FM exceeded the two million listeners for the second year running. __ In 2013 it registered Net Revenues of 80.5 million Euros. __ It obtained an EBITDA of 16.9 million Euros (Margin on sales of 21.0%). ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Atresmedia 24 Shareholder structure Atresmedia Corporación de Medios de Comunicación S.A. is listed in the Spanish Stock Market since October 2003 and its top shareholders are media companies of reference in Spain and in Europe. Im % in 19.17 ag a .2 UF 10 A 0% ares 0.5 1% sh Other 28.42% Treasury Pla net aD eA go stin i4 1.70 % Grupo Planeta de Agostini It is the result of the strategic alliance between Grupo Planeta and De Agostini. Its objective is to strengthen its leadership in the publishing world, in new sectors of the economy and very especially in the audiovisual media area. Grupo Planeta: It is the leading family-owned Spanish publishing and communication group which leads a broad product portfolio at the service of culture, education, information and audiovisual entertainment. Since the incorporation of Editorial Planeta in Barcelona in 1949, the Group, chaired by José Manuel Lara, combines a solid business tradition with a great capacity to innovate and a clearly multinational vocation. Grupo Planeta leads the publishing market in Spain and Latin America, is the second in France and is among the top six in the world. It has more than one hundred publishing firms that encompass all literary genres and a catalogue of more than 15,000 Spanish and foreign authors, classic and contemporary. Grupo De Agostini: A multinational Italian group that develops its activity in the publishing market and the content production and distribution for TV and cinema, as well as in the finance and insurance segment. It is present in over 30 countries and publishes in 13 languages. RTL Group* With 55 TV and 27 radio stations in ten countries, it is the leader of the *U  FA FILM UND European entertainment market. It broadcasts over 9,200 hours of TV FERNSEH GMBH UNIPERSONAL each year, in the 62 countries in which it is present. It currently has over (RTL-Berstelmann 300 programs being broadcast or in production worldwide. Every day, Group) more than 200 million viewers watch any of the RTL TV channels. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Atresmedia 25 In addition, it is one of the most important audiovisual rights agents in the world, with over 20.000 hours of content sold in a total of 150 countries. Imagina Media Audiovisual Imagina Media Audiovisual, S.L. is the parent company of one of the most important audiovisual groupos in Europe. It was created in 2006 with the merger of Grupo Globomedia and Mediapro. With presence all around the world, Imagina is leader in the creation and transmission of audiovisual products. Imagina Media Audiovisual, S.L. is a shareholder of Atresmedia since 31 October 2012, date of execution of the merger and therefore, its entry in the company. Its share in Atresmedia Corporación reaches 10.2% (4.48% directly and 5.72% indirectly, through its group company, GAMP Audiovisual, S.A). Composition of the Board of Directors and its Committees Mr. José Manuel Mr. Maurizio Mr. José Miguel Mr. Silvio Mr. Nicolás Abel Lara Bosch Carlotti Contreras Tejera González Bellet de Chairman Vice-Chairman Vice-Chairman Moreno Tavernost Chief Executive Director Officer Mr. Josep María Mr. Mauricio Mrs. Aurora Mr. José Mr. Marco Drago Benet Ferrán Casals Aldama Catá Sala Creuheras Director Director Director Director Margenat Director Mrs. María Mr. Elmar Mr. Pedro Ramón Mr. Manuel de la Mrs. Margarita Entrecanales Heggen y Cajal Agüeras Viuda Fdez. de González Martín Franco Director Director Heredia del Río Director Secretary Vice-Secretary ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Atresmedia 26 Board of Directors Name Title Mr. José Manuel Lara Bosch Chairman Mr. Maurizio Carlotti Vice-Chairman Mr. José Miguel Contreras Tejera, representative of IMAGINA Vice-Chairman MEDIA AUDIOVISUAL, S.L. Mr. Silvio González Moreno Chief Executive Officer Mr. Nicolás Abel Bellet de Tavernost Director Mr. Josep María Benet Ferrán, representative of GAMP Director AUDIOVISUAL, S.A. Mr. Mauricio Casals Aldama Director Mrs. Aurora Catá Sala Director Mr. José Creuheras Margenat Director Mr. Marco Drago Director Mrs. María Entrecanales Franco Director Mr. Elmar Heggen Director Mr. Pedro Ramón y Cajal Agüeras Director Mr. Manuel de la Viuda Fdez. Heredia Secretary Mrs. Margarita González Martín del Río Vice-Secretary Delegate Committee Name Title Mr. José Manuel Lara Bosch Chairman Mr. Maurizio Carlotti Director Mr. Silvio González Moreno Director Mr. Nicolás Abel Bellet de Tavernost Director Mr. Marco Drago Director Mr. José Miguel Contreras Tejera, representative of IMAGINA Director MEDIA AUDIOVISUAL, S.L. Mr. Manuel de la Viuda Fdez. de Heredia Secretary Mrs. Margarita González Martín del Río Vice-Secretary Audit and Control Committee Name Title Mr. Pedro Ramón y Cajal Agüeras Chairman Mr. Elmar Heggen Vice-Chairman Mrs. Aurora Catá Sala Director Mr. José Creuheras Margenat Director Mr. Josep María Benet Ferrán, representative of GAMP Director AUDIOVISUAL, S.A. Mrs. Margarita González Martín del Río Secretary Appointments and Remunerations Committee Name Title Mrs. María Entrecanales Franco Chairman Mr. Nicolás Abel Bellet de Tavernost Vice-Chairman Mr. Mauricio Casals Aldama Director Mr. José Creuheras Margenat Director Mr. Pedro Ramón y Cajal Agüeras Director Mr. Manuel de la Viuda Fdez. de Heredia Secretary ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Atresmedia 27 Corporate organization [ G4-17 ] of Atresmedia Antena 3 Eventos, S.L.U. 100% Antena 3 Films, S.L.U. Atlantis Global Solutions, S.L. 100% 33.41% Antena 3 Juegos, S.A.U. 100% Antena 3 Multimedia, S.L.U. 100% Antena 3 Noticias, S.L.U. Atresmedia Corporación de Medios de Comunicación, S.A. 100% Atres Advertising, S.L.U. 100% Atresmedia Foto, S.L. 90% Cordina Planet, S.L. 100% Guadiana Producciones, S.A.U. 100% Hola Televisión América, S.L. 50% I3 Televisión, S.L. 50% La Sexta Editorial Musical, S.L.U. 100% Antena 3 Televisión Digital Terrestre de Música Aparte, S.A.U. Canarias, S.A.U. 100% 100% Publiséis Iniciativas Publicitarias, S.A.U. Canal Media Radio, S.A.U. 100% 100% Uniprex, S.A.U. Uniprex Televisión, S.L.U. 100% 100% Uniprex Valencia TV. S.L.U. 100% Uniprex Televisión Digital Terrestre de Andalucía, S.L. 74% ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Atresmedia 28 Management Structure Atresmedia’s Corporate Atresmedia Televisión Organization General Manager Chief Executive Officer Mr. Javier Bardají Mr. Silvio González Corporate General Manager A3 Noticias Mrs. Patricia Pérez General Manager Finance Manager Mrs. Gloria Lomana Mr. Antonio Manso Legal Advice Manager Atresmedia Radio Mr. Manuel de la Viuda Chairman Regulatory and Institutional Mr. Javier González-Ferrari Relations Department Mrs. Carmen Rodríguez General Manager Mr. Ramón Osorio Audit and Process Control Department Mr. Fernando Costi Atresmedia Publicidad Communications Department General Manager Mr. Ignacio Mata Mr. Eduardo Olano Strategy Department Mr. Arturo Larraínzar Atresmedia Digital General Manager Mr. José Manuel González-Pacheco Atresmedia Cine Chairman Mr. Mikel Lejarza Atresmedia Diversificación General Manager Mr. Javier Nuche Fundación Atresmedia General Manager Mrs. Carmen Bieger ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Atresmedia 29 Economic environment 2013 has been a year of recovery of the Spanish Stock Market after a highly negative 2012. The Spanish economy hit rock bottom in the summer, initiating after that its first steps towards recovery. In Spain, the reforms and adjustments seem sufficient to establish a structure on which to start building. It seems to be improving outside our borders: The policy of the Federal Reserve and lower uncertainties around the United States tax policy, reduced financial stress in the Eurozone and the more flexible attitude of the CEB, combined with other reform policies in countries such as China and Japan, now allow us to have a more optimistic overview than in previous years. The stock markets reflect and anticipate the real markets. Hence, IBEX closed the year at 9,916.7 points, which represents a 21.42% rise compared to the close of 2012. The share of Atresmedia closed at 12.02€, compared to 3.90€ of the previous year. Its value increased 208.2% during the year as the best media company in Europe. Other European markets have experienced a similar behaviour: The French CAC 40 grew 17.99% (closing at 4,295.95 points); the German Dax reached 9,552.16, which represents a 25.48% increase; and the London FTSE gained 14.43%, closing at 6,749.09 points. The Eurostoxx 50 index, which includes the 50 most important companies in Europe, grew 17.95%, closing 2013 at 3,109.0 points. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Atresmedia 30 220% 170% 120% 70% 20% (30%) 31-dec 31-jan 28-feb 31-mar 30-apr 31-may 30-jun 31-jul 31-aug 30-sep 31-oct 30-nov 31-dec Atresmedia Mediaset España Mediaset M6 TF1 ITV Pro7Sat1 RTL Group With regards to the US market, the main indices enjoyed an extraordinary behaviour in 2013. Dow Jones grew by 26.50%; S&P 500 by 29.60%; while Nasdaq increased its value by 34.99%. The Spanish economy hit bottom in 2013 and is now beginning to recover. GDP shrank by 1.2% in the year, two tenths of a point more than in 2012. Per quarters, the movement went from less to more, with the fourth quarter growing 0.3% in quarterly terms. Several sources have estimated GDP growth for 2014: the Government expects growth of 0.9%, Funcas has set it at the same level, while the research services of some banking entities talk of 1.2%. Unemployment, according to FUNCAS, will remain high, but will fall from 26.4% in 2013 to 25.6% in 2014, and household consumption could grow in the next year. Atresmedia shares The share price has experienced spectacular growth in 2013. With regards to an 84% average revaluation of TV companies in Europe, Atresmedia has increased its value by 208.2% during the year. The advertising market has once again experienced negative growth, both in media as a whole and in television. However on a per quarter level, the market behaviour has improved, ending the fourth quarter with a growth of 5.6%. According to Infoadex, the total advertising market fell in 2013 by 8.0% compared to 2012, closing the year at 4,261.0 million Euros. Furthermore, the TV advertising market, reached 1,703.4 million Euros; 6.2% less than in 2012. For 2014, the consensus of analysts expects the TV advertising market to reach 1,820 million, which would represent an increase of 7%. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Atresmedia 31 Share capital [ G4-26 ] As at 31 December 2013, the Share Capital of Atresmedia Corporación totaled 169.3 million Euros, represented by 225,732,800 shares with a par value of €0.75. Share details 2013 Share capital at close (thousands of Euros) 169,299.6 Number of shares at close 225,732,800 Capitalization at close (millions of Euros) 2,713.31 Share price 31/12 (€/share) 12.02 Maximum (€/share) 12.35 Minimum (€/share) 3.99 Average weighed price (€/share) 7.6 Average volume of daily trading (No. of shares) 493,130 Average volume of daily trading (thousands of Euros) 3,747,788 Source: Fininfo Shareholder and investor service Both the Investor Relations (IR) department and the Shareholder Office are responsible for the publication of the most relevant news and reporting on the evolution of the market and the financial perspectives. During 2013, the Investor Relations department has been intensely active. It has been involved in over 30 conferences and road shows in various European cities and contacted directly with around 270 investors. In 2013 and coinciding with the tenth anniversary of its IPO, an Investor Day was organized at Atresmedia, which was attended by almost 80 persons including analysts, investors, banks and executives of the company. In total, almost 650 contacts have been made with the financial community this year. In order to provide quick and clear access to information, the corporate website www.atresmediacorporacion.com has a specific section where the most relevant facts are published, including financial results and other items of interest. However attention goes even further: investors can write to ir@atresmedia.com in order to obtain information; the following address is also available for non institutional shareholders: oficinadelaccionista@atresmedia. com. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Atresmedia 32 RELEVANT ASPECT (pag. 32-35) Strengthening Corporative Governance Atresmedia has a series of bodies, control mechanisms and internal rules that comprise its Corporate Governance system. Its objective is to govern and control the Organization transparently and efficiently, generating value for shareholders and other stakeholders. The Board of Directors is the fundamental piece in the Corporate Governance System of Atresmedia which ensures the proper operation of the organization and cohesion among directors, senior management and shareholders. The internal regulations of Atresmedia are as follows: __ Articles of Association. __ Board regulations. __ Shareholder Meeting regulations. __ Internal Conduct regulations on securities market matters. __ Code of Conduct. __ Rules of Good Governance of Fundación Atresmedia. Atresmedia is also actively involved in the definition of standards and good governance practices, participating in forums such as the Spanish Association of Broadcasters, of which it is a founding partner and con“Atresmedia is a tributes to the development of Corporate Governance standards and prostable organization, moting communication and cooperation among the various stakeholders. notable in the current business The main body in this system is the Board of Directors, which is in charge scenario as a of the representation, administration, management and control of the reliable and company and is the piece that ensures, together with the Chairman, Chief transparent company.” Executive Officer and its Commission, the proper operation of the organization as well as the cohesion between directors, senior management and shareholders. Three Commissions support the Board of Directors in its duties: The Delegate Commission, the Appointment and Remunerations Commission, which among other functions is responsible for ensuring the fulfillment of good governance rules, and the Audit and Control Commission, which reports to the Board on the Annual Corporate Governance Report (IAGC), before it resolves on it. The IAGC is part of the company management Elsa González report and is provided to the market as a relevant fact through the webFAPE Chairman site of the National Securities Market Commission (www.cnmv.es) and its corporate website (www.atresmediacorporacion.com). ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Atresmedia 33 Furthermore, the Board of Directors each year approves the Corporate Responsibility Report, which is published voluntarily and on its own initiative to all shareholders, before the Ordinary Shareholder Meeting, although it is not subjected to voting, and is available, together with the reports from previous years on the corporate website, available to all stakeholders of Atresmedia. The Board of Directors approves each year the Corporate Governance Report from the previous year as well as the Corporate Social Responsibility Report. The senior management of Atresmedia consists of the members of the Board, who perform executive functions and are considered as internal or executive directors, by directors that appear qualified as such in IAGC, which are functional and answer directly to the Chief Executive Officer. Commitment to an ethical and legal behaviour The Code of Conduct is part of the internal rules of Atresmedia defining the corporate culture of the Group, establishing the principles and values that govern the Organization and link it to all employees as well as administrators and senior management. This Code has endowed the Company of control mechanisms, which added to the existing ones – action protocols, tools for use by parties affected by the Internal Code of Conduct with regards to the securities market, internal financial information control systems, the execution of legal and voluntary audits (financial, data protection, etc.) translate into the ethical and legal behaviour of the Group. Atresmedia implemented a reports channel in 2013, enabling all its employees to communicate (in a confidential manner and under the commitment of nonretaliation) any actions considered unsuitable by virtue of the Code of Conduct as well as if appropriate, irregularities detected in the process of drafting financial information or significant weaknesses of the internal financial information control system (SCIIF). Furthermore, employees can use the same procedure to consult doubts or propose improvements in existing systems at Atresmedia in matters subject to the Code of Conduct. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Atresmedia 34 Messages can be sent by e-mail and through a computer program hosted on the intranet at Atresmedia, under a section called Regulatory Compliance and Control, where employees can also find internal rules and policies that affect them, such as those established by the Group on the use of computer systems. Access to the content of the report is initially restricted to the Chairman of the Regulatory Compliance Committee (CCN), which is the Corporate General Manager, and the Audit and Process Control Director, who must assess its content and act correspondingly, filing or processing it. In this second case, and after the actions considered necessary to investigate and confirm the facts, CCN adopts the appropriate preventive or corrective measures. CCN is a collegiate body consisting of executive functions that are identified in the Code itself, all of them related to regulatory affairs and procedures. The person in charge of the interpretation and application of the Code, supports the Audit and Process Control Manager by following up on the SCIIF regulations and has been assigned responsibilities by Internal Conduct Regulations on securities market affairs, such as the reception and processing of transactions involving securities of the company and any situations that may affect the directors and that potentially could represent the appearance of conflicts of interest. These conflicts, should they occur, are also included in the Annual Corporate Governance Report. CCN periodically reports to the Audit and Control Commission, the Chief Executive Officer and the Board and is responsible for making proposals considered necessary within its field of responsibility, as well as the drafting of compliance reports considered appropriate. In 2013, CCN updated the list of parties affected by the Internal Conduct Regulations with regards to securities market affairs, submitting it then to all parties to remind them of the obligations established therein. The regulatory reforms in 2013, an impulse for Corporate Governance in Atresmedia During 2013, a regulatory push was made to increase the efficiency in the regulation of good governance, which was reflected in the appearance of new legal rules: __ Order from the Ministry of Economy and Competitiveness ECC/461/2013, which determines the content and structure of the Annual Corporate Governance Report and the Annual Director Remuneration Report. __ CNMV memos 4 and 5, establishing the new mandatory models for the Annual Corporate Governance Report and the Director Remunerations Report. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Atresmedia 35 In addition, an Experts Commission was created through Cabinet Resolution on Corporate Governance, which produced a report with regulatory modification proposals in which, among other initiatives, it includes guidelines on future modifications to be included in the Capital Companies Act regarding the remuneration regime of administrators. This Commission will also be responsible for reviewing the recommendations currently included in the Unified Code of Good Governance, which contains aspects related to the remuneration of administrators. In line with this new impulse in good governance for listed companies, the Appointments and Remunerations Commission of Atresmedia Corporación has completed a survey of the matters which could be improved and proposed specific measures to the Board, which have been implemented in 2014. Some of these measures are the following: __ Approval by the Board, after reviewing the Appointments and Remunerations Commission Report, during the first quarter of each year, of an assessment report of the Board, its commissions, the Chairman and Directors, compared to the previous year. In the event of requiring important changes to its internal organization or the procedures applicable to its activities, these shall be reported in the Annual Corporate Governance Report. __ Approval by the Board, during the first quarter of each year, of a report of its activities during the previous year. __ Approval by each of the Board Commissions, during the first quarter of each year, of a report of its activities during the previous year and its notification to the Board. __ Approval by the shareholders, in conformity with Order EEC/461/2013, of the Annual Remunerations of the Board Report, which shall be distributed to the market through the CNMV and constitutes a ‘relevant fact’. TRANSPARENCY From the moment the company made its IPO, in October 2003, all corporate governance rules of Atresmedia are public and available on its corporate website www.atresmediacorporacion.com. The Shareholders and Investors section contains all the information that is provided to the National Stock Exchange Commission (CNMV) such as for example, financial reports, relevant facts, significant investments, parasocial agreements, etc., in addition to other documents that the company considers of interest to its shareholders (management team, composition of administration bodies, Group companies, past dividends, press releases, corporate presentations, etc.). ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Atresmedia 36 RELEVANT ASPECT (pag. 36-45) Socially responsible management Atresmedia understand Corporate Responsibility as a means to generating trust in its stakeholders and produce a differentiating value. Hence, the Group makes every effort so that the necessary profitability is compatible with a responsible and sustainable management model that commits to persons, bearing in mind social requirements and generates a positive impact on the environment. Our vision _ Achieve a long term profitably and sustainable business model. _ Transmit the corporate policies and values to the entire value chain. _ Listen and provide solutions for all stakeholders. Broadcast of varied, innovative and high quality news and Mission entertainment offerings that respond to our stakeholders in order to win their trust and thereby ensuring the leadership position and sustainability of the Group. To be the reference multimedia communication group with a valuable Vision and positive contribution to the society in which we operate. Values Commitment: We strive to make a valuable contribution to the Company creating corporate sensitivity campaigns which resolve problems and generate a positive change. Quality: We work on the ongoing improvement of our activities, developing excellent products with regard to their form and content, aimed at the needs and expectations of the spectator. Creativity: We boost the creative development of employees, promoting artistic freedom and freedom of thought, respecting the Company's democratic and cultural values. Long-term vision: We work on the creation of a leading corporate project in the audiovisual sector which endeavors to move closer to the future by creating it. Innovation: We boost the creation of new ideas, products, services and practices which contribute value to the Company and to society. Leadership: We motivate and address our collaborators to encourage their development and that of the organization, transmitting energy and inspiring confidence to help the organization to achieve its business objectives. Teamwork: We encourage a culture based on the establishment of the relationships of trust and respect between the employees and the Company. We develop their autonomy and participation in decisionmaking, based on the principles of delegation and responsibility. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Atresmedia 37 This responsible and committed management model is not only applicable to the activities of Atresmedia but extends to the entire value chain, partnering with all Group collaborators in the objective being increasingly responsible and sustainable. Mission, vision, values p o ra t e P o l i c i e s Cor Code of conduct CR Committee Measurement, analysis and improvement D a s h b o ar d Expectations of stakeholders Corporate Responsibility Model of Atresmedia [ G4-24, G4-25, G4-26 ] The Corporate Responsibility model Atresmedia is part of the business strategy integrating the mission, vision and values of the Group. The Corporate values are covered in Corporate Policies that describe the principles and objectives that are applicable to the various areas of the company. Based on these policies, Atresmedia manages its Corporate Responsibility through a continuous improvement cycle focusing on giving solutions to the expectations of its stakeholders. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Atresmedia 38 Atresmedia defines stakeholders as any person, organization or institu[ G4-18, G4-24, G4-25, G4-26, G4-27 ] tion that affect or are affected by Group decisions. The following have been identified: Shareholders Advertisers Suppliers Audience Stakeholders Regulating bodies Society Competitors Employees The expectations of stakeholders are identified through an active dia“Atresmedia has the opportunity log process for which Atresmedia has defined specific communications to exploit its own channels that are detailed in the various chapters of this report. media activities to inform on Social Once the expectations have been identified, specific actions are defined Responsibility.”. to answer their requirements. Simultaneously, the results obtained are continuously monitored and analyzed in order to define new action plans in order to improve year after year. The Corporate Responsibility management model of Atresmedia is supported by internal bodies for its implementation as well as other specific monitoring and improvement measures: Valentí Gómez Code of Conduct This is a Corporate Responsibility tool that considers and defines Chairman of the the policies, values and principles in effect in the Organization. It is Audiovisual and Television Content approved by the Board of Directors of the Company, is a part of the Observatory Internal Offence Prevention Model and constitutes the ideal tool to guide employees, executives and members of administration bodies of the Group in their activities. It has the mission of reinforcing the transversal integration of CR Committee Corporate Responsibility throughout the Organization. It consists of representatives from the main strategic areas of the Group. It is a panel of indicators grouped into four areas that allow assessing Dashboard internal sustainable performance in a transparent manner: business sustainability, human resources, society and environment. The indicators allow establishing suitable improvement actions in terms of CR management. Each one of the areas at Atresmedia has defined objectives that CR Objectives extend the corporate policies of Atresmedia throughout the organization. The objectives are reviewed periodically by the Código de conCorporate Responsibility Committee, which assesses its degree of ducta Atresfulfillment. media ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Atresmedia 39 [ G4-18, G4-26, G4-27 ] Corporate responsibility dashboard of Atresmedia Business sustainability 2012 2013 Net income (million €) 741.2 906.8 Distributed business value (million of €) 618.3 585.9 Financial aids received from governments 2.5 1.0 (million €) Human Resources 2012 2013 % women 48.6% 48.1% Indefinite-term contracts: 84% 81% Turnover rates 2.25% 1.85% No. of hours training per employee 30 19.1 Accident seriousness rate 0.06 0.10 Society 2012 2013 Income provided by Atresmedia to €500,000 €300,000 Fundación Atresmedia Cost of opportunity of campaign broadcasts €9,952,975 €10,239,518 at no cost for NGO and associations Hours of voluntary work 1,360 h 1,429 h Donations to NGOs through programs of €288,000 €2,157,000 Atresmedia Environment 2012 2013 Electricity consumption 397 Kw/ employee 460 Kw/ employee Water consumption 28.5 m3/employee 24.2 m3/employee Emisión de gases de efecto invernadero 0.75 tn of CO2 1.2 tn of CO2 equiv./ equiv./employee employee Environmental Investment €25,670 €14,363 Notable actions in 2013 In 2013, Atresmedia continued to strengthen its commitment with Corporate Responsibility through various actions: Atresmedia, first Spanish group to join Media CSR Forum Atresmedia is the first Spanish media group to join the Media Corporate Social Responsibility Forum (Media CSR Forum); a forum specialized in Corporate Responsibility (CR) of media groups, which includes some of the biggest international media groups such as BBC, The Guardian, BSkyB or RTL Group. Created in 2001, the main objectives of Media CSR Forum are to analyze the implications of CR in the media, share good practices between companies in the sector and execute specific research on CR and the media, among others. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Atresmedia 40 [ G4-18, G4-27 ] Involvement in the second edition of the masters course on Social Responsibility and Sustainability at UCM In 2013, Complutense University of Madrid (UCM) is to improve the employabilAtresmedia ity and professional insertion of participating students, by acquiring the necessary skills to implement Social Responsibility and sustainable manrenewed its agement and administration models. Atresmedia collaborates by sharing subscription its good Corporate Responsibility practices and offering its students a to the Spanish practice project to execute during the course. Global Company Fourth CR consultation process with stakeholders Network. Atresmedia held in 2013 a presential meeting with its stakeholders in order to identify their perceptions, claims and expectations with regards to the Company and identify the key subjects concerning the media in terms of Corporate Responsibility. This consultation process, the fourth organized by the Group, had representatives from all stakeholders: advertisers, audiences, media agencies, society, investors, suppliers, NGO, environment and other media companies. Atresmedia, leader in the media industry in the Carbon Disclosure Project Through an annual questionnaire sent to the top listed companies, the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) initiative gathers information on emisAtresmedia is a sion reduction plans, transparency of corporate actions as well as oppormember of the tunities and risks relative to climate change. Atresmedia obtained a score of 60D, the highest for its sector. FTSE-4 Good Stock market New information gathering procedure of stakeholders index produced A new procedure will be implemented shortly to collect expectations and demands of stakeholders, which consists in analyzing, standardizing and by the Financial giving greater utility to the information that is received at present through Times Stock channels already established in the Group. Exchange (FTSE) Challenges achieved in 2013 For 2013, specific objectives and actions were defined to improve the Corporate Responsibility management model and the relation with stakeholders. The degree of fulfillment of each one of them is described below. Level of 2013 Challenge compliance Comments Increase environmental and Each quarter, the document social impact as well as good sent to CNMV includes with governance information to the financial results for the 100% shareholders period, a summary of Corporate Responsibility activities, executed by the company during such time. Commission a procedure for The procedure is in the analysis reception of complaints and phase of the affected areas and suggestions information received through the 50% various channels. Execution of CR initiatives at During 2013, laSexta supported laSexta the Ponle Freno and Food Bank aid campaigns. 100% ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Atresmedia 41 Corporate Responsibility in the value chain [ G4-18, G4-26, G4-27 ] Atresmedia makes efforts to integrate Corporate Responsibility in its value chain to decidedly contribute to social wellbeing and achieve a business model that generates long term commercial profitability and sustainability. This integration allows adding value to Group services, improve trust from stakeholders and generate a competitive advantage. Atresmedia understands that Corporate Responsibility must encompass all direct activities it executes but also indirect activities that it has some sort of control on. Therefore it extends its Corporate Responsibility management model values and ethics principles to all collaborators. The Group carefully selects its suppliers so that they are aligned, fulfil the corporate policies and integrate the Group values in their work. On the other hand, commercial communications must also fulfil codes and controls that guarantee an ethical advertising and quality. This control on suppliers and advertising contents, combined with the internal application of the Corporate Responsibility management model, ensures that the contents reaching the audience are in line with the quality and Corporate Responsibility values and principles that define the philosophy of the Group. Strict Selection Corporate Suppliers Responsibility Clause in contracts Audience Self control Self regulation codes Advertisers Content and Content controls programmes selection Advertising committed with Audience research Society Quality management systems Content ethic code The policies and control processes are described in this Report. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Atresmedia 42 [ G4-18, G4-26, G4-27 ] Stakeholders' meeting. Active communication with stakeholders The Corporate Responsibility Report is used by Atresmedia to notify its stakeholders of any important aspects affecting the Company. In order to identify the most relevant business, social and environmental aspects for stakeholders, Atresmedia has held meetings or in-person focus groups that have been complemented with the materiality study executed in combination with the Complutense University of Madrid. Atresmedia. Methodology of Materiality analysis Important aspects research for GI Aligning with Atresmedia strategy Important aspects selection Materiality Focus Group Research ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Atresmedia 43 [ G4-18, G4-26, G4-27 ] Focus group with stakeholders Atresmedia convened its most important external stakeholders in November to a focus group meeting in order to identify the most relevant business, social and environmental aspects for each one of them. During the meeting, both positive factors and areas of improvement in the management of Atresmedia on this matter were appraised. The parties present at the meeting were: Investors Fernando Cordero, Analyst, Santander Bolsa Lidia Sanz, Deputy General Manager of the Spanish Advertiser Advertisers Association Fructuoso Moreno, Chairman, TBWA España Producers Josep Cister, Fiction Content Director, Boomerang TV Valentí Gómez, Chairman, Audiovisual and Television Content Audience Observatory Alejandro Perales, Chairman, Association of Communication Users Society María Sánchez-Arjona, Fundación Más Humano Elsa González, Chairman, Federation of Spanish Journalists (FAPE) Social Tomás Sercovich, Communications Director, Forética Responsibility Manuel Navarro, Academic Director of the CR and Sustainability Master’s course, Complutense University of Madrid Aurelio García, Analysis Director, ECODES Marta Tomás, Progress Report Coordinator, Spanish Global Compact “The materiality Network studies are essential to define a suitable Business Strategy.” Materiality study of the Universidad Complutense of Madrid n addition, a materiality study was executed in collaboration with the Universidad Complutense of Madrid. The starting point was the analysis of past documentation of Atresmedia and research of aspects considered by other leading organizations in the media sector, such as BBC, ITV and Channel 4. Manuel Navarro As a result of the focus group and the materiality study, the most releMartinez vant aspects to stakeholders were identified, which in turn were aligned Academic Director with the strategy of Atresmedia, defining the ‘legitimate’ aspects that the of the CR and Sustainability Master’s Group has covered in this report. course, Complutense University of Madrid ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Atresmedia 44 The most relevant aspects and information requirements raised by stakeholders are: [ G4-17, G4-18, G4-26, G4-27 ] Material aspect communication requirements in the Atresmedia CR General aspect Specific aspect Report Business Transparency Current information is considered sufficient. Commitment shall be kept regarding the transparency of public information. Organization Corporate Governance Corporate policies. Organization and Governance of governance bodies and control mechanisms. Corporate Strategy Definition of a clear strategy that Responsibility encompasses the activities of Social Atresmedia. Services Content/Values Description of how Group values are applied during content selection. Social action Ponle Freno/El Description of how campaigns lasted Estirón/CR campaigns in time, consolidating results year after year Environment Publicity Description of environmental management activities of Atresmedia. The Atresmedia CSR 2013 Report contains all aspects and identifies them with the ‘relevant aspect’ label to facilitate its visualization. Focus group with employees In order to identify the most relevant aspects for ‘Employee’ interest group, understand the human resource management aspects that concern them the most and detect areas of improvement, Atresmedia ran in 2013 a specific focus group for this collective, involving 14 employees chosen at random and part of the various areas and companies of the Group. The human resources policy of the Company, as well as its occupational safety and health policy or professional development opportunities with[ G4-17, G4-18, G4-26, G4-27 ] in the organization were discussed during the meeting. Other more general aspects were also discussed such as the perception of Atresmedia and its TV model or its involvement in society through its various Corporate Responsibility initiatives. Important conclusions were drawn from this dialog process, which shall be considered in future activities designed to improve the employment climate. Important aspects to improve Actions executed in 2013* Knowledge of corporate policies and Code Employees have been informed about the of Conduct Ethics Code Language training The number of employees receiving language training was increased Internal communication The corporate digital magazine MD33 was renewed *Note: for more information on actions performed see the Employee chapter. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Atresmedia 45 For the second year in a row, Atresmedia has been recognized as the [ G4-18, G4-26, G4-27 ] best valued media company for the quality of its public information, among the companies of the General Madrid Stock Exchange Index (IGBM), according to the 2013 Reporta Report. Red Cross awarded the Gold Cross to Atresmedia for “efficient and meritorious task promoting activities for cooperation and social integration of vulnerable persons”. Systematized quality management Since the In order to produce, record and broadcast its programs and advertising implementation with the highest level of quality possible, Atresmedia has defined internal standards it has to continuously comply with through its Quality Manageof the Quality ment System. This makes it possible to control and continuously improve Management the main processes of the organization. System in 2009, For the proper execution of its Quality Management System, Atresmedia the number of applies a continuous improvement cycle for incidents that includes the incidents have following phases: dropped 84%. Incident identification and control Introduction of process improvements: lessons learnt Ongoing analysis of the causes Assessment of efficiency of actions Identification of corrective and improvement actions The areas involved identify and classify all incidents that have been detected to later monitor them until resolved. Program and advertising production, recording and broadcasting processes take into account all kinds of incidents: both those identified as ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Atresmedia 46 ‘broadcast effect’, noticeable by viewers, and those are unnoticed or without ‘broadcast effect’. During 2013, the Quality Management System has integrated in its scope all channels from the already extinct laSexta Group. Trend in number of incidents (*) 2  012 and 2013 data does not include incidences of laSexta channel (incorporated in October 2012). The Atresmedia Quality Committee is the main body that manages the quality of services and is represented in all departments involved. Its main function is to analyse the most relevant incidents and the status of open actions, as well as report this information on a monthly basis to senior management, in order to take the corresponding decisions. This joint analysis allows describing the most effective global improvement plans, based on accumulated knowledge. During 2013, the Quality Committee has implemented different action plans aimed at improving the following processes. Publicity saturation Editing system Broadcasting system Quality control systems Centralized news program production system ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Atresmedia 47 Risk management: sustainability guarantee Atresmedia considers corporate risk management as an opportunity to create long term value and a guarantee for its sustainability. This is why the organization has established a Corporate Hazard Prevention and Management System for their early detection as well as their supervision and continuous assessment. Atresmedia risks map Strategy and environment Risks associated with operations and processes Information risks for decision Type of risk Internal processesyt taking Risks associated with Financial Information Risks associated with regulatory compliance Corporate and reputational External image risks Environmental risks The actions related to the management of risks associated with the merger process between Antena 3 and laSexta were intensified in 2013. In addition, environmental factors were included in the risk map as a novelty. In addition to the corresponding internal process audits, other actions were executed such as: __ Distribution of the internal Code of Conduct, which guarantees the ethics principles of the company. __ Creation of the Regulatory Compliance Committee (CCN) based on the assessment of the Internal Financial Information Control System (SCIIF) of Atresmedia. __ Kicking off initiatives to better manage risks associated with specific processes such as financial, documentation or integration of the news area. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Atresmedia 48 Data protection and privacy Atresmedia maintains its commitment with user and viewer data security, making all efforts necessary to fulfil and make its collaborators fulfil personal data protection legislation. The Group has a computer security model that ensures that the activities developed by any area or company are in line with current personal data protection legislation. No sanctioning actions occurred in 2013 related to personal data privacy and leaks. The Security Committee is the governing body and maximum representative in terms of computer security at Atresmedia and in charge of ensuring that all activities performed by any area or Group company are compliant with current personal data protection legislation. In 2013, pertinent periodic audits were made with favorable results, adding the various improvements related with the use of computer systems and Information Communication and Telecom (ICT) resources. In addition, Atresmedia adapted its websites during this year to new legal requirements regarding the use of cookies, in compliance with the criteria included in the Guide on the use of cookies approved by the Spanish Data Protection Agency, Autocontrol, adigital and IAB Spain. As a consequence, all Group websites inform users on the use of these devices. In addition, the procedures applicable to control the various legal risks in the computer area have been reviewed, implementing a communications plan aimed at users of computer equipment and ICT resources of Atresmedia to remind them of their usage policies. Among other initiatives, a legal warning has been added to the equipment informing users of the need to make a responsible use of them and of fulfilling applicable legislation. The value chain, aligned with the philosophy of Atresmedia Atresmedia understands that its Corporate Responsibility not only comprises the direct actions of the Group, but all those executed by its value chain; i.e.: supplier organizations it is related to. It therefore works with the knowledge that its suppliers must operate with the same values and under the same policies applicable to the Group in its management. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Atresmedia 49 The selection of suitable suppliers, through a process of complete transparency, is essential to have close allies involved in the philosophy of the Group. Atresmedia distinguishes two types of suppliers: __ Producers and distributors that supply fiction and entertainment content. __ Rest of suppliers of goods and services. Producers and distributors Atresmedia wants to be recognized for its own audiovisual model, with “Our productions quality content and responsible, and therefore performs a careful selecmust be coherent with the values of tion of programs and contents. On this line, it selects producers and disAtresmedia”. tributors that best understand the audiovisual concept of the Group and share the same values. In addition, Atresmedia performs continuous quality control of all content provided by these suppliers in order to ensure they are compliant with the channels of the Group. Number of producers that collaborated with Atresmedia Televisión and programs produced Josep Cister Head of Fiction Content 47 at BoomerangTV 42 40 34 23 16 17 9 2010 2011 2012 2013 Production companies Programs produced Note: The 2012 data only include producers that worked on programs with Antena 3 TV. In 2013, 100% of the producers that Atresmedia engaged for its entertainment and fiction programs are national. Number of producers that worked with Atresmedia Televisión in fiction series and produced series 16 13 9 9 9 8 7 6 2010 2011 2012 2013 Production companies Produces series ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Atresmedia 50 The Outsourced Production Department, in charge of managing the acquisition of broadcasting rights for products not produced exclusively for Atresmedia Televisión, generated in 2013, 206 purchase proposals of which 46% corresponded to national distributers and 54% to foreign distributors. There was greater stability of the grid during 2013. However, the identity of complementary channels has been reinforced with new acquisitions. Some examples are Dos Chicas sin blanca (2 BROKE GIRL$) (Neox), The Border (Nitro), La Patrona (Nova) or El Jefe (Undercover Boss) (xplora). Some feature films were also purchased for specifically broadcasting on laSexta3. The number of purchase proposals generated in 2013 dropped 32% compared to 2012, as a consequence of the joint management derived from the merger between Antena 3 and laSexta. Number of distributors operating in Atresmedia Televisión 51 49 47 43 35 33 28 17 2010 2011 2012 2013 National Foreign Number of outsourcing proposals generated in Atresmedia Televisión 176 126 111 102 95 87 2011 2012 2013 National Foreign Rest of suppliers of products and services Atresmedia has defined a unique engagement procedure for all Group companies, which considers the fulfillment of specific requirements from the technical, social and environmental points of view. It also considers compliance of occupational obligations of the supplier with employees accessing the facilities of the Group. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Atresmedia 51 Purchasing expense Geographic distribution of (million of Euros) purchasing expense (in %) 55.0 Other countries 3.9 41.8 42.2 Other Regions 15.1 Region of Madrid Catalonia 68.5 12.5 2011 2012 2013 96% of the spending in goods and services is performed with national suppliers. The objective of this process is to ensure that all Group suppliers work with the same quality standards and the same social commitment as Atresmedia. Proof of this is the obligation of all suppliers before starting any activities, to sign a Corporate Responsibility clause, which commits them to comply with the Corporate Responsibility policies of Atresmedia. The clause guarantees compliance with basic rights for all employees, such as: equal opportunities, nondiscrimination or safe and healthy conditions at work. Phases in the supplier selection process Internal audits Procurement Minimum criteria Environmental Social Valuation of for technical responsibility of Responsibility quotation quality suppliers Clause __ Independent technical and financial appraisal: Minimum technical quality criteria are defined for each purchase or engagement. Only when achieved by the supplier, is the financial quotation appraised. As an added control, more relevant or expensive purchases (greater than €50,000) are approved by a Purchasing Committee, consisting of the Chief Executive Officer, the Internal Audit Director, Finance Director and Management Control Director. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Atresmedia 52 __ Transparency: The renewal of the purchasing management tool continued in 2013, which allows greater interaction and communication with suppliers. In this way, all those opting for engagement do so under equal opportunities. __ Environmental responsibility: Suppliers are required to include actions to minimize the environmental impact of their activities. On the other hand, every time the need to acquire new technology equipment is detected, these are selected based on criteria such as minimization of occupied space and low energy consumption. This is what the Group knows as ‘green purchasing’ criteria. __ Social responsibility: A fundamental requirement established for all purchases and engagements is the signature of a Corporate Responsibility Clause in the contracts. __ Controlled process: Periodically, the complete process is subject to internal audits that assess their transparency and reliability. So far no incidents have been detected. Active involvement in discussions [ G4-26 ] of the audiovisual sector Atresmedia is actively involved in the defense of interests of the audiovisual sector through its involvement in forums and associations that discuss legislative evolutions and which influence the execution of public policies. Atresmedia Televisión is a member of UTECA (Union of Associated Commercial TV Stations), ACT (Association of Commercial Television in Europe) and CATSI (Advisory Council for Telecoms and Information Society). Atresmedia Radio is also present in the leading radio broadcasting dialog forums both on a national and regional level and is a member of AERC (Spanish Association of Commercial Radio Broadcasting) and ACR (Catalan Radio Association). Subscription to codes of conduct for the sector Through the Association for Self-Regulation of Commercial Communication (Autocontrol), of which Atresmedia Televisión was a driver, Atresmedia collaborates to improve the compliance of advertising and competition regulations, as well as the expansion of guarantees of advertisers, TV stations and, above all, consumers. In 2013, it is worth highlighting the push given by Atresmedia Radio to the birth of a Advertising Code of Conduct for radio, analogous to that already implemented in the TV industry. In addition, both in the TV and radio sectors, Atresmedia subscribed the Code of Conduct on Commercial Communications of Gaming Activities. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Atresmedia 53 [ G4-26 ] Self-regulation on child matters The commitment of Atresmedia Televisión with selfregulation in terms of child-related matters is evidenced in its subscription to the Code of Self-Regulation on TV and Infant Contents, ensuring the suitability of TV contents for children during time slots provided for it. In 2013, another step was taken with the remodelling of the website www.tvinfancia.es, which facilitates the interaction with viewers. On the other hand, Atresmedia Televisión is a subscriber of the PAOS Code, which regulates advertising of food and beverages aimed at children and teenagers up to 15 years of age, in order to prevent obesity and promote healthy habits. Involvement in the development of public policies Atresmedia is actively involved in the leading discussions of the segment regarding the development of public policies and other relevant aspects. Digital dividend spectrum Atresmedia Televisión is working so that, during the release process radio electric spectrum release process to provide greater broadband capacity, and on completion, citizens continue to enjoy the current TV portfolio through the DVB-T receivers. HD TV Atresmedia Televisión has committed for HD TV, offering the content of its main channels to citizens with this technology. Support for Spanish film Atresmedia, in line with the rest of the audiovisual sector, sector defends that the activity of TV stations strengthens the Spanish movie industry and, therefore, is contrary to the mandatory ‘investment quota’ to finance the production of movies. It therefore expects the Constitutional Tribunal will rule favorably to the thesis of private operators, after the Supreme Court inquired regarding the constitutionality of this quota. At present, Atresmedia Televisión is involved in the Commission for the definition of a new movie financing model, constituted on initiative of the Ministry of Culture. Financing of public TV Atresmedia understands that public TV must obtain its credibility and strength through public service and not through the sale of commercial spaces. It therefore firmly supports Act 8/2009, financing of Corporación RTVE, which forbids obtaining income from broadcasting commercial messages. Atresmedia Televisión maintains its activity, both individually and through UTECA, to ensure true rationalization of the public TV sector as a whole. More transparency Atresmedia is working to ensure that the initiative, at in collective rights present in pre-parliament processing, for the modification management of the Intellectual Property Act deepens on the need for transparency of collective intellectual property rights management entities. With this objective, the group has presented the corresponding allegations on the various draft projects both with the Ministries of Culture, Industry and Economy, and before the Council of State, and will continue to work in this sense during the parliamentary processing of the draft Act. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 54 Atresmedia Televisión ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Atresmedia Televisión 55 Jordi Évole. The year of the merger, the grand year of Atresmedia Televisión Antena 3, with an After 2012 when the audience clearly endorsed the programme model of increase of 0.9 Atresmedia Televisión, undoubtedly, 2013 was a historic year: That year, Antena 3, laSexta and the thematic channels continued to increase their points, achieved audiences in comparison with the minimum audiences registered by their its best data competitors. In short, that year supposed the validation of a different opin four years tion launched three years ago when the way to understand television was conceived as being based on variety and constant innovation. with an average audience share The data are clear: Antena 3, with an increase of 0.9 points, achieved its of 13.4%, reaching best data in four years with an average audience share of 13.4%, reaching coleadership. In addition, laSexta arose as the Spanish channel with coleadership. the greatest growth as it rose beyond its data of the previous year by 1.1 points and achieved the best register in three years with 6.0%, overtaking Cuatro. A tendency which has also affected the thematic channels, which grew by 0.9 points as regards the previous financial year and, therefore, remain as leaders in their types and among the target audiences. Atresmedia Televisión, with 28.8%, grew 3 points and places it as co leader with Mediaset, which has one channel more. The channels of Atresmedia Televisión, as a group, again became leaders in prime time, the slot with the greatest consumption of television, consolidating the success of all its channels, each with its own, independent identity. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Atresmedia Televisión 56 El secreto de Puente Viejo, Amar es para siempre and Antonio García Ferreras. The main successes of Antena 3 are based on a sound programming of the afternoon and evening slots, with Amar es para siempre (Love is For Ever) and El secreto de Puente Viejo (The Secret of Puente Viejo), which had a sustained upswing from Monday to Friday, together with the contests Ahora caigo (Who’s still Standing) and Atrapa un millón (The Million Pound Drop). Added to these are the successes of the series Vive cantando (Live Singing) and El tiempo entre costuras (Time among Seams); and the programmes Top Chef and Me resbala (Slide Show), as new prime time programmes. laSexta maintains its commitment to the present time, not only with its best year for its news programmes, but also with El objetivo de Ana Pastor (The Lens of Ana Pastor), laSexta noche (laSexta Night), Equipo de investigación (Research Team) and Más vale tarde (Better Late), together with Encarcelados (Imprisoned) and Policías (Policemen). The thematic channels reached the close of their best year with differentiated programming, which was complementary and had greater exclusive content. All of them are leaders within their types and as regards their target audiences. The group which grows most Antena 3 was leader in 2013 over six months. With an increase of 0.9 points versus 2012, it is the absolute leader commercial target (13.4%), the audience of greatest interest for the advertisers, beating Telecinco by 1.2 points. The improvement was evident in all the daytime slots, especially in the morning, afternoon and evening, where it increased its leadership. At ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Atresmedia Televisión 57 weekends it continued to be the first option and increased its audience by one point with regard to 2012. In addition, together with laSexta, it is the channel which increased most in prime time (1.2) with its different, varied night-time offer. Again it became the preferred channel among the audience from 13 to 54 years old (13.4%), extending its advantage in the upper and upper middle classes, while attracting a substantial audience among the middle class. Share difference 2013 v. 2012 1.1 0.9 0.0 -0.5 -2.0 Source: Kantar Media. España. Total individuals. The growth of laSexta is unstoppable and affects all the bands during all the months of the year. In December it obtained its best data in three years (6.4%), therefore, it distanced itself more from Cuatro (0.7). From the time of the merger, laSexta has grown every month as regards the same month in the previous year and 2013 closed as the channel with the greatest upswing with respect to 2012 (1.1). For the first time, it beat Cuatro during that year (6.03% v. 5.96%) and systematically surpassed it from October. Evolution of laSexta and Cuatro. Share % Source: Kantar Media. España. Total individuals ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Atresmedia Televisión 58 El tiempo entre costuras, Vive cantando, Top Chef and Andreu Buenafuente. Antena 3 and laSexta, the channels with the greatest success rate in their premieres The innovation has risks, but it is more risky to remain static. In the case of Atresmedia Televisión, the audience has clearly supported the new programmes which have enriched schedules of its channels. In fact, Antena 3 and laSexta are the channels with the greatest success rates in its programme launches. Of the 19 formats launched last year, ten of them remained on grid, which is a 53% success, compared to 26% of Telecinco and 21% of La 1. Likewise, laSexta obtained a 56% compared to 38% of Cuatro. Antena 3 has released programmes of fiction such as El tiempo entre costuras (Time among Seams), Vive cantando (Live Singing), La Cúpula (Under the Dome) or La Biblia (The Bible); or entertainment, such as Top Chef or Me resbala (Slide Show) with magnificent results. laSexta maintains its renovation with new offers of entertainment and current issues such as Encarcelados (Imprisoned), which became the revelation programme of the season and its best release in the year. Moreover, it added a new current events programme with laSexta noche (lasexta Night) and positive results were achieved with Policías (Police) and Lab (As we are). In addition, prestigious professionals were incorporated such as Ana Pastor and Andreu Buenafuente, who have had very positive results with their new programmes. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Atresmedia Televisión 59 Tu cara me suena, Mayores gamberros, La ruleta de la suerte, Ahora caigo, Atrapa un millón and El hormiguero 3.0. Television for all Atresmedia Televisión continues to opt for quality entertainment and for all audiences. In the case of Antena 3 Tu cara me suena (Your Face Looks Familiar) again became the leader in its band and the entertainment programme of the channel most viewed (21.2% with almost three million spectators). Moreover, El hormiguero 3.0 (The Anthill 3.0) had the best seasonal start up of its history (12.6% and 2,423,000) and a maximum monthly data in December (13.6% and 2,738,000). The release of Top Chef was a revelation. Increasingly on the rise since it began to be broadcast, it finished the season with an average audience share of 17.8% and 2,937,000 spectators. In December, it was the programme most watched in the month with more than 3.5 million viewers. Friday nights also included a success with Mayores gamberros (Benidorm Bastards), which was a double humorous hit together with Me resbala (Slide Show). The programme presented by Arturo Valls has been the most watched entertainment programme on a Friday night since its release with more than 2.5 million spectators and 15.1% audience share. The evening slot continues to be the time for contests. Ahora caigo (Who’s Still Standing?) and Atrapa un millón (The Million Pound Drop) have more than one and a half million followers. Moreover, La ruleta de la suerte (Wheel of Fortune) remains unbeatable after being broadcast for more than seven years with 18% share and 1,112,000 spectators. While Karlos Arguiñano en la cocina (Karlos Arguiñano in the Kitchen) continued its upswing (+1.1 as compared with 2012) and ended its best year with 14.6%. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Atresmedia Televisión 60 Salvados, El intermedio and laSexta Noticias. laSexta consolidates its model Antena 3 2013 also supposed the consolidation of the entertainment model of Noticias 1 seized laSexta. Salvados (Saved) again affirmed its position as an emblem of the channel and increased its share. At the end of the year, it had 1.1% and the leading more than three million followers, which made it the leader in its time slot. position from The programme of Jordi Évole was the leader of the 16 broadcasts most “Telediario 1” watched of laSexta in the year, reaching its maximum point on February 3 with Cuestión de educación (A Matter of Education) which had more with an average than 4.3 million spectators (19.8%) and was the non-sports broadcast 15.0% share most watched in the history of laSexta. from Monday to In addition, Pesadilla en la cocina (Nightmare in the Kitchen) continues to Sunday. be the most watched entertainment programme of the channel after Salvados (Saved) with 13% and 2,431,000 followers, while El intermedio (The Interval) continues to break records. Specifically, it grew by 3.4 points as compared with 2012 at the end of the best year in its history, it had more than two million followers (10.7% share and 2,046,000 viewers). The channel incorporated new programmes to these successes such as Encarcelados (Imprisoned) which was undoubtedly one of the revelation programmes of the season with 9.4% share and 1,755,000 followers; and Policías en acción (Policce in Action) (7.4% share and 1,088.000 viewers) and Lab (7.6% share and 1,521,000 viewers) which also had outstanding results. Finally, Buenafuente made a strong return with his programme En el aire (On Air) (8.2% share and 677,000 viewers). A grand offer of news on the upswing The news offer of Antena 3 continues to rise. Its two main editions grew by an average of 0.5 as compared to 2012 and 2011, achieving its best results since 2010 with a 13.2% share and more than 1.8 million viewers. Moreover, Antena 3 Noticias 1 (Antena 3 News 1) seized the leading position from “Telediario 1” (TV news 1) with an average 15.0% share from Monday to Sunday. A specially outstanding result for the first edition of the weekend. It ended 2013 as the news leader most viewed after lunch on Saturdays and Sundays (15.4% share and 1,970,000 viewers), a landmark for the first time since 2009. However, not only did the news programmes improve their audiences. Espejo Público (The Public Mirror) broke its record for the second consecutive year with an average 485,000 viewers and 16.9% audience share. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Atresmedia Televisión 61 Fórmula 1 team. As regards the news programmes of laSexta, this was the best year of their history with growth of two points which meant that the two editions achieved an average of 9.1% and greatly surpassed the news programmes of Cuatro (6.8%). The news Especially outstanding was the first edition from Monday to Friday with programmes of 12.1% share and 1,277,000 followers. In addition, the second edition from Monday to Friday maintained its positive evolution and in December, it laSexta, closed had the best month in its history with a 9.2% share and 1,217,000 spectathe best year of tors and its classic Al rojo vivo (Red Hot) (10% share and 563,000 viewtheir history with ers) also again increased the number of its followers. It grew 2.6 points as compared to 2012. growth of two points (9.1%). Furthermore, the channel reinforced its choice of current affairs with the incorporation of laSexta noche (laSexta Night) on Saturday nights; El Objetivo (The Lens), on Sundays; and Más vale tarde (Better Late) in the afternoon from Monday to Friday. laSexta noche (laSexta Night) ended its first year with an outs 7.3% share and 932,000 followers and a positive evolution which culminated with a monthly record in December (9.2%). El objetivo (The Lens) of Ana Pastor (8.9% and 1.6 million) formed a tandem with Salvados (Saved) and consolidated the choice of the analysis of current affairs on Sunday nights. Más vale tarde (Better Late) (4.6% share and 469,000 viewers) systematically surpassed its direct competitor Te vas a enterar (You’ll See) on Cuatro, which ended up being withdrawn. The channel also maintained its choice of reports on current affairs on Friday nights. Equipo de investigación (Research Team) (6.7% share and 1,197,000 viewers) was successfully installed after laSexta columna (laSexta Column) which continued its upswing and ended its best year with more than a million followers (6.5%). Formula 1: the most effective sports competition Formula 1 is the second sport with most audience in Spain and the absolute king of motor programmes. In terms of audience share, the broadcasting of the Formula 1 World Championship on Antena 3 became the most competitive sports competition. With a share of 35.6% (2013), it even surpassed the Champions League, the UEFA European Championship and the FIFA Confederations Cup. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Atresmedia Televisión 62 El tiempo entre costuras. Atresmedia series, the fiction model The four foreign El tiempo entre costuras (Time among Seams) was a landmark series with more and the non-sports offer most viewed in the year followers in Spain Antena 3 again broadcast the most viewed and best quality series one are broadcast on more year. El tiempo entre costuras (Time among Seams) was the most Antena 3. viewed series of the year and the non-sports offer with most following in 2013 (4.8 million and a share of 25.3%). It was the absolute leader in its time slot and had more than 5 million spectators during its most viewed broadcast. The second season of Con el culo al aire (Caught with his Pants Down) continued to be popular (17.0% share and 3 million followers)and Vive cantando, (Live Singing) was the revelation series of the season and ended up as leader in its time slot with an average of 2,635,000 spectators and a 15.2% share. 2013 was the final year if three emblematic series of the channel: Gran Hotel (Grand Hotel) Luna (Moon) and El barco (The Ship). However, the other important landmark of Antena 3 fiction in 2013 did not take place in prime time but after lunch with Amar es para siempre (Love is For Ever) and El secreto de Puente Viejo (The Secret of Puente Viejo). The latter shaped the success oof fiction after lunch and in the afternoon begun in 2011. The share of Amar es para siempre (Love is For Ever) grew month by month and achieved its maximum share in November with 15.0% and almost 1.8 million spectators. El secreto de Puente Viejo (The Secret of puenteviejo) continued to be unstoppable and achieved its best annual figures (18.2% share and 1,970,000 viewers) and became the most viewed programme in the afternoon and stayed as leader of its slot from April. The most viewed foreign fiction the fiction produced by the channel itself. One more year it offered the most successful foreign series on television. In fact, the four foreign series with most followers were on Antena 3.For example, La Biblia (The Bible) was the series most viewed since 2010 with more than 3.4 million spectators and an average 20.4% share. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Atresmedia Televisión 63 Vikingos, Arrow, Juego de tronos, El mentalista, The Following and Revolution. Outstanding results were also achieved by La Cúpula (Under the Dome), leader in its time slot with its first four episodes and the second most viewed foreign fiction of the year with more than 3.2 million spectators and an average share of 18.5%. Vikingos (Vikings) and Arrow were the revelations of the summer. The former ended up as leader with a 15.2% share and almost 1.9 million followers and Arrow ended in October with an average share of 12.7% and 1,765,000 spectators. Foreign fiction is also among the key pieces of laSexta. The classic El mentalista (The Mentalist) (7.9% share and 1,668,000 viewers in its fifth season), The Walking Dead (6.7% share and 1,242,000 viewers in the third season), Bones (6.6% share and 1,318,000 viewers in its seventh season and Vigilados (Person of Interest) (5.3% share and 967,000 viewers), were joined by The Following (6,3% share and 1,134,000) and Revolution (64% share and 1,131,000 viewers). It also broadcast the second season of the highly acclaimed Juego de tronosv (Game of Thrones) (6.0% share and 835,000 viewers). Multicine (Multi-Cinema) and El peliculón (The Big Picture), absolute leaders The brands Multicine (Multi-Cinema) (15.4% share and 1,913,000 viewers) and El peliculón (The Big Picture) (15.3% share and 2,521,000 viewers) were absolute leaders in their time slots. Moreover, El peliculón became the programme with cinema content with the highest audience share surpassing “La película de la semana” (The Film of the Week) of La 1 (Spanish Television 1) (15.2%). The film Safe became the second most viewed film of the year with more than five million spectators and a share of 25.2%. laSexta also had an excellent cinema portfolio. El taquillazo (The Box Office Hit) had almost 1.5 million followers (8.8%) with films like Colombiana, which was the most viewed film of the year with almost 3 million followers (1.1%). ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Atresmedia Televisión 64 Modern family and Los Simpson. Atresmedia thematic channels are the winners Neox (2.3%), a thematic channel, leader among young people (7.4%) ahead of FDF (7.3%). In fact, it is the third channel most viewed by young people, only behind Antena 3 (13.0%) and Telecinco (11.1%). Its own specific offer has achieved good figures due to the American sit coms. Modern family continued to be one of the most viewed series of the television (2.7% and 512,000 in its fourth season) and Dos chicas sin blanca (2 Broke Girl$) was released with an average of 5.3% of young people in its first season. Los Simpson (The Simpsons) was the most viewed thematic channel almost every day and outstanding results were also achieved in cinema, such as Los mercenarios (The Mercenaries) (4.6% and 801,000 on March 22, the second non children’s film most viewed of the thematic programmes. Nova (2.1%), the feminine thematic most viewed clearly surpassed the feminine channels of Mediaset. Specifically 0.4 points above Divinity, 0.9 more than La Siete, and 1.4 more than Nueve. Nova ended the best year of its record (2.1% and 2.7% as regards women) and was the thematic channel with the highest growth as regards 2012 (0.5). From Monday to Friday, it was the most viewed with its offer of TV soaps even above general programmes on some occasions. Nitro (1.7%) grew by 0.1 as compared with 2012 and achieved an annual maximum. It comfortably wins against Energy (1.2%) and is the leader among its target audience, Men over 45 years old (2.4%). Ley y orden (Law and Order), the films or El Mentalista (The Mentalist) was the nonsport programme with the most followers. xplora (1.7%) is the factual leading channel. It again surpassed Discovery Max (1.6%) and grew 0.3 with regard to 2012. It surpassed Energy (1.2%) by 0.5, the masculine channel of Mediaset, which it beats every month. It registered three consecutive monthly records in June, July and August (1.8%, 1.9% and 2.0%) and overtook Discovery Max for seven consecutive months in 2013. It is especially outstanding in the early morning even ahead of the generalist programmes. laSexta3 is again the thematic channel specialized in cinema with the largest audience. In 2013, with 1.6%, it surpassed Paramount Channel by two tenths and maintained the results registered in 2012. On Thursday October 10, it broadcast La jungla 4.0 (The Jungle 4.0), the most viewed film of its history and the non-infantile film of the thematic programmes with almost one million spectators (96,000) and a share of 5.9%. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Atresmedia Televisión 65 Our vision Atresmedia Televisión is deeply committed to quality, varied and entertaining television, which is, above all, responsible. The Corporate Responsibility Strategy as regards the content created, produced and broadcast by the Group is defined in five areas of action: _ To guarantee quality in the content. _ To be the loudspeaker of social causes. _ To protect the most vulnerable audiences, especially minors. _ To foment accessibility too audio-visual content. _ To approximate the media to society. RELEVANT ASPECT (pag. 65-75) Responsible and commited television Quality of the content Atresmedia, as an audio-visual company, aware that best practice as regards responsibility with the audience is through the content which is broadcast. For this reason, it has decided for a model of television which is responsible to society. Atresmedia has been recognized as the leading company in Corporate Responsibility in the television sector. This commitment to responsibility as regards content and the transmis[ G4-26 ] sion of values through these allowed the company to become the leader “It is difficult in Corporate Responsibility in the public and private television sectors as to think that is the conclusion of the Esporas de helechos y elefantes 2012 Report (Fern the Corporate and Elephant Spores Report 2012), drafted by the Fundación CompromResponsibility of a iso Empresarial (Business Commitment Foundation). With the intention communications to continue working along these lines and consolidate them, in 2013, the group like Group joined the Foro de Responsabilidad Corporativa y Medios de ComuAtresmedia is not nicación (The Corporate Responsibility and Media Forum). somehow reflected in its content.” All the companies of the Group share a number of values which are applied transversally in all the channels and in all the programmes, regardless of whether these are entertainment or fiction programmes. These values are: quality, diversity, the presence of limits and innovation. The presence of these values in the content broadcast is one of the hallmarks of the programming of Atresmedia Televisión and guarantees a demanding selection process for the products broadcast, as well as an exhaustive control of their development, production and broadcasting. The Alejandro Perales final objective is that all the content is adapted to the values and the ComPresident of the pany Code of Conduct. In order to guarantee this premise, Atresmedia Association of Televisión implements internal and external control mechanisms which are Communication Users applied in all the phases of the generation of contents. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Atresmedia Televisión 66 “It is important Internal Mechanisms to know how Content committee the company is Code of Conduct of Atresmedia Deontological codes of news services managed, the criteria employed Content quality control by an advertiser External Mechanisms to select a Cualitative investigation Listening to the audience programme, Collection of information of stakeholders an advertiser, a presenter … what the values are which structure Atresmedia.” Internal mechanisms the Content Department, the Corporate Marketing Department, the Programmes Department, The Programming Department and the Fiction, Corporate Image and Communication Departments. This committee takes care of the application of the values of the Group as regards the creation of content created internally as well as those created by external producers. Atresmedia also has an Ethical Code which includes the policies, princi[ G4-26 ] Tomás Sercovich Director of Foretica ples, objectives and values of the Group and which are applied in all its Communication activities. Furthermore, the news services of Antena 3 and laSexta have deontological codes which guarantee a reliable offer of news which has quality and is committed to the ethical and Corporate Responsibility principles. Principles of the Deontological Code of the news programmes of Antena 3 Reference framework: the Spanish Constitution and the resulting legal framework. Respect for the dignity of persons. Language and visual resources of the information carefully treated and supervised. Separation of activities in order to prevent conflict of interest. Explicit separation of information and advertising. Clear differentiation of information and opinion content. Deontological The prohibition to accept gifts. Code of The legal principle of the presumption of innocence. the news Extreme rigour when minors are involved. programmes of Antena 3 Avoidance of the use of insider information. Deontological Code of laSexta News “A television has been created which believes deeply in the transforming power of information. Our commitment is always to be on the side of truth and with the most disadvantaged. Our journalism is committed and has two basic pillars: Deontological Code of laSexta courage and humility”. Noticias ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Atresmedia Televisión 67 External mechanisms During 2013, The continual work of quality research 71 discussion Atresmedia is committed to offering varied, quality programming which is proximate and familiar, and responds to the preferences of the public, groups met, Atresmedia Televisión continually carries out quality research work which which meant makes it possible to continue to increase knowledge of the habits of the that the spectators and anticipate the tendencies of demand. The opinions of the spectators regarding the quality and relevance of the content of the Group evaluations and are monitored weekly through qualitative studies. According to these reopinions of 568 ports, the content model of the Atresmedia Group creates confidence in persons were the spectators, both as regards the credibility and veracity of the content and as regards the relevance for and adaptation to all the public. heard. These studies help to confirm that the mechanisms implemented internally are really effective for adapting the television model to what the spectator expects and for detecting alerts when there are distortions. Moreover, during 2013, 71 discussion groups met, which meant listening to the evaluations and opinions of 568 persons. This dialogue made it possible to continue making an in-depth study of the tastes and demands of the viewers and again meant the verification of the positive evaluation of the Atresmedia Corporate Responsibility campaigns and the diverse solidarity campaigns which were carried out throughout 2013. Emphasis should be placed on the increased renown of these campaigns due to their continuity in time together with the positive evaluation of Ponle Freno (Put the brake on it) due to its long period of screening and its positive impact on society. Active listening to the audience [ G4-26 ] Another important source of information in order to know the opinions of the audience are telephone calls and the social networks: __ Telephone calls Throughout 2013, approximately 31,000 calls were registered. All the opinions, suggestions and consultations are included in a weekly report which is sent to the areas affected in order to inform them and analyse the incidences detected. __ Social networks Besides the opinion groups and the telephone calls, during 2013, the social networks were an important platform for listening to the audience. Atresmedia Televisión increased research work in this area in order to complement the qualitative research and the daily data from audiences. Moreover, most of its news and entertainment programmes introduced the principle of the participation of the spectators through the social networks. New procedure for the collection of information of the interest groups In order to complete the external mechanisms for the supervision of content, Atresmedia is drafting a new procedure for the collection of information which consists of analysing, standardizing and providing greater utility to the information which is received from interest groups through the channels already established in the Group. This new method of analysis will make it possible to get to know better the perception the interest groups have regarding Atresmedia, as well as to quantify and respond to their main requirement. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Atresmedia Televisión 68 Espejo Público and El objetivo of Ana Pastor. Loudspeaker for social causes Atresmedia proposes a model of television which acts as a social loudspeaker and includes the concerns and problems of society in its thematic agenda. This is reflected in the programming which takes into account current affairs content which demonstrates this commitment to social concerns and which provides space for solidarity also from the perspective of entertainment. Programming proximate to social concerns Among their content Antena 3 and laSexta include programmes which endeavour to analyse current affairs and bring about a critical sense in the audience through objective research and the plurality of opinions. Some examples are El Objetivo (The Lens) of Ana Pastor, Salvados (Saved), laSexta noche (laSexta Night), laSexta Columna (laSexta Column), Al Rojo Vivo (Red Hot), Equipo de investigación (Research Team) and Espejo Público (Public Mirror). These programmes dealt with themes of social interest such as pensions, entrepreneurship, corruption, nutritional safety, the consumption of medicines, immigration, Child labour, the Law on Dependence and combating piracy, among many others The news services also give space to matters which both channels consider it necessary to create awareness. In the case of Antena 3 Noticias (News), emphasis is given to the number of reports on Syrian refugees broadcast in in 2013 in order to contribute to creating sensitivity as regards the tragedy in the country. Moreover, laSexta Noticias (la Sexta News) has the section Solidaridad (Solidarity) on its website, which includes current affairs information on the work of the Third Sector. Solidarity entertainment Solidarity has also found a space in the entertainment content. Thus, throughout the year, many programmes have echoed the collaboration campaigns with NGOs or with Atresmedia Corporate Responsibility and have dedicated special editions to supporting determined social problems. In 2013, Atresmedia assigned €656,354 to social projects through entertainment programmes. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Atresmedia Televisión 69 Solidarity Special Program of Tu cara me suena for Red Cross. One example is the special programme which the La Ruleta de la Suerte (The Wheel of Fortune) broadcast in favour of the Hospitable Assistance Programme of the Fundación Atresmedia; the solidarity weeks of the programme Atrapa un millón (The Million Pound Drop), the first to help families and solidarity platforms to achieve funds for social causes, and the second to aid families with difficulties to provide full nutrition to their children; or the special programmes Tu cara me suena (Your face looks familiar) in order to support the campaigns of the Red Cross and Aldeas Infantiles (Children’s Villages) in order to prevent evictions and combat child poverty. Protection of the most vulnerable audiences The welfare, respect and promotion of children’s rights included in the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child form part of the policies which Atresmedia takes into account in all its actions and, especially, those related to audio-visual content. For the Company, it is fundamental to be able to offer family programming in accordance with the tastes and needs of the younger children, with strict control of the classification and broadcasting of the content and commercial communication in the children’s schedule time slot. Content to be viewed with the family Aware of the power of the television as the transmitter of values and principles, Atresmedia Televisión endeavours to issue varied programming, which includes all the family and, of course, children among its programmes aimed at all the family. Neox Kidz is the new choice of Atresmedia Televisión for a quality child and juvenile programming. This is a channel integrated into the morning time slot of Neox, aimed at a young audience and offering the best series on the market, AngryBirds, B-Daman, Robot & Monster, La Leyenda de Korra (The Legend of Korra); as well as the new seasons of Shin Chan, Padrinos mágicos (The Fairy Odd Parents), Transformers: Rescue Bots and StarWars, The Clone Wars; and the best and most updated offer of cartoons. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Atresmedia Televisión 70 In 2013, Atresmedia Televisión broadcast a total of 2,347 hours (source Kantar Media) of programmes for minors, with the outstanding Neox, with 1,935 hours especially aimed at juveniles. This offer is complemented with all the content on the platforms accessible on the website www. atresmedia.com: the new channel Neox Kidz, on which it is possible to enjoy children’s classics ‘in sitting-room mode’. These included Nubeox, with specific children’s content; Atresplayer, in order to recover the programmes which were not possible to see; and Multi-Platform, with app for smartphones and tablets. Neox Kidz es la nueva apuesta de Atresmedia Televisión por una programación infantil y juvenil de calidad. Besides the programmes aimed at the smallest children, during 2013, several special programmes for children were broadcast, such as Especial niños (Children’s Special) in Atrapa un millón (The Million pound Drop) or the edition of Increíbles El gran Desafío ‘Especial niños’ (Incredible The Great Challenge. “Children`s Special”). Also in 2013, El hormiguero 3.0 (The Ant Hill) released Cámera Kids (Camera Kids), a section of concealed cameras with children in the leading roles. Control and self-regulation All the content broadcast by the channels of the Group, regardless of whether these are children’s programmes or not, are strictly controlled in order to guarantee the protection of minors. From 2005, Atresmedia ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Atresmedia Televisión 71 is adhered to the Self-Regulation Code regarding Television Content and Childhood and forms part of the Self-Regulation and the Mixed Monitoring Commission which evaluated, organisms which verify their correct application. According to the latest report of the mixed Commissions which evaluates the period between March 9 and December 31, 2013, Atresmedia Televisión received 15 claims which were not accepted, which entails that the company did not infringe the code on any occasion in the previous 2 years. Failure to comply with the Self-Regulation Code regarding Television Content and Childhood 3 2 2 0 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Atresmedia channels have not failed to comply with the SelfRegulation Code in the last two years. In order to prevent that a minor can access any content unsuitable content, all the programming of the channels of Atresmedia Televisión is exhaustively classified by the departments responsible. This classification is transmitted to the audience through pictograms and superimposed symbols on screen, which make it possible that the viewers can take informed decisions. Suitable for all Recommended Recommenden Recommended audiences for people older for people older for people older than 7 years old than 12 years old than 16 years old Recommended Family Audio described Subtitled content for people older programme content than 18 years old Signed content Advertising placement ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Atresmedia Televisión 72 Advertising respectful with minors Atresmedia uses specific tools in order to control the commercial messages which accompany the programmes intended for children. Subscription to Code of Conduct on Commercial Messages Advertising of of Gaming Activities establishing strong restrictions to gaming activities Broadcasting of commercial messages during children programs. Expansion of child Improvement relative to current legislation through the voluntary expansion of 2 hours (Monday to Friday). protection times Reinforced protection hours. Signature of toy publicity agreements with the Spanish Toy Manufacturer Association and the National Consumption Advertising of toys Institute to reinforce the protection of minors in this advertising segment. Promotion and application of the Food Advertising SelfAdvertising of food for Regulation Code aimed at minors (PAOS) designed for minors preventing health problems and regulating TV marketing of food and beverages for children under 12 years of age. Guarantees regarding the contracting of minors When a minor intervenes as a player or participates in a programme or series continually through the producer of any of its programmes, Atresmedia supervises the establishment of the legal clauses and the necessary mechanisms which guarantee the rights of the minor, with special respect for his image, honour and personal and family intimacy and the development of his education. Driving accessibility of content The challenge of Atresmedia is that all persons, regardless of their visual or hearing limitations, have access to the audio-visual content. Thus, the efforts to increase the accessibility of programming year after year much surpasses the demands of the General Audio-Visual Law. The principal tools of accessibility which are used are: audio-description, sign language and subtitling of content. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Atresmedia Televisión 73 80% more audio-description and 51% more signed In 2013, In 2013, 1,446.6 hours of audio-described programming were broadcast and 658.3 hours of sign language programmes, 80% and 51% more than in 1,579.4 hours of 2012 respectively. The catalogue of films with audio-description and sign programming language has been extended with six new films. described in audio and No. of hours of audio-described programming 708.9 signed programmes, 85% more than in 1,466.6 2012. 804.5 209.0 2011 2012 2013 No. of hours of signed programming 658.3 435.4 112.0 2011 2012 2013 Almost 20% more subtitled programming The time of subtitled programming increased by 19.8% during 2013 as compared to 2012, reaching a total of 35,881.6 hours. The majority of live programmes are subtitled, as well as some series. Since 2010, the investment of Atresmedia in accessibility has been multiplied by four. Work has also been done on subtitling advertising spots together with companies such as Henkel, Gaes and Campofrío, which has made it possible to broadcast 6.7 hours of spots with subtitles. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Atresmedia Televisión 74 Non Spot 2013 Awards. No. of subtitled hours 35,881 29,940 10,194 2011 2012 2013 Atresmedia is working on several projects focussed on improving the accessibility of future broadcasts. Among the most outstanding are the development of a new live subtitling system; collaboration with the Centro Español del Subtitulado y la Audiodescripción (CESYA) (The Spanish Subtitling and Audio-Description Centre) and the Comisión del Mercado de las Telecomunicaciones (CMT) (the Telecommunications Market Commission) for the measurement of data on accessibility and work to boost information on audiences with incapacities. Special mention must also be made of the work on awareness carried out by Atresmedia Publicidad in order to promote the improvement of accessibility of commercial communications among advertisers. Media proximate to society The media play a relevant role in the construction of public opinion. Education regarding their functioning and the training of competent professionals, able to produce quality information and content, are, therefore, fundamental in order to form a free informed society. In this regard, in order to make progress in the knowledge society has, the Company carries out several activities: ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Atresmedia Televisión 75 Winners Proyecto Mañana. Atresmedia __ Proyecto Mañana. (The Tomorrow project) In 2013, the third edition carries out of this initiative was held and was intended to create bonds between the business and the academic worlds, fostering the proposal media training of fresh innovative ideas by university students in order to improve work through the service provided by the media. The best ideas are awarded three promoting months professional training at Atresmedia. projects __ Non-Spot Awards. The Non-Spot Awards for Creativity in the Media held its sixth edition in 2013, recognizing the best ideas in the use which foster of non-conventional advertising in the media — television, radio and knowledge of the Internet — fostering the creative proposals of young people. media, creativity __ El Proyecto PRO. (The PRO Project) For the fifth year, the Proyecto and talent, PRO continued its work on the training of persons with incapacities such as the in order to promote and facilitate their social and employment integration. In 2013, a course was given in Madrid on Marketing and AdProyecto Mañana vertising Techniques for Radio and Television with the collaboration (Tomorrow of the Universidad Carlos III de Madrid, and a post-graduate course Project), the was given on Audio-Visual Production in collaboration with the Universitat Politècnica de Catalunya, BarcelonaTech (UPC). ‘Premios Non __ Radio workshops for children. One more year, the Fundación Spot’ (Non-Spot Atresmedia provided its radio workshops for hospitalized children. Awards) or the Through these workshops, a group of children, who were in the Proyecto PRO hospitals Virgen del Camino in Navarre, San Juan de Dios in Barcelona and the Hospital La Fe in Valencia, were able to enjoy using (PRO Project). the sign language used on radio, listening to themselves through headphones and learning the functioning of the ‘sound laboratory’, helped by a specaliist technician. __ Visits to the Atresmedia headquarters. Throughout 2013, more than 3,000 persons divided into 126 groups (schools, universities, advertisers and associations) had first-hand knowledge of the headquarters of Antena 3, laSexta and Onda Cero. These visits serve to explain the professions which make the daily activity of a communications group possible, as well as the transmission of the corporate values of Atresmedia. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Atresmedia Televisión 76 Radio workshop with hospitalized children. __ Collaborations with university students. During 2013, the Communications Management of Atresmedia attended to 173 students from several universities (Universidad Complutense de Madrid, Universidad Europea Miguel de Cervantes of Valladolid, Universidad Rey Juan Carlos, CEU, Universidad de Navarra, Universidad Francisco de Vitoria), postgraduate courses (Master of Antena 3, Master of Rey Juan Carlos University) on university information resources (Inforadio Complutense and Punto de Encuentro Complutense) (Meeting Point Complutense). These petitions usually requested interviews with presenters, journalists and managers of the channel, and to attend the making off of programmes or to visit the News set in order to observe how a news programme is presented live. __ Support and dissemination of the International Cinema Cartoon Festival, special effects and ANIMAYO video games. For a week, ANIMAYO annually becomes a meeting and debate point for professionals and amateurs of the visual arts, with projections, master classes, workshops, papers, activities in the open air and exceptional international guests. Through its presence as media partner and its capacity as group leader in communication, Atresmedia supports and disseminates this festival, the only Spanish company engaged in the visual arts established in Los Angeles (California), and has an annual appointment in the Canary Islands. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 77 Atresmedia Radio ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Atresmedia Radio 78 Marking trends, increasing audiences 2013 confirmed the strength and the implementation of the radio offers of Atresmedia in the Spanish market, accruing an audience of 4,812,000 listeners from Monday to Friday. Onda Cero, Europa FM and Melodía FM improved the data of previous years. According to the EGM (Encuesta General de Medios, General Media Survey) of 2013, Onda Cero maintains an average audience of 2,598,000 listeners and consolidates its second position in the ranking of generalist radio stations, surpassing the Cadena Cope by more than 700,000 listeners and doubling the audience of Radio 1, Radio Nacional de España. The data of Onda Cero is very similar to the data achieved during the previous year and must be analysed taking into account the fall in consumption of generalist radio, estimated as half a million listener. It should also be remembered that Onda Cero increased its audience remarkably in the three previous years, with increases of 130,000, 179,000 and 131,000 listeners in 2010, 2011 and 2012, respectively. The market share of Onda Cero within generalist radio was placed at 21.1%, (+ 1.8 of share), 8.1 points above Cope, which shows the loyalty of the listeners to a programming based on three fundamental principles: continuity, balance and respect for the pluralism of Spanish society. At Onda Cero the aim to consolidate a model of plural, proximate and participative radio became a reality. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Atresmedia Radio 79 Nuria Roca. The best profitability rate per listener Onda Cero Although the economic circumstances have not been helpful, Onda Cero continues to continues to maintain the best profitability rate per listener, as well as the leadership in listening minutes per person, with 165 minutes, and was the maintain the only main generalist station which grew (5 minutes) as compared to the best profitability previous year. rate per listener, In 2013, Europa FM again surpassed two million followers — 2,045,000 as well as the (+36,000) — and was reaffirmed as the third musical offer. It continued leadership in to extend the distance from Cadena 100 (by 246,000 listeners) and reminutes listened duced its difference with Cadena Dial, the second station in the ranking, by 162,000 listeners. The big increase during the last season (461,000 per person, with listeners more than in 2012) was consolidated, while the Morning Show 165 minutes directed and presented by Javier Cárdenas, Levántate y Cárdenas (Get Up and Cárdenas), achieved another annual increase of 12.3%, with the incorporation of 113,000 new listeners. According to the data provided by the EGM, in 2013, the programme achieved a daily audience of 1,034,000 and is the morning programme which most grew within musical radio, surpassing the programme “Atrévete” (Dare) of Cadena Dial. Onda Cero and Europa FM — awaiting the results which may be achieved by the new decision of Atresmedia Radio for Melodía FM — are two grand radio stations, with different audiences, although they have the same philosophy. Their good results make them an obligatory reference of a progressively more demanding and competitive market. The credibility and good image of both radio offers should be stressed and this is reflected in the public recognition of their proposals and professionals. The Premio Ondas (Ondas Award) for the best professional career granted to Julia Otero; the Salvador de Madariaga, received by Carlos Herrera, and the Javier Bueno Award, conferred by the Asociación de la Prensa de Madrid (Press Association of Madrid) to Carlos Alsina, are some examples of the rewards for work well done. There are also the awards achived by Gente Viajera (Travelling People) and the person responsible for the programme, Esther Eiros, granted by several institutions and in several parts of Spain. Mention should also be made of the Antena de Oro (Golden Antenna) awarded to José Luis Salas (No son horas) (It’s rather late) by the Federación de Asociaciones de Radio y Televisión (Federation of Radio and Television Associations) and Sports Merit Medal awarded to Javier Ares, Radioestadio (Radio Stadium). ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Atresmedia Radio 80 Julia Otero and Carlos Herrera. The Ondas The prestige and solvency of the offer of radio of Atresmedia have been Award to the forged year after year with effort and dedication. The success achieved by Onda Cero and Europa FM is endorsed by the capacity of its professionals Best Professional and by the commitment to knowing how to listen to the concerns of SpanCareer, granted ish society, opening up new ways of participation for the listeners, through to Julia Otero the traditional resources — calls, messages and mail — and the important possibilities offered today by the Internet and the social networks. or the Salvador de Madariaga, Within stable programming perfectly recognizable by the listeners, during received by 2013, Onda Cero reinforced its teams and content, in search of a friendly, open and entertaining radio. A radio which distanced itself from confronCarlos Herrera, tation and irritation, with local and regional programming which approxiare some of the mates the problems of their cities to the listeners in order to increase our examples of the presence throughout Spain. rewards to work The wavelengths of Onda Cero are perfectly recognizable, as are the voicwell done. es of Carlos Herrera, Julia Otero, Carlos Alsina, Héctor Fernández, Isabel Gemio, Esther Eiros, Javier Ares and Javier Ruiz Taboada. Herrera en la Onda (Herrera on Onda) listened to by over two million people each day; more than 550,000 followed Julia en la Onda (Julia on Onda); 535,000 received information through La Brújula (The Compass); one million listen each Saturday and Sunday to Te doy mi palabra (I Give you My Word) and hundreds of thousands of listeners wait for the broadcast of the sports programme Al Primer Toque (On the First Touch) in the early morning or travel the wavelengths with Gente Viajera (Travelling People) during the weekend. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Atresmedia Radio 81 Carlos Herrera interview with Mariano Rajoy. Herrera on Onda surpasses two million listeners The programme Herrera en la Onda (Herrera on Onda), with an audience which surpassed that of the Cope and Radio 1 of RNE, in the totality of “Herrera on their programming, surpassed two million listeners for the second conOnda”, with an secutive year. It continues to be the second most listened to programme audience which on Spanish radio and considerably increased its presence on the social networks. Carlos Herrera, one of the communicators with most prestige surpasses the on Spanish radio, insists on a radio which is proximate, where the inforCope station and mation is never incompatible with entertainment. According to a survey Radio 1 of RNE carried out the previous autumn by the magazine “Actualidad Económica”, the director and presenter of Herrera en la Onda (Herrera on Onda) in the totality of is the third most influential person in Andalusia. its programming, surpassed two As in each season, the morning magazine of Onda Cero reinforced its team of collaborators, incorporating José Luis Martín Prieto to its talk million listeners shows and Boris Izaguirre to the social broadcasts. Among its identity for the second symbols are pluralism, the sense of humour and complicity with the lisconsecutive year. teners. Julia en la Onda (Julia on Onda) obtains the best data of its history Julia en la Onda (Julia on Onda) started the 2013-2014 season with more than half a million listeners was the best figure in the history of the programme, and with the inescapable commitment to current affairs reflection and controversy. Among the novelties of this afternoon magazine was the new slot Con un par (With Two), which broadcast the opposing opinions on the current affairs of the day of Máximo Pradera and Antonio Naranjo. With an accrued audience of 559,000 listeners in 2013, the programme which was directed and presented by Julia Otero was the one which grew most in the afternoons of Spanish radio despite having a duration of one hour less than the magazines of the competition Ser, Cope and Radio Nacional). ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Atresmedia Radio 82 Julia Otero interview with Alfredo Pérez Rubalcaba, and Carlos Alsina. Julia on Onda As is normal, Julia Otero renewed part of her team, creating a new muprogramme sical section, presented on Tuesdays by Javier Limón, and she has also reinforced the collaborators with professionals of the stature of José Anstarted the 2013tonio Marina (Territorio Superpadres) (Superparents Territory) and the 2014 season with Galician journalist writer Cristina Losada (El gabinete) (The Cabinet). The more than half a radio career of Julia Otero was capped with the Ondas Award. This was the fourth award in her career and was presented to her at the end of million listeners, November in the Teatro Liceo of Barcelona. the best figure in the history of the programme. Information, analysis and rigour The intelligent analysis of current affairs is called La Brújula (The Compass), with Carlos Alsina. From the initial monologue until the commentary of Fernando Ónega which finishes the programme a little before midnight, La Brújula (The Compass) tries to unravel the informative keys of the day and is one of the reference programmes for those who want to be well informed. The incorporation of Manuel Jabois and Luis Vicente Muñoz, among others, enriched the investment in a radio which combines seriousness with humour. The news programme Noticias Mediodía (Midday News), with Elena Gijón, achieved the second best audience figure in its history in 2013. What was the key to its success? Current affairs in their pure state, informing on what happens with rigour and knowing how to discern between what is fundamental and what is accessory. New focusses on sports radio Al Primer Toque (At the First Touch), a sports slot directed and presented by Héctor Fernández, fulfilled its objective to consolidate itself to a great extent with a direct and interactive style. It is the nightly sports slot which most grew in 2013. The new equipment placed the bar above three hundred thousand followers, with a gradual increase of listeners. The programme brought forward its release due to the start of the League and was increased by half an hour. The experience of some commentators — Ángel Cappa and Santi Segurola — contrasts with young people and the wish to achieve editing which seeks new focusses and new ways to make sports radio. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Atresmedia Radio 83 Esther Eiros and Isabel Gemio. With a trajectory more extended in time, but equally brilliant, “Radioestadio” (Radio Stadium) placed the bar at a very high level. In the third wave of the General Resources Study, on November 28, 2013, the sports programme presented at weekends by Javier Aresa and Javier Ruiz Taboada achieved an increase of more than two hundred thousand listeners. The Saturday audience reached 828,000 listeners, a record in the history of the programme, and the Sunday programme had 680,000 followers. This marathon sports magazine has been broadcast for twelve years and marks out tendencies with an unmistakable style mixing humour, information, opinion, anecdotes and the funniest of contests. However, it continues to attend to what is happening on the fields. Te doy mi palabra (I give you my Word) the voice of the Street Te doy mi palabra (I give you my Word), with Isabel Gemio, continued to reaffirm its objective to listen to the voices in the Street in order verify that public opinion does not always correspond to published opinion. The weekend magazine addresses its tenth anniversary on the air with solidarity proposals and an audience of approximately two million adding together the Saturday and Sunday editions. The programme incorporated Matías Antolín, a journalist with a long career on radio, to its team and Alfonso Levy, a brilliant poet and observer of current literature. Continuing with the weekend, it should be remembered that the silver wedding of Gente Viajera (Travelling People) is being prepared. On the eve of its 25th anniversary, Esther Eiros, its director and presenter achieved the best audience results. One million listeners follow the interviews and the travel proposals. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Atresmedia Radio 84 Iker Casillas visits Melodía FM. Europa FM During 2013, new stations were opened in Spain and a collaboration agreeagain surpassed ment was signed with Onda Bierzo in order to broadcast the regional and national programming of Onda Cero on this frequency. This station was two million associated to Onda Cero during the stage in which the veteran journalist listeners in 2013 Luis del Olmo worked at the station. -2,045,000 (+36,000) and was reaffirmed The radio which grows on the Internet as the third The programmes of Onda Cero, Europa FM and now Melodía FM are musical offer. achieving new channels for information and for the participation of the listeners in their respective websites. The two grand radio stations of the Atresmedia group continue to attract listeners through the Internet and the social networks, extending the content of conventional radio and musical radio with audio programmes, surveys and blogs of their professionals. Thus, the listener can recover sounds, participate in chats and give their opinions on the programmes and broadcasts. Thanks to www.ondacero.es, to www.europafm.com and from 2014 to www.melodiafm.com, besides listening to the radio live, the listener can give his opinion on what is being broadcast. The three channels installed applications which enable the monitoring of their broadcasts through mobile devices and tablets which operate with platforms and environments of Apple and Android. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Atresmedia Radio 85 RELEVANT ASPECT (pag.85-87) Radio with the vocation to serve Both Onda Cero and Europa FM, the two radio stations of Atresmedia Radio, are authentic social loudspeakers, providing themes of general interest to society in their news programmes and services, such as the defence of the environment, entrepreneurship, education and scientific research, among others, from the point of view of values such as veracity, diversity and freedom, while remaining loyal to their vocation as a public service. Besides this work which is intrinsic to responsible news activity, Onda Cero and Europa FM are involved in initiatives of a social nature. This commitment was incorporated to three main lines of action in 2013: __ Support for the principal initiatives of corporate responsibility of In 2013, 2,005 Atresmedia, such as El Estirón (The Stretch), Hazte Eco (Pass it free slots were On) and Ponle Freno (Put the Brake on it), and the activities of the Fundación Atresmedia, with the broadcast of reports, interviews broadcast in and slots in the main programmes. support of social __ Collaboration with non-profit making organizations and of social initiatives for a interest, with repercussions in their work. The interview made to value amounting the Fundación Agua de Coco in order to support the aid campaign to Madagascar due to a cyclone, the cover given to the Feria de to 4,697,455 Discapacidad y Empleo de Barcelona (Incapacity and Employment euros. Fair of Barcelona) and the interview and chronicles on the work of UNICEF in Syria and The Philippines Filipinas are some of the outstanding examples. __ The broadcast of free slots supporting social initiatives fostered by Atresmedia and its Foundation and by other organizations. CR Strategy in radio content Support to Collaboration Broadcast of free Corporate Programs of social with non-profit slots supporting Responsibility interest organization social initiatives initiatives of Atresmedia ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Atresmedia Radio 86 [ G4-26 ] In tune with the audience The concerns of the listeners have always had space on the radio stations of Atresmedia. Atresmedia Radio gathers samples and studies in order to identify the themes of interest for the listeners and thus adapt the programming to their necessities. In this regard, both radio stations also broadcast a wide plurality of opinions through their radio programmes and place a multitude of channels at the disposal of the listeners in order to foster their participation, such as the social networks and the traditional channels (mail, telephone and email). As regards this point, the following are outstanding special initiatives: Auditoría (Audit) of the programme Julia en la Onda (Julia on Onda) and Jornada de Micrófonos Abiertos (Day with Microphones On) of Te doy mi palabra (I Give You My Word), where the listeners freely give their opinions on what they like or not of the programme and these are taken into account in order to modify the aspects with most consensus. In 2013, new sections were incorporated into the principal programmes of the chain in response to the demands of the listeners: Te doy mi palabra ( I Give you my Word), with Isabel Gemio. The listeners may speak at the beginning of the programme, which begins with a greeting to a Spanish emigrant, and in the section Su minuto de gloria (Your Minute of Glory), where each person may freely give his opinion on a social problem or request support for specific action. In this regard, RED-ASISTENCIA (Assistance Network) was started up and seeks that the listeners respond and provide solutions to the problems put forward by the persons participating in the programme. The programme also threw itself into informing on the more vulnerable groups. For example, homeless persons were heard, soup kitchens were visited and the work done by the Red Cross in the street was witnessed. Julia en la Onda (Julia on Onda) with Julia Otero. The section Superpadres (Superparents), devoted to the upbringing of children and family life, with the collaboration of the expert José Antonio Marina, and Territorio gallego (Gallego Territory), a programme on the environment, directed by José Luis Gallego, are two examples of the social vocation of this programme. Herrera en la Onda (Herrera on Onda), with Carlos Herrera started off the section Con un par (With Two), which hears from entrepreneurs began to work and try to serve as encouragement for unemployed persons. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Atresmedia Radio 87 Besides these new sections, Onda Cero maintained the rest of the traditional programmes with a clear social component: __ Gente Viajera (Travelling People), which fosters respect for diversity, enabling the listeners to get to know different cultures and ways of life. __ Como el Perro y el Gato (Like Cats and Dogs), Onda Agraria (Onda Agriculture) and Linde y Ribera, (Banks and Bounds) which address themes linked to respect for the environment and animals. __ En Buenas Manos (In Good Hands), a programme which evaluates health as a whole and considers it to be an essential condition for complete human development. __ La Brújula (The Compass), with sections such as Otras noticias que no interesan a nadie (Other News which doesn’t interest anyone), which addressees important social problems which are not sufficiently attended to in the media. [ G4-26 ] Within its programming, Europa FM includes programmes of social interest. Some examples are Ponte a Prueba (Test Yourself) and Levántate y Cárdenas (Get up and Cárdenas), programmes which treat themes which especially affect young people, such as sex and nutritional problems, with rigour and the will to bring about awareness. Acknowledged Effort Many awards were given throughout 2013 recognizing the efforts and work carried out by the professionals of Onda Cero: Recognition Carlos Herrera (Herrera en la Onda) Premio Salvador Madariaga de la Asociación de Periodistas Europeos (The Salvador Madariaga Award of the Association of European Journalists) Julia Otero (Julia en la Onda) Premio Ondas a la trayectoria más destacada (Ondas Award to the most outstanding Career) Carlos Alsina (La Brújula) Premio Javier Bueno de la Asociación de la Prensa de Madrid (Javier Bueno Award of the Madrid Press Association) Esther Eiros (Gente Viajera) Premio de Turismo de Granada y Ancla de Oro de la Real Liga Naval Española (Granada Tourism Award and Golden Anchor of the Spanish Royal Naval League) José Luis Salas (No son horas) Antena de Oro de la Federación de Asociaciones de Radio y Televisión (Golden Antenna of the Federation of Radio and Television Associations) Javier Ares (Radioestadio) Medalla al Mérito Deportivo (Medal of Sport Merit) Ana Herrero and David Frechilla (Onda Premio Cossío de Radio (Cossío Radio Cero Palencia) Award) Onda Agraria, de la Unión de Pequeños Premio Fundación Estudio Rurales 2013 Agricultores (Onda Agraria of the Union of (2013 Rural Studio Foundation Award) Small Farmers) Onda Cero Premio Castillo de Roquetas del Ayuntamiento de Roquetas de Mar (Roquetas Castle Award of the Town Hall of Roquetas de Mar) ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 88 Atresmedia Cine ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Atresmedia Cine 89 Leaders in production and at the box office Atresmedia Cine Atresmedia Cine ended 2013 as leader in Spanish cinema production. In a participated year in which Spanish cinema lost 17.4% of audience share, it participated in fifteen feature films which earned more than 40.3 million euros. in seven of the ten most The producer of Atresmedia surpassed 40% of the share of Spanish cinpopular cinema ema in 2013 and the following were three of the feature films in which it participated —Mamá (Mummy), 3 Bodas de más (3 Weddings Too Much) productions of and Zipi y Zape y el club de la canica (Zipi and Zape and the Marble Club) the year. — occupy the first places in the ranking of the films with most box office earnings in the year. However, this is not all: Atresmedia Cine participated in seven of the ten cinema productions with most box office earnings in the year. Los últimos días (Final Days), Justin, Combustión (Combustion), Llévame a la Luna (Take me to the Moon), Grand Piano, Callejón (Lane), El Médico (The Doctor), Tres60 (Three60), El hombre de las sombras (The Shadow Man), La Gran Familia Española (The Grand Spanish Family), Futbolín (Table Football) and Ismael complete the investment of Atresmedia in Spanish cinema during 2013. Added to these is El Cuerpo (The Body), released in the last week in December 2012 but its box office track record began in January 2013. Ten Goya Awards and seven Gaudi Awards Added to the box office successes was the recognition of the critics and the cinema industry. Three of the films participated in by Atresmedia Cine accrued a total of nine Goya Awards. Outstanding was Las Brujas de Zugarramurdi (The Witches of Zugarramurdi), which won seven statuettes: Best Artistic Direction, Best Costume Design, Best Editing, Best Actress in a Supporting Role, Best Sound, Best Special Effects and Best Makeup and Hairstyling. This was followed by La Gran Familia Española (The Grand Spanish Family) with two awards more: Best Original Song and Best Actor; and Futbolín (Table Football) as the Best Cartoon. In total the films of Atresmedia Cine obtained 28 nominations in the twenty-eighth edition of the Goya Awards. Together with the three winning films, Atresmedia Cine had more films nominated such as 3 Bodas de más (3 Weddings Too Much), with seven nominations; Zipi y Zape y el club de la canica (Zipi and Zape and the ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Atresmedia Cine 90 The films Marble Club), with four; and Los últimos días (The Final Days) with two produced in nominations. 2013 obtained In addition to these, there is the Best Supporting Actor for Juan Die10 Goya and 7 go Botto in Ismael, besides the nomination for Mindscape, which was Gaudí Awards. released on January 24, was the nomination for Best New Director for Jorge Dorado. Finally, Grand Piano was nominated for Best Makeup and Hairstyling. Moreover, Los últimos días (The Final Days) started off as favourite in the Gaudí Awards conferred by the Cinema Academy of Catalonia, obtained 11 nominations and won seven statuettes. This science fiction production made by the Pastor brothers narrates the consequences of a mysterious disease which spreads over the planet It obtained the awards for the Best production Direction, Photography, Sound, Special Effects, Make-up and Best Picture in a Language other than Catalan. National and international prestige The success of the productions of Atresmedia Cine crossed over frontiers. The producer of Atresmedia was present throughout the Festival of Cannes, Sundance, Berlin and, in 2013, some of its films opened festivals such as that of San Sebastián and Seville, or competed in the festivals of Malaga and Austin (Texas). At international level, the productions participated in by Atresmedia Cine are habitually commercialized in the United States, Mexico, Argentina, Colombia, Brazil, Italy, France, the United Kingdom, Russia, China and Japan. This year, the cartoon directed by Juan José Campanella —Futbolín (Table Football) —, became the biggest box office hit in the history of Argentinean cinema. The projection of some films was such that some countries even produced their own remakes. In 2013, Italy released the adaptation of Fuga de Cerebros (Brain Drain) which was the box office leader in the country. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 91 Atresmedia Digital ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Atresmedia Digital 92 Innovation and Creativity Antena 3 has Atresmedia Digital closed 2013 with an average of 12 million unique users maintained its per month, representing growth of 31% on 2012. position as the The reasons behind this growth are firstly to be found in the positive leading Spanish performance by its TV channel websites, Antena 3 and laSexta; secondly, television in the added impetus given to radio websites by mobile apps that are attracting new listeners; and, thirdly, in the generation of themed vertichannel on cal content that has attracted new users to the websites specialising in Facebook with technology (tecnoxplora.com), science (cienciaxplora.com), videogames more than (Defconplay.com), fashion (Coolsty.com), travel (viajestic.com), children (Kidz) and sports (Sportairelibre.com). These seven vertical content 900,000 fans themes have been added to those that already existed celebrities.es, and seestrena.com and antena3juegos.com. 600,000 Antena3.com recorded more than 8.4 million users per month in 2013. followers on The data posted by the Antena 3 Noticias website are particularly noteTwitter. worthy, with growth of 30% on 2012 and more than 1.5 million users. In turn, the laSexta website posted growth of 15% on 2012 and obtained its best monthly data since the television channel was launched in 2006. The group’s radio channels Onda Cero and Europa FM maintained excellent results with growth in excess of 20% in 2013 as a result of their ability to reach new listeners in a simple and intuitive manner on mobile devices. Radio is closer than ever to its audience now. However, the most significant commitment in 2013 was the complete overhaul and launch of the new online video player, atresplayer.com. The new website represents an extremely important leap forward in terms of both the quality of the online video service being offered to users and the strategic commitment made by Atresmedia. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Atresmedia Digital 93 Atresplayer, the Digital Revolution Atresplayer is the new online video and audio platform that brings together all the catch-up and VOD resources under a single brand, as well as the complete offer of live television and radio. The new platform includes a whole range of highly innovative technical features. Content can be enjoyed in HD and HD+, thus offering image quality that is far superior to other online players available today. Furthermore, Dolby Digital Plus sound can already be enjoyed on some devices to provide sound clarity that was never possible before from an online broadcaster. Atresplayer now includes a number of new features that include the ability to enjoy content without the need for an Internet connection, access to the original soundtrack with subtitles for foreign TV series, the creation of playlists and the ability to share content on the main social networks. The new platform has a registration system that enables personalised access to the various contents and provides a useful tool for better knowledge of the visitors to the platform and improved adjustment of the content offer, which, in certain cases, can be accessed before they are aired on live television. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Atresmedia Digital 94 Atresplayer is also a great video platform for advertisers and their brands as it offers a wide range of content to achieve maximum coverage of the widest audience. This new platform is available on all devices: PCs, smartphones (iOS, Android, Windows 8 and Windows Phone), tablets (iOS, Android and Windows 8), smart TVs (Samsung Smart TV) and consoles (Xbox One). Multichannel Networks and Vertical Channels A new themed content plan (vertical content) has been implemented with a view to attracting new users. The definition of themed areas of commercial interest has led to the launch of seven vertical websites: tecnoxplora.com (technology), cienciaxplora.com (science), defconplay. com (video games), coolsty.com (fashion), viajestic.com (travel), Kidz (children) and sportairelibre.com (sports). Together with those that already exist celebrities.es (celebrities), seestrena.com (cinema) and antena3juegos.com (online games) they account for 20% of total antena3.com audience figures. Continuing on with the generation of new content and in order to generate an impact on new audiences, a new official YouTube channel management policy has been launched through the creation of Multichannel Networks on YouTube (MCNs). This initiative is aimed at obtaining maximum performance from existing content and opening up new production and content creation channels through agreements with third parties for international product exploitation. With the creation of new MCNs, the development of which runs in parallel to the vertical websites, we want to give greater audience stability to the Atresmedia websites and minimise the seasonality of television schedules. Among the new channels created in 2013, the following are particularly noteworthy: Top trending vídeo (comedy and entertainment); Videoencuentros (interviews by web users with leading personalities); Se Estrena (cinema); Celebrities, with content generated from the “Celebrities” vertical website; the Top Style channel dedicated to the world of fashion and trends; Noticias; and the Chiringuito de Jugones, with highlights from the football chat shows on Nitro. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Atresmedia Digital 95 Social Networks, more Interactive Television Social networks are another reflection of the positive results obtained in Atresplayer is 2013 and of the influence had by Atresmedia on society. For yet another a great video year, Antena 3 has maintained its position as the leading Spanish televiplatform for sion channel on Facebook with more than 900,000 fans. It also leads on Twitter with more than 600,000 followers. advertisers and their brands as Besides the channel’s official accounts, the individual profiles set up for it offers a wide TV series and other programmes are also highly popular among social network users. Among them, El Hormiguero has the largest social netrange of content work following with the highest number of fans on both Facebook and for achieving Twitter. maximum In addition, innovation continued in 2013 on efforts to integrate the social coverage of the networks into usual television and Internet. In this regard, the official prowidest audience. gramme hashtags have been displayed on-screen so as to make it easier to follow them on the social networks. Furthermore, online modules have been developed so that users can browse the Internet and apps to receive complete information about what is being said about the channel’s series and programmes on the social networks. This system has also enabled comments to be more easily integrated with the traffic generated on social networks within the programmes themselves by using graphics that are updated live. Our leadership is not only limited to the accounts associated with entertainment content. Antena 3 Noticias ended the year as the leading private news programme on the social networks with 150,000 fans on Facebook and 500,000 followers on Twitter. The Atresmedia Conecta app has been relaunched to support our presence on the social networks. This represents a major step towards more interactive television, enabling exclusive content on series and programmes that cannot be found anywhere else to be received from all the group’s channels. Atresmedia Conecta has been given a much more visual and intuitive design with improved functionalities that enable the threads from the most popular Twitter hashtags to be followed without leaving the app. Tu álbum and English House 2013 was also a highly positive year in terms of the search for new revenue streams in sectors not related to the media but rather through e-commerce. Two important projects were launched in this period by Atresmedia Digital: Tú álbum and English House. Tú álbum comprises the commercialisation of digitally developed photo albums. This sector is generating very good results internationally and presents major growth potential in Spain. With the launch of English House, a commitment has been made to the online teaching of foreign languages. This project, which is aimed at the entire Spanish-speaking market, has posted some highly significant results over the course of its first few months in existence. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Atresmedia Digital 96 Innovative Multimedia Presence [ G4-26 ] New technologies have revolutionised communication and Atresmedia has not been left behind in this multimedia race. Year after year, the company continues to consolidate its presence on the Internet and the social networks, establishing open, fluid and permanent dialogue with its audience and facilitating interaction. Atresmedia has profiles on Twitter, Facebook, Tuenti and Google+. Both our entertainment programmes and corporate responsibility initiatives are highly successful on the social networks, with a constantly rising number of followers. Such campaigns as Ponle Freno, Hazte Eco and El Estirón have increased their follower numbers on Twitter and Facebook by more than 40% over the last year. The El Estirón Facebook page is particularly noteworthy because the number of fans doubled in 2013. Ponle Freno Hazte Eco El Estirón Twitter followers (2013) 12,093 4,967 7,641 Fans or ‘Likes’ in Facebook 240,651 5,381 6,288 (2013) Data at 29 January 2014 Improvements made on the Social Networks The ongoing evolution of the audiovisual sector and the increasing use of the social networks means constant effort and updating is required to ensure awareness of audience interaction needs, facilitate communication and strengthen ‘virtual’ dialogue. To that end, Atresmedia took steps in 2013 with a view to facilitating the use of these new tools and fostering a closer relationship with the audience. __ Improvements in the analytical measurement of Twitter data. In 2013, agreements were signed with leading companies in the field of monitoring social networks, such as TUITELE and GlobalInMedia, to improve the analytical measurement of Twitter data. __ Exhaustive knowledge of user interests. The Web Marketing Department drafts a report every day identifying the most-read news feeds on Twitter and Facebook in order to enhance the content of most interest to users. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Atresmedia Digital 97 [ G4-26 ] __ Commitment to training. In order to enhance the adaptation of content to the various distribution platforms, transmedia training has been provided to the Marketing, Fiction and Sales Departments. __ Style guide for social networks. This document, begun in 2012, is a response to the commitment by Atresmedia to fostering respect for and the protection of all followers of its official channels. The style guidelines were delivered to commercial staff in 2013 for them to be applied to their social network management activities. __ Display of hashtags in fiction programmes. In 2013, hashtags were displayed on screen for the first time during such programmes as Con el culo al aire and The Following. __ Increased revision of content. The launch of various vertical portals responsible for the management of their own social networks has enabled an increase in work to coordinate and revise published content. __ Integration of social networks into Atresmedia Conecta. Social networks were integrated into the Atresmedia Conecta second screen app in 2013 so as to enable users to interact and comment on the channel’s content within a single app. www.atresmedia.com, more accessible and innovative Throughout 2013, work continued on restructuring the corporate website by improving accessibility and content quality on each one of the group’s portals. The same was done for each of the campaigns promoted by Atresmedia (Hazte Eco, El Estirón and Ponle Freno). These steps were aimed at making www.atresmedia.com a complete and more innovative environment within reach of everyone. The following measures should be highlighted in particular: __ Redesign of the group’s menu bar. A shortcut currently exists on every page to the various portals run by the group, both television (Antena 3 TV, laSexta, Neox, Nitro, xplora, laSexta3) and radio (Onda Cero, Europa FM, Melodía FM), as well as Nubeox and Atres­ player. __ New footer. This provides easy access from the various portals to every department in the group, as well as to the links of greatest interest. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Atresmedia Digital 98 [ G4-26 ] __ Increased viewing of subtitles on the entire online programme schedule. Since 2012, all content with subtitles available on Atres­ player is identified with specific icons. In 2013, subtitles were incorporated into the apps and efforts are under way to subtitle the entire back catalogue on Atresplayer. It is planned, for the near future, to subtitle live channel broadcasts via the website and mobile apps. __ Quality control. A Quality Assurance System has been implemented on Atresmedia Digital, establishing an internal registration, analysis and conclusion extraction process for every incident affecting the department, whether relating to content or internal operation. __ Customer service. The launch of Atresplayer was accompanied by various channels of communication with users, including an ‘FAQ’ section, a help file and a contact email address (usuarios@atresplayer.com). Safety and solidarity during telephone interaction with the audience Communication with the audience is fundamental for Atresmedia, which is why the company provides its audience with a wide range of ways to interact with the content being aired. The rise of social networks and new technologies has increased the use by audiences of the profiles set up for various programmes on Facebook, Twitter and Tuenti, as well the group’s own websites. However, SMS and tele-voting via 905 numbers continue to be the most suitable channels given their power over a short space of time for interaction on programmes of a talent show nature when, for example, requesting preferences to determine a winner. Atresmedia strictly complies with current legislation governing these two channels for audience participation and they are also subject to strict regulations to guarantee the protection of users’ rights and informed use. Furthermore, Antena 3 Juegos offers the La llamada millonaria service, enabling viewers to sign up for the offer of short-number televised competitions from the group, such as 797343, and to take part without the need to send one message per competition. In this case, the sending of alerts to the viewer is limited to 12 per month compared with the 30 offered by the major telephony operators. Finally, Atresmedia included the 28038 telephone number in its offer of charity numbers with a special tariff in 2013, which will enable the launch of fund-raising initiatives for social and corporate responsibility projects, as was already the case with the 28000 number for Fundación Atresmedia. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 99 Atresmedia Publicidad ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Atresmedia Publicidad 100 Innovation, effectiveness and profitability for the advertiser A client-focused approach, constant innovation in all areas, effectiveness and profitability are the four main pillars of Atresmedia Publicidad, responsible for the commercialisation of all Atresmedia media television channels, radio stations and digital media. Advertiser satisfaction is the cornerstone of the strategy implemented by Atresmedia Publicidad. To that end and besides offering exclusive products, the company advises and helps its advertisers optimise the results of their campaigns and adopts the communication needs of its advertisers as its own. The group thus becomes an ideal consumer motivator for advertisers in their relationships with viewers, trying to raise awareness for example about the importance of brands and advertising in our society. In Pursuit of Brand Recognition Over the last year, numerous initiatives have been implemented by Atresmedia Publicidad to enhance brand recognition and advertising communication: __ Publicidad Sí: The group joined the “Publicidad Sí” social campaign promoted by the Asociación Española de Anunciantes (Spanish Advertisers’ Association) by offering the full consumer motivation power of Atresmedia on television, radio and the Internet. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Atresmedia Publicidad 101 According to Beyond using the group’s media channels to broadcast the campaign, the mediaScope communication was enhanced by incorporating bookends before the adverts in which viewers were informed that the ads they were about to see study were responsible for allowing them to enjoy the programme being aired Atresmedia at the time. This is a new commitment by the company to promoting the Publicidad was value of the commercial communication and advertising activity industry as a driving force in the economy. chosen by the market as the __ Spot de Oro: Through this initiative, Atresmedia Publicidad wished leading sales to highlight the value of the most effective adverts on its channels by recognising the merit associated with their ability to connect viewer force in the and brand via an experience shared by millions of people. Every categories of week, the group announces and broadcasts the most-watched ad“commercial vert on its channels free of charge, together with a banner showing the number of viewers it received. From all the adverts broadcast service quality”, on the channels of Atresmedia (Antena 3, laSexta, Nova, Neox, Ni“compliance with tro, xplora and laSexta3), the most-watched advert of the week agreements”, becomes the “Spot de Oro”. “advertising __ Producto del año: Antena 3 and laSexta congratulated the winners of the “El Producto del Año 2013” competition with a piece on TV. effectiveness” For more than four years, Atresmedia Publicidad has been a sponand “programme sor and partner of these awards. “El Producto del Año” is the only quality”. competition in which consumers directly vote to choose the most innovative consumer products of the year. The goal is to foster innovation in the commodities sector and bring the newest products closer to consumers. In the digital arena, the company launched its Calidad 10 commitment at the start of the year to guarantee the best broadcast quality to advertisers for their advertising on the group’s websites. This has become a distinguishing feature when compared with other media, where content or technology content is poorer. According to the mediaScope study performed by Grupo Consultores, this type of initiative, as well as the methodology used to implement them, has meant Atresmedia Publicidad was chosen by the market as the leading sales force in the categories of “commercial service quality”, “compliance with agreements”, “advertising effectiveness” and “programme quality”. In the same study, the Atresmedia Publicidad website was recognised as the most highly valued among those surveyed, as well as its newsletters. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Atresmedia Publicidad 102 Hence, recognition has been given to all efforts by the company to seek alternative ways to communicate with the market that encourage interaction with the various stakeholders involved. Attribute perception. Evolution Antena 3 2009-2013 1º 1º 1º 1º Quality of commercial Compliance Efficiency Quality of the service of agreements advertising programming 2009 2011 2013 Suggested Question. Bases: 2009 (225), 2011(194), 2013 (195). 2009-2013. Finally, and in order to continue improving the processes aimed at providing the best possible service to its clients, various inter-disciplinary working groups have been created involving all areas of the company to develop projects by specific advertisers. More than 70 presentations were produced in 2013 with the Innovatres seal the brand created for this type of project as a seal of quality for certain special products aimed at the needs of particular advertisers or advertiser categories. Of those, 86% were multimedia products and 40% helped create products or agreements with clients. This is a spectacular success rate. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Atresmedia Publicidad 103 Innovation If innovation is a key factor for any company that wishes to operate successfully in such an ever-changing context as ours, it is essential in the world of media to know how to adapt to the new consumption habits of viewers and thus enable the incorporation of advertiser messages and guarantee a return on their advertising investment. For Atresmedia Publi­ cidad, innovation is applied to both the exploitation of new advertising formats or distribution channels and to any other action aimed at improving the product or service being offered to advertisers. Multimedia advertising to harness the group’s Full Potential Within this innovation plan, Atresmedia Publicidad has successfully moved ahead of the market and by harnessing the group’s potential created new multi-screen products to stand out from other multimedia groups. An excellent example of this type of multimedia campaign was that carried out by the Vodafone telephony operator when it decided to be the first in the entire Spanish market to launch 4G technology via Atresmedia Publicidad. Vodafone carried out a Branday Multimedia with new ad-hoc formats that suited the innovative concept of this technology. The campaign included a number of special formats, such as sponsorships, bumpers, mentions, pathfinder, TV banners, reports and interviews. Exclusive creativities were designed using messages tweeted by the most popular personalities from Atresmedia, who supported the launch via the hashtag #eres4g. Furthermore, bumpers displaying the message “Volvemos en 4G” were inserted into the schedule as a new version of the classic “Volvemos en 20 segundos”. The result was a highly popular campaign that managed to impact on almost 31 million people (70.2% coverage) in only one day. To be precise, over 282 million contacts were aired. Tuenti Móvil also carried out a campaign on Atresmedia that combined conventional actions with special formats, such as telepromotions, sponsorships and station self-promotions on Antena 3 and laSexta. With more than 1,000 GRPs launched on Atresmedia, the Tuenti Móvil campaign was noticed by everyone: it reached more than 32 million adults with a coverage rate of 90%. By using this strategy, Tuenti Móvil not only achieved great affinity with the target audience but also managed to position itself ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Atresmedia Publicidad 104 within the telecommunications sector top 10. According to the client itself, the results more than exceeded the target number of new sign-ups that was set at the start of the campaign. Another example of our new formats was that used by Nissan, which carried out a multimedia campaign with coverage on television, radio and the Internet around the programme aired on Nitro entitled FROM VIRTUAL TO REALITY, an entertainment space that converted the best players of the famous ‘Gran Turismo’ video game on PlayStation3 into real racing drivers. The communication group offered its services to Nissan for the generation of ad-hoc content, and thus created links between the values of the brand and the Formula 1 concept. The campaign was complemented by a bundled trailer plan from Atresmedia Cobertura and mentions on the radio, as well as support on the Internet and social networks to achieve maximum popularity and impact. All the power of branded content Atresmedia Publicidad is also committed to innovative formulas for the creation of relevant branding experiences for consumers through branded content actions, such as the Neox Fan Awards, the Coca-Cola Music Experience and the second season of Psicodriving. Through Neox, Atresmedia Televisión became the official medium for the Coca-Cola Music Experience tour. The basis for this communication project comprised three 45-minute programmes in between which nine 2-minute micro-programmes were inserted. In addition, 20-second trailers were aired weekly with special creativities in bundle format and a site was created with extra material. The second edition of the Neox Fan Awards, organised by Neox and Fanta, also managed to become a great branded content success. These awards actually moved away from the TV screen and generated a considerable impact in the media, enhanced by their success on the social ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Atresmedia Publicidad 105 networks. The Neox Fan Awards were supported by an extraordinary multimedia campaign: trailers were aired on television that encouraged the audience to vote via the website and a microsite was create on the Internet containing comprehensive information about the awards. However, branded content is not only a tool to be used in the field of television. This year also saw the creation of the Un lugar llamado Mundo programme, a joint project between Atresmedia and San Miguel through which the brand strengthened its association with the world of music via Europa FM. This programme, which is followed every Saturday by 256,000 listeners, is a fine example of how a traditional medium like the radio can reinvent itself by integrating with the social networks and the station’s website to blur the line that separates them. Nowadays, Atresmedia Publicidad is a clear benchmark in actions of this nature. According to a study carried out by contentScope, the majority of advertising professionals would choose Atresmedia for their branded content campaigns. With which companies would you carry out your next branded content campaigns? 15 12 11 8 5 4 Spontaneous Question. Base: 142 professionals. (Data in Mentions) 146 different companies were mentioned. New distribution channels With the re-launch and development of ANT3.0 on Atresmedia Conecta, the group has opened a new door that enables brands to advertise themselves on this app using such formats as pre-rolls, content videos, banners and interstitials, as well as to place additional information. Barceló Viajes launched its “Vacaciones 3 por 6” campaign on Antena 3 and laSexta, in which work was carried out to develop a competition comprising various special advertising formats, such as SMS, via the website and interaction with the new Atresmedia Conecta app. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Atresmedia Publicidad 106 Atresplayer improves the user experience and optimises the effectiveness of campaigns by positioning them where they generate the greatest impact based on the content, Vodafone associated itself with the final episode of the successful Gran its duration and Hotel series with a campaign that took advantage of all the Atresmethe screen being dia Televisión, Atresmedia Conecta and Internet channels, and was also used. supported on the social networks. On television, Vodafone launched an exclusive commercial break spot and a spot positioned during the final episode. Thanks to the Atresmedia Conecta app, viewers were also able to enjoy additional content and information about the series while the final episode was being aired. This was sponsored by Vodafone through various advertising formats, such as pre-rolls, interstitial, milestones and banners. The launch of Atresplayer, which replaces the popular Modo Salón, has been another step forward in the group’s constant technological evolution. With this new platform, Atresmedia is taking another step forward as a benchmark in the news and entertainment audiovisual content sector on the Internet. Atresplayer improves the user experience and optimises the effectiveness of campaigns by positioning them where they generate the greatest impact based on the content, its duration and the screen being used. Atres­ player offers new advertising formats that provide significant visibility for the brand due to their position or creativity. Furthermore, it includes graphical advertising and has the capacity to launch interactive spots. The effectiveness and notoriety of television Television continues to be the most effective medium but the media market in general, and the television market in particular, never cease to evolve through the incorporation of new tools and technologies. Atresmedia Publicidad is not being left behind and, based on its desire to improve effectiveness, has carried out a series of studies on schedule quality, the evaluation of campaign notoriety, the assessment of crossmedia actions and the modelling of spot broadcasts on television and their correlation with Google search requests, the generation of leads or actual sales. At the start of the year, Atresmedia Publicidad and Kantar Worldpanel signed a strategic agreement to analyse television campaign effectiveATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Atresmedia Publicidad 107 ness in terms of sales. Atresmedia thus became the first Spanish communication group to analyse advertising effectiveness using a source that combines consumption and audience as a whole. The general framework MEFETV of this agreement centres around three basic cornerstones: (Modelo Econométrico __ To enable the planning of campaigns associated with certain categories based on the purchasing habits of the viewers. Frecuencia Efectiva) is __ Study of effective ROI on sales for a series of real campaigns, thereby enabling them to be offered to certain advertisers. an exclusive __ First global study of television advertising effectiveness on sales: by tool owned by studying 42 real campaigns and integrating the Kantar media audiAtresmedia ence panel with that of Kantar Worldpanel, it was possible to anaPublicidad and lyse their effectiveness in terms of actual sales. The results obtained from the study were clearly satisfactory, thereby demonstrating has already that television is the most effective medium for advertisers. been developed for a total of 19 advertisers. Advertising on TV is a clear tool to attract Furthermore, 2 out of 3 brands consumers and defend brands against increase sales in the short term, generic brands. generating… 10% cp / 6% IP purchases (€) 18% penetration 7% cp / 5% IP market share 7% average expense 3% Cp MD share ROI: 2,20€ (profitability 120%) 3% IP MD share Historically, Atresmedia Publicidad has always wished to try and statistically model the performance of notoriety as it is one of the variables with the greatest influence on the purchase process. MEFE TV (Modelo Econométrico Frecuencia Efectiva) was created with that in mind. MEFE TV is an econometric model to explain and predict notoriety on television that provides knowledge on what is brought to notoriety by such variables as creativity, positioning and special formats, among other factors. In addition, it generates predictions for future campaigns. MEFETV is an exclusive tool owned by Atresmedia Publicidad and has already been developed for a total of 19 advertisers, including such brands as BBVA, SEAT, Banesto and Central Lechera Asturiana. Moreover, during the latest edition of the AEDEMO effectiveness seminar, Atresmedia Publi­cidad was recognised with the award to Most Innovative Presentation for this model. Over the course of the year, a number of ad-hoc notoriety studies were also carried out. These included the study carried out to assess the notoriety obtained by brands through their sponsorship of Fórmula 1 or the study carried out for Nubeox to measure the effectiveness and complementarity of “dual screen” actions (those that appear simultaneously on television and on Atresmedia Conecta). Studies were also carried out to assess the effectiveness of multimedia campaigns. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Atresmedia Publicidad 108 A driving force behind profitability Profitability always but especially in a year such as 2013 in which the economic crisis had an important impact comprises another of the major vectors that define the course taken by Atresmedia Publicidad. Highlighting the multimedia nature of the group, the constant synergies between the various media it commercialises are consolidating their status as a driving force for the company. So much so, that almost half of all advertising investment in the company’s television channels is made up of tri-media advertisers, in other words, clients that are present on all Atresmedia media. Furthermore, this “multimedia” advertiser segment accounts for more than 60% of our advertising revenue on the Internet, as well as 42% of revenue on the radio. TV ONLINE RADIO 60.1% 46.1% 42.0% trimedia trimedia trimedia Source: Internal. January-September 2013 ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Atresmedia Publicidad 109 Moreover, profitability is not only limited to the internal management of Atresmedia Publicidad as a company but constitutes one of the advantages offered to the advertising market. According to the latest publication by Consultores de Publicidad, 69% of those surveyed describe Antena 3 as the best channel for increasing the profitability of their advertising investments and laSexta as one of the media offering the best opportunities for undertaking non-conventional advertising campaigns, as well as the product with the best value for money. Examining the television category in further detail and focusing on one of the main programming products Fórmula 1, the number of official sponsors for this sports event was increased to three in 2013 and an annual agreement was signed with them (Banco Santander, Cepsa and Rolex). Beyond these specific examples, the last year for Atresmedia Publicidad more than surpassed the results posted by the rest of the television market. Although the official 2013 year-end figures are yet to be published, the latest estimates indicate a 6% decline in the media in general while Atresmedia would post a result that is almost 4% better than that. Furthermore, it is worth noting the constant effort by Atresmedia to highlight its products in spite of the downward trend in advertising prices over recent years as one of the factors that have helped avoid a steeper decline in the television market. The better performance by Atresmedia Publicidad when compared with its competitors in the market also extends to the other two media in which the group operates: radio and Internet, with a result that is eight points higher than the market as a whole. Finally, online revenue has once again posted significant double-digit growth while a flat rate of growth, at best, is forecast for the Internet medium as a whole in 2013. This positive performance in all areas means that Atresmedia Publicidad stands as a leading player and a benchmark for its competitors. As a result and alongside these quantitative indicators, Atresmedia Publicidad also enjoys recognition and legitimacy from the market, expressed through such awards as the Attraction Media award to Best Commercial Team and the previously mentioned recognition stemming from the latest MediaScope study. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Atresmedia Publicidad 110 NEW BUSINESS Pioneering formulas to optimise revenue In order to seek new revenue streams other than from advertising, the New Business Department is commercially exploiting the channel’s brands and generating interactive formats for the audience by supporting itself on the communication capacity of the group’s media. To that end, the New Business Department identifies growing sectors and, by looking forward, adapts existing business models to market trends and changes to the legal environment. Antena 3 was the first channel nationwide to implement commercial formats based on the new technologies, as well as to launch SMS Premium in 2011, Call TV in 2006, promotions with the printed press for the distribution of DVDs in 2006, the national broadcasting of poker sports events in 2008, astrology programmes in 2009 and programmes for playing live roulette and bingo in 2012. The New Business Department is working in close coordination with the other departments of the company to produce all its projects directly and maintain close control over all launches so as to ensure they reach the user as desired. 2013 was a difficult year for the development of online gaming. Compared with the sustained growth expected for the sector following the regulations that came into effect in June 2012, the figures published by the Dirección General de Ordenación del Juego (Directorate-General for the Regulation of Gambling) show a 6.5% downturn in the amounts gambled and a 15.6% downturn in net revenue per game between Q1 and Q3 2012 (the most recent year for which market figures have been published). ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Atresmedia Publicidad 111 Ganing Casino and Canal Bingo. Ganing Casino and Canal Bingo Ganing casino Nonetheless, the two star projects by Atresmedia in this field, Ganing and Canal Casino and Canal Bingo, continue to attract new users and have together paid out over 60 million euros in prizes in 2013. Bingo continue to attract new The two projects were pioneers in televised roulette and bingo on live users and have programmes that, together with campaigns in both onand offline media, promote the registration and enjoyment of gambling on www.ganing.es together paid and www.canalbingo.es. On these websites, revenue is generated durout over 60 ing gaming sessions played by the user throughout their useful life as a million euros in registered client. Added to the flexible, economic, segmented and effective communication in this online medium, this enables the generation of prizes in 2013. revenue to be significantly separated from the consumption of television media, unlike other forms of classic interactivity used on the television such as call tv or astrology, which only and mainly generate revenue during the hours in which the programme is broadcast. Ganing.TV Ganing.TV was another pioneering project launched in 2013. This weekly programme in the early mornings on laSexta offers the very latest news from the world of sports wagering and poker. At the moment, Ganing.TV is the only online gaming magazine show that exists in Spain. As is the case for Ganing Casino and Canal Bingo, the objective of the programme is to encourage registration and interaction by the user on a website (ganing.tv) to generate leads for sports wagering and poker companies. These spaces, together with other telesales, dating or English language learning activities, for example, comprise a portfolio of varied programmes that enables revenue to be optimised through the early morning time slots on Atresmedia channels. For another year, La Llamada Millonaria has focused the SMS competition offer to viewers. Based on a simple, entertaining and safe system given that it does not use a pull push SMS mechanic (in which the higher the number of messages sent by the user, the greater their chance of winning) but rather a subscription mechanic all participants have the same chance to win. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Atresmedia Publicidad 112 This neutralises the advantage in this type of competition previously had by professional players or “heavy users”, encouraging simpler, more comfortable and balanced participation by viewers. La Llamada Millonaria limits the number of monthly alerts sent to the user to 12, which is lower than the maximum limits permitted by the telephony operators. The service is provided while taking the utmost care in terms of all aspects of transparency with the user and customer service, which has led to us receiving recognition as the television channel with the least amount of complaints in this regard. The group’s teletext service is based on content that is shared by all the channels but segregated management of the advertising spaces has been maintained in order to optimise advertising space and maximise revenue. Licences and merchandising The commercial exploitation of the group’s brands through licences also forms part of the New Business Department. The main progress achieved in this field during the course of the year related to merchandising, the publishing sector and promotional marketing. In merchandising, the new board game editions have managed to maintain high sales figures for this product line. Furthermore, the new Top Chef brand posted excellent results in its short lifespan and positioned itself as a major focus for next year. In the publishing sector, a new magazine has been launched in kiosks under the El Hormiguero brand to offer a broader image of the programme to the audience. Furthermore, efforts continue to commercially exploit the successful afternoon programmes with a third book for El secreto de Puente Viejo and two more for Amar es para siempre. As regards promotional marketing activities, the New Business Department continues to make use of synergies within the group by, for example, renewing the agreement with Editorial Planeta for support on such titles as El tiempo entre costuras; Inferno, the latest book by Dan Brown; and the Premio Planeta 2013. Furthermore, collaboration continues with Atresmedia Publicidad to complement the campaigns undertaken by its advertisers with point of sale promotions, such as those with Makro and Electrolux. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Atresmedia Publicidad 113 Ponle Freno race. ATRESMEDIA EVENTOS Sport and entertainment specialists Atresmedia Eventos is maintaining its commitment to own brand initiatives in the two areas where its experience has been concentrated in recent years: sport and entertainment. 2013 was a year of consolidation and growth for many of these brands, thus demonstrating the great popularity they have enjoyed among audiences and sponsors since the outset. Sport as a flagship Under the umbrella of sport, Atresmedia Eventos is the home of various events throughout the year that, besides sharing sport as a common factor, also aim to promote the practice of sport in a recreational and entertaining environment. The Carrera Ponle Freno, which was held for the fifth time in 2013, was the ultimate representation of this philosophy. It set a new record once again with more than 17,000 runners taking part, all of who came together to raise funds for road safety projects. De marcha con El Estirón was another successful race event. This sports event for children and their families gathered 7,500 people at Parque Warner in Madrid to raise awareness among parents and children of the importance of physical exercise for children. 2,500 people took part in the 2nd edition of Bico, thus doubling its popularity. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Atresmedia Publicidad 114 Fórmula Campus, Marcha El Estirón and Madrid Premiere Week. Finally and halfway between sport and entertainment, Atresmedia Eventos implemented its Fórmula Campus for the second consecutive year a huge motor sports party that has been bringing the Formula 1 experience closer to thousands of people for two years. More than 1,500 people were able to camp for the three main days of the competition at the Centro Cultural La Torreta de Montmeló and attend both the races and numerous other activities that were organised at the venue. Entertainment and culture The second of the pillars underpinning the activity by Atresmedia Eventos tackles the creation and production of events related to the world of entertainment and culture. The company has two major successful events in this sector that are targeted at very different audiences. 2013 was the year of the 3rd Madrid Premiere Week, a festival designed to recover the former splendour of the Gran Vía in Madrid as the focal point for film releases not only in the capital but throughout Spain. This festival targeted at the general public was attended by 7,000 guests and a physical audience of more than 12,000, who took part in an unmissable event for quality cinema and box office success. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Atresmedia Publicidad 115 Navifun and concert organised by Atresmedia. This third edition comprised a programme based on the release of major feature films, a new off section and various other activities that revolved around the world of cinema. A number of new features were included this year, such as an extensive programme of master classes related to the world of cinema through collaboration with the Escuela Universitaria de Artes y Espectáculos TAI. Hence, Madrid Premiere Week expanded its agenda to include several jam-packed days on which cinema fans were able to enjoy a multitude of activities throughout the day. The arrival of Christmas meant Atresmedia Eventos focused on the world of children. Designed for them (as the stars of this time of year) but also for their parents (who value the ability to spend quality time with their children), Navifun was organised at Kinépolis Madrid once again. From 22 December to 5 January, more than 15,000 people enjoyed the most entertaining mornings of the Christmas period at 10 cinemas full of both fun and educational activities: magic, puppets, dance, improvised theatre, science, workshops and live performances. Furthermore, Atresmedia Eventos worked throughout 2013 on the creation and implementation of other major events from the music scene. One of the most important examples of major concert management and production took place during the Fiestas de Móstoles. The concert included performances by artists as Marta Sánchez, Media Azahara, Juan Perro y la Zarabanda, M-Clan, Vanessa Martín, Diana Navarro and Fórmula V. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Atresmedia Publicidad 116 Our vision _ To promote transparency, effectiveness and innovation in commercial communication. _ To encourage self-regulation in the sector. _ To strengthen quality controls. _ To foster responsible advertising. In figures Nº of legal consultations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 153 Nº of copy advices . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 677 Nº of infringements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16 Fines on TV advertising . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . € 780,233 Fines on other advertising . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . € 1,000 Value of free spots for NGOs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . € 5,542,630 Value of free radio slots for NGOs . . . . . . . . € 4,697,455 RELEVANT ASPECT (pag. 116-121) Responsible and quality [ G4-26 ] advertising for all As stated in the Responsible Advertising Policy of Atresmedia, the objective of Atresmedia Publicidad is to offer the best communication service to its advertisers one of the company’s main stakeholders. To that end, the work undertaken by Atresmedia Publicidad is based on three fundamental principles: guaranteeing the quality of the product offered; improving customer service; and innovating in the advertising environment. However, Atresmedia Publicidad has also taken on a role of contributing to and leading the process to improve advertising activity and television as an advertising medium. Consequently, various actions were developed in 2013 with a view to upholding the principles that steer the activity undertaken by Atresmedia Publicidad. Promotion of transparency, effectiveness and innovation in commercial communication __ In 2013, Atresmedia Publicidad signed a best practices agreement with the Asociación Española de Anunciantes (Spanish Advertisers’ Association) to actively contribute to greater transparency and effectiveness in the advertising market. Furthermore, the first global study was carried out with Kantar Media Worldpanel on the effectiveness of television advertising, which showed that advertising is ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Atresmedia Publicidad 117 “Besides legal a growth catalyst for brands. One of the conclusions reached by the and regulatory study indicates that a brand recovers 1.2 net euros per euro invested requirements, the in advertising. Atresmedia group has established __ In order to promote transparency in the advertising market, Atresother additional media Publicidad has created new channels of communication with advertising advertisers and viewers, and has created the la publi que me gusta management site where viewers are given the opportunity to choose their favourmechanisms due ite advert. to its commitment to Corporate __ In terms of innovation, the preparation of personalised advertising Responsibility”. products has been strengthened so that they comply with the specific needs of advertisers and efforts continued on developing the MEFE TV model that explains and predicts the notoriety of television campaigns based on how they are planned. Promotion of self-regulation in the sector The Atresmedia group is a voluntary signatory of the sectoral self-regulaLidia Sanz tion codes that set commercial communication requirements that exceed Deputy Director of the Asociación Española current legislation. de Anunciantes (Spanish Advertisers’ Association). Código de Autorregulación de radio (Self-Regulation Code for Radio) (January 2013) PAOS: Código de Autorregulación de la Publicidad de Alimentos Dirigida a Menores, prevención de la Obesidad y la Salud (Spanish Self-Regulation Code for Food Advertising aimed at Children, the Prevention of Obesity and Health) (adhesion by television operators in 2010) Código de Conducta sobre Comunicaciones Comerciales de las Actividades del Juego (Code of Conduct on Commercial Communications on Gaming Activities) (2012) Código Autorregulación de la Publicidad Infantil de Juguetes (Self-Regulation Code for Toy Advertising aimed at Children) (amended in 2010) Código de Autorregulación Publicitaria de Cerveceros de España (Self-Regulation Code for Spanish Brewer Advertising) (2009) Código de Autorregulación del Vino (Self-Regulation Code for Wine) (2009) Código Autorregulación SMS (Self-Regulation Code for SMS) (2009) FEBE: Código de Autorregulación de la Federación Española de Bebidas Espirituosas (SelfRegulation Code of the Spanish Federation of Spiritous Beverages) (2006) One of the main achievements in terms of self-regulation in 2013 was the signing of the Acuerdo de Corregulación de la Comunicación Comercial en Radio (Agreement on the Co-Regulation of Commercial Communicaion on the Radio), a similar code to that which already exists for advertising content on television. Furthermore, the PAOS Code was revised: its scope of application was extended to include advertising on the Internet aimed at children under 15 and it was strengthened by the adhesion of the associations that represent companies in the Spanish hotel and catering sectors. Although the requirement to apply for prior administrative authorisation before advertising prescription-free medicines has been withdrawn, Atresmedia decided to request prior copy advice or a consultation service from Autocontrol regarding all prescription-free medicine creativities in order to continue guaranteeing viewer safety. The same was done for all gaming campaigns before they were aired. 153 legal consultations and 677 copy advice requests to Autocontrol (38% more than in 2012) ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Atresmedia Publicidad 118 Jose Antonio Antón, Director of Programming and thematic channels of Atresmedia, in Neox Kidz’s presentation. In the field of digital media, Atresmedia has decided to voluntarily make use of the cookie advice or cookie control service, offered by Autocontrol, in order to offer its services on the group’s websites in accordance with current regulations. Finally, in compliance with its commitment to children, the watershed on the group’s channels has been extended. Hence, while Atres Cobertura maintains the timetable established by law, Atres Afinidad has extended this to coincide with Neox and the incorporation of the children’s programming period on Neox Kidz. Atresmedia is demonstrating its commitment to children by extending its watershed. Atres Cobertura Watershed Mon-Fri 08:00 to 09:00 and 17:00 to 20:00 Sat-Sun 09:00 to 12:00 Atres Afinidad Watershed Mon-Fri 08:00 to 10:00 and 17:00 to 20:00 Sat-Sun 09:00 to 12:00 Neox Watershed Mon-Fri 08:00 to 10:00 and 17:00 to 20:00 Sat-Sun 09:00 to 15:00 ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Atresmedia Publicidad 119 Enhanced quality controls Atresmedia Publicidad employs a strict quality assurance system for all advertising content, thus ensuring that commercials comply with current legislation and the self-regulation codes before being aired. In order to achieve this result, a triple filter is applied by the Broadcasts, Commercial and Self-Regulation Departments. Besides advertising content, the triple control filter was also applied to advertising/hour figures in 2013 in order not to exceed the legal limits. Furthermore, a Quality Control Committee has been set up to evaluate any incidents that occur and a new recording procedure has been implemented to keep a record of the duration of all advertising integrated into each programme including any advertising placed externally with a view to reducing the number of incidents to a minimum. Similarly, specific measures are being applied to guarantee compliance with the amount and type of advertising permissible in each time slot: __ A daily occupation report on the group’s channels. __ Daily monitoring of the minutes used for advertising and advertising saturation, carried out by Kantar Media. __ Control of daily complaints on timing mistakes. __ Weekly delivery of the advertising alerts report to the Subdirección General de Medios Audiovisuales del Ministerio de Industria, Energía y Turismo (Undersecretariat-General of Audiovisual Media of the Ministry of Industry, Energy and Tourism). In 2013, there were a total of 16 infringements related to limits on the broadcasting of adverts per natural hour and the number of commercial breaks in feature films (amounting to a total of 780,233 euros) and to the broadcasting of an unauthorised advert for a bingo hall on a local radio station (amounting to 1,000 euros). 2011 2012 2013 Nº of incidents 7 6 10 Nº of infringements 26 27 16 2011 2012 2013 Fines for television advertising infringements (euros) 761,899 222,657 780,233 Fines for advertising infringements in other media (euros) 50,000 0 1,000 TOTAL 811,899 222,657 781,233 ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Atresmedia Publicidad 120 2nd edition Marcha El Estirón Fostering responsible advertising among advertisers Atresmedia Publicidad works to achieve responsible advertising that adds value and goes beyond mere conventional commercial communication. To that end, a commitment has been made to always have a portfolio of products that offers clients the ability to partner with actions of a social nature, such as the group’s Corporate Responsibility campaigns: Ponle Freno, El Estirón or the initiatives by Fundación Atresmedia. In 2013, it is worth highlighting the involvement by advertisers in the following campaigns: Campaign against childhood obesity with the support of brands such El Estirón as Hero, Manzanas Kanzy, Danone, Power Puppies and Diabalance. Road safety project that involves advertisers such as Coca Cola, Axa Ponle Freno and Continental. Atresmedia In the year of education, Samsung and SM have collaborated with the Foundation Antena 3 Foundation (Te Toca Project). Furthermore, free advertising slots were offered on television and radio to NGOs and foundations, including the Josep Carreras Foundation, the United Nations and support for the ‘SOMOS’ campaign launched by 35 NGOs. In 2013, the Atresmedia channels aired a total of 28,546 television seconds of free advertising space worth 5,542,630 euros and a total of 2,500 radio slots worth 4,697,455 euros. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Atresmedia Publicidad 121 Recognised advertising management The advertising management carried out by Atresmedia Publicidad has been recognised with a number of awards: The Media Scope study by Grupo Consultores has identified Atresmedia Advertising as the best sales force in the market. Similarly, the company remains the leader in sales service quality, compliance with agreements, advertising effectiveness and quality of programming. Psicodriving has won two Smile Festival awards: 'Best advertising production' and 'Best media action'. 2013 Aedemo TV Award for Most Innovative Session , thanks to the MEFETV model. Attraction Media Award for 'Best Sales Team 2012'. Future Commitments For 2014, the company will endeavour to maintain efforts on increasing accessibility to all audiovisual content and commercial communications. To that end, advert subtitling will be promoted. Efforts will also be made to promote transparency, quality and effectiveness in the advertising market and to further customise products for advertisers. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 122 Human resources ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Human resources 123 Our vision _ Ensure that Atresmedia employees feel proud of working in the Group. _ Promote equality, diversity and family reconciliation. _ Train and favor the professional development of persons. _ Guarantee a quality job. _ Promote Corporate Voluntary work. _ Protect the health and safety of employees. In figures Headcount . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,829 Average seniority . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11.76 years % indefinite contracts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81% Voluntary rotation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.85% % headcount in agreement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 86% % of women in headcount . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48.1 Women in new hires . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55.7% Hours of training per employee . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19.1 Investment in training . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 372,487 Euros Trainee opportunities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 355 Hours of voluntary work . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,429 Accident frequency index . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2.27 Accident seriousness index . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0.1 People, top value of Atresmedia The company is aware that a large part of its success depends on its employees. Its human resource policy is therefore focused on personal growth and professional development of persons. The objective is to ensure that all Group professionals feel proud of working in Atresmedia. In order to transmit this spirit, the Group has a Human Resources policy and strategy that encourages talent retention, providing a safe, conciliating and equalitarian environment, competitive remuneration conditions and enabling employees to grow on a personal and professional level and execute their functions with freedom. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Human resources 124 Professional career Safe environment “It is important Talent retention Dialog the transmit the importance of persons for HR Policy Atresmedia both inside and outside Competitive remuneration Occupational and family the organization reconciliation resulting in productive and more human organizations”. Freedom Equality The most important milestone in 2013 was the signature of the VIII Collective Agreement, which represented a great advance for the company, which governs 86% of the headcount. In addition, other actions requested by employees have continued that have allowed increasing training for all headcount or improve internal communication, among other achieveMaría Sánchez-Arjona ments. Chairman Fundación Más Humano The Randstad Employer Branding 2013 Report has highlighted Atresmedia for the second consecutive year as one of the three media companies with greatest employment attractiveness. This recognition highlights the appropriate employment policy of Atresmedia and its capacity and attractiveness to capture, attract and retain the best talent. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Human resources 125 Commitments achieved in 2013 Atresmedia has developed in 2013 an action plan aimed at facilitating the integration of Antena 3 and laSexta employees in the Group and hence respond to the commitments acquired during the previous year. Level of Commitment 2013 Remarks compliance Integration of laSexta personnel in Training programs have been corporate programs. performing including a survey of the employment climate and a 100% performance assessment. Organizational restructuring The VIII Collective Agreement to optimize efficiency and was negotiated effective until profitability of the company. 31/12/2016. This represented a 100% great advance towards ‘social peace in the company’. Kick off of the Equality Plan. The Negotiation Commission was created. 50% Maintenance and consolidation of In 2013, training campaigns were all HR development tools. executed for all Atresmedia employees. In addition a 100% professional training assessment was performed, including an employment climate and a talent management study. Execution of training and The planned campaigns were awareness campaigns in: executed. __ Occupational health. 100% __ Occupational hazard prevention for trainees. Perform specific ergonomics and The planned campaigns were psycho-sociology studies in: executed, including two Road __ Work with data display screens Safety training sessions. 100% (PVD). __ Thermal and humidity conditions. A young and stable headcount The headcount of Atresmedia consists of 1,829 persons, 2.5% more than in 2012. The employee profile is young, with a predominance of employees —55.4%— between 30 and 45 years. The average seniority of employees is 11.76 years and 81% of the headcount have an indefinite contract, figures that are greater than the average in the audiovisual sector. On the other hand, rotation, defined as voluntary leave from the company, was 1.85% in 2013; a figure that is four tenths lower to that registered in the previous year. The headcount of Atresmedia has grown 2.5 regarding 2012. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Human resources 126 Turnover (%) % of permanent contracts 4.30 84 81 81 2.25 1.85 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 No. of employees by company Age range of employees 191 (20-29) 556 Onda Cero 25 (>60) 10 Atresmedia Cine 86 Atresmedia Digital 22 Atresmedia Eventos 48 Ver-T 441 Antena 3 17 A3 TDT Canarias 599 (46-60) 49 I3TV 1,014 (30-45) 8 Fundación Atresmedia 300 Antena 3 Noticias 292 Atresmedia Publicidad Regarding the geographic distribution, most of the employees are concentrated in the Community of Madrid (68%) followed by Andalusia (6%), Valencia (4%) and Catalonia (3%). Nevertheless, the headcount is distributed throughout Spain and Atresmedia facilitates the possibility to change employment centre on employee request. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Human resources 127 Commitment to equality and diversity Equal opportunities and diversity are two of the basic principles of the corporate culture of Atresmedia. Both values are reflected in the Human Resources policy, which commits for equal treatment as a differentiating factor. In order to reinforce these values, a Commission was created in 2013 for the reconciliation of employment and personal life, as part of the new Collective Agreement. Its main objective was the commissioning of measures to favor equal treatment between men and women, as well as the drive for reconciliation of family and employment life or the negotiation of the Equality Plan, among others. The Equality Plan, the commission of which has just been created, evidences the commitment of Atresmedia with its employees and respect for diversity. It is part of the organizational philosophy of the group and seeks to reach a better occupational climate. In 2013, 55.7% of Distribution of employees, in %, by gender and professional category new hires were women. 82.9 70.9 60.4 54.3 45.7 39.6 29.1 17.1 Managers Technical Officers Rest Women Men Distribution of employees by gender and professional category 653 550 75 183 88 121 25 134 Managers Technical Officers Rest Women Men Almost half of the headcount of Atresmedia consists of women (48.1%). And the Company has 39 persons with some kind of disability. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Human resources 128 RELEVANT ASPECT (pag. 128-130) Human development as a guarantee of success Atresmedia executes specific training and talent management actions that allow for the growth of its professionals both on a personal and professional level. Training program Ongoing training and talent development of employees are two of the strategic priorities of the Group to continue growing in the following years. Therefore, Atresmedia has committed to establish a personalized action framework of global scope, through the development and promotion of a Training Plan. The Training Plan establishes each year the program and calendar of courses offered for personnel bearing in mind the transversal and functional requirements of the area of function they hold. This way, employees receive the necessary training for a suitable occupational performance while facilitating their personal evolution. In 2013, the training portfolio consisted of 361 courses organized in presential and e-learning modes. The top courses have been related to languages and technology aspects. Average hours of training by job category 36 30 30 23 22 19 17 11 11 4 9 7 Managers Technical Officers Rest 2011 2012 2013 Hours of training by topics 10,077 7,423 6,100 4.248 3,882 3,502 2,948 3,079 2,436 1,480 1,454 512 976 544 240 564 504 200 CommunicaSkills Languages Technology New Security Editorial Other tions technologies and health policies 2011 2012 2013 ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Human resources 129 Attendance to corporate training plans experienced growth in 2013 and represented an investment of 372,487 Euros. In this sense, 1,070 employees benefited from the Training Plan which represented an increase of 124.3% compared to 2012. In addition, the number of training hours increased to 20,449 with an average of 19.1 hours per employee; a figure slightly greater than 2012. 372,487 Euros were invested in training programs during 2013. The training appraisal was very satisfactory with a score of 9.1 over 10. Talent management Atresmedia made a commitment to the hiring and retention of talent as a key element of its headcount management. For this, it has efficient tools such as the Talent Management Program designed to improve on employee loyalty building on internal promotion. This initiative is a key element of the strategy of Atresmedia as a commitment to its own human capital; one of the most important assets of the Group. It is executed in four subprograms: Employees with high Employees with strong creative talent managing potencial Talent management program Key employees due to their Employess with professional versatility professional talent ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Human resources 130 During 2013, specific training has been provided to employees included in the project, maintaining language training courses focusing on the English Language that were implemented in 2012. In 2014, a new talent assessment will be performed. Trainee program As every year, Atresmedia kicked off in 2013 its Trainee Program to give opportunities to young students to complete their training process in a real job scenario. On this occasion, 321 jobs were offered occupied by 24 FCT students (Vocational Training in Employment Centers), 270 graduate and 34 post-graduate students. In addition, another 33 opportunities were granted for practice training in Onda Cero. In order to maximize this opportunity, the beneficiaries have a personal In 2013, coach that guides them during the period. In addition, in 2013, students Atresmedia received specific training on the area assigned for practices. offered 355 Atresmedia is also involved in university training. Numerous professionals opportunities in the Group are lecturers of several training masters specialized in the for its Trainee audiovisual sector, such as: Program. __ Master in Audiovisual Company Management (MEDEA) at the University Carlos III in Madrid. __ Master in TV Journalism at the Antonio de Nebrija University. __ Master in Audiovisual Business Management at the Antonio de Nebrija University. __ University Master in Sports and Entertainment Management at the European University. Atresmedia promotes other initiatives aimed at training of younger persons in the audiovisual sector: __ Morning project. Promoted since 2010, this initiative encourages the universities to present innovative projects related with the development of new methods and ideas for the presentation of TV and radio news broadcasts. Finalist entities receive a cash prize and the wining workgroups are involved in a TV, radio and/or multimedia grant. __ First Job Program. Atresmedia is involved with the Madrid Press Association on this initiative, which offers graduates that are registered in the association the opportunity to work for one year in one of the Group companies such as Onda Cero or Antena 3 Noticias. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Human resources 131 Labor climate survey Atresmedia has executed a labor environment survey involving middle and senior management. The results were very positive, especially considering the current economic scenario, the change process and the crisis suffered by the sector. A summary of the main conclusions derived from this report are provided below: Participation was approximately 90%, which represents a 13% Participation improvement compared to the last labor environment survey performed in 2011. A clear improvement was recorded in all factors compared to 2011, Factors analyzed except in the remuneration factor. 83% of positive responses were received; 8% more than in 2011. _ The internal and external image of the company is the factor best Strengths valued. _ Motivation, involvement and professional development are the factors that increased the most compared to the previous labor environment survey. _ The opinion of Executives and middle management improved with an additional 11% of positive responses, resulting from the valuations of the financial area. _ Highlights of best valued aspects: • External credibility • Image of Atresmedia as a company to work in • Level of commitment and feeling of belonging and contributing by employees to the project of the Group. Areas of _ With more than 67% of positive responses, the lowest score was for the Remuneration Factor, same as in 2011. improvement _ The labor conditions and physical environment are the key factors that experienced least growth compared to the 2011 labor environment survey. _ Managers are the most critical collective, especially in conditions relative to the effectiveness of the organization, occupational conditions and motivation. _ Highlights of the lowest valued aspects: • The remuneration equality both internal and external. • The lack of correspondence between salary perceived and the degree of achievement of objectives. • Social benefits and lack of personal and professional life reconciliation measures. In order to guarantee the quality and stability at work, Atresmedia has designed a general action plan to promote the areas of improvement that have been detected in the labor environment survey. Specific lines of work have been developed for each one of the groups and areas. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Human resources 132 Communication _ Strengthen internal communication through the Casos de éxito magazine. _ Strengthen communication through middle managers. _ Improve external communication through launching the Masters in the Management of Audiovisual Companies. _ Improve the group spirit with the creation of Atresmedia Avanza. _ Explore new ways to improve social benefits. Social benefits _ Study measures to improve the work-life balance. _ Continue to promote the motivation and strong commitment to social action, through involvement or recognition. Professional Employee training is one of the aspects most highly rated by the employees and one of the pillars of Atresmedia's development development strategy. Therefore, the Group is committed to continue with the Training Plan, based on the needs and functions of each area and job, and to launch a talent management system. Remuneration policy The salary policy of Atresmedia is notable for being above the requirements established in the collective agreement and in most cases, above the sector average. The remuneration of headcount is established in the current collective agreement that was signed recently. The salary is defined depending on the job as well as the functions and responsibilities, although the conditions can be improved on an individual level. The review and increases are made depending on performance and professional development. Salaries were frozen during 2013 for senior and middle management as well as an additional 10% reduction in their fixed salary subject to the final EBITDA trend of the Company. On the other hand, remuneration of middle and senior management is established individually. It consists of a base salary and a variable amount linked to individual objectives; the result of 180º assessment and business results achieved by the Group during the previous year. RELEVANT ASPECT (pag. 132-133) Internal communication Transparency is one of the strengths of Atresmedia. Proof of this is that during the last labor environment survey in 2013, the factors relative to communication have been the best valued, with over 85% of positive responses. These results are the result of greater involvement of senior management in the transmission of the model and the objectives of the Group, as well as the efforts of Atresmedia to promote internal communication through middle management. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Human resources 133 Atresmedia has various internal communication channels through which it continuously reports on the performance, plans and milestones of the organization. The following can be highlighted: __ Corporate intranet: The main point of information, consultation and access to information of interest to employees of Atresmedia. __ ‘Mas de Tres’ magazine: This internal magazine, launched in 2012, continued in 2013 to report to all Group employees. __ Welcome manual: Aimed at all recently hired employees that includes information of general interest, such as the Code of Conduct, services, protocols and safety regulations, etc. It will be updated in 2014. Social benefits In addition to legally required actions, the employees of Atresmedia have access to social benefits that contribute to guarantee employment quality and stability and that favor employment and family life reconciliation. Benefit Content Beneficiaries Canteen The company has a canteen for all All employees the employees in the Atresmedia headquarters. The company finances 58% of the cost of the meal. Mobile employee out have food vouchers. Parking in the The facilities of the company have free All employees workplace parking for employees. Life Insurance All employees have a personal life All employees insurance. Medical Insurance Managers have a free health insurance. All managerial staff Flexible hours There is an unwritten policy assumed by All employees the Human Resources Dept. and based on trust in the workers, which allows some flexible hours as needed by each worker and as required by the ownworking post. Temporary In case of temporary disability of an All employees disability employee , the company complements complement the benefit up to 100% of salary. Maternity If paternity or maternity of an employee, All employees and paternity the company complements the benefit up complement to 100% of salary. Flexible Payment Antena 3 offers a Flexible Payment Plan 14 employees in 2013 Plan to their managers including car renting and specific training. Payment for Onda Cero workers have a salary plus Onda Cero workers transport for transport due to the change of their covered by the working place. collective labour agreement ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Human resources 134 Benefit Content Beneficiaries Special advantages Atresmedia has agreements established All employees on purchases of with different carriers, through which the products and workers can enjoy products and services services with special benefits: Special rates for services related to health and wellness, special conditions in training programs (agreement with ESIC ), use of sports facilities ( Polideportivo Municipal Dehesa Boyal de San Sebastián de los Reyes) and shopping discounts in books, travel and catering, among other. Special advantages Atresmedia workers can bring their All employees on the activities of children to the filmings, go as public to the Group their favorite programmes or get tickets for the preview of productions made by the Group. Atresmedia Corporate volunteering promotes and Since 2005, Atresmedia is focusing on its Corporate Volunteering Proencourages gram that responds to the solidarity concerns of its employees, enabling corporate them to also understand the situations of other collectives and gain voluntary knowledge through such experiences. work as a In addition, Atresmedia, uses its media resources to publicize and raise differentiating awareness of society about the importance of this work and support any element of its causes that require unselfish help from citizens and the employees of the Group. business policy. Volunteering activities Atresmedia volunteers 12 93 70 4 Hours of volunteering Investment in euros 1,429 13,744 1,360 9,657 2012 2013 ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Human resources 135 Atresmedia volunteers in Cottolengo and Senegal. In 2013, Atresmedia renewed its commitment with the Voluntare network whose objective is to promote corporate voluntary work as a Corporate Responsibility tool, raising awareness of its positive impact on companies and its employees, the NGOs and persons involved or areas that benefit from their actions. The Group also organizes the Company Solidarity Day together with International Cooperation NGO; an annual session that aims to promote and facilitate social involvement of companies through corporate voluntary work. The VII edition was organized in 2013 simultaneously in Madrid, Valencia, Zaragoza, Seville, Bilbao and A Coruña. 16 volunteers from Atresmedia were involved giving breakfast to homeless and accompanying women with disabilities in the Cottolengo Padre Alegre de Algete (Madrid). Throughout the year, Atresmedia employees have been involved in these other projects: __ Help in social diner Santa María Josefa: Atresmedia reached a collaboration agreement with Fundación Voluntarios por Madrid, which allowed 30 volunteers to work periodically in 2013 at the social diner Santa María Josefa in Vallecas, Madrid, preparing food, help users of the diner and participating in cleaning tasks. Their work helped to distribute food to more than 500 persons each day. __ Collaboration with Red Cross and Aldeas Infantiles: 20 volunteers of Atresmedia worked answering calls at the call center which collected donations for the campaigns organized by Antena 3 with Red Cross and Aldeas Infantiles, in order to prevent evictions and against child poverty in Spain, respectively. __ Una gota, una vida: During two weeks, three employees of Atresmedia participated as volunteers in the project Una gota, una vida (One drop, one life) organized by Fundación Atresmedia and AMREF Flying Doctors. The purpose of the project was to deliver drinking water to more than 2000 children. __ Food bank ‘Operación Kilo’: Atresmedia employees and their families and friends worked in the ‘Operación Kilo’ campaigns organized by the Food Bank in the Community of Madrid in April, July and November 2013. Thanks to this initiative it was possible to collect over 200 tones of food, which were destined to different collectives that the bank works with such as unemployed, immigrants or senior citizens, among others. __ Volunteers collaborate with Channel FAN3 and Ponle Freno: Within the scope of the Hospital Assistance Program organized by Fundación Atresmedia, nine employees were involved in the casting to head a new section in the children TV channel FAN3, available ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Human resources 136 to hospitalized children. One of them became ‘Dottore Felice’ and dedicated more than 50 hours of his time to give life to the character and record the various chapters. In addition, two employees were involved in the V Ponle Freno Race as volunteers. Safe and healthy labor environment Atresmedia ensures the safety and health at work of all employees in the Group. All lines of business include an active occupational health and hazard prevention policy. In 2013, there have been advances related to the reduction of the key accident rates, active employee communications and the publicizing of good practices and policies on the matter. Reduced accident rates There was a reduction in 2013 of the key accident rates. In particular, there was a reduction in number of labor accidents, which has resulted in the drop of the frequency index. Most of them, over 58%, were registered at the work place, while 41% was in itinere. It is worth highlighting the absence of serious, very serious or mortal accidents as well as professional illnesses. Accidents rate 4.10 2.89 2.27 0.06 0.06 0.10 Accident frequency index Accident seriousness index 2011 2012 2013 No. of accidents 34 27 21 19 18 12 With leave Without leave 2011 2012 2013 ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Human resources 137 Furthermore, there has been a drop in absenteeism rates due to common illnesses and a lower number of layoffs both for common and professional contingencies. Absenteeism rate (%) 2.6 2.11 1.8 1.53 0.97 0.90 Common illness absenteeism index Work absenteeism 2011 2012 2013 The improved results are largely due to the measures adopted by Atresmedia such as the execution of an additional 10% of occupational health and hazard prevention activities compared to 2012, or the improved preventive education of workers, through several specific training sessions (healthy companies, users of data display screens and road safety). PRL active communication Atresmedia maintains active two-way communications with employees on occupational health and safety. This is evidenced in periodic meetings held with Prevention Delegates, which have included space for consultation and participation. Distribution of occupational safety and health policies and practices to employees Atresmedia promotes awareness among employees regarding the risks they are exposed to and the rules they must follow to control and avoid accidents and achieve safe and healthy working conditions. In 2013, Atresmedia initiated the following actions: __ Advice and guidance on occupational health and prevention: It is a service provided by the Medical Services and Prevention Department for employees on their request. __ Training actions: In 2013, several training actions have been executed in favor of several collectives. For example, the sessions organized on 26 September and 10 October for users of Data Display Screens (PVD), which were attended by 92 employees, or the sessions held on 18 and 22 November on road safety and traffic accident prevention, which was attended by 46 persons. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Human resources 138 Health and wellbeing campaigns The commitment of Atresmedia with the health of its employees goes beyond the requirements set forth by existing regulations. The Group organizes campaigns aimed at promoting healthy life habits and preventing health problems. __ High blood pressure control and prevention campaigns: This is an action aimed at all Group employees. Of the total employees that voluntarily submitted to medical examination, 22 of them have, throughout the year and voluntarily, controlled and monitored their blood pressure receiving practical advice on health habits, food and physical exercise. __ Skin cancer prevention campaign: 284 employees voluntarily benefited from this campaign organized during the second half of October. Challenges for 2014 Atresmedia has defined the following objectives for 2014: 2014 objectives Definition and commissioning of the Equality Plan and other employment and personal life reconciliation measures. Updating of the talent management program. Launch of the Masters in Audiovisual Company Management. Launch of the Atresmedia Avanza project. Commissioning of a Training Plan on occupational hazard prevention and health for all employees of Atresmedia. Update the Occupational Hazard Prevention of all categories in Group companies. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 139 Society ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Society 140 Our vision _ Offering society the communication power of the media channels owned by Atresmedia. _ Encouraging and achieving positive and tangible changes through longterm initiatives that help our society to advance. _ Ensuring the well-being and education of children and young people through the Atresmedia Foundation. RELEVANT ASPECT (pag. 140-141) Committed to society: moving forward together One of Atresmedia's objectives is to contribute to the progress and de“Atresmedia is velopment of society. To achieve this, the Group actively listens to the much more than a group of TV needs and main concerns of society, and then tries to respond to these channels. Is a with three action areas: communication platform that can __ Offering society the communication power of its media channels, be used to sensitize given their great ability to influence public opinion and promote civil society with its positive change. The result of this philosophy is the commitment to ethical values.” running its own long-term corporate responsibility campaigns, such as Ponle Freno, El Estirón and Hazte Eco. __ Active collaboration with NGOs and non-profit organisations to help meet the needs of society through the launch of joint awareness and fund-raising campaigns (Red Cross, Food Banks and Aldeas Infantiles (Children's Villages)). __ Through the work of the Fundación Atresmedia, an organisation created by Atresmedia that focuses its activities on children and young people. Marta Tomas UN Global Compact The Group puts its commitment to society into practice through a set of principles governing its activity, set out in its Social Commitment and Corporate Responsibility Policy. Social Positive contribution to society commitment policy Transparency and maximum impact Awareness and sensitisation ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Society 141 Advertising campaigns in support of the 2013 Corporate Responsibility initiatives Spots Total time Antena 3 laSexta TDT Promos Promos Promos Seconds Minutess Hours Coverage % GRP’s OTS Ponle Freno 609 537 4,090 114,269 1,904 31.7 97.0 4,118.8 42.5 Hazte Eco 0 0 858 16,202 270 5.4 47.6 324.0 6.8 Neox El Estirón 532 0 1,958 55,836 931 15.5 87.7 1,654.7 18.9 Food Banks 13 109 149 6,775 113 1.9 58.1 184.6 3.2 Aldeas 126 0 0 25,091 418 7 70.9 781.3 11.0 Infantiles Voluntary Week Infant 148 0 0 3,108 52 1 58.7 290.5 4.9 Feeding Red Cross Preventing 401 0 0 56,593 943 16 80.3 2,796.4 34.8 Evictions *Estimated data based on number of spots and GRPs. Ponle Freno 2013 Challenges Level of compliance Comments Commissioning a television programme Ponle Freno has launched the ‘Ponle Freno with information, reports and opinions report’ section. about road safety issues. 100% Launching an awareness campaign to A study on overtaking cyclists was protect cyclists launched in September. 3.0 conferences about this group have also been held in 100% 2013. Creating a study centre devoted entirely to In May, the Ponle Freno-AXA study centre road safety. was created. 100% El Estirón 2013 Challenges Level of compliance Comments Strengthening the ‘Coles Activos’ initiative The first ‘El Estirón, Coles Activos’ awards and publicly recognising the outstanding took place in May. centres in the fight against childhood 100% obesity. Running a physical activity project in order El Estirón, together with Go Fit, developed to study the relationship between regular a 12-week project with the involvement of physical exercise and childhood obesity. more than twenty schools. 100% Fundación Atresmedia 2013 Challenges Level of compliance Comments Improving efficiency in project First year of the use of indicators. management through implementing a Desirability of some adjustments. tool for project planning, monitoring and 100% evaluation. Increasing and diversifying the Foundation's More than €500,000 has been raised. funding sources, intensifying fund-raising actions. 100% Supporting the Hospital Assistance There have been four visits, allowing Programme in the centres where it is the programme to be extended to new running, through personalised visits that hospitals, thereby increasing the number of 100% allow for an understanding of each centre's children helped. needs and that improve the quality and suitability of the programme. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Society 142 V Carrera popular Ponle Freno. Ponle Freno: five years saving lives Spotlight _ Creation of the Ponle Freno AXA Study Centre. _ Approval by Congress of a non-legislative proposal to only place radars in dangerous sections. _ Presentation of the 5th Ponle Freno awards for the most outstanding initiatives in Road Safety. _ Record involvement and fund raising for the 5th Ponle Freno Fun Run. _ Holding of the 3.0 Conferences on International Road Safety and Whiplash. _ Third Edition of the campaign to report signs and road in poor condition. The continuance of social campaigns, such as Ponle Freno, is evidence Ponle Freno was launched at the start of 2008 to help save lives on the of Atresmedia's road. This initiative has Atresmedia's long-term commitment to actively commitment and and decidedly involve itself in initiatives and measures that help to imbelief in its model. prove road safety and reduce the number of road accidents, one of the main blights on Spanish society. Juntos Sí Podemos (Together We Can) is the motto used to promote this social action and it translates into a permanent dialogue with the public, the Government, victims' associations, automobile and cyclist associations, road safety experts and any other groups involved in the issue and supporting the initiative. Through the website www.ponlefreno.com, the social networks and its regular newsletters, Ponle Freno maintains an ongoing dialogue with the Fructuoso Moreno Escobar public. Five years after its launch, more than 100,000 people are now part Chairman TBWA of the Ponle Freno Citizens' Platform, a group that is actively involved in Spain FAPE the cause and shares a responsible driving attitude. The initiative also ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Society 143 The European Automobile Commission Foundation (EAC) has presented Atresmedia with an award for its work aimed at preventing road traffic accidents through Ponle Freno. has more than 240,000 followers on Facebook and more than 12,000 on Twitter. There are now more than 100,000 people signed up to the Ponle Freno Citizens' Platform. The latest accident figures show the good work being done by Ponle Freno and all those involved in road safety. In 2013, mortality rates on interurban roads fell for the ninth consecutive year, with 1,128 deaths, the lowest number since Ponle Freno began in 2008. This figure, however, shows that there is still a great deal of work to do before we can achieve the target of 'zero casualties'. Mortality on interurban roads 2,180 2,000 1,729 1,500 1,305 1,128 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Source: Directorate-General of Traffic (DGT) Ponle Freno identifies concerns and proposes solutions, including: complaints about signs and roads in poor condition; reports on road safety published by the Ponle Freno AXA Study Centre; awareness campaigns for motorcyclists; and the Carrera Ponle Freno. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Society 144 Winners of V edition Ponle Freno Awards. Ponle Freno celebrates its fifth anniversary in the Senate Ponle Freno celebrated its fifth anniversary in the Senate, as a symbol of its involvement in public life which goes beyond its commitments as a media organisation. Coinciding with this event, Ponle Freno presented its '5th Ponle Freno awards' which recognise the people, actions, organisations and public bodies actively involved in improving road safety in Spain. The winners in the various categories were: AXA award for innovation and development, to DRAGER; Ponle Freno Junior award, to Granada City Council; Ponle Freno Public award, which recognises those who have overcome obstacles, to Rosa González Soldado; and the award for Best Road Safety Initiative, voted for by the public through ponlefreno.com, to Madrid City Council for its ‘Concienciación vial para universitarios’ (University student road awareness) campaign. Ponle Freno and AXA launch the Study Centre for Road Safety One of the biggest initiatives launched by Ponle Freno in 2013 has been the creation of the Ponle Freno AXA Study Centre for Road Safety, devoted to accident prevention research. Its objective is to analyse and provide information on the causes of accidents and offer recommendations which help to reduce them. In 2013 the Ponle Freno AXA Study Centre published the reports: ￭ Study on whiplash ￭ Study on overtaking cyclists ￭ Study on injuries to motorcyclists ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Society 145 Launch of the Study of overtaking cyclists at the DGT Headquarters. The first of these studies focused on the extent of the damage caused by what is known as 'whiplash', the most common injury for those involved in accidents on Spain's roads. It has also been involved in other research projects on important road safety issues. Some of the highlights include a study on overtaking cyclists, which has involved the Directorate General of Traffic and Miguel Indurain and has concluded that one in every five drivers fails to respect the safe distance when overtaking cyclists. It has also been involved in a study on injuries to motorcyclists, which drew several conclusions, including the fact that 60% of abrasion injuries occur during the summer. The key findings of these studies are available at: www.antena3.com/ponlefreno/centroestudios. Yes to radars that save lives Yes to radars, but only where they are necessary. This is the philosophy behind this campaign being run by Ponle Freno since 2012. It supports installing radars, mainly in two-way secondary roads, and argues that the radars currently installed in sections with low accident rates should be gradually moved to sections considered dangerous or with a high accident rate. More than 100,000 signatures were collected, resulting in the Commission on Road Safety and Sustainable Mobility at the Congress of Deputies unanimously approving in March 2013 a non-legislative proposal put forward by Ponle Freno to place radars in the necessary sections to warn the driver of an approaching black spot. More than 100,000 signatures from members of the public led to the approval of a non-legislative proposal to only place radars in dangerous sections. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Society 146 Winners of Hand Bike Category in V Carrera Ponle Freno. Patricia Perez, Corporate Manager of Atresmedia, gives the funds raised in V Carrera Ponle Freno to the National Paraplegics Hospital in Toledo. Special summer campaign aimed at motorcyclists Once again this year, Ponle Freno has launched an initiative as part of the annual summer 'Holiday Getaway'. The aim is to reinforce its message when there is the most traffic on the roads. In 2013, Ponle Freno decided to focus its special summer campaign on motorcyclists, as they are the most vulnerable group on the roads. The DGT estimates that there are close to five million motorcycles and, although the accident rate for this type of vehicle has been falling significantly and continually for many years, more than 400 lives lost each year is still too high a figure to not work to reduce it. Third edition of the 'Signs and roads in poor condition' campaign In June, the Ponle Freno Platform again called for members of the public to become involved and report any badly located or damaged signs and roads in poor condition. In this third campaign, more than 100 complaints have been received and all of these have been processed and sent to the corresponding government departments for action. During this period, 24% of complaints received have been rectified, whilst 26% are currently being repaired. In this edition, Ponle Freno has taken a step further by offering the public a new free application that allows them to send their complaints via their mobile phones. Record involvement and fund raising for the V Carrera Ponle Freno Ponle Freno held the fifth edition of its fun run in Madrid's El Retiro Park on 1st December 2013. The event has become an exciting annual fixture that this year has broken records in terms of both the number of people taking part and the money raised, with more than 17,000 people running for road safety and more than €172,000 raised. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Society 147 Winners of the V Carrera Ponle Freno. The funds raised As in previous years, all the money raised has been donated to a road from the V safety initiative. In 2013, the chosen project was that run by the National Paraplegics Hospital in Toledo to improve accessibility and opportunities Carrera Ponle for sports suitable for people with spinal cord injuries throughout the Freno, more than healthcare process. €172,000, have Furthermore, the ‘Kilómetros solidarios’ (Caring kilometres) initiative albeen allocated to lowed everyone who downloaded the ‘Corremos juntos’ mobile applicaa project at the tion to donate to the cause. For every kilometre that the runner covered National Hospital using the app, AXA Insurance donated one euro, contributing a total of €10,000 to the chosen project through this initiative. for Paraplegics in Toledo. 3.0 road safety conferences Ponle Freno celebrated two new editions of its 3.0 conferences in 2013 to reflect on and analyse important road safety issues. The 4th 3.0 Conference was attended by road safety experts from Sweden, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom who, along with the Director General of Traffic, María Seguí, compared the road safety situation in Spain with that in other European countries. The 5th 3.0 Conference brought together three experts to analyse the report on whiplash produced by the Ponle Freno AXA Study Centre. It revealed some interesting data about this injury such as, for example, the higher incidence rates among women and the influence of the colour and size of the car on the injury. More information about Ponle Freno ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Society 148 El Estirón: ideas for healthy development Highlights _ Atresmedia and the Ministry of Health come together to fight childhood obesity. _ First 'Coles Activos Awards'. _ Record participation in the second edition of the ‘De Marcha con El Estirón’ initiative. _ El Estirón launches its new video clip and choreography called ‘Muévete’. Good eating habits and physical activity are the foundation for ensuring that children grow up to be healthy. As a result, Atresmedia launched the El Estirón campaign in 2011, aimed at children and designed to help prevent obesity and all its associated illnesses. In 2013 El Estirón underwent an image make-over, resulting in a new, fresher, more modern and attractive image, helping to raise awareness among families about the importance of instilling healthy eating habits in their children and encouraging them to take regular physical activity to protect their health. The initiative has the backing of a multidisciplinary committee, composed of experts in medicine, sports, nutrition, psychology and education, and this acts as a technical advisory body. Since its launch, all of Atresmedia's media channels have been involved in this initiative through broadcasting advice on healthy eating and physical activity. Nova also has a weekly programme about the issue. El Estirón's website (antena3.com/elestiron) offers lots of helpful information on all the initiatives being carried out, and recommendations on healthy habits, a special FAQ section and the Sello de El Estirón section that recognises the organisations, businesses, campaigns and initiatives promoting healthy habits among children. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Society 149 'Coles Activos Awards' of El Estirón. Looking beyond the media coverage, in 2013 a host of activities have taken place as part of El Estirón, to reinforce the message and encourage society to become involved in this cause. The Ministry of Health and Atresmedia come together to fight childhood obesity Atresmedia and the Ministry of Health, Social Services and Equality are committed to jointly implementing awareness-raising initiatives in the area of preventing childhood obesity. This commitment has led to the signing of a collaboration agreement by the Minister, Ana Mato, and the Chief Executive of Atresmedia, Silvio González, to carry out different activities together as part of El Estirón. For example, it involves communication projects to make society aware of how important it is to eat properly, take exercise and adopt a healthy lifestyle. Good response to the first 'Coles Activos Awards' In 2012 Atresmedia launched the Coles Activos initiative, designed to involve schools in El Estirón's mission and to recognise good practices in schools to fight against childhood obesity. To do this, it teamed up with the Padres y Colegios publication and the website www.scholarum.es. Thanks to this campaign, more than 75 'Coles Activos' (active schools) were identified in 2013, each working proactively to encourage healthy habits among its pupils and meeting requirements such as reporting on the food served in their canteens, promoting active breaks and encouraging pupils to drink water and eat fresh fruit. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Society 150 In 2013, the first 'Coles Activos Awards' was also run and involved 135 schools from across Spain. The jury, composed of El Estirón's committee of experts, selected four schools in different categories: Award School Location Best initiative in nutrition Prínceps-23 d’Abril Barcelona Best initiative in physical activity Arboleda Seville Best creative initiative Muntori Castalla (Alicante) Best global initiative Riquelme de Hurchillo Alicante A blue tide ‘De Marcha con El Estirón’ (Walking with El Estirón) In 2013, the second edition of the El Estirón family walk was held. Around 7,500 people (almost double the number seen in the previous year) walked the 2.3 km to the attractions at Madrid's Warner Park. Ainhoa Arbizu, a sports presenter with Antena 3 Noticias, was in charge of firing the starting pistol. The number of participants doubled for the second edition of 'De Marcha con el Estirón’ (Walking with el Estirón). ‘Muévete’: El Estirón invites you to dance El Estirón launched a video clip and choreography in 2013 that, with the help of Sergio Alcover, invites people of all ages to get up and move along to the song ‘Muévete’. To launch the video, more than 200 children from Estudiantes danced along to the choreography in the half-time break at a Tuenti Móvil Estudiantes basketball game, at Madrid's Palacio de Deportes. More information The work of El Estirón has been rewarded in 2013 with various about El Estirón honours, such as the ‘Por un Mundo más Fitness’ award that recognises work promoting physical activity and healthy habits among young people. The initiative has also received the ‘Almería Juega Limpio’ award for promoting education in values and active living for school children; and the ‘Gastronómico la Capilla Award’ for its good work and dedication in the area of the food industry and promoting healthy eating habits in children. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Society 151 Fundación Atresmedia Highlights _ The Hospital Assistance Programme has helped over 100,000 children. _ The Una escuela, Una vida (One school, One life) initiative raised more than €95,000 toward the building of a school and library in Chad. _ The Gracias Profes (Thanks Teachers) event brought together more than 3,000 people. _ In 2013, Proyecto PRO received the Solidario del Seguro Award and the Avata Hispana Award. _ The Te Toca! and Te Toca Junior! competitions saw record-breaking participation. In 2005, Atresmedia created the Fundación Atresmedia in order to channel the Group's social action. From the very start, the Foundation has focused on promoting projects that help to improve society, in particular those related to two of the most vulnerable groups: children and young adults. The organisation's mission is to spread knowledge and provide experiences that allow children to live more happily and become better citizens. In 2013, the Fundación Atresmedia adopted a new name and logo, in order to adapt to the Group's new situation and gain the collaboration and involvement of laSexta. It has also improved the web pages for all its projects, in line with the changes introduced in the rest of the Group's portals. To increase the effectiveness of its projects and improve their management, it has increased control over them by using a tool designed specifically for project planning, monitoring and evaluation. Revenue of Fundación Atresmedia (€) 2012 2013 Atresmedia contribution 500,000 300,000 Donations 85,000 502,382 Subsidies 23,121 30,036 Other income 328,847 420,000 Total income 936,968 1,252,418 ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Society 152 In 2013, Fundación Atresmedia had a budget of €1,252,418, €300,000 of which came from the annual contribution Atresmedia makes to the Foundation. Over the same period it spent €1,210,159, which has been allocated to the main projects under way: The Year of Education, Campaign for Children's Rights, Project PRO, Hospital Assistance Programme, Te Toca! and Te Toca Junior Project and the Fundación Awards. One of the organisation's objectives for 2013 has been to increase and diversify its funding sources, intensifying its fund-raising activities. As a result, it has found two new strategic partners, Samsung (with whom it has signed a collaboration agreement for €400,000) and Fundación SM (which has made a donation of €100,000). The support from these two organisations has enabled it to carry out more initiatives and broaden the impact of the campaigns already under way. For Fundación Atresmedia, 2013 has been 'The year of education'. The Foundation has been recognised through various awards such as the COFAPA (Confederation of Parents of Students) and CODAPA (Andalusian Confederation of Associations of Parents of Students in Public Education) Awards and the Education and Freedom Awards, granted by Fundel. It has also carried out specific fund-raising initiatives, such as selling folding canvas bags decorated with creative designs by Julia Otero and the Gran Wyoming, in collaboration with the Casa del Libro chain of bookstores. The income obtained will be used for the Foundation's Hospital Assistance Programme. In this second year of the Foundation's Strategic Plan, it has chosen education as the focus of its activities. Consequently, it has been advised by a group of experts consisting of teachers, pupils, families, representaEl Gran Wyoming designs a folding tives from civil society and the institutions, who have all worked with the canvas bag for Foundation to establish projects focussing on improving the educational Atresmedia. environment and recognising the important role of the teacher. Fundación Atresmedia has proposed three key objectives for 2014: _ Improving the new project management and evaluation tool with an indicator system. _ Continuing with the Strategic Plan's complementary educational initiatives, under the scope of ‘Juntos por la educación’ (Together for education). _ C ontinuing the personalised visits to hospitals and ministries in other Autonomous Communities, that allow it to learn about the needs of each centre and improve the quality of the programme and its suitability. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Society 153 The Hospital Assistance Programme has helped more than 100,000 children In 2013 the Hospital The Hospital Assistance Programme was launched in 2006 to make the time hospitalised children and their families spend in hospital more pleasAssistance ant. Currently there are 118 hospitals taking part in the initiative and more Programme has than 100,000 children have benefited. been extended In 2013, 23 new hospitals were added to the programme as a result of to 23 new agreements signed with the ministries in the Balearic Islands and Andaluhospitals. sia, and the addition of new centres in Autonomous Communities already involved. Over the year, the Foundation has also proposed to strengthen the programme in the centres where it already operates, through personalised visits to hospitals and ministries that have allowed it to better understand the needs of each centre and take measures to adapt the project to these. In total, there have been visits to three ministries (Catalonia, Navarre, Extremadura and the Community of Valencia) and six hospitals. For the same purpose, it has created a group of 'ambassadors', composed of delegates from the Group and staff from Onda Cero, who ensure that the programme is being monitored and maintain a close and frequent dialogue with stakeholders. The Canal Fan3 channel increases its programming Canal Fan3 plays a particularly important role within the Hospital Assistance Programme. This is a free television channel, without advertising, designed for hospitalised children and young people and seeks to help them while they are being treated, offering them information relating to the illness and its treatment in an entertaining and informative way. In 2013, the channel increased its programming with more than 20 hours of entertainment and launched new sections. “With this partnership agreement we will reach many of the hospital classrooms Canal Fan3 received various awards in 2013, including the Citizens in Spain, which means we can help Award; the Grada Award, which has also recognised the work of lots of pupils not Proyecto Pro, also run by the Atresmedia Foundation; and the Prodis to fall behind with Awards; awarded by the Committee for Entities Representing People their school work , with Disabilities of the Community of Madrid (CERMI). Other initiatives Other Hospital Assistance Programme highlights for 2013 have been: Carlos Flores __ Holding three radio workshops in collaboration with Onda Cero. Director of AulaPlaneta __ Nine visits by celebrities to hospitals. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Society 154 Carlos SObera, ambassador of the campaign Una Semilla Una vida. Trancas y Barrancas, visiting hospitalizes children. __ Celebrating World Book Day with more than 8,000 children from different hospitals with the help of the Foundation's traditional story. The title this year was 'Los viajes de Gustavo'. (Gustavo's Travels) __ Handing out more than 8,000 copies of stories from the collection 'Cuentos por la Integración'(Tales for Integration) to celebrate International Day of People with Disability with the little ones. __ Celebrating World Health Day in leading hospitals with CDs of relaxing music for the little ones. __ Distributing stationery materials to hospital classrooms and play centres ahead of the return to school. __ Free access, thanks to collaboration with AulaPlaneta, to a new digital tool for teachers working in the different hospital classrooms, so that hospitalised children and young people can continue with their studies at their own pace and in a personalised way. Campaign for Children's Rights: ‘Una escuela, una vida’ (One school, one life) The initiative In 2013, Fundación Atresmedia launched the ‘Una escuela, una vida’ (One has helped raise school, one life) campaign in order to raise money to build a reading and writing centre to allow pupils from 17 primary schools in the Mongo reover €94,000 gion (Chad) to strengthen their literacy skills. which will go towards building During the 20 day campaign, all of Atresmedia's media channels were involved in the initiative, making a sincere appeal for the audience to a school and take part through text messages, telephone calls or through the website library equipped www.1escuela1vida.org. In total, this raised more than €94,000. with reading and In 2013, the campaign involved the presenter Carlos Sobera as its amwriting material bassador and in addition to the traditional channels, this year it involved in Chad. Clear Channel, which has improved the initiative's impact. As recognition for the work carried out, the Campaign for Children's Rights has received the Recurra Ginso Award. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Society 155 The General Manager of Globomedia (left) and The General Manager of Fundación Atresmedia (right) sign a collaboration agreement to implement a course as part of the Proyecto PRO. Proyecto PRO Proyecto PRO is a project to train people with disabilities in the audio visual field, and it has a dual objective: on the one hand, to make it easier for them to enter the jobs market; and on the other, to help businesses in this sector employ people from this social group. The initiative has the support of broadcasters and producers who allow students to complement their theoretical training with work experience in the company. During 2013, the planned training has been given: the 'Technical Course in Marketing and Advertising for Radio and Television', at the Universidad Carlos III in Madrid; and the 'Post-graduate in Audiovisual Production', at the Universitat Politécnica de Catalunya. For 2014, the project plans to continue and expand the training on offer. For this, the foundation has a three-year agreement with the Universidad Rey Juan Carlos, as part of which the course 'Specialist in managing social networks' will be given in 2014. It has also signed a new agreement with the Globomedia Foundation, to launch a course on performance. Another of its objectives is to increase the number of collaborating organisations in order to offer more work experience in companies and help those taking the various courses to enter the jobs market. During 2013, 6 students from among the alumni have been found a place. Proyecto PRO has been recognised in 2013 with the Solidario del Seguro Award and the Avata Hispania Award. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Society 156 Winners of Te Toca Contest at the Ministry of Education headquarters. Te Toca! gives young people a voice In 2013, Te The Te Toca! initiative involves an online competition in which young peoToca! involved ple aged from 12 to 17 have the opportunity to present their ideas for solving a specific issue, either through their own proposals or through more than 700 requests to the adult world. participants. The purpose is to promote youth awareness about certain social realities and motivate young people to get involved. In 2013 the question posed was, 'How can we improve the school environment?', which fitted with the theme of 'The year of education'. The jury, composed of a group of experts, has presented technology awards to the selected entries, as well as €500 as seed capital to help implement the personal proposals submitted. The winning ideas from the 'request to the adult world' category also had the option to present their projects to the Minister of Education and the Secretary of State, as well as other important figures in the world of education. The proposals from the young people have suggested the need for a more personal school, for a more participatory system, for more practical and less theoretical classes, for the greater use of the new technologies and for taking preventative measures to avoid school bullying, among others. The prizes were awarded to the following three proposals: 1st ‘Entre todos, así sí’, that proposes the creation of the roles of ‘co-host’, ‘mini teacher’ and ‘mediator’. 2nd ‘Padres y profesores, os toca’, that gives key information  helping to make it easier to co-exist ‘entre todos con ayuda de todos' (between us all with help from us all). 3rd ‘El sueño de Finlandia’, that seeks solutions to prevent school failure and drop-outs. In 2013, the Te Toca! project increased its presence in all media and has registered 55,000 website visits, more than 1,000 fans on Facebook and more than 3,000 followers on Twitter. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Society 157 Te Toca! Junior, the opinions of the youngest people The junior version of the Te Toca! initiative is aimed at children aged between six and 11 and has the same objective: listening to their opinions and encouraging them to take part. The question that has been posed to the little ones in 2013, which is also associated with the area of education, is: 'What makes a good teacher for you?' The participation obtained and the quality of the proposals have been much higher than in previous years, which has led to the creation of a promotional piece showing the results. This will be broadcast throughout 2014. The winning entries were: 'The ideal teacher', 'Never stop smiling!' and 'That makes you glad to go to school!' The three winners have won a trip for four people to a theme park close to Paris. Other initiatives for 'The year of education' As a result of 'The year of education', the Atresmedia Foundation has run several initiatives aimed at improving the school environment and recognising the good work of teachers. Among these, the highlights include: __ Launching the 'Initiatives that educate awards', that have assessed the work carried out by schools and teachers, families, NGOs and foundations, government bodies and companies, and have recognised good educational practices in five categories. The winning proposals were: Winning Category Promoted by Contents proposal Creativity Matemáticas Institució Innovative methodology and que ilusionan’ Montserrat using mathematics to train innovation critically thinking students, who are capable of making decisions and improving their social environment. School ‘Las The Spanish It aims to promote the environment, enfermedades Federation for inclusion of children with diversity and raras van al Rare Disorders rare disorders in the school integration colegio con environment. Federico’ Values and ‘Modelo de Fundación San The objective of this team work Parlamento Patricio proposal is to promote Europeo awareness of the European (MEP)’ identity in young people. Its final conclusions are presented to the Parliament. Educational ‘Líderes de Fundación Project aimed at helping success Campus UNIR, young people aged between Solidario & Universidad 16 and 25 who are at risk of YMCA’ Internacional social exclusion. de La Rioja e YMCA The ‘El coto Leon City Facilities run by Leon City environment escolar’ Council Council, where environmental educational activities are offered, especially for infant and primary school pupils. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Society 158 Gracias Profes event. 'Gracias Profes' __ A campaign with celebrities such as Matías Prats, Antonio Lobato, (Thanks Margarita Salas and Blue Jeans to dignify and promote the role of teachers. Teachers) __ The Gracias, profes (Thanks, teachers) event, designed to encourbrought together age, recognise and inspire good teachers, which brought togethmore than er more than 1,000 people in Madrid and around 2,000 through streaming, to listen to the views of renowned professionals in the 1,000 teachers various fields related to education. in a large event in Madrid and almost 2,000 people More information about Fundación Atresmedia followed it by streaming. Hazte Eco: the environmental movement Hazte Eco is Atresmedia's campaign that aims to raise awareness and run initiatives to defend and protect the environment. Since its launch, Hazte Eco has run several very important initiatives, such as the collection and delivery of more than 10,300 signatures to the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment asking for a reduction in CO2 emissions, and launching a fortnightly news report about the environment on Neox. All the information on the initiatives involved in this campaign is set out in the Environment chapter. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Society 159 Call center campaign against child poverty in favor of Aldeas Infantiles. Active collaboration with NGOs A total of Atresmedia and the Red Cross: 'With your help 1,300,000€ were we can prevent evictions' raised. With this In February, Antena 3 made the communication power of all its media money the Red channels available to the Red Cross to help the organisation raise funds Cross helped for its project to prevent social exclusion and help families keep their 8,377 families homes. The campaign's objective was to alleviate one of the harshest consequences of the current economic downturn: losing one's home. to keep their homes. During the two-week campaign, all the professionals and programmes on Antena 3 were involved in this project, with reports on the problem, specific mentions and special charity editions of some programmes such as Ahora Caigo, Atrapa un millón and La Ruleta de la Suerte. In parallel, the initiative was broadcast on Onda Cero and Europa FM and had a strong presence on the websites and social networks. Tu cara me suena, the Antena 3 talent show presented by Manel Fuentes, broadcast a special charity programme that marked the end of this great initiative, which thanks to the involvement of the public managed to raise €1,300,000. The money raised has been donated in full to the Red Cross programme. As of 15th January 2014, 7,515 families had been helped in 12,657 actions that included 3,220 deliveries of goods (food, clothing, hygiene and sanitary products, among others) and 9,437 financial grants (support for household essentials, healthcare, help towards paying water or electricity bills, etc.). Atresmedia and Aldeas Infantiles SOS, united against child poverty In Spain, child poverty has grown by 10% in just two years and currently affects 26.2% of all children. For this reason, in October Atresmedia and Aldeas Infantiles SOS in Spain came together and launched a campaign to raise funds for the fight against child poverty and to guarantee that 3,000 children would have their basic needs covered for a year. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Society 160 The Antena 3 For a week, some of Antena 3's programmes, such as Espejo Público and Aldeas and El Hormiguero 3.0, made special mention of the programme and informed the public of how they could join in with the initiative. The chanInfantiles SOS nel's game shows also ran special editions of their programmes with the campaign funds raised donated to the cause. The campaign ended with a charity against child gala on Tu cara me suena where Antena 3 and Aldeas Infantiles SOS ran a call centre for 16 hours, manned by volunteers and more than 50 faces poverty from Atresmedia, who took calls and donations from the public. managed to raise more than The total amount raised exceeded €708,000 and this has allowed Aldeas Infantiles SOS to increase its number of free school lunch grants to 373 €708,000. and to expand its distribution of food to more families at risk and to more locations. 963 families with an average of three children have benefited from this project. Second year working with the Food Banks Atresmedia and In 2013, Atresmedia and the Spanish Federation of Food Banks (FESBAL) the Spanish have undertaken their second joint project, designed to raise funds to support the work of this organisation, winner of the Prince of Asturias Federation Concord Award 2012. As in the first initiative, launched in 2012, Susanna of Food Banks Griso and Jordi Évole have been the faces of the campaign, which has aphave raised peared on all of the Group's media channels. The campaign has managed to raise more than €55,000 that the Food Bank will use to help the most €55,000 for disadvantaged groups. the most underprivileged Additionally, in December, Atresmedia organised 'Operación Kilo’ in its facilities, on behalf of the Food Banks. Thanks to the support of the Group's groups. employees, they managed to collect more than a ton of non-perishable food. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Society 161 Third edition of the Crea Cultura campaign In 2013, Antena 3 Televisión has continued its defence of copyright with the third edition of the Crea Cultura campaign, launched in 2011 to fight against piracy, support creativity and raise awareness among viewers about the importance of legally downloading multimedia content such as videos, music, books and programmes found on the internet. The initiative has involved various actions such as, for example, including a warning message in the copyright of all national fiction series and corporate transition pages and a pre-roll on the www.atresmedia.com website and on entertainment programmes. Antena 3's social action campaigns have managed to raise more than €2,060,000 to help alleviate social problems such as child poverty and evictions. Atresmedia has been awarded the Gold Medal by the Red Cross for its efficient and commendable work in promoting initiatives for cooperation and the social integration of vulnerable people , thanks to initiatives such as Ponle Freno, El Estirón and Hazte Eco, and its support for organisations working to help the most underprivileged groups. 2014 objectives The organisation has set new social action objectives for 2014, which lend continuity to certain initiatives and involve launching new ones to meet the needs of today's society. Ponle Freno 2014 Objectives Launch a campaign to achieve zero fatalities in 2020. Promote Road Safety. New studies on Road Safety. El Estirón 2014 Objectives Launch the second edition of the 'Coles Activos' initiative. Create an awareness campaign about the need to do an hour of physical activity every day. Fundación Atresmedia 2014 Objectives Strengthen the indicators system. Continue with the Strategic Plan's complementary educational initiatives, under the scope of ‘Juntos por la educación’ (Together for education). Continue with the personalised visits to hospitals and ministries in other Autonomous Communities, in order to understand the needs of each centre and improve the quality of the Hospital Assistance Programme. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 162 The environment ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 The environment 163 Our vision _ Increase energy efficiency. _ Minimise the consumption of resources. _ Reduce waste generation. _ Raise public awareness about the need to care for the environment through using Atresmedia's broadcasting capacity. In figures Consumption Gas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12,517 m3 Electricity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28,276,898 kw Heating oil . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 458,148 L Water . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44,297 m3 Paper . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5,425,000 units Toner . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 703 units Emissions Direct scope 1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2,280 Tn CO2 Indirect scope 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6,969 Tn CO2 Transportation for employees scope 3 . . . . 757.7 Tn CO2 Non-hazardous waste Paper and cardboard . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 68 Tn Debris . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 66 Tn Urban solid waste . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 314 Tn Hazardous waste Televisions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57 units Fluorescent . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.635 units Environmental investment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . € 14,363 Rating in CDP . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60D Advancing towards sustainable development Atresmedia is conscious of the need for everyone, and above all organisations, to contribute to the goal of sustainable development through their activities. Atresmedia's environmental impact is relatively small due to it being a media organisation. Nonetheless, it maintains a firm commitment to the environment, minimising the environmental impact of all its activities and using its content to raise awareness in society about protecting the environment. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 The environment 164 Atresmedia’s environmental management policy establishes the strategic priorities in matters of sustainability, as well as the specific actions designed to increase energy efficiency, minimise the consumption of resources, reduce waste generation and increase society's awareness about the need to look after the environment. Information sharing Legal Compliance Raising awareness about recycling and energy saving. Compliance with laws and regulations. Ensuring that suppliers Good practices in environmental follow the principles set out communication. in the policy. Other national and international initiatives. Raising social awareness of responsible environmental behaviour. Climate Change Control of waste Minimising greenhouse and contaminated gases. Environmental Reducing emissions. substances Management Availability of means to prevent Policy contamination of the environment. Minimising waste generation Promoting recycling. Energy efficiency Control of energy costs. Efficient design of facilities and Efficient use of resources activities. Procedures to optimise the consumption of resources over their useful life. Environmental challenges met In order to monitor its progress in relation to sustainable development, Atresmedia sets some annual environmental commitments. In 2013, important steps have been taken, which are detailed below: ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 The environment 165 Level of 2013 Commitment compliance Comments La inversión Maintain the 5-year plan to replace It has carried out the replacement refrigerant in air conditioning. In of the refrigerant in the facilities ambiental de 2013 it will change any equipment planned for 2013. In 2014, it will 100% Atresmedia en that produces an amount equal to complete the remaining 10%. or greater than 300,000 BTU. 2013 ha sido Improve the lighting in the offices The pilot tests have been de 14.363€ y thanks to LED technology. A completed and are currently pilot test will be carried out in still in use. There have also been el gasto en offices and there will be a financial 100% performance tests and the planned feasibility study of the project. technical and financial study has protección been undertaken. ambiental de Analysis of the feasibility of A technical and financial study has installing a photovoltaic solar panel been undertaken, and its viability 48.404€ system. has been analysed. 100% Reduction, with respect to 2012, Solid Urban Waste has been of 3% in the volume of solid reduced by 3.33%, falling from urban waste and 5% in toner 324.80 tonnes in 2012 to 314 100% consumption. tonnes in 2013. Toner consumption has reduced by 5.26%, falling from 742 units in 2012 to 703 in 2013. 2% reduction in the volume of With respect to the volume of paper and cardboard, allocating paper and cardboard recycled, this that amount to the recycling has been reduced by 2.30%, falling 100% processes. from 69.70 Tonnes in 2012 to 68.10 Tonnes in 2013. Extension of the WWF-ADENA A second awareness campaign reforestation and fire prevention has been run about the behaviour campaign. to avoid in order to reduce forest 100% fires. Promotion of the Save the Arctic Continued support for the campaign with Greenpeace, campaign and collecting handing over the results to the signatures, but it has not been 100% Government. handed over to the Government. Atresmedia has a low risk profile in terms of its impact on the environment Energy efficient and also has good environmental The efficient use of energy is a decisive factor for Atresmedia when makmanagement. Its ing decisions about investments to replace and purchase new equipment. real challenge, and also its greatest The Company is committed to the fight against climate change through potential, comes launching projects and measures to mitigate and reduce energy confrom broadcasting sumption. During 2013 it has continued to implement the energy saving content and measures launched in previous years and has undertaken some new ones. transmitting the values of sustainability through this. Reducing energy consumption Use of rail Control and Replacing travel in reduction of aluminium Waterproofing Addition of preference the operating windows and insulating sun filters. to air travel hours of the with double roofs. on domestic boilers. glazing. journeys. Aurelio García Director of Analysis at ECODES, Environment ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 The environment 166 Atresmedia has also implemented space optimisation in the offices, sets and technical areas through grouping its employees together, which has led to a 2.73% reduction in light energy consumption compared to 2012. Gas consumption (m3) Automotive diesel Heating oil consumption consumption (litres) (litres) 12,579 12,517 56,112 458,148 53,185 420,040 419,643 10,270 45,132 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 Automotive petrol Electricity consumption Electricity consumption (litres) (kw) distribution 29,070,214 16,636 28,276,898 64% 15,295 15,612 34% S.S. de Onda Cero los Reyes workplace workplace 19,400,980 4% Atresmedia TV 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 workplace Note 1: In the electricity consumption figures for 2010, the only workplace included is that in San Sebastián de Los Reyes. Note 2: Gas: 1 m3 = 10,723 kWh (Source: Gas Natural Fenosa) // 1kwh = 0.0036 GJ. The 2013 energy consumption of gas is equivalent to 483.19 GJ. (Table A8.1 Conversion factors GHG inventory report published by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and the Environment and IDAE) Note 3: Automotive Diesel: toe = 1,181 litres // 1.12 toe equals 13,020 kWh (Source: IDEA) // 1 kWh = 0.0036 GJ The 2013 energy consumption of transport diesel is equivalent to 1,705.64 GJ. (Table A8.1 Conversion factors GHG inventory report published by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and the Environment and IDAE) The 2013 energy consumption of heating oil is equivalent to 16,234.97 GJ. (Table A8.1 Conversion factors GHG inventory report published by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and the Environment and IDAE) Note 4: Automotive petrol: toe = 1,290 litres // 1.10 toe equals 12,790 kWh (Source: IDEA) // 1 kW/h = 0.0036 GJ. The 2012 energy consumption of transport petrol is equivalent to 496.30 GJ. (Table A8.1 Conversion factors GHG inventory report published by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and the Environment and IDAE). Note 5: 1 kW/h = 0.0036 GJ. The 2013 energy consumption of electricity is equivalent to 101,796.83 GJ Note 6: Diesel 100% non-renewable, Gas 100% non-renewable, Electricity 52.40% non-renewable and 47.60% renewable (latest energy mix provided by IBERDROLA). Moreover, Atresmedia has replaced refrigerant gas in HVAC equipment with a total power of 300,000 BTU, as was established in the commitments for 2013. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 The environment 167 Direct emissions scope 1 GEI emissions (Tn) 2,680 2.633 1,465 1,373 0.518 0.103 0.16 0.546 0.592 0.122 0.08 0.432 CO2 NOx SOx CO 2011 2012 2013 Indirect emissions scope 2 Tn CO2 Note 1: Conversion factors published by GEI and 6,786 IDAE are the sources used to get this data. Note 2: Given that there is no publication of the 4,942 energetic mix of our supplier Iberdrola in 2012, the value reflected in this report is the result of appliying, to the total energy consumed in 2013, the last ernergetic mix published by Iberdrola in 2012. Therefore, this is subject to the 1,940 certification of CNE corresponding to 2013. 2011 2012 2013 Employee transport emissions scope 3 Tn CO2 757.7 458.8 239.8 2011 2012 2013 Both heating oil consumption and CO2 emissions have increased in 2013 due to the use of one of the sets that was inactive in 2011 and 2012. Atresmedia's commitment to the fight against climate change is also embodied in its adherence to the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), a voluntary initiative that encourages transparency and change towards sustainability in companies around the world. In 2013 the score obtained by Atresmedia in the CDP was 60D. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 The environment 168 Economising on resources When caring for the environment, prevention is crucial. Atresmedia has made the need to economise on resources part of its corporate culture, and therefore carries out measures designed to control and minimise consumption. __ Preventive maintenance of the facilities to achieve greater efficiency. The preventive policies already in place for the maintenance of the facilities (regular cleaning of the drains, air conditioning filters, cooling tower trays, review of the bleeding system for boilers and burners, water pipes, tanks and containers, etc.) make it possible to optimise consumption and reduce the potential effects that the company's activity could have on the environment. In addition, special care is taken to avoid uncontrolled spills (this has never occurred in the Group's history), water leaks and gas leaks. __ Use of multifunction machines that allow documents to be scanned and then viewed on the screen, therefore avoiding printing. Using this equipment has reduced paper consumption by 4.4% and toner use by 5.5%, achieving two of the objectives set for 2013. Water consumption (m3) Distribution of Water consumption 50,553 46,856 44,297 13% 86% Onda Cero S.S. de workplace los Reyes workplace 1% Atresmedia TV workplace 2011 2012 2013 Paper consumption (units) Toner consumption (units) 6,117,500 791 742 5,672,500 5,425,000 703 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 Note: the equivalent weight of paper consumed in 2013 is 26,908 kg. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 The environment 169 __ Re-using office screens and furniture for the workstations of the staff who have joined the facilities at San Sebastián de los Reyes, as a result of the merger between the two groups (Atresmedia and laSexta). Specifically, there has been a 50% increase in the re-use of screens compared to 2012. The paper used in Atresmedia has the FSC and PEFC certifications, what guarantees that the paper comes from forests managed under sustainability standards. Waste management Atresmedia strives to reduce the amount of waste generated to a minimum, and to correctly manage this, encouraging, wherever possible, the re-use of materials and recycling. Non-hazardous waste 352 324 314 164 73 69.7 68 66 48 Paper and cardboard (Tn) Debris (m3) Urban solid waste (Tn) 2011 2012 2013 Hazardous waste 82 1,695 1,635 1,301 57 20 Televisions (units) Fluorescent (units) 2011 2012 2013 ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 The environment 170 57.29% of the Waste generation in 2013 has generally fallen compared to the previous total tones of year, especially in the case of hazardous waste. Waste from batteries has been zero, 100% of the toners consumed have been recycled and televiwhite paper sion waste has seen a decline of 30.5%. Atresmedia has also managed to used (27 tn) is hit the target of reducing the volume of solid urban waste by 3% for 2013. recycled. In addition, it has continued with the task of raising awareness among the Group's suppliers, demanding from them the correct treatment of the waste they generate, which includes removing and re-using their own packaging. The Atresmedia group always uses the following guidelines when treating waste: firstly it tries to optimise the use of the goods and equipment until they no longer serve their purpose, regardless of the useful life specified by the manufacturer; secondly it re-uses these goods and equipment in other areas where, although they cannot perform 100% due to wear and tear, they can still be used for less demanding tasks; thirdly, in the event that the goods or equipment cannot be reused internally, it looks to the external market for companies that can do this and if these options are unavailable, it lastly looks within the waste market for authorised management companies that can correctly handle the waste, so that it is destroyed or, if this is not possible, its environmental impact is reduced as much as possible. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 The environment 171 RELEVANT ASPECT (pag. 169) Hazte Eco: the environmental movement Highlights _ Hazte Eco collects more than 27,000 signatures to support the Salvar el Artico Campaign of Greenpeace. _ Second awareness campaign to prevent fire in forests, in collaboration with WWF-ADENA. _ Atresmedia joins La Hora del Planeta campaign, tu defend the environment. Atresmedia launched the Hazte Eco campaign in 2010, in collaboration with Greenpeace, with the aim to raise awareness and run initiatives to defend and protect the environment. Since its launch, Hazte Eco has run several very important initiatives, such as the collection of more than 10,300 signatures and their delivery to the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment to reduce CO2 emissions, and the launch of a fortnightly news report about the environment on Neox. Atresmedia has also used the educational and informational power of its social network and web pages to send awareness-raising messages to the public and to motivate social mobilisation. In 2013, the contribution of Atresmedia's media channels to the campaign has resulted in the broadcasting of 24 programmes with environmental content, addressing issues such as recycling, eco-innovation and electric transport. Atresmedia has also continued to work with Greenpeace in the 'Save the Arctic' campaign, whose objective is to ensure that the uninhabited areas of the Arctic are declared World Heritage Sites. Thanks to the initiative, more than 27,000 signatures in favour of this cause were collected in 2013. Since 2012, Atresmedia has been working with WWF SPAIN to help prevent forest fires. In 2013, through Hazte Eco, it launched an awareness campaign aimed at reducing the number of such fires and avoiding the ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 The environment 172 Atresmedia and WWF seeding the Hazte Eco Forest. Atresmedia joins La Hora del Planeta switching off the lights of the main entrance of the building. behaviour that causes them, such as the uncontrolled burning of agricultural waste, littering and throwing away cigarette butts or being careless when using farming machinery. Additionally, in March 2013 Atresmedia joined millions of people worldwide, companies, governments and educational facilities, in supporting the 'Earth Hour' initiative also organised by WWF SPAIN. 'Earth Hour' has become one of the most supported and popular global actions to protect the environment, and its best-known initiative is switching off lights for one hour at a particular time each year. Atresmedia contributed by turning off the lights in its main entrance and encouraging its employees to actively participate in the initiative. 2014 objectives 2014 OBJECTIVES More information Finalise the 5-year plan to replace refrigerant in air conditioning equipment. about Hazte Eco Implement LED lighting in a building independent of the Company (buildings for Onda Cero, Atres Advertising and Antena 3 Eventos). Conduct a study on energy efficiency. Reduction, with respect to 2013, of 1% in the volume of solid urban waste, and 2% in toner consumption. Reduction, with respect to 2013, of 1% in the volume of paper and cardboard sent for recycling. Launch of new environmental awareness campaigns through Hazte Eco. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 173 Appendices ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Appendices 174 Regarding the Corporate [ G4-18, G4-19, G4-22, G4-23 ] Responsibility Report Cover and Scope: This is the seventh occasion on which Atresmedia has published its Corporate Responsibility Report integrated into the Annual Report and informing on its commitments with regard to Sustainability with an economic, social and environmental focus. For the first time, the report was drafted following the criteria set out by the G4 guidelines at its “exhaustive” level in the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) although it is the sixth year in which it has been verified by a third party (AENOR), ensuring compliance with the requisites of this internationally recognized standard. All the GRI G4 requisites included in the GRI index have been verified by AENOR. The information provided in this report refers to the period between January 1, 2013 and December 31, 2013 and covers all the activities of Atresmedia (Atresmedia Televisión, Atresmedia Radio, Atresmedia Publicidad, Atresmedia Digital, Atresmedia Cine y Fundación Atresmedia), giving priority to the material information, while not omitting relevant information. In the event that there are variations concerning the scope and cover of the information, these have been stated in the report. Moreover, when there were changes in the formula for calculating the data provided regarding previous reports, this is stated beside the data. Material Nature: The material nature of the content was determined based on the information received by the interest groups through active dialogue and specific tools which are described in the section “Socially Responsible Management” of the report. The material aspects were identified throughout the report as ‘relevant aspects’. Each relevant aspect was analysed in order to identify its correspondence with the content and specific indicators of GRI G4, selecting the sections which really respond to the interest groups and to the strategy of Atresmedia. In addition, voluntary responses have been given to other sections of G4 which, although they are not of a material nature for the organization, contribute to more transparency, understanding of the activity of the company and facilitate the transition process from the GRI 3.1 to the GRI G 4 guidelines. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Appendices 175 Material Aspects for the Atresmedia Correspondence with G4 Interest Groups General Aspect Specific Aspect Aspect Section Economic Transparency Economic G4 EC1, EC4, M1 performance Indirect economic G4 EC7 consequences Organization and Corporate Governance G4 34-48, 51 Governance Governance: Ethics and integrity G4 56-58 Policies and Organization Corporate Strategy Ethics and integrity G4 56, 57 Responsibility Services Content and values Creation of content M2, M3 Dissemination of M4, M5 content Social Action Ponle Freno (Put Local Communities G4 SO1 the Brake On)/ el Estirón (The Growth Spurt) / Acción Social (Social Action) Environment Broadcasting, Biodiversity G4 EN 13 awareness activities Human Resources Corporate Policies Ethics and integrity G4 56, 57 Management and Code of Conduct Training Instruction and G4 LA9-10 education Internal Governance G4 37 communication The G4 parameters selected can be identified through the orange colouring in the GRI index of this report. International standards: This Corporate Responsibility Report was drafted in accordance with the following guidelines: __ Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, version 4 of the Global Reporting Initiative. __ Media Sector Supplement. Global Reporting Initiative. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Appendices 176 Verification report ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Appendices 177 GRI index Part not reported Reason for omission External verification Reported Strategy and Analysis Page / Answer G4-1 Provide a statement from the most senior decision-maker 4-10 TOTAL  of the organization (such as CEO, chair, or equivalent p. 176 senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and the organization’s strategy for addressing sustainability. G4-2 Description of key impacts, risks, and 4-10, 47 TOTAL  opportunities p. 176 Part not reported Reason for omission External verification Reported Organizational Profile Page / Answer G4-3 Report the name of the organization. 2 TOTAL  p. 176 G4-4 Report the primary brands, products, and services. 26-27 TOTAL  p. 176 G4-5 Report the location of the organization’s headquarters. 2 TOTAL  p. 176 G4-6 Report the number of countries where the organization Atresmedia TOTAL  operates, and names of countries where either the operates in Spain. p. 176 organization has significant operations or that are However some specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in of its channels the report. (Antena 3 Internacional) can be watched abroad G4-7 Report the nature of ownership and legal form. 26-27 TOTAL  p. 176 G4-8 Report the markets served (including geographic Atresmedia TOTAL  breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers and operates in Spain. p. 176 beneficiaries). However some of its channels (Antena 3 Internacional) can be watched abroad 27, 38 ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Appendices 178 Part not reported Reason for omission External verification Reported Organizational Profile Page / Answer G4-9 Report the scale of the organization, including: 12, 123 TOTAL  __ Total number of employees 93% of p. 176 __ Total number of operations Atresmedia's net __ Net sales (for private sector organizations) or net income comes revenues (for public sector organizations) from advertising. __ Total capitalization broken down in terms of debt and The remaining equity (for private sector organizations) income is split __ Quantity of products or services provided between minor activities such as copyright, film productions and special initiatives. G4-10 __ Report the total number of employees by employment 123, 127 TOTAL  contract and gender. External and p. 176 __ Report the total number of permanent employees by self-employed employment type and gender. employees do __ Report the total workforce by employees and not represent a supervised workers and by gender. significant part __ Report the total workforce by region and gender. of the company, __ Report whether a substantial portion of the so no monitoring organization’s work is performed by workers who are is established legally recognized as self-employed, or by individuals that allows a other than employees or supervised workers, including breakdown by employees and supervised employees of contractors. gender. __ Report any significant variations in employment numbers (such as seasonal variations in employment in the tourism or agricultural industries). G4-11 Report the percentage of total employees covered by 123 TOTAL  collective bargaining agreements. p. 176 G4-12 Describe the organization’s supply chain. 41, 48-52 TOTAL  p. 176 G4-13 Report any significant changes during the reporting period 13, 21 TOTAL  regarding the organization’s size, structure, ownership, or p. 176 its supply chain, including: __ Changes in the location of, or changes in, operations, including facility openings, closings, and expansions __ Changes in the share capital structure and other capital formation, maintenance, and alteration operations (for private sector organizations) __ Changes in the location of suppliers, the structure of the supply chain, or in relationships with suppliers, including selection and termination . G4-14 Report whether and how the precautionary approach or 47 TOTAL  principle is addressed by the organization. p. 176 G4-15 List externally developed economic, environmental and 32, 36-37, 52-53, TOTAL  social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the 65-68, 116 p. 176 organization subscribes or which it endorses. G4-16 List memberships of associations (such as industry 39, 53, 116 TOTAL  associations) and national or international advocacy p. 176 organizations in which the organization: __ Holds a position on the governance body __ Participates in projects or committees __ Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues __ Views membership as strategic ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Appendices 179 Part not reported Reason for omission External verification Reported Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries Page / Answer G4-17 __ List all entities included in the organization’s 27 TOTAL  consolidated financial statements or equivalent All entities that p. 176 documents. are listed in the __ Report whether any entity included in the organization’s consolidated consolidated financial statements or equivalent financial documents is not covered by the report. statements are also listed in the report. G4-18 __ Explain the process for defining the report content and 37-45, 174 TOTAL  the Aspect Boundaries. p. 176 __ Explain how the organization has implemented the Reporting Principles for Defining Report Content. G4-19 List all the material Aspects identified in the process for 44, 174 TOTAL  defining report content. p. 176 G4-20 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary The material TOTAL  within the organization, as follows: aspects identified p. 176 __ Report whether the Aspect is material within the have been organization considered for the __ If the Aspect is not material for all entities within the entire Atresmedia organization (as described in G4-17), select one of the Group. following two approaches and report either: • The list of entities or groups of entities included in G4-17 for which the Aspect is not material or • The list of entities or groups of entities included in G4-17 for which the Aspects is material __ Report any specific limitation regarding the Aspect Boundary within the organization G4-21 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary The aspects TOTAL  outside the organization, as follows: identified as p. 176 __ Report whether the Aspect is material outside of the material have organization been considered __ If the Aspect is material outside of the organization, for all of identify the entities, groups of entities or elements for Atresmedia's which the Aspect is material. In addition, describe the external geographical location where the Aspect is material for stakeholders. the entities identified __ Report any specific limitation regarding the Aspect Boundary outside the organization G4-22 Report the effect of any restatements of information 174 TOTAL  provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such p. 176 restatements. G4-23 Report significant changes from previous reporting 174 TOTAL  periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries. p. 176 ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Appendices 180 Part not reported Reason for omission External verification Reported Stakeholder Engagement Page / Answer G4-24 Provide a list of stakeholder groups engaged by the 38 TOTAL  organization. p. 176 G4-25 Report the basis for identification and selection of 38 TOTAL  stakeholders with whom to engage. p. 176 G4-26 Report the organization’s approach to stakeholder 31 ,38, 37-45, 52TOTAL  engagement, including frequency of engagement by type 53, 66-67, 86-87, p. 176 and by stakeholder group, and an indication of whether 96-98, 116 any of the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process. G4-27 Report key topics and concerns that have been 37-45 TOTAL  raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the p. 176 organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. Report the stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns. Part not reported Reason for omission External verification Reported Report Profile Page / Answer G4-28 Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) for 174 TOTAL  information provided. p. 176 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if any). 174 TOTAL  p. 176 G4-30 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial). 174 TOTAL  p. 176 G4-31 Provide the contact point for questions regarding the 2 TOTAL  report or its contents. p. 176 G4-32 __ Report the ‘in accordance’ option the organization has 174-175,177 TOTAL  chosen. p. 176 __ Report the GRI Content Index for the chosen option. __ Report the reference to the External Assurance Report, if the report has been externally assured. GRI recommends the use of external assurance but it is not a requirement to be ‘in accordance’ with the Guidelines. G4-33 __ Report the organization’s policy and current practice This report has TOTAL  with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. been verified p. 176 __ If not included in the assurance report accompanying by AENOR with the sustainability report, report the scope and basis of Comprehensive any external assurance provided. level. __ Report the relationship between the organization and 177 the assurance providers. __ Report whether the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in seeking assurance for the organization’s sustainability report. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Appendices 181 Part not reported Reason for omission External verification Reported Governance Page / Answer G4-34 Report the governance structure of the organization, 26-27, 32-35 TOTAL  including committees of the highest governance body. IAGC: C.1. 1, C.1.2, p. 176 Identify any committees responsible for decision-making C.1.3, C.2.4 on economic, environmental and social impacts. G4-35 Report the process for delegating authority for 32-35 TOTAL  economic, environmental and social topics from the IAGC: C.1.10 p. 176 highest governance body to senior executives and other employees. G4-36 Report whether the organization has appointed an 26, 28, 32-35 TOTAL  executive-level position or positions with responsibility for IAGC: C.1.10 p. 176 economic, environmental and social topics, and whether post holders report directly to the highest governance body. G4-37 Report processes for consultation between stakeholders 31-35 TOTAL  and the highest governance body on economic, IAGC: meets p. 176 environmental and social topics. If consultation is requirement 7 delegated, describe to whom and any feedback processes on corporate to the highest governance body. governance (page 30 of the IAGC). G4-38 Report the composition of the highest governance body 26, 28 TOTAL  and its committees by: IAGC: C.1.2, C.1.3, p. 176 __ Executive or non-executive C.2.1, C.2.2 __ Independence __ Tenure on the governance body __ Number of each individual’s other significant positions and commitments, and the nature of the commitments __ Gender __ Membership of under-represented social groups __ Competences relating to economic, environmental and social impacts __ Stakeholder representation G4-39 Report whether the Chair of the highest governance body 18, 20 TOTAL  is also an executive officer (and, if so, his or her function IAGC: C.1.22 p. 176 within the organization’s management and the reasons for this arrangement). G4-40 Report the nomination and selection processes for 32-35 TOTAL  the highest governance body and its committees, and IAGC: C.1.5, C.1.6, p. 176 the criteria used for nominating and selecting highest C.1.19, C.2.4, C.1.34 governance body members, including: __ Whether and how diversity is considered __ Whether and how independence is considered __ Whether and how expertise and experience relating to economic, environmental and social topics are considered __ Whether and how stakeholders (including shareholders) are involved G4-41 Report processes for the highest governance body to 32-35 TOTAL  ensure conflicts of interest are avoided and managed. IAGC: D.6, D.7 p. 176 Report whether conflicts of interest are disclosed to stakeholders, including, as a minimum: __ Cross-board membership __ Cross-shareholding with suppliers and other stakeholders __ Existence of controlling shareholder __ Related party disclosures G4-42 Report the highest governance body’s and senior 32-35 TOTAL  executives’ roles in the development, approval, and Recommendation p. 176 updating of the organization’s purpose, value or mission 8 on Corporate statements, strategies, policies, and goals related to Governance. economic, environmental and social impacts. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Appendices 182 Part not reported Reason for omission External verification Reported Governance Page / Answer G4-43 Report the measures taken to develop and enhance 32-35 TOTAL  the highest governance body’s collective knowledge of IAGC: C.1.41 p. 176 economic, environmental and social topics. Standards of Good Governance Fundación Atresmedia www. antena3.com/ fundación. G4-44 __ Report the processes for evaluation of the highest 32-35 TOTAL  governance body’s performance with respect to IAGC: C.1.20 p. 176 governance of economic, environmental and social topics. Report whether such evaluation is independent or not, and its frequency. Report whether such evaluation is a self-assessment. __ Report actions taken in response to evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance with respect to governance of economic, environmental and social topics, including, as a minimum, changes in membership and organizational practice. G4-45 __ Report the highest governance body’s role in 32-35 TOTAL  the identification and management of economic, IAGC: C.1.14, C.2.3, p. 176 environmental and social impacts, risks, and C.2.4, section E. opportunities. Include the highest governance body’s Recommenda­ role in the implementation of due diligence processes. tions on __ Report whether stakeholder consultation is used to Corporate support the highest governance body’s identification Governance: 43 and management of economic, environmental and social and 44.1 a) impacts, risks, and opportunities. G4-46 Report the highest governance body’s role in reviewing 32-35 TOTAL  the effectiveness of the organization’s risk management IAGC: C.1.14, C.2.3, p. 176 processes for economic, environmental and social topics. C.2.4, section E. Recommendations on Corporate Governance: 43 and 44.1 a) Standards of Good Governance Fundación Atresmedia www. antena3.com/ fundación G4-47 Report the frequency of the highest governance body’s 32-35 TOTAL  review of economic, environmental and social impacts, IAGC: C.1.14, C.2.3, p. 176 risks, and opportunities. C.2.4, section E. Recommendations on Corporate Governance: 43 and 44.1 a) G4-48 Report the highest committee or position that formally 32 TOTAL  reviews and approves the organization’s sustainability IAGC: CC.1.14 p. 176 report and ensures that all material Aspects are covered. Recommendation 7 on Corporate Governance. G4-49 Report the process for communicating critical concerns to 32-35 TOTAL  the highest governance body. IAGC: C.1.14, C.2.3, p. 176 C.2.4, section E. Recommendations on Corporate Governance: 43 and 44.1 a) G4-50 Report the nature and total number of critical concerns 32-35, 37-45 TOTAL  that were communicated to the highest governance body IAGC: E.5, E.6 p. 176 and the mechanism(s) used to address and resolve them. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Appendices 183 Part not reported Reason for omission External verification Reported Governance Page / Answer G4-51 Report the remuneration policies for the highest 32-35, 132 TOTAL  governance body and senior executives for the below IAGC: p. 176 types of remuneration: Recommendation __ Fixed pay and variable pay: 36 on Corporate • Performance-based pay Governance. • Equity-based pay IRC: sections A, B • Bonuses and C • Deferred or vested shares __ Sign-on bonuses or recruitment incentive payments __ Termination payments __ Clawbacks __ Retirement benefits, including the difference between benefit schemes and contribution rates for the highest governance body, senior executives, and all other employees Report how performance criteria in the remuneration policy relate to the highest governance body’s and senior executives’ economic, environmental and social objectives. G4-52 Report the process for determining remuneration. 32-35, 132 TOTAL  Report whether remuneration consultants are involved IAGC: p. 176 in determining remuneration and whether they are IRC: A.2 independent of management. Report any other relationships which the remuneration consultants have with the organization. G4-53 Report how stakeholders’ views are sought and taken into 32-35, 132 TOTAL  account regarding remuneration, including the results of IRC: A.1, D.3 p. 176 votes on remuneration policies and proposals, if applicable. G4-54 Report the ratio of the annual total compensation for the Onda Cero 9,5 TOTAL  organization’s highest-paid individual in each country p. 176 of significant operations to the median annual total compensation for all employees (excluding the highestpaid individual) in the same country. G4-55 Report the ratio of percentage increase in annual total In 2013 there have TOTAL  compensation for the organization’s highest-paid been no pay rises p. 176 individual in each country of significant operations to the (0) median percentage increase in annual total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Appendices 184 Part not reported Reason for omission External verification Reported Ethics and Integrity Page / Answer G4-56 Describe the organization’s values, principles, standards 36,37,116 TOTAL  and norms of behavior such as codes of conduct and p. 176 codes of ethics. G4-57 Report the internal and external mechanisms for seeking 33-34 TOTAL  advice on ethical and lawful behavior, and matters related p. 176 to organizational integrity, such as helplines or advice lines. G4-58 Report the internal and external mechanisms for reporting 33-34 TOTAL  concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior, and matters p. 176 related to organizational integrity, such as escalation through line management, whistleblowing mechanisms or hotlines. Part not reported Reason for omission External verification Reported Disclosures on Management Approach Page / Answer G4__ Report why the Aspect is material. Report the impacts 37-45 TOTAL  DMA that make this Aspect material. p. 176 __ Report how the organization manages the material Aspect or its impacts. __ Report the evaluation of the management approach, including: • The mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of the management approach • The results of the evaluation of the management approach • Any related adjustments to the management approach ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Appendices 185 Part not reported Reason for omission External verification Reported G4-EC Indicators Page / Answer CATEGORY: ECONOMIC  ASPECT: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 4-10 p. 176 G4-EC1 Report the direct economic value generated and 12, 23 TOTAL  distributed (EVG&D) on an accruals basis including the / Report on p. 176 basic components for the organization’s global operations audited accounts as listed below. If data is presented on a cash basis, report (Available at the justification for this decision and report the basic www.atresmecomponents as listed below: diacorporacion. __ Direct economic value generated: com) • Revenues __ Economic value distributed: • Operating costs • Employee wages and benefits • Payments to providers of capital • Payments to government (by country) • Community investments __ Economic value retained (calculated as ‘Direct economic value generated’ less ‘Economic value distributed’) To better assess local economic impacts, report EVG&D separately at country, regional, or market levels, where significant. Report the criteria used for defining significance. G4-EC2 Report risks and opportunities posed by climate change 163-169 TOTAL  that have the potential to generate substantive changes in p. 176 operations, revenue or expenditure, including: __ A description of the risk or opportunity and its classification as either physical, regulatory, or other __ A description of the impact associated with the risk or opportunity __ The financial implications of the risk or opportunity before action is taken __ The methods used to manage the risk or opportunity __ The costs of actions taken to manage the risk or opportunity G4-EC3 __ Where the plan’s liabilities are met by the organization’s There are no TOTAL  general resources, report the estimated value of those pension schemes p. 176 liabilities. __ Where a separate fund exists to pay the plan’s pension liabilities, report: • The extent to which the scheme’s liabilities are estimated to be covered by the assets that have been set aside to meet them • The basis on which that estimate has been arrived at • When that estimate was made __ Where a fund set up to pay the plan’s pension liabilities is not fully covered, explain the strategy, if any, adopted by the employer to work towards full coverage, and the timescale, if any, by which the employer hopes to achieve full coverage. __ Report the percentage of salary contributed by employee or employer. __ Report the level of participation in retirement plans (such as participation in mandatory or voluntary schemes, regional or country-based schemes, or those with financial impact). ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Appendices 186 Part not reported Reason for omission External verification Reported G4-EC Indicators Page / Answer G4-EC4 __ Report the total monetary value of financial assistance 12, .39 TOTAL  received by the organization from governments during Report on audited p. 176 the reporting period, including, as a minimum: accounts (Avail• Tax relief and tax credits able at www. • Subsidies atresmediacor• Investment grants, research and development grants, poracion.com) and other relevant types of grants • Awards • Royalty holidays • Financial assistance from Export Credit Agencies (ECAs) • Financial incentives • Other financial benefits received or receivable from any government for any operation __ Report the information above by country. __ Report whether, and the extent to which, the government is present in the shareholding structure. M1 Significant funding and other support received from non0 euros TOTAL  governmental sources. Report on audited p. 176 accounts (Available at www. atresmediacorporacion.com).  ASPECT: MARKET PRESENCE 5 p. 176 G4-EC5 __ When a significant proportion of the workforce is 132 TOTAL  compensated based on wages subject to minimum The starting wage p. 176 wage rules, report the ratio of the entry level wage is set through by gender at significant locations of operation to the a collective minimum wage. agreement __ Report whether a local minimum wage is absent or established variable at significant locations of operation, by gender. for each of In circumstances in which different minimums could the group's be used as a reference, report which minimum wage is businesses being used. with no gender __ Report the definition used for ‘significant locations of differences, and operation’. it is higher than the statutory minimum wage. G4-EC6 __ Report the percentage of senior management at 127 TOTAL  significant locations of operation that are hired from the Local: España p. 176 local community.  ASPECT: INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS p. 176 G4-EC7 __ Report the extent of development of significant 6.074 thousand TOTAL  infrastructure investments and services supported. euros. p. 176 __ Report the current or expected impacts on communities 133-154 and local economies. Report positive and negative Report on audited impacts where relevant. accounts (Avail__ Report whether these investments and services are able at www. commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagements. atresmediacorporacion.com) G4-EC8 __ Report examples of the significant identified 12-13, 17, 133-154 TOTAL  positive and negative indirect economic impacts the p. 176 organization has. __ Report the significance of the impacts in the context of external benchmarks and stakeholder priorities, such as national and international standards, protocols, and policy agendas. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Appendices 187 Part not reported Reason for omission External verification Reported G4-EC Indicators Page / Answer  ASPECT: PROCUREMENT PRACTICES 48-50 p. 176 G4-EC9 Report the percentage of the procurement budget used Supplier TOTAL  for significant locations of operation spent on suppliers 50 p. 176 local to that operation (such as percentage of products Local: national and services purchased locally). supplier. G4-EN CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL  ASPECT: MATERIALS 162, 168-169 p. 176 G4-EN1 Report the total weight or volume of materials that are 12, 169-170 TOTAL  used to produce and package the organization’s primary p. 176 products and services during the reporting period, by: __ Non-renewable materials used __ Renewable materials used G4-EN2 Report the percentage of recycled input materials used 100% of all toner TOTAL  to manufacture the organization’s primary products and used is recycled. p. 176 services. 12, 169-170  ASPECT: ENERGY 162, 165-166 p. 176 G4-EN3 __ Report total fuel consumption from non-renewable 166 TOTAL  sources in joules or multiples, including fuel types used. p. 176 __ Report total fuel consumption from renewable fuel sources in joules or multiples, including fuel types used. __ Report in joules, watt-hours or multiples, the total: • Electricity consumption • Heating consumption • Cooling consumption • Steam consumption __ Report in joules, watt-hours or multiples, the total: • Electricity sold • Heating sold • Cooling sold • Steam sold __ Report total energy consumption in joules or multiples. __ Report standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. __ Report the source of the conversion factors used. G4-EN4 Report energy consumed outside of the organization, in 166 TOTAL  joules or multiples. Consumption p. 176 accounted for by business travel is included. G4-EN5 __ Report the energy intensity ratio. Energy intensity TOTAL  __ Report the organization-specific metric (the ratio is determined by p. 176 denominator) chosen to calculate the ratio. dividing internal __ Report the types of energy included in the intensity consumption by ratio: fuel, electricity, heating, cooling, steam, or all. the number of __ Report whether the ratio uses energy consumed within employees (1,829). the organization, outside of it or both. G4-EN6 __ Report the amount of reductions in energy consumption 158 TOTAL  achieved as a direct result of conservation and efficiency p. 176 initiatives, in joules or multiples. __ Report the types of energy included in the reductions: fuel, electricity, heating, cooling, and steam. G4-EN7 Report the reductions in the energy requirements of sold 50-52, 166 TOTAL  products and services achieved during the reporting p. 176 period, in joules or multiples. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Appendices 188 Part not reported Reason for omission External verification Reported G4-EC Indicators Page / Answer  ASPECT: WATER 162, 169-170 p. 176 G4-EN8 Report the total volume of water withdrawn from the 169-170, TOTAL  following sources: All the water used p. 176 __ Surface water, including water from wetlands, rivers, comes from the lakes, and oceans public network. __ Ground water __ Rainwater collected directly and stored by the organization __ Waste water from another organization __ Municipal water supplies or other water utilities G4-EN9 Report the total number of water sources significantly All the water used TOTAL  affected by withdrawal by type: comes from the p. 176 __ Size of water source public network. __ Whether or not the source is designated as a protected area (nationally or internationally) __ Biodiversity value (such as species diversity and endemism, total number of protected species) __ Value or importance of water source to local communities and indigenous peoples G4__ Report the total volume of water recycled and reused by Atresmedia, due TOTAL  EN10 the organization. to its business, p. 176 __ Report the total volume of water recycled and reused does not recycle as a percentage of the total water withdrawal reported or re-use water. under Indicator G4-EN8.  ASPECT: BIODIVERSITY p. 176 G4-EN11 Report the following information for each operational site Atresmedia TOTAL  owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas operates in p. 176 and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected urban areas that areas: do not affect __ Geographic location natural areas, so __ Subsurface and underground land that may be owned, it does not have leased, or managed by the organization an impact on __ Position in relation to the protected area (in the area, biodiversity adjacent to, or containing portions of the protected area) or the high biodiversity value area outside The workplace at protected areas San Sebastián de __ Type of operation (office, manufacturing or production, los Reyes does or extractive) not generate __ Size of operational site in km2 a significant __ Biodiversity value characterized by: environmental • The attribute of the protected area or high impact, and nor biodiversity value area outside the protected area do the rest of the (terrestrial, freshwater, or maritime ecosystem) workplaces. • Listing of protected status (such as IUCN Protected Area Management Categories, Ramsar Convention, national legislation) ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Appendices 189 Part not reported Reason for omission External verification Reported G4-EC Indicators Page / Answer G4__ Report the nature of significant direct and indirect Atresmedia TOTAL  EN12 impacts on biodiversity with reference to one or more of operates in p. 176 the following: urban areas that • Construction or use of manufacturing plants, mines, do not affect and transport infrastructure natural areas, so • Pollution (introduction of substances that do not it does not have naturally occur in the habitat from point and nonan impact on point sources) biodiversity. • Introduction of invasive species, pests, and pathogens • Reduction of species • Habitat conversion • Changes in ecological processes outside the natural range of variation (such as salinity or changes in groundwater level) __ Report significant direct and indirect positive and negative impacts with reference to the following: • Species affected • Extent of areas impacted • Duration of impacts • Reversibility or irreversibility of the impacts G4__ Report the size and location of all habitat protected 171-172 TOTAL  EN13 areas or restored areas, and whether the success of the Atresmedia p. 176 restoration measure was or is approved by independent operates in external professionals. urban areas that __ Report whether partnerships exist with third parties to do not affect protect or restore habitat areas distinct from where the natural areas, so organization has overseen and implemented restoration it does not have or protection measures. an impact on __ Report on the status of each area based on its condition biodiversity. at the close of the reporting period. __ Report standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. G4Report the total number of IUCN Red List species and Atresmedia TOTAL  EN14 national conservation list species with habitats in areas operates in p. 176 affected by the operations of the organization, by level of urban areas that extinction risk: do not affect __ Critically endangered natural areas, so __ Endangered it does not have __ Vulnerable an impact on __ Near threatened biodiversity. __ Least concern  ASPECT: EMISSIONS 162, 165-166 p. 176 G4__ Report gross direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions in metric 167 TOTAL  EN15 tons of CO2 equivalent, independent of any GHG trades, The calculation p. 176 such as purchases, sales, or transfers of offsets or includes CO2 allowances. gases. __ Report gases included in the calculation (whether CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, or all). __ Report biogenic CO2 emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent separately from the gross direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions. G4Report gross energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions in 167 TOTAL  EN16 metric tons of CO2 equivalent, independent of any GHG The calculation p. 176 trades, such as purchases, sales, or transfers of offsets or includes CO2 allowances. gases. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Appendices 190 Part not reported Reason for omission External verification Reported G4-EC Indicators Page / Answer G4-EN17 __ Report gross other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 167 TOTAL  in metric tons of CO2 equivalent, excluding indirect The calculation p. 176 emissions from the generation of purchased or acquired includes CO2 electricity, heating, cooling, and steam consumed by gases. the organization (these indirect emissions are reported in Indicator G4-EN16). Exclude any GHG trades, such as purchases, sales, or transfers of offsets or allowances. __ Report gases included in the calculation, if available. __ Report biogenic CO2 emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent separately from the gross other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions. __ Report other indirect (Scope 3) emissions categories and activities included in the calculation. G4__ Report the GHG emissions intensity ratio. The intensity  EN18 __ Report the organization-specific metric (the ratio of emissions is p. 176 denominator) chosen to calculate the ratio. determined by __ Report the types of GHG emissions included in the dividing internal intensity ratio: direct (Scope 1), energy indirect (Scope consumption by 2), other indirect (Scope 3). the number of __ Report gases included in the calculation. employees (1,829). G4__ Report the amount of GHG emissions reductions 165-169 TOTAL  EN19 achieved as a direct result of initiatives to reduce The calculation p. 176 emissions, in metric tons of CO2 equivalent. includes CO2 __ Report gases included in the calculation (whether CO2, gases. CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, or all). __ Report the chosen base year or baseline and the rationale for choosing it. __ Report standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. __ Report whether the reductions in GHG emissions occurred in direct (Scope 1), energy indirect (Scope 2), other indirect (Scope 3) emissions. G4__ Report production, imports, and exports of ODS in Replacement of TOTAL  EN20 metric tons of CFC-11 equivalent. refrigerant gas p. 176 __ Report substances included in the calculation. (R22) with 190 __ Report standards, methodologies, and assumptions Kg of ecological used. gas (R438A); __ Report the source of the emission factors used. replacement of refrigerant gas (R22) with 104 Kg of ecological gas R424. G4__ Report the amount of significant air emissions, in 167 TOTAL  EN21 kilograms or multiples for each of the following: p. 176 • NOX • SOX • Persistent organic pollutants (POP) • Volatile organic compounds (VOC) • Hazardous air pollutants (HAP) • Particulate matter (PM) • Other standard categories of air emissions identified in relevant regulations __ Report standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. __ Report the source of the emission factors used. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Appendices 191 Part not reported Reason for omission External verification Reported G4-EC Indicators Page / Answer  ASPECT: EFFLUENTS AND WASTE 162, 168-170 p. 176 G4__ Report the total volume of planned and unplanned 170  EN22 water discharges by: Atresmedia sends p. 176 • Destination this to the public • Quality of the water including treatment method sewage network. • Whether it was reused by another organization __ Report standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. G4__ Report the total weight of hazardous and non170 TOTAL  EN23 hazardous waste, by the following disposal methods: The number of p. 176 • Reuse units is specified, • Recycling since given the • Composting type of waste • Recovery, including energy recovery generated, it is • Incineration (mass burn) impossible to • Deep well injection calculate the • Landfill weight . • On-site storage • Other (to be specified by the organization) __ Report how the waste disposal method has been determined: • Disposed of directly by the organization or otherwise directly confirmed • Information provided by the waste disposal contractor • Organizational defaults of the waste disposal contractor G4__ Report the total number and total volume of recorded There have been TOTAL  EN24 significant spills. no discharges. p. 176 __ For spills that were reported in the organization’s financial statements, report the additional following information for each such spill: • Location of spill • Volume of spill • Material of spill, categorized by: • Oil spills (soil or water surfaces) • Fuel spills (soil or water surfaces) • Spills of wastes (soil or water surfaces) • Spills of chemicals (mostly soil or water surfaces) • Other (to be specified by the organization) __ Report the impacts of significant spills. G4__ Report the total weight for each of the following: 169 TOTAL  EN25 • Hazardous waste transported The number of p. 176 • Hazardous waste imported units is specified, • Hazardous waste exported since given the • Hazardous waste treated type of waste __ Report the percentage of hazardous waste shipped generated, it is internationally. impossible to calculate the weight. G4Report water bodies and related habitats that are There have been TOTAL  EN26 significantly affected by water discharges based on the no bodies of p. 176 criteria described in the Compilation section below, adding water or habitats information on: affected by __ Size of water body and related habitat discharges. __ Whether the water body and related habitat is designated as a protected area (nationally or internationally) __ Biodiversity value (such as total number of protected species) ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Appendices 192 Part not reported Reason for omission External verification Reported G4-EC Indicators Page / Answer  ASPECT: PRODUCTS AND SERVICES 165-166,169 p. 176 G4__ Report quantitatively the extent to which environmental 166 TOTAL  EN27 impacts of products and services have been mitigated p. 176 during the reporting period. __ If use-oriented figures are employed, report the underlying assumptions regarding consumption patterns or normalization factors. G4__ Report the percentage of reclaimed products and their Atresmedia does  EN28 packaging materials for each product category. not manage p. 176 __ Report how the data for this Indicator has been products. collected.  ASPECT: COMPLIANCE 163 p. 176 G4__ Report significant fines and non-monetary sanctions in There have TOTAL  EN29 terms of: not been any p. 176 • Total monetary value of significant fines penalties of an • Total number of non-monetary sanctions environmental • Cases brought through dispute resolution nature. mechanisms __ Where organizations have not identified any noncompliance with laws or regulations, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient.  ASPECT: TRANSPORT 163 p. 176 G4__ Report the significant environmental impacts of Atresmedia’s TOTAL  EN30 transporting products and other goods and materials business does p. 176 for the organization’s operations, and transporting not produce members of the workforce. Where quantitative data is significant not provided, report the reason. environmental __ Report how the environmental impacts of transporting impacts. products, members of the organization’s workforce, and other goods and materials are mitigated. __ Report the criteria and methodology used to determine which environmental impacts are significant.  ASPECT: OVERALL 163 p. 176 G4Report total environmental protection expenditures by: 163 TOTAL  EN31 __ Waste disposal, emissions treatment, and remediation p. 176 costs __ Prevention and environmental management costs ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Appendices 193 Part not reported Reason for omission External verification Reported G4-EC Indicators Page / Answer  ASPECT: SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT 50-52 p. 176 G4Report the percentage of new suppliers that were 100% TOTAL  EN32 screened using environmental criteria. p. 176 G4__ Report the number of suppliers subject to environmental 50-52 TOTAL  EN33 impact assessments. Atresmedia's p. 176 __ Report the number of suppliers identified as having suppliers, significant actual and potential negative environmental given their impacts. business, have __ Report the significant actual and potential negative no significant environmental impacts identified in the supply chain. environmental __ Report the percentage of suppliers identified as having impact. However, significant actual and potential negative environmental suppliers are impacts with which improvements were agreed upon as required to a result of assessment. comply 100% with __ Report the percentage of suppliers identified as having environmental significant actual and potential negative environmental criteria, when impacts with which relationships were terminated as a applicable, as result of assessment, and why. described on page 45.  ASPECT: ENVIRONMENTAL GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS 163 p. 176 G4__ Report the total number of grievances about There have  EN34 environmental impacts filed through formal grievance not been any p. 176 mechanisms during the reporting period. complaints of an __ Of the identified grievances, report how many were: environmental • Addressed during the reporting period nature. • Resolved during the reporting period __ Report the total number of grievances about environmental impacts filed prior to the reporting period that were resolved during the reporting period. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Appendices 194 Part not reported Reason for omission External verification Reported G4-LA Indicators of Labor Practices and Decent Work Page / Answer  ASPECT: EMPLOYMENT p. 176 G4-LA1 __ Report the total number and rate of new employee hires 126 PARTIAL  during the reporting period, by age group, gender and No significant p. 176 region. differences exist __ Report the total number and rate of employee turnover in the turnover during the reporting period, by age group, gender and rate, in its region. breakdown by age and gender. G4-LA2 __ Report the benefits which are standard for full-time 126, 133 TOTAL  employees of the organization but are not provided p. 176 to temporary or part-time employees, by significant locations of operation. These include, as a minimum: • Life insurance • Health care • Disability and invalidity coverage • Parental leave • Retirement provision • Stock ownership • Others __ Report the definition used for ‘significant locations of operation’. G4-LA3 __ Report the total number of employees that were entitled No. of employees TOTAL  to parental leave, by gender. on maternity p. 176 __ Report the total number of employees that took leave: 30 parental leave, by gender. No. of employees __ Report the total number of employees who returned to on paternity leave: work after parental leave ended, by gender. 23 __ Report the total number of employees who returned to The number of work after parental leave ended who were still employed returning staff twelve months after their return to work, by gender. and staff retaining __ Report the return to work and retention rates of their jobs is 100%. employees who took parental leave, by gender.  ASPECT: LABOR/MANAGEMENT RELATIONS 123 p. 176 G4-LA4 __ Report the minimum number of weeks’ notice typically Notice periods TOTAL  provided to employees and their elected representatives are established p. 176 prior to the implementation of significant operational in the collective changes that could substantially affect them. agreement __ For organizations with collective bargaining agreements, The existing report whether the notice period and provisions for collective consultation and negotiation are specified in collective agreements agreements. include the consultation and negotiation conditions.  ASPECT: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY 136 p. 176 G4-LA5 __ Report the level at which each formal joint 137 TOTAL  management-worker health and safety committee 100% p. 176 typically operates within the organization. __ Report the percentage of the total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Appendices 195 Part not reported Reason for omission External verification Reported G4-LA Indicators of Labor Practices and Decent Work Page / Answer G4-LA6 __ Report types of injury, injury rate (IR), occupational Pag. 136-137 TOTAL  diseases rate (ODR), lost day rate (LDR), absentee rate Law 31/1995 on p. 176 (AR) and work-related fatalities, for the total workforce the Prevention (that is, total employees plus supervised workers), by: of Occupational • Region Risks. • Gender __ Report types of injury, injury rate (IR), occupational diseases rate (ODR), lost day rate (LDR), absentee rate (AR) and work-related fatalities for independent contractors working on-site to whom the organization is liable for the general safety of the working environment, by: • Region • Gender __ Report the system of rules applied in recording and reporting accident statistics. G4-LA7 Report whether there are workers who are involved in There is no risk TOTAL  occupational activities who have a high incidence or high of occupational p. 176 risk of specific diseases. illnesses. G4-LA8 __ Report whether formal agreements (either local or 100% TOTAL  global) with trade unions cover health and safety. p. 176 __ If yes, report the extent, as a percentage, to which various health and safety topics are covered by these agreements.  ASPECT: TRAINING AND EDUCATION 128-129 p. 176 G4-LA9 Report the average hours of training that the 128-129 TOTAL  organization’s employees have undertaken during the Attendance p. 176 reporting period, by: on training __ Gender courses shows __ Employee category no significant differences by gender. G4__ Report on the type and scope of programs implemented 128-129 TOTAL  LA10 and assistance provided to upgrade employee skills. p. 176 __ Report on the transition assistance programs provided to facilitate continued employability and the management of career endings resulting from retirement or termination of employment. G4-LA11 Report the percentage of total employees by gender and 132 TOTAL  by employee category who received a regular performance p. 176 and career development review during the reporting period. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Appendices 196 Part not reported Reason for omission External verification Reported G4-LA Indicators of Labor Practices and Decent Work Page / Answer  ASPECT: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY 127 p. 176 G4-LA12 __ Report the percentage of individuals within the 26-28 TOTAL  organization’s governance bodies in each of the The CV's of p. 176 following diversity categories: the members • Gender of the board of • Age group: under 30 years old, 30-50 years old, over directors are on 50 years old the corporate • Minority groups website at www. • Other indicators of diversity where relevant atresmedia.es __ Report the percentage of employees per employee category in each of the following diversity categories: • Gender • Age group: under 30 years old, 30-50 years old, over 50 years old • Minority groups • Other indicators of diversity where relevant  ASPECT: EQUAL REMUNERATION FOR WOMEN AND MEN 132 p. 176 G4-LA13 __ Report the ratio of the basic salary and remuneration 132 TOTAL  of women to men for each employee category, by p. 176 significant locations of operation. __ Report the definition used for ‘significant locations of operation’.  ASPECT: SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT FOR LABOR PRACTICES 47 p. 176 G4Report the percentage of new suppliers that were 100% TOTAL  LA14 screened using labor practices criteria. p. 176 G4-LA __ Report the number of suppliers subject to impact Atresmedia's TOTAL  15 assessments for labor practices. suppliers, taking p. 176 __ Report the number of suppliers identified as having into account significant actual and potential negative impacts for their business, labor practices. have no existing __ Report the significant actual and potential negative or potential impacts for labor practices identified in the supply chain. significant __ Report the percentage of suppliers identified as having negative impact significant actual and potential negative impacts for on work practices. labor practices with which improvements were agreed upon as a result of assessment. __ Report the percentage of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor practices with which relationships were terminated as a result of assessment, and why.  ASPECT: LABOR PRACTICES GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS 33-34 p. 176 G4__ Report the total number of grievances about labor There have been  LA16 practices filed through formal grievance mechanisms no complaints p. 176 during the reporting period. regarding work __ Of the identified grievances, report how many were: practices. • Addressed during the reporting period • Resolved during the reporting period __ Report the total number of grievances about labor practices filed prior to the reporting period that were resolved during the reporting period. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Appendices 197 Part not reported Reason for omission External verification Reported G4-HR Indicators of Human Rights Page / Answer  ASPECT: INVESTMENT 4-10 p. 176 G4-HR1 __ Report the total number and percentage of significant There have been TOTAL  investment agreements and contracts that include no investment p. 176 human rights clauses or that underwent human rights agreements screening. requiring clauses __ Report the definition of ‘significant investment on human rights. agreements’ used by the organization. G4-HR2 __ Report the total number of hours in the reporting No requirements TOTAL  period devoted to training on human rights policies or for training have p. 176 procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are been detected in relevant to operations. terms of human __ Report the percentage of employees in the reporting rights. period trained in human rights policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations.  ASPECT: NON-DISCRIMINATION 127 p. 176 G4-HR3 __ Report the total number of incidents of discrimination There have been TOTAL  during the reporting period. no discrimination p. 176 __ Report the status of the incidents and the actions taken cases. with reference to the following: 33-34 • Incident reviewed by the organization • Remediation plans being implemented • Remediation plans have been implemented and results reviewed through routine internal management review processes • Incident no longer subject to action ASPECT: FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE  123 BARGAINING p. 176 G4-HR4 __ Report operations and suppliers in which employee 50-52,13 TOTAL  rights to exercise freedom of association or collective Atresmedia and p. 176 bargaining may be violated or at significant risk either in its suppliers, terms of: taking into • Type of operation (such as manufacturing plant) and account their supplier business, have • Countries or geographical areas with operations and no risk that suppliers considered at risk the employees’ __ Report measures taken by the organization in the freedom of reporting period intended to support rights to exercise association or freedom of association and collective bargaining. right to collective bargaining may be infringed or threatened.  ASPECT: CHILD LABOR 69 p. 176 G4-HR5 __ Report operations and suppliers considered to have 65 TOTAL  significant risk for incidents of: Atresmedia and p. 176 • Child labor its suppliers, • Young workers exposed to hazardous work taking into __ Report operations and suppliers considered to have account their significant risk for incidents of child labor either in terms business of: areas, have • Type of operation (such as manufacturing plant) and no significant supplier risk of cases of • Countries or geographical areas with operations and child labour and suppliers considered at risk young employees __ Report measures taken by the organization in the exposed to reporting period intended to contribute to the effective dangerous jobs. abolition of child labor. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Appendices 198 Part not reported Reason for omission External verification Reported G4-HR Indicators of Human Rights Page / Answer  ASPECT: FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOR 123 p. 176 G4-HR6 __ Report operations and suppliers considered to have Atresmedia and TOTAL  significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory its suppliers, p. 176 labor either in terms of: taking into • Type of operation (such as manufacturing plant) and account their supplier business areas, • Countries or geographical areas with operations and have no risk of suppliers considered at risk forced labour. __ Report measures taken by the organization in the reporting period intended to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor.  ASPECT: SECURITY PRACTICES 48, 50-52 p. 176 G4-HR7 __ Report the percentage of security personnel who 50-52 TOTAL  have received formal training in the organization’s Atresmedia do p. 176 human rights policies or specific procedures and their not have security application to security. personnel on __ Report whether training requirements also apply to third the payroll. party organizations providing security personnel. Subcontracted personnel must comply with the same Corporate Responsibility clauses as other suppliers.  ASPECT: INDIGENOUS RIGHTS 140 p. 176 G4-HR8 __ Report the total number of identified incidents of Atresmedia TOTAL  violations involving the rights of indigenous peoples operates in p. 176 during the reporting period. Spain and the __ Report the status of the incidents and actions taken indigenous with reference to: population are not • Incident reviewed by the organization at risk. • Remediation plans being implemented • Remediation plans have been implemented and results reviewed through routine internal management review processes • Incident no longer subject to action  ASPECT: ASSESSMENT 47 p. 176 G4-HR9 Report the total number and percentage of operations Atresmedia TOTAL  that have been subject to human rights reviews or human operates in p. 176 rights impact assessments, by country. Spain and does not consider compliance with human rights as a risk, so no evaluations are made. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Appendices 199 Part not reported Reason for omission External verification Reported G4-HR Indicators of Human Rights Page / Answer  ASPECT: SUPPLIER HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT 48-49 p. 176 G4Report the percentage of new suppliers that were Atresmedia does TOTAL  HR10 screened using human rights criteria. not consider p. 176 its suppliers to be a risk for compliance with human rights, so no evaluations are made. G4-HR11 __ Report the number of suppliers subject to human rights Atresmedia does TOTAL  impact assessments. not consider p. 176 __ Report the number of suppliers identified as having its suppliers significant actual and potential negative human rights to be a risk for impacts. compliance with __ Report the significant actual and potential negative human rights, so human rights impacts identified in the supply chain. no evaluations are __ Report the percentage of suppliers identified as having made. significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts with which improvements were agreed upon as a result of assessment. __ Report the percentage of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts with which relationships were terminated as a result of assessment, and why.  ASPECT: HUMAN RIGHTS GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS 2, 33-34 p. 176 G4__ Report the total number of grievances about human There have been TOTAL  HR12 rights impacts filed through formal grievance no complaints in p. 176 mechanisms during the reporting period. terms of human __ Of the identified grievances, report how many were: rights. • Addressed during the reporting period • Resolved during the reporting period __ Report the total number of grievances about human rights impacts filed prior to the reporting period that were resolved during the reporting period. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Appendices 200 Part not reported Reason for omission External verification Reported G4-SO Indicatros of Society Page / Answer  ASPECT: LOCAL COMMUNITIES 140 p. 176 G4-SO1 Report the percentage of operations with implemented 140-161 TOTAL  local community engagement, impact assessments, and Actions benefiting p. 176 development programs, including the use of: the community __ Social impact assessments, including gender impact are a MATERIAL assessments, based on participatory processes aspect for __ Environmental impact assessments and ongoing stakeholders monitoring __ Public disclosure of results of environmental and social impact assessments __ Local community development programs based on local communities’ needs __ Stakeholder engagement plans based on stakeholder mapping __ Broad based local community consultation committees and processes that include vulnerable groups __ Works councils, occupational health and safety committees and other employee representation bodies to deal with impacts __ Formal local community grievance processes G4-SO2 Report operations with significant actual and potential There are no TOTAL  negative impacts on local communities, including: operation centres p. 176 __ The location of the operations that have or could __ The significant actual and potential negative impacts of have a significant operations negative impact on local communities.  ASPECT: ANTI-CORRUPTION 33-34 p. 176 G4-SO3 __ Report the total number and percentage of operations 47 TOTAL  assessed for risks related to corruption. p. 176 __ Report the significant risks related to corruption identified through the risk assessment. G4-SO4 __ Report the total number and percentage of governance 33-34 TOTAL  body members that the organization’s anti-corruption 100% p. 176 policies and procedures have been communicated to, broken down by region. __ Report the total number and percentage of employees that the organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures have been communicated to, broken down by employee category and region. __ Report the total number and percentage of business partners that the organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures have been communicated to, broken down by type of business partner and region. __ Report the total number and percentage of governance body members that have received training on anticorruption, broken down by region. __ Report the total number and percentage of employees that have received training on anti-corruption, broken down by employee category and region. G4-SO5 __ Report the total number and nature of confirmed There have TOTAL  incidents of corruption. been no cases p. 176 __ Report the total number of confirmed incidents in which of corruption or employees were dismissed or disciplined for corruption. lawsuits. __ Report the total number of confirmed incidents when contracts with business partners were terminated or not renewed due to violations related to corruption. __ Report public legal cases regarding corruption brought against the organization or its employees during the reporting period and the outcomes of such cases. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Appendices 201 Part not reported Reason for omission External verification Reported G4-SO Indicatros of Society Page / Answer  ASPECT: PUBLIC POLICY 52-53 p. 176 G4-SO6 __ Report the total monetary value of financial and in-kind Atresmedia TOTAL  political contributions made directly and indirectly by does not make p. 176 the organization by country and recipient/beneficiary. contributions of __ Report how the monetary value of in-kind contributions this type. was estimated, if applicable.  ASPECT: ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR 33-34;36-37 p. 176 G4-SO7 __ Report the total number of legal actions pending or Atresmedia has TOTAL  completed during the reporting period regarding antinot received p. 176 competitive behavior and violations of anti-trust and complaints monopoly legislation in which the organization has been related to antiidentified as a participant. competitive __ Report the main outcomes of completed legal actions, behaviour or including any decisions or judgments. similar.  ASPECT: COMPLIANCE 33-34 p. 176 G4-SO8 __ Report significant fines and non-monetary sanctions in 120-121 TOTAL  terms of: p. 176 • Total monetary value of significant fines • Total number of non-monetary sanctions • Cases brought through dispute resolution mechanisms __ If the organization has not identified any noncompliance with laws or regulations, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient. __ Report the context against which significant fines and non-monetary sanctions were incurred.  ASPECT: SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT FOR IMPACTS ON SOCIETY 50-52 p. 176 G4-SO9 Report the percentage of new suppliers that were Atresmedia does TOTAL  screened using criteria for impacts on society. not consider that p. 176 its suppliers are a risk in relation to negative social impacts, so no evaluations are made. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Appendices 202 Part not reported Reason for omission External verification Reported G4-SO Indicatros of Society Page / Answer G4__ Report the number of suppliers subject to assessments Atresmedia does TOTAL  SO10 for impacts on society. not consider that p. 176 __ Report the number of suppliers identified as having its suppliers are significant actual and potential negative impacts on a risk in relation society. to negative social __ Report the significant actual and potential negative impacts, so no impacts on society identified in the supply chain. evaluations are __ Report the percentage of suppliers identified as having made. significant actual and potential negative impacts on society with which improvements were agreed upon as a result of assessment. __ Report the percentage of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative impacts on society with which relationships were terminated as a result of assessment, and why.  ASPECT: GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS FOR IMPACTS ON SOCIETY 33-34 p. 176 G4-SO11 __ Report the total number of grievances about impacts There have been TOTAL  on society filed through formal grievance mechanisms no complaints p. 176 during the reporting period. about social __ Of the identified grievances, report how many were: impacts. • Addressed during the reporting period • Resolved during the reporting period __ Report the total number of grievances about impacts on society filed prior to the reporting period that were resolved during the reporting period. Part not reported Reason for omission External verification Reported G4-PR Indicators of Product Responsibility Page / Answer  ASPECT: CREATING CONTENT 41 p. 176 M2 Methodology for assessing and monitoring adherence to 45 TOTAL  content creation values. 54-76 p. 176 116-120 M3 Actions taken to improve adherence to content creation 116-120 TOTAL  values, and results obtained. p. 176  ASPECT: CONTENT DISSEMINATION 41 p. 176 M4 Actions taken to improve performance in relation to 54-76 TOTAL  content dissemination issues (accessibility and protection 116-120 p. 176 of vulnerable audiences and informed decision making) and results obtained. M5 Number and nature of responses (feedback/complaints) 66-67, 70, 86, 119 TOTAL  related to content dissemination, including protection p. 176 of vulnerable audiences and informed decision making and accessibility, and processes for addressing these responses. ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Appendices 203 Part not reported Reason for omission External verification Reported G4-PR Indicators of Product Responsibility Page / Answer  ASPECT: AUDIENCE INTERACTION 54, 85 p. 176 M6 Methods to interact with audiences and results. 66-67, 86 TOTAL  p. 176  ASPECT: CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY p. 176 G4-PR1 Report the percentage of significant product and service Atresmedia's TOTAL  categories for which health and safety impacts are products have no p. 176 assessed for improvement. risks to health or safety. G4-PR2 __ Report the total number of incidents of non-compliance There have been TOTAL  with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the no incidents p. 176 health and safety impacts of products and services deriving from the within the reporting period, by: breaching of the • Incidents of non-compliance with regulations resulting regulations or in a fine or penalty voluntary codes • Incidents of non-compliance with regulations resulting related to the in a warning health and safety • Incidents of non-compliance with voluntary codes of products and __ If the organization has not identified any nonservices. compliance with regulations and voluntary codes, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient.  ASPECT: PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELING 54, 116-117 p. 176 G4-PR3 __ Report whether the following product and service 70 TOTAL  information is required by the organization’s procedures p. 176 for product and service information and labeling: • The sourcing of components of the product or service • Content, particularly with regard to substances that might produce an environmental or social impact • Safe use of the product or service • Disposal of the product and environmental/social impacts • Other (explain) __ Report the percentage of significant product or service categories covered by and assessed for compliance with such procedures. G4-PR4 __ Report the total number of incidents of non-compliance 70, 119 TOTAL  with regulations and voluntary codes concerning p. 176 product and service information and labeling, by: • Incidents of non-compliance with regulations resulting in a fine or penalty • Incidents of non-compliance with regulations resulting in a warning • Incidents of non-compliance with voluntary codes __ If the organization has not identified any noncompliance with regulations and voluntary codes, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient. G4-PR5 Report the results or key conclusions of customer 14-18, 41-45 TOTAL  satisfaction surveys (based on statistically relevant sample p. 176 sizes) conducted in the reporting period relating to information about: __ The organization as a whole __ A major product or service category __ Significant locations of operation ATRESMEDIA ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Appendices 204 Part not reported Reason for omission External verification Reported G4-PR Indicators of Product Responsibility Page / Answer  ASPECT: MARKETING COMMUNICATIONS 116-117 p. 176 G4-PR6 __ Report whether the organization sells products that are: 54, 116-117 TOTAL  • Banned in certain markets Atresmedia p. 176 • The subject of stakeholder questions or public debate does not market __ Report how the organization has responded to products that questions or concerns regarding these products. are banned or questioned by the stakeholders. G4-PR7 __ Report the total number of incidents of non-compliance 119 TOTAL  with regulations and voluntary codes concerning p. 176 marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by: • Incidents of non-compliance with regulations resulting in a fine or penalty • Incidents of non-compliance with regulations resulting in a warning • Incidents of non-compliance with voluntary codes __ If the organization has not identified any noncompliance with regulations and voluntary codes, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient.  ENFOQUE DE GESTIÓN: ALFABETIZACIÓN MEDIÁTICA 76 p. 176 M7 Actions taken to empower audiences through media 76 TOTAL  literacy skills development and results obtained. p. 176  ASPECT: MEDIA LITERACY 48 p. 176 G4-PR8 __ Report the total number of substantiated complaints There have been TOTAL  received concerning breaches of customer privacy, no complaints p. 176 categorized by: about a violation • Complaints received from outside parties and of privacy and substantiated by the organization loss of customer • Complaints from regulatory bodies data. __ Report the total number of identified leaks, thefts, or losses of customer data. __ If the organization has not identified any substantiated complaints, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient.  ASPECT: COMPLIANCE 33-34 p. 176 G4-PR9 __ Report the total monetary value of significant fines for 119  non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning p. 176 the provision and use of products and services. __ If the organization has not identified any noncompliance with laws or regulations, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient. Atresmedia Communications Department Av. Isla Graciosa nº 13 San Sebastián de los Reyes 28703 (Madrid) www.atresmediacorporacion.com comunicacion@atresmedia.com responsabilidad.corporativa@atresmedia.com Telephone: (+ 34) 91 623 05 00 Fax: (+ 34) 91 654 92 04
