SEVEN&i HLDGS. Co.,Ltd. Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2013 Corporate Data (as of February 28, 2013) Revenue from operations and operating Company name Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. income Headquarters 8-8 Nibancho, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 102(Billion yen) Revenue from operations Operating income (Billion yen) 6,000 400 8452, Japan Established September 1, 2005 5,119 4,991 4,786 4,500 292 295 300 Businesses Planning, management, and operations for the various Group companies, 243 centered on convenience stores, general 3,000 200 merchandise stores, department stores, supermarkets, food services, financial 1,500 100 services, and IT/services Paid-in capital ¥50 billion 0 0 Employees 140,716 2010 2011 2012 (FY) (consolidated) (Including the number of part-time employees with every 163 hours/month worked being counted as one employee) Website http://www.7andi.com/en/ Consolidated Revenue from operations (FY2012) Net sales (FY2012) employees Food Seven & i Other 6.7% Japan 74.1% services 1.6% Other Food Systems 0.9% 1.0% China 6.3% Financial Seven-Eleven Japan*1 Seven Bank*2 1.1% North America services 2.9% 41.7% Superstore 19.6% Department store operations York-Benimaru 3.8% operations 39.5% 17.5% Sogo & Seibu 8.9% By Convenience By business By business geographic Ito-Yokado area store segment company operations 14.9% segment 7-Eleven, Inc.*1 37.6% 22.0% China 1.9% *1 The sales represent total store sales. North *2 The sales represent ordinary income.。 America By Japan 25.4% geographic 72.6% area segment Corporate information and ﬁnancial details are available on the website. Web http://www.7andi.com/en/ir/index.html 2 Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2013 About the CSR Report Contents The CSR Report 2013 covers major CSR initiatives implemented by Seven & i Holdings, Messages from CEO and COO............................................. 4 our holding company, as well as its operating Group Operations and CSR ...................................................... 6 companies. Compiled in line with the Challenges Strengthening Corporate Governance and Facing the Seven & i Group (see page 7), the CSR Management .................................................................................. 8 report highlights our key CSR initiatives in order to make them more visible to a wider Special Feature audience. Report coverage CSR throughout The Report mainly covers the following organizations. Information on each company is the Supply Chain .......................................... 14 also available on the following websites. CSR Initiatives via Products under the Group s Private Label, Seven Premium Sales of reporting organizations as a percentage of overall sales 95.2% Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. http://www.7andi.com/en/csr/index.html Seven-Eleven Japan Co., Ltd. (in Japanese) http://www.sej.co.jp/social/index.html Ito-Yokado Co., Ltd. (in Japanese) http://www.itoyokado.co.jp/company/iycsr/ Sogo & Seibu Co., Ltd.(in Japanese) http://www.sogo-seibu.co.jp/csr.html York-Benimaru Co., Ltd.(in Japanese) http://www.yorkbeni.co.jp/enviro/index.html Seven & i Food Systems Co., Ltd. (in Japanese) http://www.7andi-fs.co.jp/7fs/company/csr.html Activities Conducted during the year Seven Bank, Ltd. http://www.sevenbank.co.jp/english/ir/csr/ 7-Eleven, Inc. Providing Safe, Reliable Products https://www.7-eleven.com/ SEVEN-ELEVEN (HAWAII), INC. and Services ......................................................................................20 http://www.7elevenhawaii.com/home SEVEN-ELEVEN (BEIJING) CO., LTD. (in Chinese) Creating Fulﬁlling Workplaces ........................24 http://www.7-11bj.com.cn/ Hua Tang Yokado Commercial Co., Ltd. (in Chinese) http://www.ht-store.com/d/index.do Coexisting with Local Communities.......32 Chengdu Ito-Yokado Co., Ltd. (in Chinese) http://www.iy-cd.com/ Reducing the Environmental Impact .....40 Period of the Report In principle, this Report covers our activities during Greenhouse Gas Emission FY2012 (March 2012 to February 2013). Some of Veriﬁcation Statement ....................................................................48 our activities in FY2013 are also included. Overseas Initiatives ............................................................................49 References Environmental Reporting Guidelines ‒ Towards a Sustainable Society ‒ (FY2007 Version), Data on the Six Domestic Ministry of the Environment, Government of Operating Companies .....................................................................58 Japan Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (Version Awards and Recognition by Outside Parties .........76 3.1), Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) ISO26000 Disclaimer Current Report September 2013 The data shown in this report are based on information as of the time of writing.Actual activities and results may diﬀer depending on future social changes. Scheduled publication of next Report September 2014 Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2013 3 Messages from CEO and COO We aim to be a retail group that earns the public s trust by providing new value Toshifumi Suzuki Noritoshi Murata Chairman and President and Chief Executive Oﬃcer Chief Operating Oﬃcer Conveying a new brand message stores and products from a female point of view. We In April 2012, Seven & i Holdings announced its new are also working to raise the awareness of female brand message, It s a New Day. employess themselves, with an aim to increase the This message, embodying the spirit of our corporate percentage of female managers in our Group to 20% creed, underscores our commitment to provide or more by the end of FY2014. sincere, thoughtful, and customized services with an eye to helping our customers find that little Working with business partners something to make them happy and live a more With the globalization of economy, it is becoming a fulﬁlled life. world-wide trend for non-profit and nongovernmental organizations, as well as for Leveraging our combined Group institutional investors, to call for corporate social strength to help solve the issues responsibility (CSR) management throughout the entire supply chain from material procurement to facing society today sales. The diverse range of complex problems facing In order to ensure compliance with the ten rules of society today, such as the declining birth rate the United Nations Global Compact we signed in coupled with an aging population, energy and food July 2012, we conduct CSR audits mainly for problems, and waning rural economies, should no business partners of Seven Premium products longer be left up to the public sector alone to solve. through a third-party organization. We also fully The private sector is expected to lend a hand. implemented the Seven & i Holdings Business Partner At Seven & i Holdings, we are making eﬀorts to solve Action Guidelines in FY2012 and will continue these problems through our business activities, such working with our business partners to take CSR to as our private brand Seven Premium, Seven Farms new heights. with its practice of recycling-oriented agriculture, our product delivery service, and Net Supermarket. Achieving growth through business Promoting diversity that beneﬁt society Today, utilization of the Internet is vital to our As the working-age population is diminishing with operations. It enables us to quickly obtain all the aging of society and securing a stable workforce information we need to meet the needs of the becomes a major issue, the government positions the public, especially our customers, in a rapidly expansion of women s social roles as one of the changing environment. pillars of its growth strategy. We believe that by integrating the information on the Seven & i Holdings is working to strengthen Internet and our bricks and mortar stores we can personnel development with a focus on peoplegain our customers trust, and that by so doing we centered business management in order to achieve can contribute to the solution of the challenges further growth. facing our society. Women make up about 70% of our customers and Through putting our corporate creed into action, and the majority of our employees. We ve leveraged this with business that benefit society as the source of unique characteristic of our business to cultivate a our growth, we continue to strive for growth and a working environment where women can display symbiosis between business and society. more of their abilities, including the development of 4 Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2013 CSR policies We conduct business activities based on the corporate creed of aiming to be a sincere company trusted by all stakeholders. In the form of Corporate Action Guidelines, we have stated the actions for realizing that creed. Corporate Creed We aim to be a sincere company that our customers trust. We aim to be a sincere company that our business partners, shareholders and local communities trust. We aim to be a sincere company that our employees trust. The basic posture of Seven & i Holdings employees Web http://www.7andi.com/csr/policy/guidelines.html 1. Compliance 6. Human Resources and 2. R e l a t i o n s h i p w i t h Workplace Environment Customers 7. E n v i r o n m e n t a l 3. Relationship with Business Management Partners 8. S o c i a l a n d C u l t u r a l Corporate 4. R e l a t i o n s h i p w i t h Contribution Activities Creed Shareholders and 9. R e p o r t i n g M i s c o n d u c t Investors and Violative Conduct 5. Relationship with Local Seven & i Holdings Communities Corporate Action Guidelines Speciﬁc policies for each area Policies for each measure Environmental guidelines and environmental rules Web http://www.7andi.com/csr/policy/environment.html (In Japanese) Seven & i Holdings Environmental Declaration Fundamental Polices Relating to Measures to Contribute to the Prevention of Global Warming Web http://www.7andi.com/en/csr/policy/environment̲02.html Basic Policy on Social and Cultural ContributionSocial and Cultural Contribution Action Guidelines Web http://www.7andi.com/en/csr/policy/contribute.html Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2013 5 Group Operations and CSR As a holding company, we are promoting CSR management of the entire Group with key agendas determined in light of the characteristics of our businesses Challenges facing International CSR Stakeholder dialogues society initiatives ● Resource depletion ● Global warming Customers ● Forced labor/child ● ISO26000 labor Business ● Recycling of energy ● United Nations Environment partners and resources Global Compact Dialogue ● Respect for ● Global diversity Reporting Dialogue Dialogue ● Community Initiative (GRI) involvement ● UN Guiding Principles Seven & i ● Worker health and on Business and Holdings safety Human Rights ● Corporate Dialogue Dialogue governance ● Universal Declaration of Human Rights ● Product safety Dialogue ● Compliance ● Millennium Development Goals ● Active participation Employees Shareholders by women Local communities ● OECD Guidelines for ● Declining birth rate Multinational and aging of society Enterprises ● Revitalization of local economies, etc. At Seven & i Holdings, in order to ensure that s business characteristics into consideration. our operations always take into account the In that process, we always gather opinions and various interests of our stakeholders as well as requests from all our stakeholders including global environment, we look at the needs and our customers, business partners, shareholders, problems facing today s society on an ongoing local communities, and employees by creating basis based on international CSR initiatives various opportunities to dialogue with them. As including ISO26000 and GRI guidelines. We evidenced by the fact that we set key initiatives then identify areas that the business community through dialogues with outside experts in should actively address as well as areas it can 2009, we have been continuously organizing help bring solutions to. and sorting out key challenges as the Group Based on the identiﬁed areas, we clarify which based on such opinions and requests. challenges we should address as the Group We will continue to take specific measures and what initiatives we can contribute to the aimed at further enhancing our CSR initiatives solution of social challenges, taking the Group throughout the Group. 6 Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2013 Five CSR challenges determined in light of business characteristics Challenges Facing the Seven & i Group: Relationship to business Strengthening Corporate Governance and Management characteristics 114 Strengthen corporate Number of (1) Strengthening internal control Group governance for the 98 (2) Strengthening CSR management companies (3) Ensuring compliance increasing number (Unit: company) (4) Promoting fair business practices of Group companies (5) Establishing corporate ethics following the expansion (6) Promoting CSR procurement of business areas. 2009 2012 Challenges Facing the Seven & i Group: Relationship to business Providing Safe, Reliable Products and Services characteristics 1,700 Ensuring further safety Number of (1) Ensuring the quality and safety of products 1,035 through the expansion Seven and services Premium (2) Assuring appropriate information provision of the private brand product lines (3) Responding sincerely to customer opinions Seven Premium. (Unit: product) (4) Developing stores and facilities customers can visit with a sense of security 2009 2012 Challenges Facing the Seven & i Group: Relationship to business Percentage of Creating Fulﬁlling Workplaces characteristics part-time staff Promoting a workplace (1) Supporting development of employee abilities employed by (2) Assuring fair assessment and treatment of employees in which women can major display more of their (3) (4) Achieving a work-life balance Making use of diverse human resources abilities, an environment 72% companies operating (5) Assuring consideration for worker health essential to the Group in Japan *3 and safety s growth. Challenges Facing the Seven & i Group: Relationship to business Coexisting with Local Communities characteristics 5,300 Coexisting with and 3,800 Number of (1) Supporting young parents and the elderly supporting revitalization customers (2) Assisting local community revitalization per day (3) Providing support in times of disaster of local communities (Unit: 10,000 (4) Implementing crime prevention measures in areas where we people) for local communities operate. 2009 2012 Challenges Facing the Seven & i Group: Relationship to business Reducing the Environmental Impact characteristics Promoting continuous 116 *2 *3 (1) A t t a i n i n g a n a p p r o p r i a t e g r a s p o f Stores environmental impacts energy conservation to 100 (2) Improving energy efficiency and introducing prevent environmental 95 Electricity consumption renewable energy impact in proportion to in store business expansion. 2009 2012 (3) Reducing waste and developing a recyclingoperations *3 oriented society (4) Implementing measures for biodiversity (5) Offering eco-friendly products (6) Raising environmental awareness among employees *1 Graphs show ﬁgures as of February 28, 2013. *2 Shown in percentage relative to FY2009 *3 Scope of aggregation: Six companies (Seven-Eleven Japan, Ito-Yokado, Sogo & Seibu, York-Benimaru, Seven & i Food Systems, and Seven Bank) Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2013 7 Strengthening Corporate Governance and CSR Management As a holding company that oversees and controls its operating companies, it is our mission to strengthen corporate governance and maximize the enterprise value of our Group. Corporate Governance System Supported by Executive advice and suggestions to ensure the validity and appropriateness of decisions made by Directors Oﬃcer and Corporate Auditor Systems and their operating performance, and by The Board of Directors of Seven & i Holdings is exchanging opinions with Directors and others at composed of 16 Directors (of whom three are meetings concerning company operations, independent outside Directors). The term of corporate governance, and other matters. Directors has been set to one year, to reﬂect the *1 Seven & i Holdings emphasizes on the independence of outside Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members. Individuals who are intentions of shareholders in a timely manner. The selected are unlikely to be in a conflict of interest with general Executive Officer system has been adopted for shareholders and who are capable of offering supervision, auditing, advice, and suggestions based on expert knowledge and experience, prompt decision making and operations. The from objective and neutral standpoints. Board of Directors is responsible for formulating *2 The number is as of the end of July 2013. business strategies and supervising operations, and 15 Executive Officers, including those who Internal Control Systems also serve as Directors, are in charge of operating Seven & i Holdings has worked to improve and performance. reinforce Internal Control Systems, to ensure the The Audit & Supervisory Board is composed of following: (1) effectiveness and efficiency of five members (of whom three are independent business operations; (2) credibility of financial outside members), and monitors administration. statements; (3) compliance of business activities In addition to attending Board Meetings and with laws and regulations; and (4) proper other important meetings, the Audit & conservation of assets. The Auditing Oﬃce, which Supervisory Board Members exchange opinions is the independent internal auditing division, has with the Representative Director and interview the management function to conﬁrm and instruct Directors regarding the status of operational internal auditing by operating companies or performance. In addition, they share information directly audit them, and the internal auditing with operating companies directors and function for auditing the holding company Seven corporate auditors and strictly audit the & i Holdings. In addition to the persons in charge directors performance of duties. They also of business auditors for performing these exchange Independent Auditors, and collaborate operations, persons in charge of evaluating closely with them in auditing. Outside Directors internal controls have been appointed, and they and outside corporate Auditors supervise and evaluate internal controls of core operating audit operating performance by presenting companies. Corporate governance and CSR Management System General Meeting of Shareholders Appointment, dismissal Appointment, dismissal Board of Directors Auditing Audit & Supervisory Board Member Appointment, dismissal (16 members, including 3 Outside Directors) (5 members, including 3 outside members) Reporting Appointment, supervision Auditing Auditing Independent Auditors Representative Directors CSR Management Committee Corporate Ethics and Culture Subcommittee Consultation Lawyers Auditing Oﬃce Risk Management Committee Consumer Affairs and Fair Business Practices Subcommittee Information Management Committee Environment Subcommittee Auditing Group Synergy Committee Operating companies Operating companies Operating companies Operating companies 8 Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2013 Committees security, the Committee conducted voluntary and third-party checking at seven companies that Seven & i Holdings has established the CSR operate online businesses concerning their Management Committee, Information compliance with the Guidelines Related to IT Management Committee, Risk Management Information Security and Internet Businesses, and Committee, and Group Synergy Committee which implemented security measures based on the report to the Representative Director. Each results of the checking. co m m itte e c o o per a t es w i t h t he o peratin g In FY2013, the Committee will promote similar companies to determine Group policies and to voluntary checking and security measures at manage and supervise their dissemination and companies other than these seven while working execution with an eye to strengthening corporate to enhance our internal organization for governance. preventing insider trading. CSR Management Committee Risk Management Committee The CSR Management Committee endeavors to The Risk Management Committee regards all maintain compliance with the Seven & i Holdings phenomena that threaten continuation of our Corporate Action Guidelines, with the basic motto businesses and hinder sustainable growth as risks, of acting sincerely with respect to various and works to strengthen comprehensive and stakeholders. To ensure compliance with the integrated risk management. Action Guidelines, three subcommittees In FY2012, the Committee attempted to fuse risk (Corporate Ethics and Culture Subcommittee, management with the administrative management Consumer Affairs and Fair Business Practices for improving the enterprise value of our Group, Subcommittee, and Environment Subcommittee) and worked on refining the indicators for have been established under the CSR evaluation of business eﬃciency. Management Committee. In FY2013, the Committee will continue to control Each subcommittee prioritizes main challenges to soundness in management and business be addressed from the standpoint of the Group s continuity. Also, in order to facilitate the Group s business characteristics, and then develops and growth via expansion and increased eﬃciency, the implements measures for achieving solutions. Committee will also work to improve risk In response to the Japan Fair Trade Commission assessment techniques and promote the sharing s June 27, 2013 recommendation concerning the of knowledge and know-how among operating violation of the Subcontract Act which prohibits companies in an effort to enhance any undue reduction in payment to appropriateness of risk management. subcontractors, York-Benimaru Co., Ltd. implemented improvement measures involving all Group Synergy Committee employees based on a resolution of its Board of Directors. The improvement measures included a The Group Synergy Committee is composed of training session held on July 5, 2013 for executive subcommittees on merchandising, systems, oﬃcers, all buyers, and executives on compliance building equipment, sales promotion, etc. By with the Subcontract Act regarding transactions sharing and utilizing the expertise in product with subcontractors. York-Benimaru is striving to development, sales, promotion, etc. that each keep everyone across the organization informed operating company has separately cultivated, our of compliance with the Subcontract Act, and has Group creates safe, reliable, and useful products established a compliance system to ensure and services of high quality; of which Seven prevention of any recurrence of a similar incident. Premium products are the leading example. Making use of the scale merit brought about for Information Management Committee the Group, significant cost reductions have also been attempted through collaborative purchasing The Information Management Committee aims to of commercial and construction materials. control issues related to information management. In FY2012, mainly in order to enhance information Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2013 9 Strengthening Corporate Governance and CSR Management Special organizations have been set up to implement CSR initiatives in line with the Challenges Facing the Seven & i Group. Our CSR initiatives are implemented by the CSR and the Environment Subcommittee. Management Committee, which is chaired by the Each subcommittee examines and develops president of Seven & i Holdings and composed of specific measures to be implemented for its the people responsible for the CSR-related matters projects in line with the Challenges Facing the along with its three subcommittees ‒ the Corporate Seven & i Group. These measures are then Ethics and Culture Subcommittee, the Consumer implemented through Group-wide efforts upon Aﬀairs and Fair Business Practices Subcommittee, approval of the subcommittees. Organization of CSR Management Committee CSR Management Committee Corporate Ethics and Culture Subcommittee Consumer Aﬀairs and Fair Business Practices Subcommittee Environment Subcommittee Major challenges Projects Major challenges Projects Major challenges Projects Thoroughly ensuring Personnel development Responding sincerely Enhancing customer service skills Assessing and reducing Reducing CO2 emissions and water use compliance to customer opinions environmental impact Developing appropriate Promoting the 3Rs*2 work environments Improving product Holding buyer training seminars Forest conservation activities Seven & i Forest Employee opinion survey quality and ensuring safety project Improving quality control Creating Fulﬁlling Promoting Workplaces normalization*1 Raising environmental Thorough assurance of Establishing fair Thorough assurance of appropriate awareness/sharing information appropriate product labeling Promoting diversity business practices product labeling Compliance with Anti-Monopoly Act, *1 Normalization: enabling everyone to take Healthy companies Subcontract Act, and related laws and regulations part in social activities in a range of areas, irrespective of age or handicap *2 3Rs: Reduce, Reuse, and Recycle Targets and progress by each subcommittee Major FY2012 targets Evaluation※ Plans for FY2013 Corporate Ethics and Culture Subcommittee (1) Thoroughly ensuring compliance Making sure all employees are thoroughly familiar with the Seven Establishing common basic components of Group-wide employee ○ & i Holdings Corporate Action Guidelines and other guidelines education, such as the corporate creed and developing educational tools Teaching rules and work procedures necessary for operation to employees in each tier Studying employee opinion surveys ○ Checking on each Group company s employment rules and labor agreement Studying measures to address revisions to the Labor Contract Act ○ Establishing basic components of employee education to thoroughly disseminate Considering revising employee training programs designed to thoroughly disseminate the management the corporate creed and other elements of management philosophy △ Promoting employment of people with disabilities and achieving philosophy and cultivate a common sense of values for each company and tier of workers the percentage required by law throughout the Group Conducting CSR audits of business partners of Seven Conducting CSR audits for about 40 business partners ○ Premium products and Ito-Yokado s direct overseas suppliers (2) Creating fulﬁlling workplaces ●Diversity (of human resources) Promotion Project Sharing career plans and life plans through interviews with managers ○ Expanding events for building networks among women Providing employees who have returned from childcare Adopting the mentor system ○ leave with orientation Promoting communications with employees on parenting leave via use of social networking services (SNS) × Holding awareness-raising events for managers Conducting interviews by managers with employees before taking childcare leave and when returning to work ○ Conducting ongoing awareness-raising activities using internal newsletters, etc. Considering obtaining the next generation authorization mark by Seven-Eleven Japan to support raising children ○ Focusing on external communications (implementing Holding an event for developing networks among women ○ the Positive Action Declaration, etc.) Starting awareness-raising activities utilizing in-house newsletter, etc. ○ ●Studying holding joint briefing for the Group for Raising employee awareness and developing tools for △ promoting employment of persons with disabilities promoting normalization ●Developing employee education tools common to all Group companies and strengthening education × Developing standards related to the work environment of the Group 10 Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2013 with a training seminar on product knowledge needed to pursue quality products and fair trading with business partners. Despite these eﬀorts, York-Benimaru Co., Ltd. received a recommendation concerning the violation of the Subcontract Act from the Japan Fair Trade Commission in June 2013. We will strengthen training aimed at preventing the recurrence of a similar Director incident and work to ensure full compliance with all Senior Oﬃcer of CSR Department relevant laws and regulations. Junro Ito We recognize three major tasks that need to be accomplished if we are to further expand our CSR Boosting CSR Initiatives: initiatives in FY2013. The first task involves reviewing our past initiatives A Shift from CSR to CSV through stakeholder dialogues with outside experts. During FY2012, the three CSR subcommittees focused The second task entails painting a clearer picture of on ensuring compliance with relevant laws, identifying where the Group is headed and stepping up joint and analyzing challenges facing the Group as well as efforts with Group companies to implement actions each operating company, and conﬁrming the direction that will take us there while evaluating these actions for the entire Group to follow. multilaterally with various key performance indicators The Corporate Ethics and Culture Subcommittee (KPIs). The third task encompasses shifting the focus of implemented measures to ensure compliance with our current initiatives to solving problems facing society revised labor-related laws and the Employment through our business operations (creating shared value) Promotion Act for People with Disabilities, created an in addition to ensuring legal compliance and reducing organization for helping women display more of their the negative impact our operations have on abilities, and conducted an employee opinion survey. communities and environment. The Environment Subcommittee increased the number If Seven & i Holdings is to continue to be an essential of major operating companies subject to CO2 part of the society, we must step up on efforts to emissions assessment to nine (see page 43), and set promote strategic CSR for sustainable development of medium-term CO2 emissions reduction targets for the society and our company. That means making CSR an Group. The Consumer Affairs and Fair Business integral part of our operations as we actively work Practices Subcommittee provided the Group s buyers toward solving the various problems facing society. ※Evaluation ○：Target achieved △：Target nearly achieved ×：Fell signiﬁcantly short of target Major FY2012 targets Evaluation※ Plans for FY2013 Consumer Aﬀairs and Fair Business Practices Subcommittee (1) Responding sincerely to customer opinions Holding regular seminars on customer service ◯ Holding joint training for new customer service oﬃce employees (2) Ensuring the quality and safety of products and services Holding seminars focused on product safety for each product category △ Holding joint seminar for apparel buyers in cooperation with inspection organizations (Food) Conducting joint inspections of business partner factories by the people responsible for quality control of Group companies Utilizing the Check Sheet for Business Partners Factories across the Group ○ (Apparel/household products) Reviewing the quality control Thoroughly communicating the Appropriate Product Labeling Guidelines for food products across the Group ○ organization based on the Product Safety Guidelines for Distributors (3) Establishing fair business practices Developing and strengthening daily and regular monitoring systems for each Group company ○ Sharing and building on good fair trading practices among Group companies Holding regular training on the Subcontract Act and the Anti-Monopoly Act Holding seminars on Act against Delay in Payment of Subcontract Proceeds, Etc. to Subcontractors △ Sharing measures taken by Group companies to ensure Holding a joint seminar on ensuring a smooth transition to the 2014 revision to the consumption tax. ○ a smooth transition to the revised consumption tax Environment Subcommittee (1) Reducing the environmental impact Improving CO2 management at stores via third-party veriﬁcation ○ Improving CO2 management (setting targets and strengthening third party veriﬁcation) Promoting food recycling and installing more PET bottle collection machines Promoting reduction of packaging materials ○ Strengthening environment management system (2) Conserving the global environment Deciding on candidate forests for the second Seven & i forest conservation project × Continuing with employee volunteer work Developing private brand products using forest thinnings Continuing forest improvement in the Seven & i Forest with the help of employee volunteers ○ Developing store materials and oﬃce supplies using thinnings from the Seven & i Forest ○ Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2013 11 Strengthening Corporate Governance and CSR Management We work jointly with our business partners to promote CSR management across the entire supply chain Seven & i Holdings Business Partner Ensuring Compliance with the Action Guidelines Guidelines via the Self-Check Sheet Seven & i Holdings requests all business partners Seven & i Holdings has created a self-check sheet to become familiar and comply with the Seven & i that includes speciﬁc requirements for complying Holdings Business Partner Action Guidelines with the Guidelines. adopted in 2007. The Self-Check Sheet is designed to be in line The Guidelines are designed to not only with ISO 26000, the KEIDANREN Corporate guarantee the safety and reliability of our Behavior Charter, and the OECD Guidelines for products and services but also ensure legal Multinational Enterprises. The Sheet helps our compliance, environmental conservation and fair business partners to understand the Guidelines employment across the entire supply chain so and implement effective CSR measures while that we can fulfill our corporate social enabling us to assess their progress in responsibility together with our business partners. implementing those CSR measures. Currently We ensure to communicate the Guidelines business partners of Seven Premium products, through regular meetings of our Group companies which are the Group s common strategic with their business partners. products, as well as Ito-Yokado s direct overseas suppliers are required to submit the Sheet. Seven & i Holdings Business Partner Action Guidelines Promoting CSR Audits 1. Legal Compliance The CSR audit, performed by a third party, veriﬁes 2. Respect for Human Rights and Dignity whether or not our business partners are in 3. Human Resources and Workplace Environment compliance with the Guidelines via a check of 4. Environmental Management audit items (about 140 in 16 categories) 5. Relationship with Society and Local Communities established independently by Seven & i Holdings 6. Information Management (see chart example on p.13). For non-compliance 7. Products Safety Assurance matters found in the audit, corrective measures 8. Fair Business Practices will be implemented pursuant to the Corrective 9. Monitoring Action Plan (CAP) submitted by the business For the full text, please visit the following site: partner within 10 days of completion of the audit Web http://www.7andi.com/en/csr/ and under the guidance of the verification suppliers/guide.html organization. A compliance certiﬁcate will then be issued when the verification organization and Process ﬂow of Business Partner Action Guidelines operation (for Seven Premium products) (1) Requesting compliance with the Business Partner Action Guidelines and submission of Self-Check Sheet (7) If any problem was found in (6), requesting improvement of CSR activities CSR Management Committee of Seven & i Holdings Reporting Seven Premium Business partners product development (2) Submission of Self-Check Sheet (6) Report on the audit results teams Factories CSR Department of Seven & i Holdings (4) Conducting the audit (3) Request for audit Third-party veriﬁcation organizations (5) Report on the audit 12 Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2013 Seven & i Holdings judge that corrective measures importance of fulﬁllment of social responsibilities on the important and quality-related nonin collaboration with business partners, to about compliance issues and the chief minor non500 people working with the 17 operating compliance issues have been completed. companies. In FY2012, CSR audits were conducted for 16 companies in four countries, including China, Vietnam, Indonesia, and Bangladesh. We plan to Operating Business Partner Help Line conduct CSR audits for 45 companies in FY2013. We have established the Business Partner Help Additionally, in May, in view of the start of the Line for accepting questions and opinions CSR audit, we held brieﬁngs for business partners regarding transactions and promptly making of apparel and household products in Tsingtao improvements, with the aim of establishing fair and Shanghai. We also conducted trial CSR audits business practices. at some of our Chinese business partners in A subcontracting agreement and confidentiality FY2012. The oﬃcers of CSR Department of Seven agreement have been concluded with third-party & i Holdings accompanied the verification organizations that run the Help Line, in order to company to confirm the audit methods and strictly protect personal information and privacy procedures. of individuals who made contact and reports. Also, a joint seminar was also held in June 2012 Reports can be made anonymously to Seven & i for buyers of the Group to raise their awareness Holdings by submitting one s name and aﬃliation of the importance of CSR for the entire supply only to the third-party organization. To ensure chain. The Seven & i Holdings Corporate Action that individuals who ask consultation and do Guidelines to be complied with by all employees whistle-blowing are subjected to no unfair of the Group, which were revised in 2011, were treatment by Seven & i Holdings and/or Group again made thoroughly known among Group companies, about one month after the handling of employees, while at the same time explaining the the report the third-party organizations check in with the contacting party as to whether any retaliatory action has been taken. * For details, please visit the following site: Web http://www.7andi.com/en/csr/suppliers/ helpline.html Brieﬁngs held in China Trial CSR audit at factories Chart example of audit results Number of consultations in FY2012: 12 (15 in FY2011) 1. Management By user category systems and code implementation Business partner employees 11 16. Community 100 2. Forced labor benefits 80 Business partner sales representatives 1 15. Security management 3. Freedom of 65 60 100 association 14. Product 100 66 83 40 4. Health and safety safety 20 By topic 100 66 5. Child labor 13. Fair business and young Suspected noncompliance (the Group companies) 4 practices 100 90 workers Suspected noncompliance (business partners) 2 12. Environment 87 100 6. Living wage 100 Other 6 100 7. Working hours 11. Discipline 100 93 100 10. Subcontracting, 8. Discrimination home working, 9. Regular employment and external processing Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2013 13 Special Feature CSR throughout the Supply Chain CSR Initiatives via Products under the Group s Private Label, Seven Premium Driven by a commitment to providing products Seven Premium sales plan by ﬁscal year that have the kind of quality and value that (Billion yen) 1,200 will meet customer expectations at reasonable prices, Seven & i Holdings 1,000 billion 1,000 launched Seven Premium, its private brand, in 2,800 820 billion products May 2007. We work with manufacturers 800 across Japan to manage the entire supply 2,400 650 billion products chain, from material procurement and 600 2,000 production to distribution and sales, for all 490 billion products 420 billion products sold under the Seven Premium 400 1,700 1,500 products brand.More than 1,700 different kinds of products Seven Premium products, which are not just 200 good-tasting but also safe, reliable, and environmentally friendly, were sold in FY2012. 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 （FY） We will continue to work on product development to expand our lines with products that will appeal to customers. A close look at our potato salad Our potato salad debuted six years ago as the first Seven Premium product and it s been a Material customer favorite ever since. Lets take a CSR point-of-view look procurement at what we do in our supply Securing safe raw materials chain for this product, from material procurement to sales. 14 Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2013 Seven features of Seven Premium Made from carefully selected Easy-to-read, easy-to-understand ❶ Safe and reliable ❺ Universal design ingredients cooked in sanitary factories labels and designs Calorie information printed on the ❷ Great-tasting A great taste everybody agrees on ❻ Health conscious front side of the product package ❸ Local flavor There s nothing like local tastes ❼ Reasonable price Always easy on your wallet Jointly developed by manufacturers ❹ Best technology boasting Manufacturing Distribution Sales Ensuring compliance with own Minimizing environmental Developing and improving quality control standards and impact and ensuring products through contributing to local communities disaster preparedness dialogues with customers Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2013 15 Special Feature CSR throughout the Supply Chain Material procurement Securing safe raw materials Harvesting potatoes Visiting farms in pursuit of Thorough traceability system top quality Only Japan s renowned danshaku-imo variety of In order to ensure that the products we deliver are potato grown in Hokkaido goes into making our always of the same high quality, all Seven Premium potato salad. products, including our potato salad, are made only Our business partner s procurement personnel go to with finest ingredients that meet our own strict the ﬁeld to visit growers and exchange opinions on quality standards. growing methods and other matters as they work All ingredient production records, including planting together to produce food and harvesting information, ingredients that customers agricultural inputs, etc., are will appreciate. carefully maintained to ensure To ensure strict quality traceability. We are also control, harvested potatoes building a database that are shipped to factories enables us to see the amounts unwashed so the dirt will of ingredients used for each minimize any impact that product. could damage the potatoes during transport and help them stay fresh. Business partner s voice Our eﬀorts to enhance quality start with raw material production. At our Asahikawa factory, which went on line in November 2012, we produce potato salad, pumpkin salad, simmered pumpkin, meat and potato stew, and more with the concept of cooking with local farm fresh ingredients. While we have always used only potatoes produced in Hokkaido, now that we have a factory located closer to the farms where they are grown, we are able to minimize bruising that can occur during transport and use better quality ingredients. The new location also keeps us in close contact with our growers, enabling us to make better quality ingredients than ever. Mr. Kaiji Yamazaki, Manager, Yamazaki Group s Asahikawa Factory 16 Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2013 Manufacturing Ensuring compliance with own quality control standards and contributing to local communities Quality control based on Made at our new factory in Seven & i s quality standards Asahikawa, a potato producing area We employ strict temperature and hygiene controls Opened in November 2012, our Asahikawa factory sits in the to maintain the quality of Seven Premium products. middle of the potato producing area, where we can secure Products are tested before being sold to check if the supply of fresh ingredients. flavor of products made in different factories is Also, taking advantage of a local climate characterized by heavy consistent and that they meet our speciﬁcations. snow in winter, the factory employs a storage system that Safety inspections are conducted on a regular basis utilizes snow/ice cold energy to store food ingredients at a to maintain the good taste, safety and reliability of constant temperature and humidity. This system seals in good our products. ﬂavor and provides safe storage of food throughout the year. The factory that makes our potato salad has quality The factory is actively implementing measures to reduce waste and and hygiene controls in place for cutting, cooking, energy consumption throughout the production process. It is packaging, and other processes in accordance with planning to compost food scraps and sludge generated from making the quality management system of the ISO9001 potato salad and other products for use by its contract farmers. international standard. The Asahikawa factory employs about 160 people who were Once ﬁnished, products are stored in a refrigerator hired locally prior to its opening, thus contributing to the local set to 5 degrees Celsius just before they are shipped employment and economy. to assure maximum safety. *Snow/ice cold energy system The system uses ice and snow stored for the summer for refrigerating agricultural products in the storage. Snow helps keep crops fresh Asahikawa Production because of its adequate level Factory area of moisture, and it also has Cold storage utilizing a duct protection effect for snow/ice cold energy refrigerated air conditioning. Hokkaido Asahikawa City Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2013 17 Special Feature CSR throughout the Supply Chain Distribution Minimizing environmental impact and ensuring disaster preparedness Conceptual drawing of the fuel storage station Saving energy and boosting shipping Constructing a fuel storage station eﬃciency at distribution centers for delivering emergency supplies Our dedicated distribution centers handling Seven-Eleven The Great East Japan Earthquake triggered serious gasoline products employ demand controllers that monitor shortages not only in the disaster-aﬀected area but also in electricity consumption of air conditioning and other the Tokyo metropolitan area, due to damage to oil reﬁnery equipment and control the load system so power and other fuel-related facilities as well as disruptions to consumption is always kept under the preset limit. These transportation networks. demand controllers have been installed in 51 of our 147 Learning from this experience, Seven & i Holdings decided distribution centers (as of the end of February 2013). to construct a fuel storage station to be used for product Solar panels have also been installed in some of the centers delivery vehicles as part of its large-scale disaster for power generation as part of our initiative to reduce countermeasures. When completed, the fuel storage station power consumption at our distribution centers. will be the ﬁrst of its kind for the Japanese retail industry. After reviewing the locations of our distribution centers, we Designed to store 400 kiloliters of fuel to be used for set up intermediate facilities in order to reduce the number delivering emergency supplies in the event of a disaster, the of delivery vehicles used per day for each store. fuel storage station will be constructed on the premises of We also introduced in-vehicle terminals to delivery vehicles Ito-Yokado s distribution center in Sugitomachi, a town and hold training seminars where drivers receive datalocated in Saitama Prefecture s Kitakatsushika district. It is based vehicle operation training and learn about ecoslated to be completed by the end of December 2013. friendly driving. The station will enable us to ensure approximately ten days The cardboard boxes used for delivering our potato salad of quick delivery of emergency supplies to evacuation were switched to reusable containers in FY2012, resulting centers in disaster areas as well as our Group companies in 26 ton reduction of cardboard per month. stores in Tokyo and three other prefectures for uninterrupted operations. The voice from the distribution center Further stepping up eﬀorts to cut power consumption Those of us working at the distribution center don t just rely on the demand controller to do all the work of reducing electricity consumption. Everyone is saving power manually as well, by shutting down the refrigerator during the hours when products are not in it, and the like. In addition, we are striving to conserve energy by creating green curtains around our oﬃce building. We will continue to work harder on reducing electricity consumption than ever while watching how our current measures will do. Mr. Shunichi Horikawa, General Manager, Chokuhan Haiso Co., Ltd. s Chilled Tomisato Center 18 Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2013 Sales Developing and improving products through dialogues with customers Making good-tasting, high quality Giving our products a makeover to products based on customer feedback make them even more attractive Customers needs are quickly changing as the birth rate is Our potato salad has been a big hit among customers of all ages, declining, the population aging, female employment rising, including seniors. and one-person households growing. We have received positive feedback from customers via the In October 2009, we launched the Premium Life Premium Life Enhancement Committee website and group Enhancement Committee website, an online community for interviews since the product was ﬁrst released. Satisﬁed customers developing Seven Premium brand products together with have told us I always keep it in stock and serve it when I need customers. one more dish to serve or It has a nice texture of the potatoes, Among other things, the site is used to solicit opinions and and It s great because I can easily add my own twist to it. requests from customers through group interviews of people There were also suggestions for improvements from those who who bought Seven Premium products. said it was somewhat too lightly seasoned. In addition to customer evaluations of We took their advice to heart and improved each Seven Premium product, the site also the flavor by reworking the vinegar, pepper features easy-to-make recipes using Seven and other seasonings while retaining the Premium products as well as participatory aspects that customers gave high marks for c a m p a i g n s . T h e s e di a l o g u e b a s e d (like the texture of the potatoes and how programs help us understand when and easily it can be augmented). how customers use our products and Listening to their voices enabled us to incorporate their feedback into product improve the ﬂavor of the potatoes. development. The word from product development Making constant improvements to make the customer happy It s been more than six years since our potato salad hit the market. We have made many improvements during that time in order to make our customers more satisﬁed. We not only work on enhancing the ﬂavor but continually look at how and when customers use it with an eye to making it better than ever. Tsuyoshi Noda, Prepared Food Manager, FF/Daily-Delivered Products Department, Merchandising Headquarters, Seven-Eleven Japan Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2013 19 Activities Conducted during the Year (1) Providing Safe, Reliable Products and Services Focusing on growing methods and traceability while operating our own farms to ensure quality 200 Total number of Fruits and Vegetables with Traceability 188 150 Particular about where and how to Promoting JGAP certiﬁcation 100 grow produce as well as traceability acquisition to provide safer foods Seven & i Holdings places the greatest We are currently working to obtain importance on safety and reliability in Japan Good Agricultural Practice 20 all stages, from product planning to (JGAP) certiﬁcation for further 20 12 retail. enhancing the quality control 11 At our stores, product quality is level of our Fruits and 50 comprehensively checked, and we sell Vegetables with Traceability. private brand items that place value on JGAP is an agricultural production the location and method of production management method recommended by 0 as well as on the traceability of food the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and products. Fisheries of Japan. It provides a set of Ito-Yokado, for example, launched its standards to be followed in daily farm private brand, Foods with Traceability, management to increase food safety in 2002 to disclose information on and ensure environmental conservation. producers sincere efforts for ensuring Ito-Yokado obtained JGAP certification safety to customers. for 13 farms as of the end of February The number of Fruits and Vegetables 2013, and aims to increase that number with Traceability, the leading product to 50 over the next three years. lines sold under the label, is growing and totaled 188 as of the end of February 2013. 20 Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2013 Seven Farm exploring the recycling-oriented agriculture Since 2008, Ito-Yokado has been establishing agricultural corporations dubbed Seven Farms across Japan based on the concept of helping agriculture and promoting recycling. The farms have been built in nine locations in Tokyo, Hokkaido and six other ❶ ● prefectures* (as of the end of July 2013). ● ❷ ❸ ● What makes Seven Farms unique is its practice of recycling-oriented agriculture. The farms use compost made from food residues generated in Ito-Yokado stores to help their crops grow, and the harvested crops are then sold in Ito-Yokado stores. Seven Farms also carry out inspections for residual pesticides, soil, and radioactive substances to ensure safety and reliability. In 2009, Seven Farm Tomisato obtained JGAP certification to further enhance the ❹ ● safety of its agricultural products. We won t rest until all Seven Farms are JGAP certiﬁed. *Hokkaido, Ibaraki, Saitama, Tokyo, Chiba, Kanagawa, Aichi, and Niigata Winner of the 2012 GAP Dissemination Award In recognition of our initiatives focused on Fruits and Vegetables with Traceability as well as Seven Farms, we became the first in the distribution industry to win the Japan Good Agricultural Practice Association s GAP Dissemination Award in 2012. We will continue to leverage JGAP to ensure safety by making it a shared goal for us as a retailer and our growers alike. ❶ Tomatoes sold under the Vegetables with Traceability label ❷ Spinach from Seven Farms sold in store ❸2012 GAP Dissemination Award plaque ❹Vegetables harvested at a Seven Farm Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2013 21 Activities Conducted during the Year (1) Providing Safe, Reliable Products and Services Ensuring the quality and safety of products and services Reducing trans-fatty acids Seven-Eleven Japan uses an average of 40 types of Since 2005, Seven-Eleven Japan has sought to source materials (including seasonings) for each of its reduce trans-fatty acids, which increase the risk of rice-based food items, prepared dishes and other daily heart disease. Continually working with source delivered food products. We sell over 1,000 prepared material manufacturers to make improvements, it food options and oﬀer 100 new items each week. has now switched fryer oil, fatty pastes and cream In order to manage each of these products, we apply to exclusive source materials that contain lower the Recipe Master System that regulates what kind of amounts of trans-fatty acids. source materials are being used, their quantity, and at which plant. Example: Grams of trans-fatty acid contained in every 100 g of Strawberry Jam & Margarine bread (calculated value) For this system, complete information from over 300 FY2005 FY2007 FY2012 FY2013 partner manufacturers and about 170 dedicated 1.86g 0.18g 0.15g 0.14g plants is managed in a database, enabling the relation between source materials and products to be traced. As a result, we are able to promptly address any Expanding low allergen menu items problem that is found concerning a source material by immediately seeing which products it was used in. Denny s, the restaurant chain operated under Seven & We also voluntarily conduct DNA assays on rice to i Food Systems, is working to increase menu items that prevent mixing of varieties, as well as inspections for do not use any designated source materials. radioactive substances. In FY2012, Low Allergen Hamburger Plate was added Also notable is that no preservatives or artificial to its menu and Rice Flour Bread Hamburger Kit colorings are used in Seven-Eleven Japan s original debuted on the Group s online store daily delivered products including rice-based food as it works to bring more products that enable people items, sandwiches, salads, and prepared dishes. to pay for a good meal that is allergen-free. Traceability management by Recipe Master System Making stores and facilities more customer-friendly and reliable (Onigiri rice ball to be wrapped in seaweed) With the hope of enabling all of our customers to Sea weed shop comfortably at our stores with a sense of Produced in Ariake Sea, security, the Seven & i Holdings conducts daily grades 2 to 4 storefront patrol and inspection, has installed crime (by Fishery Associations) prevention and disaster prevention equipment. Filling Rice DNA assay and We have also adopted the notion of universal design Seasoning Kombu radioactive in our store designs, and conducted employee training (kelp) from Hidaka substance inspections are conducted monthly. for assisting customers with physical disabilities. Sogo & Seibu has also established the Seven Prohibited Actions for managing personal information of customers, which have been thoroughly disseminated among all employees. ● Kombu (kelp) ● Soy sauce Seven Prohibited Actions for maintaining customers trust ● Sugar ● Reduced syrup 1. Sending emails to customers from personal computers on the ● Hydrolyzed protein ● Salt ● Soybeans sales ﬂoors Produced in Japan 2. Maintaining personal information on personal computers ・ Produced in US 3. Leaving documents containing personal information unattended ・ ・ ● Wheat 4. Taking personal information outside of the store ・ 5. Maintaining personal information in a location other than that ・ designated by the store ・ 6. Sending advertising mail without the approval of the Sales Promotion Manager The source materials used are Can be traced back to 7. Receiving or delivering personal information without keeping a comprehensively managed the countries of origin of Personal Information Handling Record. utilizing databases. secondary source materials 22 Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2013 Assuring appropriate information provision Improving services in response to customer feedback The Seven & i Holdings strives to disclose accurate In order to continue improving our products and information on products and prices that customers need. services from the customer s standpoint, Seven & i In addition to allergic food substances, for which the Holdings set up a customer consultation desk at Food Sanitation Act mandates indication, our Group also each operating company for receiving customers displays food substances for which indication is opinions and requests and responding to them recommended. promptly. The information collected is sorted At the storefront, staﬀ in charge check for inappropriate according to the contents and distributed to relevant product labels and displays/information. And training divisions and stores for making improvements. seminars are held to thoroughly educate employees on proper indication. A joint training seminar on the Act Always making improvements from the customer s standpoint against Unjustifiable Premiums and Misleading For further improvement, Ito-Yokado consigns storefront Representations was also held in June 2012 for buyers surveys to qualified advisory specialists for consumer and sales promotion personnel of Group companies. A affairs who collect customers opinions on customer total of 316 employees who attended the seminar service, sales floor design, and product lineup from the learned about misleading representations and excessive standpoint of customers. premiums in violation of the law. Seven & i Food Systems conducts six mystery shopper surveys a year at each store. Employees who have served Checking indications on an ongoing basis as store managers or district leaders evaluate stores on At Ito-Yokado, members of the secretariat of the Fair approximately 130 items including customer service, Trade (FT) Subcommittee conduct labeling and food, cleanliness and other matters in order to identify information indication inspection in all stores every half issues needing attention. In addition, Denny s gathers term. At the same time, they provide storefront customers opinions and comments on specific menu education and interview section managers for labeling options on its website in order to develop products that and information indication inspection. They evaluate reﬂect customers evaluations and opinions. stores based on objective numeric values and implement speciﬁc measures for improvement in collaboration with ATM equipped with voice guidance store managers and assistant managers in charge of each store. Seven Bank has developed a voice guidance transaction service for people who cannot operate the touch panel due to visual impairment, etc. The service enables them Labeling and information indication inspection to withdraw or deposit money or check their account A B C balance by using the ATM s intercom and following the 2009 instructions provided by the voice guidance system. 81 17 2 The service is available to customers at more than 520 2010 aﬃliated ﬁnancial institutions. 91 9 0 2011 95 5 0 2012 (FY) 96 4 0 0 20 40 60 80 100 （%） A: Labels and displayed information are appropriate, and employees are fully aware of labeling requirements. B: There is room for improvement, and employees in some divisions lack suﬃcient awareness. C: There is room for improvement, and employees require training in truth in labeling. D: Immediate improvement is required, and the entire store organization must be reconsidered. Developed by incorporating feedback from visually impaired persons Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2013 23 Activities Conducted during the Year (2) Creating Fulﬁlling Workplaces We are making eﬀorts to the active participation of women as part of our diversity promotion eﬀort. Percentage of women in management positions Making responses to changes in society and Signiﬁcance of promoting the active participation of women continuing to meet customers expectations Promote the active CustomerIn order to secure excellent human resources as the Expanding human participation of women oriented (as an essential part of workforce) basis of our competitive strength in the face of a resource and store and product system development development decrease in labor population following a decrease in Enhance the Improve the ability to the birthrate, we believe it is essential to provide competitive strength Contribution to higher earnings meet customer needs employees with work environments where they can fully display their abilities regardless of their attributes or life stages. It is also important to Diversity Promotion Project targets and measures conduct our business activities from diverse Targets to be attained by the end of FY2014 viewpoints so that we can meet a range of customer ❶ Increase the percentage of female managers to 20% needs. In particular, in consideration of the fact that ❷ Suppress turnover in female workers with the 70% or more of Seven & i Holdings store customers period of service not exceeding three years to 20% are women, we are promoting the active ❸ Encourage male employees to participate in childcare participation of female employees as a priority issue. ❹ Improve external evaluation In FY2012, we launched the Diversity Promotion ❺ Improve internal evaluation Project and have since been implementing a range of measures across the Group, setting the five targets to be attained by the end of FY2014 under Measures to be implemented to attain the targets the slogan, Diversity gives us power for tomorrow. ● Manage stores and organizations mainly by the Members of this project have regular meetings with power of women ● Hold events for developing networks for women diversity facilitators of Group companies. At these ● Create an orientation DVD to help employees meetings, participants confirm the direction of the taking childcare leave return to work project, share the issues faced by each Group ● Examine holding events to enlighten managers company and mutually report the progress made so ● Raise employees awareness through in-house far at their companies, thus expanding good newsletters, etc. practices across the Group. 24 Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2013 Target 17.8% 19.9% 20.0% Team leader or Target higher positions 20.0% Section manager or higher 11.8% 13.4% positions As of the end of FY2011 (results) As of the end of FY2012 (results) As of the end of FY2014 (targets) * Average ‌ values for eight companies (Seven & i Holdings, Seven-Eleven Japan, Ito-Yokado, Sogo & Seibu, York-Benimaru, Seven & i Food Systems, Seven Bank, and Akachan Honpo) Diversity gives us power for tomorrow—We will help you take on challenges We at Seven & i Holdings believe that we need to meet the expectations 17.8% 19.9% of our customers as a premise to become a company with integrity that is 20.0% trusted by customers, business partners, shareholders, local communities, and employees. Seven & i Holdings has more than 130,000 employees, who are working in 20.0% Japan and abroad. In the future, the company will have more diverse employees, including part-timers and others working in different work formats; employees working while taking care of their children and other family members; nonJapanese employees; and those with disabilities. 11.8% In order to leverage this diversity of employees for corporate growth, 13.4% Seven and i Holdings aims to provide individual employees who have various backgrounds with opportunities to display their abilities and help them develop their abilities and careers. Seven & i Holdings Senior Officer If each employee wants to work more vigorously, display more of his/her social and cultural affairs abilities, and meet more customers’needs and takes actions to this end, CSR Department the company will be able to enhance its competitive strength increasingly. Seven & i Group Through the diversity promotion activities, Seven & i Holdings is committed Diversity Promotion to becoming a company where every employee who has high motivation Project Leader can play a central role and continue to take on challenges. Keiko Fujimoto Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2013 25 Activities Conducted during the Year (2) Creating Fulﬁlling Workplaces Major Initiative Providing Female Employees with 1 More Opportunities Operating stores and organizations mainly by the power of women Since April 2012, each of Ito-Yokado, York-Benimaru, Seibu Department Store and Denny s has been operating a store mainly by the power of women, with a view to (1) operating a store from the viewpoint of customers and (2) improving the operational processes. Also Seven-Eleven Japan launched the store management <Seibu Department Store> Began to provide a service to help customers counseling service provided only by women in a district. with children and the elderly do shopping. As a result, employees now Through this initiative, Seven & i Holdings has been have more opportunities to communicate with customers and get tips on broadening the scope of jobs for women and increasing the assortment of goods and other issues. the places where women can display their abilities. The < Y o r k operations that used to be conducted by men are also Benimaru> The legs of the work beginning to be conducted by women, which helps table were identify problems, encourage women to try to do things shortened to which they are allergic, and also improve the work based on the average body environment. Moreover, at stores operated mainly by height of female women, members including part-timers are more employees. The encouraged to give their opinions and make proposals, height of the shelf has also leading to the enhancement of cooperation and been lowered communication beyond departmental boundaries. so that female In addition, for the stores and sales ﬂoors operated from employees can reach it, which the viewpoint of women, who are consumers and can contributes to give careful considerations, we have received high higher work evaluation from customers. eﬃciency. We will make use of the know-how accumulated at these stores to provide female employees with better environments to help them display more of their abilities. Participating in the development of sales ﬂoors and sales plans from the viewpoint of consumers At Seven & i Holdings, part-timers account for about 70% of all employees and most of them are women. The operating companies have their individual mechanisms and systems to enable each employee to work with high motivation. For example at Ito-Yokado, part-timers, who are local consumers, are proactively participating in the assortment of goods and the development of sales ﬂoors and thereby helping the stores meet the needs of local customers. The number of part-timers who experienced a range of business operations, took an examination, and become field employees (contracted employees) or <Ito-Yokado> Employees try food samples and ﬂoor managers has been increasing. exchange opinions about the taste and ideas to make them more delicious. These opinions are incorporated into the development of sales floors and customer services. 26 Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2013 Major Initiative 2 Raising Awareness for Career Development Continuous organization of exchange events to foster compatibility between childcare and career development Mamas Community Group employees raising children voluntarily gathered to the At events participated by many exchange event named Mama s Community during the mothers, participants are asked period from July 2012 to August 2013, aiming to increase their to try food samples for lunch as monitors. work motivation and build a network of working mothers. In the event held for seven times, a total of about 400 mothers Deco Roll SUSHI participated. In the event held during the lunchtime, participants discussed how to make childcare and work compatible based on the speciﬁc theme chosen for the round. By incorporating the opinions raised in the Mama s Community event, an orientation DVD was created in April 2013 to help employees taking parent leave return to work. This DVD introduces how experienced mothers are working while raising their children and what experiences they had in the process. The DVD contributes to mitigating the concerns and increasing the motivation of employees who will or have returned to work after taking childcare leave. What was discussed in the Mamas Community event Measures devised by mothers to make work and childcare compatible Communication with the company before taking maternity leave and during taking childcare leave Communication with managers and colleagues after returning to work An orientation DVD created to help employees taking childcare Details of the DVD created to give tips to make work and childcare compatible leave return to work. The DVD includes the introduction of How the ideas and work styles of participants in the Mamas Community event have been changed female employees who are managing to work for limited hours while raising their children. Desirable future of Mamas Community Fostering exchange between female managers to provide role models We hold the Women s Management Community event for female departmental and sectional managers, with a view to increasing role models * for the career planning of female employees. The event was held four times during the period from October 2012 to August 2013, and a total of about 120 women participated in it from 13 Group companies. The event provides female managers with an opportunity to build a network and train themselves, while also fostering the identiﬁcation of problems that hinder women from displaying their abilities as well as the creation of role models. The Women s Management Community has made it possible for female managers working at various companies and departments to make mutual exchanges. *Role models are persons emulated by others. Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2013 27 Activities Conducted during the Year (2) Creating Fulﬁlling Workplaces Making use of diverse human resources Supporting development of employee abilities Seven & i Holdings adheres to fair and unbiased Seven & i Holdings Group companies are committed to employment, transfer, and promotion as its basic developing human resources by providing employees policy. with training programs suitable for their business features. In addition, the companies are supporting individual Promoting the employment of people with disabilities employees in developing their abilities by using their unique systems and mechanisms. Seven & i Holdings is committed to assisting people Ito-Yokado, York-Benimaru, and Seven & i Food Systems with disabilities to demonstrate their abilities at their are operating in-house qualification programs to certify workplaces. To this end Group companies assign those the skills necessary for their business operations. employees to the workplaces and jobs that are suitable For example, Seven & i Food Systems began providing for them in consideration of the levels and details of store managers and head oﬃce employees with training the disabilities and their own preferences. Ito-Yokado to help them understand the company s founding spirit has been providing people with disabilities with job and make friendly greetings in September 2012. The training at its stores in cooperation with special-needs company has certified 1,448 people who passed the schools while also participating in job interviews examination done during the training as Smile Meisters. organized by employment agencies and partnering with Ito-Yokado, Sogo & Seibu, and Seven Bank are supporting vocational schools to foster the employment of these the self-education of employees by sharing the cost of people. As a result in FY2012, a total of 82 people with correspondence education. disabilities joined the company. Since June 2013, Sogo & Seibu has been holding an Terre Verte, which is a special subsidiary established to e-learning program on quality management for all foster the employment of people with severe disabilities employees, through which they learn about the basic employs 19 people with disabilities, including 10 having knowledge about the products sold by the company and severe disabilities as of June 1, 2013. thereby enhance their ability to sell the products. As a result, the Group s employment rate of people with disabilities* including those employed by Terre Verte came to 2.05% (as of June 1, 2013). Capacity building through human exchanges *The percentage is for the ﬁve qualiﬁed Group companies: Seven & i Holdings, In recent years, Seven & i Holdings has been proactively Terre Verte, Seven-Eleven Japan, Ito-Yokado, and Seven & i Food Systems. fostering the exchange of human resources and sharing of know-how between Group companies. Operation of the Human Resources Public Recruitment System For example in September 2011, Ito-Yokado began With respect for the will of the employees so that they providing salespeople for clothes sold under the can fully demonstrate their abilities̶Seven & i Holdings GALLORIA private brand with full-scale customer service is implementing the Human Resources Public education at 10 stores, inviting 13 customer service Recruitment System beyond the boundaries of professionals from Sogo & Seibu. The salespeople operating companies. acquired the basic customer service skills through OJT, Other Group companies also have in-house public including how to speak to customers and introduce the recruitment systems. For example at Ito-Yokado, products to them, as well as the know-how for a employees who have worked for at least two years for specialized store, including how to lay out the products. the company can apply for all the managerial positions Moreover the company set the numerical targets for and jobs regardless of their work experience or the number of customers to be served by salespeople seniority. In FY2012, 66 of 370 applicants got the and for other items, and repeated the training of the positions or jobs of their choice. staﬀ and the veriﬁcation of the results to level up their skills. In FY 2012, based on the know-how gained at the stores, the company began implementing the initiative at another nine stores. The company also improved customer service education given to internal trainers toward the enhancement of its own educational system. 28 Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2013 Since October 2012, Ito-Yokado has been dispatching its employees to Seven-Eleven stores, where they are Achieving a work-life balance experiencing the store management for the purpose of Seven & i Holdings Group companies are improving acquiring the operational know-how possessed by their childcare and nursing care systems to help Seven-Eleven Japan. employees, including part-timers, continue working. All Group companies are operating childcare systems that are better than the legal standard. In FY2012, Seven & i Food Systems prolonged the deadline until which employees raising their children can work shorter hours to April 15 of the year in which the child becomes a ﬁrst grader at junior high school, while Seven-Eleven Japan and Ito-Yokado prolonged that deadline from April 15 of the year in which the child becomes a second grader at elementary school to April 15 of the year in which the child becomes a ﬁfth grader at elementary school. A salesperson for GALLORIA receiving training from an instructor dispatched from Sogo & Seibu Operation of a volunteer leave system To support employees in conducting volunteer activities for welfare, environmental beautiﬁcation, and disaster reconstruction support, Seven-Eleven Japan, ItoAssuring fair assessment and treatment of employees Yokado, and Seven & i Food Systems have a volunteer Seven & i Holdings is implementing self evaluationleave system under which employees can take ﬁve days based systems for employees to maximize their abilities off per year. In FY2011, Ito-Yokado made it possible and receive fair assessment. also for part-timers to take volunteer leave. At each Group company, employees self-evaluate their In FY2012, a total of four employees took volunteer job performance, then their managers also conduct an leave at Group companies. appraisal twice a year (three times a year at SevenEleven), and through interviews the employees talk about the appraisal results with the managers. Through the interviews, employees are informed of their performance and understand their strong points and challenges. This contributes to ensuring the transparency and fairness of the appraisals. Group companies are also focusing on the establishment of systems to help individual employees choose various work styles to increase their motivation for work. For example, Ito-Yokado has a program enabling part-timers to choose from diverse working styles based on their personal circumstances and beliefs. Seven & i Food Systems has a system to promote part-timers to full-timers and store managers, under which a total of 228 part-timers have actually got promotion since FY2007. Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2013 29 Activities Conducted during the Year (2) Creating Fulﬁlling Workplaces Worker health and safety Fostering measures to prevent industrial accidents Seven & i Holdings is striving to maintain safe and comfortable workplaces Seven & i Holdings fosters the implementation of industrial for employees. To this end, each Group company regularly holds accident preventive measures at each Group company. meetings of its safety and health committee and provides employees with For example at Ito-Yokado, the safety and health regular health checkups, while the Group s headquarters set up a health committee is leading the activities to prevent industrial management center for employees. Moreover, the Group has introduced accidents, including analyzing and verifying the past a system in which clinical accidents that occurred at its stores, ensuring education psychotherapists and to prevent the reoccurrence of similar accidents. At Sevencounselors provide employees Eleven Japan, executive managers give cautions for safe with counseling services on driving to OFC (Operations Field Consultants) who drive their mental health by phone vehicles for their jobs. Seven & i Food Systems also urges and via e-mail. In addition, employees to prevent industrial accidents by posting health counselor and medical awareness posters, etc. at its restaurants twice a year. institution introduction services Health consultation given by a The company also conducts interview surveys on the nutritionist at the headquarters are available to both stores that had industrial accidents to investigate the employees and their families. cause and share the specific measures to prevent the Breakdown of consultation requests made by employees by topic (FY2012) reoccurrence of similar accidents. Other 8% Health advice 7% Helpline for employees Diseases and treatment Mental health 34% Total 50% 1,195* Seven & i Holdings have established the GroupWide Help Line in a third-party organization. In order to make more employees aware of this *Including those from employees families service, the company creates a new poster on the help line every year. In FY2012, due to changes made to the scope and place of posting, the number of contacts received increased by 53 to Mental health seminars for managers 642 year on year. Seven & i Holdings is implementing mental health Description of contacts received by user category and topic (FY2012) promotion measures. At Group companies, Unknown 24％ Other 3％ education on mental health is provided as part of training for new managers and all employees are Employees of tenants, temporary workers, trained on self-care to prevent mental health and subcontractors 2％ problems. In the event that an employee faces a By user mental health problem, the health management Families of category Part-time staff 48％ employees 5％ center supports that employee in overcoming the (FY2012) Full-time problem in cooperation with the industrial physician. employees18％ Dispatching information about diseases and health Other 17％ Unrelated consulting 4％ Seven & i Holdings began dispatching Health Suspected Topics from its health management center via the noncompliance 2％ Work environment, intranet in December 2012. Specifically, the human relations 48％ company dispatches information useful to prevent Sexual By topics harassment 3％ (FY2012) pandemics, including new strains of inﬂuenza and rubella, as well as tips to promote health as a Employment, means to enlighten Group employees on the Power abuse 6％ work, overtime work 20％ matters. 30 Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2013 who have some problems about the workplace Employee opinion survey culture necessary for increasing their work motivation as well as relationships with their Seven & i Holdings conducted the Group s ﬁrst managers. anonymous employee opinion survey on about In response to the results, Seven & i Holdings 26,000 employees of 27 operating companies examined the measures to improve workplace (complete survey at 18 companies and sampling environments and enhance the capabilities of survey at nine) from January 15 to February 4, managers through the Corporate Ethics and 2013. Culture Subcommittee and projects implemented The survey was held to obtain numerical data under the subcommittee, while also holding study about the present situation of employees seminars by inviting external instructors who awareness and behaviors regarding thoroughly taught how to make use of the survey results to ensuring compliance and creating fulfilling help each operating company identify its own workplaces and analyze them to identify the problems and solve them. challenges faced by the entire Group and each In the ﬁrst survey conducted in FY2012, the focus operating company. was placed on understating the present situation. According to the results, there are no major In the second survey onward, however, we will problems for compliance with laws, regulations also utilize the survey to check the progress with and rules, but the level of employees awareness each project and with the activities conducted by about the corporate creed differs between each operating company. operating companies, and there are employees TOPICS Sound labor-management relationships The federation of Seven & i Group labor unions details and roles and the revisions to the is composed of 11*1 Japanese unions. (The total personnel system such as the administration of number of members is about 66,000 as of July labor hours by managers in charge. In FY2013, 2013.) The labor unions exchange information the basic salaries were raised for regular about the organizational management and employees. Also the newly established laborworking conditions for the members based on management committee led the review of the the principle of enhancing their organizations personnel system to give Store employees *3 while maintaining their independence. more motivation and satisfaction. Furthermore, Ito-Yokado s labor union, which implements the to help Expert employees work flexibly and union shop system*2, is the largest of the Group, display more of their abilities, their work system with about 38,000 members. As of June 2013, has been changed. Now these employees can 86% of all its employees, excluding students be transferred to other stores in the working as part-time staff, belong to the labor neighborhood as Field employees. Moreover the union. personnel treatment system for Partner Ito-Yokado respects the union s activities based employees was reviewed and a bonus system on the three rights of labor. For example, when was introduced to Senior Partner employees*4. the labor union holds an important plenary meeting, a round table meeting or training *1 Ito-Yokado, Seven & i Food Systems, York-Mart, Marudai, seminar during the opening hours of the stores, Sanei, York-Benimaru, Akachan Honpo, Sogo & Seibu, Life Foods, THE LOFT, and SHELL GARDEN the company makes necessary arrangements on *2 A system in which all employed workers of a company must the working hours of the union members. join a labor union, and if an employee of the company quits the labor union, the company must dismiss that employee. In FY2012, the labor and management *3 Expert employees (Field employees on and after June 16, 2013) and Partner employees concluded seven labor agreements on the issues *4 P a r t n e r e m p l o y e e s w o r k i n g u n d e r t h e c o n t i n u o u s including appropriate treatment according to job employment system for employees aged 60 Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2013 31 Activities Conducted during the Year (3) Launching the Anshin Delivery Coexisting with mobile store service In recent years, the number of retail stores has been decreasing along with the aging of society with fewer Local Communities children and the decrease in the average number of household members. In addition, the number of people facing difficulties with daily shopping is increasing, which has become a social issue. They We are providing a range of new are mainly old people, including those having more concerns about their driving skills as they get older. services to provide support for In order to support those people, Seven & i Holdings is creating new shopping support services by making customers living in areas that are use of its existing network of stores and information inconvenient for daily shopping systems. ● ❶ ●❷ 32 Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2013 For example, Seven-Eleven Japan launched the Seven particular in the Sapporo area, special eight-ton Anshin Delivery mobile store service in Ibaraki trucks equipped with movable store fixture visit Prefecture in May 2011. The service utilizes our customers to sell up to as many as about 1,000 proprietary light trucks equipped with store facilities, items, including food, clothes such as underwear, which go to areas that are inconvenient for daily and daily goods. shopping and where many residents are elderly people who have trouble securing means of For the expansion of the service area transportation. A range of foodstuffs and drinks, The service enjoys great popularity among users, including frozen food are available to users of the who said, I enjoyed shopping for the first time in service. several years and I can enjoy chatting with sales Ito-Yokado also provides the Ito-Yokado Anshin staﬀ and neighbors while shopping. Also employees Delivery mobile store service in Sakaki Town, Nagano of the stores providing the service have made Prefecture, Sapporo City, Hokkaido and Tama City, comments, such as I am glad to be able to Tokyo, and the service trucks mainly visit nursing contribute to local communities, and I feel that we care facilities and public halls located in the areas. In are enhancing ties with our customers through the service. The Seven Anshin Delivery service is provided by 35 ● ❸ stores (as of the end of July 2013), while the ItoYokado Anshin Delivery service is provided in three areas (as of the same date). In FY2013, we plan to expand the Seven Anshin Delivery service step by step in response to customers needs. We will make more contributions to local communities by providing customers with more convenience and by revitalizing the neighboring areas. ❹ ● Provision of the mobile store service (as of the end of July 2013) Seven Anshin Delivery service (provided by 35 stores) Prefecture Service area Pippu Town, Sapporo City, Kimobetsu Town, Sunagawa Hokkaido City, Shikabe Town, Hidaka Town, Date City, Kyowa Town Iwate Kitakami City Miyagi Kesennuma City, Watari Town, Sendai City Yamagata Nishimurayama District Fukushima Nishiaizu Town, Iwaki City Ibaraki Shirosato Town, Omitama City Tochigi Ohtawara City, Utsunomiya City ❺ ● Gunma Agatsuma District, Kurabuchi Town Niigata Tokamachi City Yamanashi Uenohara City Nagano Ueda City, Kiso District Shiga Higashiomi City Wakayama Hashimoto City Hiroshima Sera Town, Hatsukaichi City, Yamagata District Saga Saga City Kumamoto Ashikita Town, Minamata Town Ito-Yokado Anshin Delivery service (provided in three areas) ❶ Truck used for the Seven-Eleven mobile store service Prefecture Service area ❷ Visiting customers by the mobile store truck Hokkaido Sapporo City ❸ Truck used for the Ito-Yokado mobile store service Tokyo Tama City ❹ Unloading goods and equipment from the truck Nagano Sakaki Town ❺ Products are displayed on the shelves installed at nursing care facilities and public halls Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2013 33 Activities Conducted during the Year (3) Coexisting with Local Communities Support to shopping Seven RakuRaku Delivery service In the aging of society, an increasing number of customers Seven-Eleven Japan launched the Seven RakuRaku say, I want to shop at stores but it is not easy for me to carry Delivery service in August 2012, for which the the purchased goods home, and I want the purchased environment-friendly ultra-small EV COMS is used to goods to be delivered to my home by the store. deliver goods, including almost all the foodstuffs and daily goods sold at its stores, to personal homes and Net Supermarket business establishments. As of the end of July 2013, 530 COMS vehicles are operated by the company, Ito-Yokado has been providing the Net Supermarket service which will be increased to 1,000. since 2001, which enables customers to place their orders for This initiative is the ﬁrst in distribution and convenience goods sold at its actual stores via PC or mobile phone and store industries to adopt ultra-small EVs to deliver have the ordered products delivered to their homes in the goods from the stores. time frame that they choose. For the service, employees in charge of the sales ﬂoors pick up the ordered goods carefully from among the fresh For the Seven Rakuraku Delivery service, the clean products sold at the store, and a lot of products, including EV COMS, which runs without emitting CO2 or advertised goods and those sold at specially discounted air pollutants has been prices are available to online purchasers at the prices that are adopted the same as the store prices. Moreover users of the service can receive the ordered goods in four hours at the shortest. As of the end of July 2013, the service is being oﬀered at 145 Ito-Yokado stores in 24 Seven-Meal service prefectures, with the number of registered users reaching Seven-Eleven Japan is providing the Seven-Meal service. about 1.5 million. It is greatly In the service, meals prepared in consideration of appreciated by customers who nutritious balance are delivered to the houses of those are unable to spend sufficient who feel difficulty in preparing meals for themselves time on shopping, including and also to those who want to have more healthy working women and mothers meals. Users of the service can choose what to order of small children, as well as from a wide range of products shown in the catalogue the elderly. and on the website and the delivery fee is not imposed Employee in charge of the sales ﬂoor picks up the ordered goods on the delivery of orders that cost 500 yen or more in total. The meals provided in the service include daily Sales from Net Supermarket and change in membership meals prepared under the supervision of national (10,000 people) (Billion yen) registered dietitians and the rich assortment is highly 150 50 appreciated by the elderly and working housewives. Sales Membership 120 40 90 30 60 20 30 10 0 0 Daily meal sold in the Seven-Meal service, for which 15 foodstuffs, 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (FY) including vegetables weighing 120 g or more in total are used 34 Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2013 about the preparations for childbirth and childcare. Supporting Young Parents In addition, regular courses in which both parents and children can participate are provided, and the In the present society shifting to the nuclear family lounge for babies is equipped with a booth for with a decreasing birthrate, the number of parents breast-feeding, hot water supplier, and a toilet for who have no one they can ask for advice on parenting children. without inhibition is increasing. In response, Seven & i Holdings is implementing a host of childcare support measures at its stores. We also support the cultivation of young people through means such as providing them with opportunities for work experience. Maternity and childcare counseling room Ito-Yokado began opening a maternity and childcare counseling room within the lounge for babies at its stores in 1975 (and 123 stores have the room as of the end of February 2013.) In the room, public health nurses and midwives give counseling service to pregnant women on their health and to mothers on childcare for free twice to nine times per month, and the service is Pre-Mama Station used easily by shoppers. Moreover in the room, various events are held to give advice on childcare Organization of childcare support events and foster exchange between mothers. The events At Ito-Yokado s Abiko Minamiguchi, Tsukuno, and are organized elaborately by each of the stores in Makuhari stores, events for women raising their children consideration of the needs of their customers. are regularly held jointly with Akachan Honpo, with an eye to providing participants with information useful for their health maintenance and promotion, selfrefreshment, networking of mothers, and childcare. On the theme of collaboration among industry, government, and academia,and enjoyment for the entire family, these events are held with the support of Waseda University s Research Institute for Sports Industry, local governments, and several manufacturers. Maternity and childcare counseling room Pre-Mama Station Sogo & Seibu has the Pre-Mama Counter in addition to the Pre-Mama Station staffed by a midwife, in order to provide customers with a regular counseling service by experts including midwives. The experts give advice to women who will soon become mothers and have concerns An event held for mothers Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2013 35 Activities Conducted during the Year (3) Coexisting with Local Communities Support to the publication of Bonolon, Making social contributions through merchandise sale Warrior of the Forest picture book Seven & i Holdings is selling goods and implementing campaigns, through which we enable our customers to Seven Bank is supporting the publication of Bonolon, participate in social contribution and other activities. Warrior of the Forest picture book to be read to children as a means to foster parent-children communication. The bank has been continuing to Products made by using rice powder distribute the books for free and to hold story hours. Under Seven & i Holdings Seven Premium private brand, products made by using domestically produced rice powder are sold to promote the sales of domestic rice powder and thereby contribute to the improvement of Japan s food self-suﬃciency rate. Various companies engaged in the production, distribution and consumption of rice powder cooperated together to develop recipes using rice powder and attach the Komeko (Rice Powder) Club* logo to the packages of rice powder products to raise customers awareness about rice powder. Seven & i Holdings received the Grand Prix Award for Employees volunteered to read the book for children Shinagawa Student City Seven-Eleven Japan opened a store in Shinagawa Student City in 2003, which has been jointly operated by Shinagawa City, Tokyo and the public interest incorporated association Junior Achievement. Shinagawa Student City is a virtual city established within an elementary school, where the city office, a bank, a pharmacy and various other companies have outlets to provide elementary school students with job experiences. Proactive sales of products made by using rice powder In FY2012, about 187 elementary school students experienced the joy and difficulty of doing business by actually serving customers and selling goods in the City. **O One of the Food Action Nippon iinitiatives designed to improve J Japan s food self-suﬃciency rate by expanding the consumption of Snack made using rice domestically produced rice powder powder. the distribution section of the Food Action Nippon Award 2012 in recognition of our efforts to develop rice powder products in cooperation with food producers, manufacturers and others and promote Seven-Eleven Japan employees gave support for children to operate the store smoothly. them at stores, while proposing various recipes for rice 36 Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2013 powder. Moreover Seven-Eleven Japan received the Excellence Cooperation with local governments and various organizations Award for the product section of the Award, being Seven & i Holdings has concluded cooperation appreciated for the specific use of domestically agreements for comprehensive regional activation with produced main ingredients including adzuki beans and a total of 43 municipal governments (as of the end of sticky rice in its original August 2013) and is fostering cooperation with chilled Japanese organizations based on the policy, contribute to local confectioneries, such as development and establishment of a prosperous living mizuyokan, daifuku and environment through our business. warabimochi. Seven & i Holdings will continue to develop Issuance service of residence certiﬁcate products by using copies and seal registration certiﬁcates domestically produced At Seven-Eleven stores across Japan, customers can take ingredients in its pursuit of advantage of a special service that issues a copy of their good taste and quality as Became a winner at the Food Action Nippon Award 2012 residence certificates or seal registration certificates with a well reliability and safety, multi-functional copier machine. As of the end of July 2013, 70 while also contributing to the improvement of Japan s municipalities participated in the service. We have promoted food self-suﬃciency rate. further expansion of the services, and 22 municipalities currently make issuance of family register certificate copies Participation in the UN WFP possible, with 19 municipalities allowing copies of tax Red Cup campaign certiﬁcates to be issued. Residents can use the services including nighttime and on In May 2013, Seven & i Holdings participated in the Red holidays by simply holding their basic resident registration card Cup campaign, which is led by the World Food over the copier. Personal information is protected securely by Programme (WFP) of the United Nations, to support its the exclusive network and advanced security systems, at the effort to provide more children with school lunch. same time preventing forging and tampering using special Agreeing with the campaign s purpose, elimination of printing and other functions. hunger and poverty, we donated part of the sales from In September 2012, the Ito-Yokado Kiba and Omori stores, Ario ﬁve Seven Premium snack items and three Seven Gold Kameari and Washinomiya stores and Sogo & Seibu Ikebukuro instant pot noodle items to support its activity. main store (five stores in total) also installed multi-functional copiers. All these stores are providing customers with the service similar to that provided at Seven-Eleven stores as a new service, by making use of Seven-Eleven Japan s system. Participated in the Red Cup campaign Multi-functional copier with which customers can print out the copies of their residence/seal registration certiﬁcates Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2013 37 Activities Conducted during the Year (3) Coexisting with Local Communities help prevent local children in the country from getting infected Donating part of proceeds from vending machines by tetanus or parasitic diseases as a result of going barefoot and getting injured. for international humanitarian assistance activities For the period from 2009 to July 2013, a total of 346,974 Ito-Yokado established the Seven & i IVESCO Fund (IY Vending pairs of children s shoes were collected through the counter. Machine Fund for Social Support Contribution) jointly with beverage makers and others in 2000. The company donates part of the proceeds from the 409 specific vending machines installed at its stores for international humanitarian assistance activities. In June 2013, it donated 14.88 million yen in total to four organizations, including the one implementing an educational facility construction project in Thailand. The cumulative sum of the donations made through the fund came to 52.58 million yen in total. Not only children s shoes but also health education were provided Supporting the training of seeing-eye dogs Sogo & Seibu has continued to hold awareness-raising events and collect donations to support the training of seeing-eye dogs. Specifically, the company has implemented a campaign to Notiﬁcation through a poster provide people with opportunities to meet seeing-eye dogs and increase their awareness of and support to the training of these dogs. Moreover donations made by customers through the dogBreakdown of the social contribution activity costs (FY2012) shaped collection boxes installed at all its stores and also Support to areas affected by disasters 1% donations from the Sogo & Seibu Fund, including monthly Health, medicine, and sports 3% donations of coins from volunteer employees were sent to Other 3% seeing-eye dog associations across Japan. (For the period from Social welfare 7% 2003 to the end of July 2013, 386,786,214 yen were donated in Activities for local communities and the preservation of historic sites and 1,957.25 total.) traditional culture 17% Environment 51% million yen in total Education and social education 19% *Total amount of costs calculated for Seven & i Holdings, SevenEleven Japan, Ito-Yokado, Sogo & Seibu, York-Benimaru, Seven & i Food Systems, Seven Bank, York Mart, and Akachan Honpo. The calculation was made in line with the Japan Business Federation s guidelines on the implementation of surveys on social contribution activities (2011). Children s shoes trade-in counter Sogo & Seibu has installed a children s shoes trade-in counter permanently at each of its stores and sends the shoes brought by customers to the counter to the Republic of Zambia through the Japanese Organization for International The campaign provided people with an opportunity to deepen Cooperation in Family Planning (JOICFP). The donated shoes their understanding about visually impaired people and seeingeye dogs 38 Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2013 Supporting recovery from the Great East Japan Earthquake Supporting economic independence Leveraging our strengths as a retailer, we are proactively Sogo & Seibu has been supporting the economic independence of procuring goods from business partners in the aﬄicted women from Iitate Village who are forced to leave their home areas and selling them to customers across Japan. In village and live in temporary houses. When the villagers recycle addition we are giving support to children in the aﬄicted kimono donated kindly by people across Japan into new goods, a areas and conducting volunteer activities by employees. designer belonging to the company s corporate customer department gives appropriate advice, and the company also Tohoku Kakehashi Project provides the women with a place to sell the goods along with the necessary display fixtures, and supports them in making prior Seven & i Holdings has been implementing the Tohoku notiﬁcations about the fair and actually selling the goods. These Kakehashi Project since November 2011, in supports are given for free. collaboration with Iwate, Fukushima, Miyagi and other The company held a fair to sell the clothes and accessories made prefectures in Tohoku, companies located in areas cordially by women from Iitate Village at the Sogo Kashiwa store afflicted by the disaster, and leading food in March and September 2012, at the Seibu Tokorozawa store in manufacturers. In the project, a total of six fairs to sell March 2013, and at the Sogo Kawaguchi store in September 2013. goods from Tohoku have been held by six Group companies. The project was initially started as a threeyear project, but we will continue the initiative going forward, extending the project period. Provision of an indoor playground and mobile library tours York-Benimaru, which has its head office in Koriyama City in Fukushima Prefecture, contributed to the opening (in December 2011) Women from Iitate Village also served visitors to the fair of PEP Kids Koriyama by leasing the land, facilities, and fixtures free of charge to the city. The Comments from visitors to the fair company has also held a range of events in We have wanted to give support to victims of the disaster, cooperation with its business partners. but didn t know how. We visited the fair, thinking it a good Moreover, Seven & i Holdings supports a opportunity to do what we wanted. (couple in their 60s) bookmobile project that aims to provide sources I am also a refugee from Fukushima Prefecture. I visited the fair in the hope of giving support to other refugees of comfort and joy to children in the disasterfrom the Prefecture. (woman in her 70s) affected areas by way of books. Bookmobiles carrying about 2,000 picture books and children s books have toured regularly in Miyagi Prefecture since the end of October 2011. Volunteer activities conducted by employees in aﬄicted areas Since May 2011, we have been conducting volunteer activities in the afflicted areas in cooperation with the Seven-Eleven Memorial Foundation (see page 47). The volunteers removed debris from beaches and supported the recovery of oyster farming in Kesennuma, Miyagi Prefecture and conducted forestation activities in Osaki City to provide the local sea with a source of nutrients. The activities were conducted three times by the end of 2012, PEP Kids Koriyama indoor playground in which a total of 325 employees participated. Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2013 39 Activities Conducted during the Year (4) Reducing the Environmental Impact We are fostering the reduction of CO 2 emissions by proactively introducing solar panels and LED lights. Energy conservation at stores Aiming to reduce CO2 emissions Since the occurrence of the Great East Japan predicted for FY2017 by about 10% Earthquake, the energy and environmental In February 2013, Seven & i Holdings set a target policies have been substantially reviewed in of reducing the CO 2 emissions predicted for Japan. FY2017 based on the emissions in FY2011 by Against this backdrop, about 90% of CO2 emitted about 10%, targeting its nine operating companies by Seven & i Holdings is attributable to the use of in Japan*. energy for in-store lightings, store signboards and *Nine companies: Seven-Eleven Japan, Ito-Yokado, Sogo & Seibu, Yorkair conditioning, which are all indispensable for Benimaru, York Mart, SHELL GARDEN, Seven & i Food Systems, the operation of its stores. Akachan Honpo, and THE LOFT Based on this recognition, Seven & i Holdings has Fostering CO 2 emissions reduction by been introducing energy-saving equipment to at installing solar panels and smart sensor the time of opening new stores and refurbishing existing stores, thereby preventing its In particular Seven-Eleven Japan began adopting LED environmental impact from increasing in lights for the lighting of store signboards in 2008 and proportion to increases in the number and size of also for the lighting of sales floors at some stores, their stores. including refurbished stores in August 2009. Since Number of Seven-Eleven Japan stores equipped with solar panels 2010 40 Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2013 September rectifies the 2011, the problems related company has to the use of the been fostering equipment, the use of LED thereby reducing lights as the waste of standard lights. electricity. Also, top lights Seven-Eleven Smart sensors (power consumption measuring to take in Japan also urges instruments used for visualization of power use) sunshine and Top lights to take in sunshine store employees to follow the in-house 10 solar panels energy conservation rules that provide for are installed on the rooftops of its stores. the cleaning of machines and temperature The number of its stores equipped with settings for more energy conservation. solar panels increased from 209 at the In addition, the company has been increasing end of FY2010 to 1,393 at the end the number of eco-friendly stores, in which of FY2011 and then to as many as a range of devices, such as 6,500 in FY2012. energy-saving air Smart sensors are also conditioning systems attached to the power Number of stores equipped a n d c i r c u l a t i o n distribution boards of its with solar panels ventilation systems are stores. By visualizing the installed. The number use of electricity for store equipment with these sensors, the 6,500stores of these stores increased to 561 as of the end of May 2013. c o m p a n y identifies and 2012 2011 Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2013 41 Activities Conducted during the Year (4) Reducing the Environmental Impact Reducing CO2 emissions at stores Reducing CO2 emissions from logistics operations Seven & i Holdings is introducing eco-friendly vehicles and improving fuel eﬃciency while reducing Opening stores made of wood the frequency of the delivery of goods to its stores. Moreover Seven-Eleven, Ito-Yokado, and YorkStores made of wood have smaller CO2 emissions Benimaru are reviewing the locations of their at the time of their construction than conventional distribution centers and establishing intermediate steel-frame stores. Seven-Eleven Japan began centers to deliver various products, including those opening these stores in FY2009 and the number that need to be kept at diﬀerent temperatures, all substantially increased from 45 stores as of the together to their stores. In addition, Seven-Eleven end of the previous ﬁscal year to 86 stores as of Japan and Ito-Yokado are fostering the introduction the end of FY2012. of drive data recording terminals to their trucks to give advice to truck drivers based on the data, Making use of geo-heat as natural energy while holding eco-driving training sessions. As a new initiative implemented in FY2012, Seven-Eleven Japan introduced an air conditioning system using geo-heat, Fostering the reduction of CO 2 emissions which is natural energy stable throughout the year, to four from delivery trucks and distribution centers of its stores. Seven-Eleven Japan delivers products to its stores By the use of the system, both the consumption of electricity across Japan by using 4,254 vehicles (as of the and CO2 emissions will be reduced by about 30%. end of FY2012). In order to foster safe driving and The company will continue to increase the number of stores the reduction of environmental impact caused by equipped with energy-saving devices while also making the delivery, the company introduced a total of examinations to implement new measures. 297 hybrid vehicles by the end of FY2012, with Geo-heat pump the ﬁrst one being introduced in 2006. system Outside air temperature 30.3℃ Also at the distribution centers, the introduction of demand controllers has been fostered to monitor and control each facility s use of electricity. As of the end of FY2012, 51 centers out of 147 had the controllers, which have been helping the centers reduce the waste of electricity. Geo-heat The company will further promote the introduction Geo-heat Geo-heat of the controllers going forward. Geo-heat CO2 emissions by delivery vehicles CO2 emissions per Seven-Eleven Japan store (1,000 t-CO2) (t-CO2) 200 13 186 Reusing construction materials and ﬁxtures from old stores 180 175 Seven-Eleven Japan*1 150 147 12 Seven-Eleven Japan repairs and reuses the shelves and Ito-Yokado other ﬁxture salvaged from the stores to be rebuilt or 23 100 11.0 11 to be closed. Also to reduce the construction waste 10.4 10.2 York-Benimaru 14 generated from disassembled stores, the company uses 50 10 reusable steel frames and recyclable sashes as Seven & i Food Systems*2 construction materials for new stores. 0 2 0 In the fall of 2010, the company had a whole store 2010 2011*3 2012 （FY） disassembled and moved to a new place to open it as *1 Seven-Eleven Japan s data include CO2 emissions from the operation of distribution centers. a new store. By the end of February 2013, the company *2 This value is for Denny s only *3 Some data are missing due to the Great East Japan removed and rebuilt three stores in total in this manner. Earthquake. 42 Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2013 Electricity consumption in store operations Attaining an appropriate grasp of environmental impact （GWh） 5,000 4,464 Seven & i Holdings has been undergoing third4,000 4,040 4,107 Seven-Eleven Japan 2,444 party examinations for CO 2 emissions from its 3,000 Ito-Yokado 853 store operations, thereby appropriately identifying 2,000 Sogo & Seibu 357 the amount of CO2 emissions for the evaluation York-Benimaru 301 1,000 and verification of its environmental impact Seven & i 0 Food Systems 152 reduction measures. In FY2011, five Group 2010 2011 2012 (FY) companies received the examinations and in FY2012 the examination target was expanded to CO2 emissions in FY2012*(1,000 t-CO2) include nine companies*. Seven & i Food Systems Moreover in FY2012, in order to estimate CO2 96（4%） emissions in a more practical manner, we reviewed the Group s standard rules set on the York-Benimaru 187 （8%） calculation of CO2 emissions in 2008. We revised the rules mainly to make calculations by using the Sogo & Seibu CO2 emission coeﬃcients that change every year, 188 （8%） as we do in creating the reports to be submitted Seven-Eleven Japan to the government agencies in line with the Act on 2,377 1,372 （58%） the Rational Use of Energy and the Act on 1,000t-CO2 Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures. Ito-Yokado *Targeted companies: Seven-Eleven Japan, Ito-Yokado, Sogo & Seibu, York-Benimaru, Seven & i Food Systems, York Mart, 533 （22%） Akachan Honpo, THE LOFT and SHELL GARDEN *CO2 emissions from store operations (2,177,000 t-CO2) plus CO2 emissions caused by the use of energy for transportation and headquarters activities. For the calculation method, please CO2 emissions from store operations*1 see the data posted at the website. (1,000 t-CO2) 2,500 2,177 Seven-Eleven Japan 1,223 2,000 1,881 1,707 1,500 Ito-Yokado 507 Management of CFCs 1,000 Sogo & Seibu 188 York-Benimaru 165 At Seven & i Holdings stores, devices using CFCs 500 Seven & i are replaced with those using CFC alternatives at 0 Food Systems 94 such occasions as when the stores are refurbished. 2010 2011*2 2012 *2 (FY) *1 For the calculation method, please see the data posted at the The stores also daily conduct temperature checks website. on the devices for the early detection of any CFC *2 Veriﬁed by an independent organization leakages. The devices using CFCs are disposed of by professional companies in compliance with the CO2 emissions from store operations by nine companies for FY2012* law, and the stores receive collection certiﬁcates *Veriﬁed by an independent organization (1,000 t-CO2) from the companies as the proof of appropriate Aforementioned ﬁve companies 2,177 disposal. York Mart 50 Akachan Honpo 20 THE LOFT 21 SHELL GARDEN 6 Total 2,276 Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2013 43 Activities Conducted during the Year (4) Reducing the Environmental Impact number of stores implementing this initiative Measures for waste increased by 19% from FY2012. Also oil wasted from the in-store cooking process is recycled into Seven & i Holdings has been committed to materials for livestock feed, industrial products improving its food recycling rate in recognition of and fuels. the fact that food accounts for about 60% of the I t o Y o k a d o sales of its ﬁve major operating companies*1. Also introduced a system the company is simplifying product packages and to treat garbage by reducing the use of disposable plastic bags at the using microorganisms stores to reduce the generation of waste *2 , in October 2011. receiving support from customers. This system breaks *1 Seven-Eleven Japan, Ito-Yokado, Sogo & Seibu, YorkBenimaru, and Seven & i Food Systems down garbage into *2 For the waste generated by each company, please see the water and carbon dioxide to reduce the amount Data Section (on page 58 onwards). of waste eﬀectively. (By the end of July 2013, the company had introduced the system to two of its Reducing food waste by a range of methods stores.) Ito-Yokado turns the food residues from its stores Food waste recycling rate (FY2012) into compost and cultivates crops using the compost at its dedicated Seven Farms. The （%） 60 harvested crops are sold directly at neighboring Ito-Yokado stores for the promotion of closedSogo & Seibu 50.3 Seven-Eleven Japan 48.9 loop agriculture. As of July 2013, there are nine 40 Ito-Yokado 45.2 Seven farms (about 55 hectares in total) across Japan and the number is planned to be increased Seven & i Food Systems 40.5 to 10 by the end of FY2013. (see page 21) 20 York-Benimaru 30.2 Closed-loop food recycling system Business partners 0 Composting 2010 2011 2012 (FY) facilities *For the calculation method, please see the data posted at the website. Compost Food waste collected from stores Adopting eco-friendly packages Ito-Yokado Dedicated Seven Farms At Ito-Yokado and York-Benimaru stores, a lot of Stores farm foodstuﬀs are processed and cooked, so various efforts are being made to reduce the use of packaging materials as well as to review their materials. At some stores, for example, blocks of meat are now sold in plastic bags or being vacuum-packed, instead of being sold on trays. Also for packaging of cut fruits, Ito-Yokado uses plant-based plastic as elaboration of packaging materials themselves. Vegetables produced on the dedicated farm Because plant-based plastics are produced without using fossil resources such as oil, the Seven-Eleven Japan collects expired food production of the material will not contribute to products to recycle them into energy materials in an increase in the absolute amount of CO2, which addition to compost and livestock feed. is said to cause global warming. In FY2012, the company began recycling expired food products at another 535 stores and the 44 Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2013 Reducing the use of disposable plastic bags Installing automatic PET bottle collection machines At our stores, we are reducing the use of disposable Ito-Yokado, York-Benimaru and York Mart plastic bags by asking customers to bring their own installed automatic PET bottle collection machines shopping bags to the stores and by discontinuing the at their stores (at a total of 220 stores as of the free distribution of such bags. end of August 2013). In February 2013, eight Group companies implemented Because the machines automatically sort PET a campaign to reduce the use of disposable plastic bottles and reduce their volume by compressing bags. For example, Ito-Yokado discontinued the free or crushing, while also removing foreign matter in distribution of the plastic bags at the food ﬂoors of all the sorting process, recycling companies can its stores and began selling the bags at the unit price of obtain resources in conditions suitable for two yen. Group companies fostered the reduction in the recycling. Moreover, because their volume is use of disposable plastic bags by posting posters and reduced, stores do not need to spend much labor POP signs and holding events to encourage customers and backyard space for the bottles. Also logistics to bring their own shopping bags to the stores. companies can transport more bottles at one As a result of continuing this eﬀort, the use of disposable time, and together with utilizing the transportation plastic bags decreased by about 15% at eight Group routes of Seven & i Holdings, they can achieve companies in FY 2013. We will reduce the use by about highly efficient transportation. Part of the PET 2,300 tons in weight and by about 14,000 tons in CO2 bottles thus collected is recycled again into PET equivalent (commensurate with the total amount bottles. This closed-loop recycling system to emitted annually from about 3,000 general households). recycle PET bottles to PET bottles is the first attempt by a major retail chain in Japan to be Plastic bag turndown rate (food section) implemented on a large scale. We plan to （%） 75 increase the number of stores equipped with the York-Benimaru* automatic collection machines to 230 stores 70.2 within FY2013. In order to foster PET bottle 50 collection, we provide recycle points that can Ito-Yokado 47.6 be exchanges with nanaco (Seven & i Holdings electronic money) points to customers who bring 25 used PET bottles to stores. At Ito-Yokado and York Mart stores equipped 0 with the machines, PET bottle caps also began to 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (FY) be collected in December 2012. The collected *For data in and before FY2009, calculations were made based caps are recycled within Japan. on the number of Eco Stamp cards collected. In FY2010, we changed the calculation method, which is now based on the number of customers who do not accept plastic bags at checkout counters. PET bottle recycling system using an automatic collection machine Recycling PET bottles into PET bottles Circulation of recycled products Circulation of resources in Japan Automatic Ito-Yokado Container PET bottle Logistics Recycling Consumers and beverage collection York-Benimaru company company companies machine York Mart Bringing Highly eﬃcient Closed-loop recycling Using recycled materials PET bottles transportation (Purchasing the resource in manufacturing (Use Exchanging the obtained and manufacturing materials of recycled materials recycle points with nanaco points Issuing recycle points to users for recycled PET bottles by for the products to be Shopping using the points Sorting and reducing the volume of PET bottles on the spot using advanced skills) manufactured and sold) Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2013 45 Activities Conducted during the Year (4) Reducing the Environmental Impact Measures to conserve water Implementing measures to conserve biodiversity Seven & i Holdings companies* are making daily In addition to environmental activities conducted at eﬀorts to reduce their water use while introducing stores, we are implementing forest conservation water-saving faucets and other devices and using projects both in Japan and abroad to reduce CO 2 rainwater. emissions and protect biodiversity on a global level. York-Benimaru has adopted inverter-type pumps In Indonesia, we have been implementing the REDD+ to standardize water supply pressures, thereby project at Meru Betiri National Park (about 58,000 reducing its water use. hectares) in Indonesia since 2010. This project helps to Seven & i Food Systems has asked the cleaners of conserve biodiversity and mitigate climate change, while its uniforms to clean them only by water without also contributing to improving the lives of local people. using solvents that contain volatile organic We are supporting this project to curb CO2 emissions compounds (VOC) and other substances that from deforestation and forest degradation, which might cause photochemical smog. The water used represent one of the factors contributing to climate for the cleaning is puriﬁed by microorganisms (by change; to foster CO 2 absorption by forests; and to adsorption and decomposition) to be reused as secure habitats for diverse living forms. cleaning water. In Japan, jointly with the Seven-Eleven Japan Memorial *For the water use by the operating companies, please see the Foundation, we launched a project to foster forest Data Section. improvement in Sakaki Town, Nagano Prefecture in June 2012. In Japan a number of artificial forests are left unattended and these forests are not fulfilling their expected roles such as absorbing CO2. We will improve Raising environmental awareness among employees and conserve these forests in a sustainable manner and in harmony with biodiversity conservation by thinning Seven & i Holdings and the Seven-Eleven Memorial them, clearing brush, and planting diﬀerent tree species. Foundation are encouraging Group employees to Wooden materials derived from the forests are used by participate in environmental activities. For the Group as materials for stores as well as for office example, the Foundation has been conducting an ﬁxtures. We will also develop commercial products by activity to restore eelgrass* in Tokyo Bay, and 42 using the materials as a means to foster the effective employees participated in it in FY2012. In this use of domestic timber. Moreover we regularly conduct activity, employees raise their environmental a forest improvement activity with the participation of awareness, being given time to learn about the Group employees and owners of Seven-Eleven franchise present problems and the environmental eﬀect of stores. A total of 262 people participated in the activity, eelgrass. which had been held four times by June 2013. Moreover, a CSR section has been created in the Group magazine for employees, in which the Group s environmental efforts are regularly introduced. *Eelgrass (Zoster marina): Seagrass growing in coastal sandy and muddy areas. They provide fish with spawning sites and habitats and also play an important role for water puriﬁcation. Participants c o l l e c t e d eelgrass seeds and replanted them Employees thinning a forest, and recycling boxes and cartocans made by using timber from the thinning 46 Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2013 and chemical fertilizer but also aims to conserve Provision of environment-friendly products and enlightenment activities biodiversity by using rice ﬁelds which can be wildlife habitats. The company donates part of the sales for the improvement of the environment of the rice producing Green wrapping areas. In FY2012, it donated about 200,000 yen to the fund for oriental white storks from the sales of Sogo & Seibu sells 97 eco-friendly product items that Koshihikari Rice Nurturing White Storks, and also are assessed by a third-party organization to meet the donated about 360,000 yen to the the Fund for the criteria set independently by the company (as of the Improved Habitat for Japanese Crested Ibis in Sado end of February 2013). Also, the company proposes from the sales of Koshihikari Rice Produced in Sado, green wrapping to customers, through which they Niigata Prefecture, Certified by the Creating Villages can make social contributions. Specifically, it is Coexisting with Crested Ibis Program. proposed that customers purchase a wrapping ribbon with a leaf-shaped mascot at the unit price of 100 yen (including tax), of which 50 yen will be donated to the Green Curtain Project tree planting and growing activities. One tree can be Under the leadership of the Ministry of the planted by donations from the sales of 80 ribbons. Environment, Sogo & Seibu is fostering the Green Moreover the company asks Curtain Project at all its stores, in order to reduce CO2 its customers to choose emissions and the use of electricity in summer. In simple packaging when FY2013, the company held bitter gourd planting they purchase summer and events at its stores. In the events, children winter gifts, which leads to invited from neighboring kindergartens and the planting of one tree per elementary schools planted bitter gourd saplings 4,000 gifts. (As of the end of in the pots August 2013, a total of installed at the 4,635 trees were planted Green wrapping rooftops and front through this initiative.) entrances of the stores, thereby Rice cultivated in consideration of environmental conservation and in harmony with nature increasing their interest in and Ito-Yokado sells rice cultivated in consideration of knowledge about environmental conservation and in a harmonious way the environment. A green curtain alleviates strong sunlight with nature. The cultivation not only uses less pesticide Seven-Eleven Memorial Foundation http://www.7midori.org/ Supporting environmental NPOS, anti-global warming activities, and natural environment preservation activities by collecting donations at stores The Seven-Eleven Memorial Foundation was established customers at the stores and a total of 126,206,886 yen in 1993 for Seven-Eleven Japan headquarters and its was used to give ﬁnancial support to 139 organizations. franchise stores to conduct social contribution activities focusing on the environment together. The money Example of activities conducted to protect and donated by customers through collection boxes conserve natural heritage installed at the stores is sent to the Foundation The Foundation concluded a partnership agreement with together with the donations made by the headquarters Kiritappu Wetland National Trust, an authorized NPO in of the company. The money is used to support Hokkaido. Based on this agreement, the Foundation has environmental NPOs chosen through a public offering purchased private land within the wetland to conserve and to conduct activities for mitigating global warming the natural heritage. As of the end of FY2012, it acquired and to protect and conserve the natural environment. wetland extending over a total of about 409 hectares. In FY2012, a total of 488,447,168 yen was donated by Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2013 47 GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS VERIFICATION STATEMENT GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS VERIFICATION STATEMENT To: Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. August 30, 2013 Bureau Veritas Japan Co., Ltd. System Certification Services Headquarters Bureau Veritas Japan Co., Ltd. (Bureau Veritas) was engaged by Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. (Seven & i) to conduct verification to a limited level of assurance of the greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions reported by Seven & i in its CSR Report 2013. 1. Scope of Verification Seven & i requested Bureau Veritas to verify the accuracy of the following GHG information: ・Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions: CO2 emissions from energy use through the following store operations within Japan: Name of company Number of stores Reporting period covered covered within scope Seven-Eleven Japan Co., Ltd. 15,072 March 1, 2012 through February 28, 2013 Ito-Yokado Co., Ltd. 179 York-Benimaru Co., Ltd. 187 Sogo & Seibu Co., Ltd. 26 Seven & i Food Systems Co., Ltd. 598 April 1, 2012 through March 31, 2013 York Mart Co., Ltd. 75 THE LOFT CO., LTD. 68 Akachan Honpo Co., Ltd. 97 SHELL GARDEN CO., LTD. 21 2. Methodology Bureau Veritas conducted the verification in accordance with the requirements of the international standard ‘ISO 14064-3(2006): Greenhouse gases Part 3: Specification with guidance for the validation and verification of greenhouse gas assertions’. As part of Bureau Veritas’ assurance, the following activities were undertaken: ・Interviews with relevant personnel of Seven & i responsible for the identification and calculation of GHG emissions; ・Review of Seven & i’s information systems and methodology for collection, aggregation, analysis and review of information used to determine GHG emissions; and ・Audit of a sample of source data to check accuracy of quantified GHG emissions. 3. Conclusion Based on the verification work and processes followed, there is no evidence to suggest that the GHG emissions assertions shown below: ・are not materially correct and are not a fair representation of the GHG emissions from activities within the scope of work ・are not prepared in accordance with the methodology for calculating GHG emissions established and implemented by Seven & i. Verified greenhouse gas emissions Scope 1 Scope 2 145,898 t-CO2e 2,130,221 t-CO2e 【Statement of independence, impartiality and competence】 Bureau Veritas is an independent professional services company that specializes in Quality, Health, Safety, Social and Environmental management with over 180 years history in providing independent assurance services. No member of the verification team has a business relationship with Seven & i, its Directors or Managers beyond that required of this assignment. We conducted this verification independently and to our knowledge there has been no conflict of interest. Bureau Veritas has implemented a Code of Ethics across the business to maintain high ethical standards among staff in their day-to-day business activities. The verification team has extensive experience in conducting assurance over environmental, social, ethical and health and safety information, systems and processes, has an excellent understanding of Bureau Veritas standard methodology for the verification of greenhouse gas emissions data. 48 Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2013 Overseas Initiatives South Korea Seven & i Holdings China Sweden Canada operates globally, in Denmark Japan U.S. 16 countries and regions Norway Taiwan Hawaii Thailand around the world. Philippines Mexico Malaysia Indonesia Worldwide Store Network 51,600 stores (approx.)* Shingapore Australia *The number of stores (end of February 2013 for Japan; end of December 2012 for other countries/regions) includes the following: ● Stores operated in various countries/regions by our subsidiaries ● Stores operated in each country by area licensees of 7-Eleven, Inc. ● Stores operated using trademarks pursuant to agreements concluded with Sogo & Seibu Social contribution activities by overseas companies 7-Eleven, Inc. 8,118 stores SEVEN-ELEVEN HAWAII, INC. 59 stores 7-Eleven engages in social contribution activities with the aim of promoting As a good corporate citizen, the company supports activities the well-being of youth, supporting military families, and ensuring safety in and organizations involved with children, education, public local communities. welfare, and health. Activities in FY2012 included providing 7-Eleven distributes coupons good for a free Slurpee semi-frozen, carbonated support for the Hawaii Law Enforcement Memorial Foundation, beverage to police stations in areas where it operates stores to positively a non-proﬁt organization (NPO) whose primary purpose is to reward and encourage good behavior by kids during the hot summer months design, construct and maintain a monument to honor law when communities may experience increases in loitering, shoplifting and enforcement oﬃcers who have died in the line of duty while graffiti. Since 1995, the company has been distributing approximately one serving the people of million coupons every year. In 2012, the free Slurpee coupons were Hawaii.Seven-Eleven distributed to kids in more than 600 cities, towns, and counties across the U.S. Hawaii was a sponsor More than 11 million coupons have been distributed so far. Oﬃcers comment of Ride for the Fallen that the program goes a long event held by the NPO way in turning around negative to raise funds for the perceptions of policing and memorial. police officers and builds relationships that help stop crime in the community. Hua Tang Yokado, Chengdu Ito-Yokado 13 stores SEVEN-ELEVEN (BEIJING) 200 stores In FY2012, Hua Tang Yokado donated 533,628 yuan to support education, disaster-hit areas, and A charity box is set up in each store to collect contributions from customers. other activities. Chengdu Ito-Yokado donated Funds raised are donated to Beijing Aﬀorestation Foundation, a government401,165 yuan in support of education. certiﬁed environmental organization. In FY2012, 164,884 yuan was raised. TOPICS 7-Eleven operating companies in diﬀerent countries * Companies holding area licenses operate 7-Eleven stores in diﬀerent countries. Korea Seven Co. Ltd. (Lotte Group), which operates 6,986 CP ALL Public Company Ltd. operates 7-Eleven stores in 7-Eleven stores in South Korea, has supported university Thailand (6,822). After ﬂood disaster hit Thailand in 2011, students by oﬀering interest-free student loans of up to 10 a volunteer club was initiated in 2012 with the company million KRW per individual and by running scholarship and s employees as members responsible for coordinating employment programs since January 2012. social contribution activities. Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2013 49 Overseas Initiatives 7-Eleven, Inc. Basic idea 7-Eleven honored at international Being a good neighbor is part of doing business at 7-Eleven. In addition to conference for LED Lighting retroﬁt providing top-quality products, services, and value, the company believes it In recognition of retroﬁtting 4,500 stores in the U.S. has a responsibility to be a good corporate citizen. Through a variety of and Canada with LED lighting, SEI received the environmentallyand socially-responsible business practices and programs, 2012 Corporate Energy Management Award for 7-Eleven, Inc. (SEI) strives to be the kind of neighbor our communities can be Region IV (consisting of Colorado, Texas and 11 proud to call a friend. other states) from the Association of Energy Engineers for the second consecutive year. Along with this award, SEI won the 2012 Project of the Year Award for Region IV as well. The award ceremony was held at the 35th Anniversary World Energy Engineering Congress, which is considered the most important energy event of national and international scope for end users and energy professionals in all areas of the energy ﬁeld. Employee s voice Reducing the Environmental Impact No other retail chain has made LED their standard SEI values the environment and its goal is to reduce the and rolled out a massive program like we have. impact of its business on the environment by reducing We are going to introduce more LED lightning. waste and resource consumption, CO2 emissions, and more. In 2012, through its multi-disciplinary energy and Director, Engineering & Energy Management, sustainability programs, SEI continued its annualized James Chemp reduction of CO2 emissions by 246,000 metric tons and annualized energy cost savings of $40 million. Promoting energy conservation SEI has continued its mission to build energyefficient new stores that include LED lighting, Water conservation efficient HVAC units, environmentally-benign In 2012, the company installed water refrigerants and energy-management systems. conservation faucets in all new stores to reduce In 2012, SEI became an Energy Star Partner to keep water consumption. These new faucets have been apprised of energy conservation developments and added to the standard energy-eﬃcient design plan best practices. Energy Star, a program of the U.S. for all new stores. Environmental Protection Agency, is a voluntary partnership to reduce greenhouse gas emissions through increased energy efficiency. Energy Star offers businesses and consumers energy-efficient solutions to save energy, money and help protect the environment for future generations. 50 Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2013 Consolidated deliveries Electric vehicle While signiﬁcant store growth in 2012 caused an charging stations increase in route miles, route optimization, and In 2012, to help increase sustainability and jobs truck consolidation initiatives helped reduced the in sustainable transportation in communities by-store environmental impact across its where it operates, SEI piloted an electrical vehicle distribution network. As a result, CO2 emissions charging station program in California, Illinois, were reduced by an estimated 2,500 tons. New York and Texas. Drivers can re-charge their vehicles in under 30 minutes using the cuttingedge, fast-charger stations. Eco-Friendly Packaging Packaging is necessary to ensure SEI delivers quality, safe and convenient products to its customers. At the same time, SEI understands its impact on the environment. To reduce waste, SEI seeks to minimize or use eco-friendly packaging whenever possible. In addition, SEI sources recycled, recyclable or reusable packaging. For example, its plastic bags are made with recycled materials, use less energy to produce, and are reusable and recyclable. Its Priv at e B ra n d pr o duc t s us e bo t h r ec yc l e d Coexisting with local communities in the U.S. packaging and recyclable containers in almost every category, and its packaging is minimized to SEI is committed to making contributions back to reduce waste and cost. the communities it serves. SEI values its To further efforts, in 2012 SEI hired a packaging neighborhoods, and its goal is to enhance the engineer to focus on its packaging strategy and overall quality of life where its customers, development for continual improvement. franchisees and employees live and work. Its philanthropic focus areas are youth well-being, Environmental data on the United States and Canada military families, and other community priorities FY2013 including safety. FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 Targets In 2012 through its corporate and franchise Stores 6,610 7,149 8,118 8,533 community involvement initiatives, SEI contributed more than $3.3 million to more than 700 Electricity consumption in store operations 1,720※1 1,771 1,854 2,123 organizations. （GWｈ） CO2 emissions from store operations 1,117 1,138 1,203 1,319 Amount of cash donations in the U.S. by SEI (FY2012)* (1,000 tons-CO2)*2 Health and medical care 4％ Other 7％ Water consumption in store operations 6,728 5,955 6,707 7,322 (1,000 m3) Economic Development/Advertising 4％ International relationships and cooperation 5％ Plastic bag Safety 40％ consumption ― 1,496 1,390 1,659 Military 6％ Total amount (tons) $760,678 *1 Including estimated values Disaster Area Supporting 16％ *2 Calculated based on an emission coeﬃcient conforming to the Education 18％ standards of USEPA * Budget Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2013 51 Overseas Initiatives Ensuring safety in regional communities Promoting the well-being of youth Public and youth safety are top priorities at SEI. To According to the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), 16.7 million enhance the company s safety and crime-deterrence children under 18 in the U.S. live in households where they are unable efforts, SEI unveiled a $40 million in-store, crime-fighting to consistently access enough nutritious food necessary for a healthy initiative, where the company is installing security cameras life. Good nutrition is important in establishing a foundation for a child and digital recorders in all of its U.S. stores. The program s physical and mental health, will allow SEI, its franchisees and local law enforcement academic achievement, and future agencies to remotely view security footage in 7-Eleven economic productivity. stores. Precious time will be saved if police can review To mark Hunger Action Month footage remotely. (September 2012), the company At 7-Eleven stores, age-restricted products, such as alcohol conducted a national awareness and tobacco, are sold in a legal and responsible manner. and fund-raising campaign to 7-Eleven stores registers automatically prompt sales benefit Feeding America and the associates to check identiﬁcation when an age-restricted 37 million Americans it serves. product is scanned for sale. In 2012, SEI began installing a Nearly $180,000 was raised. The new ID Scan program that verifies if the age stated on fund will help support local Feeding driver s licenses is over the minimum requirement for the America-member food banks in the purchase of restricted products. In addition, SEI conducted specific communities where the a company-wide annual Coming of Age awareness week monies were raised, and provide Campaign poster to remind employees, franchisees and sales associates more than 1.4 million meals. about the importance of selling responsibly to protect our communities. Employee s voice SEI also donated four new T3 series electric standup We believe Feeding America is the country s most vehicles to the Dallas Police Department to help increase efficient, effective organization helping local food safety and reduce crime in Downtown Dallas. The T3 is a banks provide nutritious meals to those who need it three-wheeled personal electric vehicle and an ideal urban most. mobility tool. Since it offers wide visibility and enables Youth well-being is a philanthropic focus for SEI and access to narrow corridors, when responding to a call, the ﬁghting child hunger is a priority. Feeding America is oﬃcers can get there faster. The vehicle also features zeroan ideal partner for our company to work with. gas emission with a long battery run time and short 7-Eleven, Inc. recharge time. The company also made a $300,000 gift to Manager, Safer Dallas Better Dallas to reduce crime. The donation Community Relations Nancy Lear will be used to purchase tools police need to ﬁght crime including T3s, neighborhood security cameras, bait cars and ﬁxed and mobile license plate readers. Supporting Military Families SEI is committed to helping military members, veterans and their families. One of the primary ways it supports military families is by helping service men and women transition back into civilian life, which can be challenging, especially for those that are wounded or disabled. In 2012, SEI enlisted several supplier partners to help raise awareness of veteran unemployment and funds for Hire Heroes USA. Hire Heroes USA provides free, veteran career transition services to help ease the process of SEI Vice President Asset Protection, Mark Stinde, left, and Dallas Police Chief, David Brown, returning to civilian life and prepare for and get a job. A right, stand before the T3 electric vehicles SEI donated to the Dallas Police Department portion of the sales of specially marked products 52 Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2013 benefitted Hire Heroes. In addition, the Franchisees annual charity golf outing raised incremental funds for Personnel data the cause. The cumulative 2-year fundraising total was over $600,000. Personnel data in the U.S. and Canada (as of December 31, 2012) SEI introduced a new fund-raising program in San Diegoarea stores to raise money for Operation Homefront, a Part-time staff 8,429 Full-time employees 16,316 (Percentage of part-time staff)34％ national nonprofit agency assisting military families. During September 2012, every Slurpee beverage sold at Employees Male 7,123 24,745人 participating 7-Eleven stores generated a donation Female 9,193 according to the size of the beverage sold. The goal of raising $25,000 was reached and helped provide food ● Percentage of employees with disabilities 1.8％ and home goods to 65 military families. ● Percentage of women in management positions, excluding executive officers 23％ Expanding healthier food menu SEI offers healthy food and beverage options to accommodate the needs of its health conscious customers and respond to concerns about the rise of obesity. In 2012 the company worked on expanding its selection of fresh foods for the calorie conscious and creating portion-sized items. SEVEN-ELEVEN (HAWAII), INC. consumption to 96% and the cost to 88%. Since Hawaii has the Reducing the Environmental Impact highest electricity cost in the U.S., the initiative has also contributed to a dramatic cost reduction. Seven-Eleven Hawaii, Inc. (SEH) developed a new initiative In 2013 SEH is working labeled the Energy Smart Program to reduce energy with local consultants and consumption. SEJ to further reduce its SEH staff members visited Seven-Eleven Japan (SEJ) for knowenergy consumption. These how training. Having received insightful learnings, SEH established learnings will be carried a standard temperature set point for all stores air conditioning forward and implemented in systems, which consume the largest amount of energy, installed future new stores and energy eﬃcient fan motors in the vaults/freezers, and changed the existing store renovations. vault lighting to LED. To raise energy conservation awareness among employees, the Environmental data of SEH company provided them with environmental education. All employees participated in a survey to develop a top-ten list of FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 actions that everyone would integrate into their daily work routine. Stores 55 58 59 All stores took the initiative to start implementing the top-10 Electricity consumption in store action list. Through the collaborative eﬀorts of all departments and 18,598 18,468 18,079 operations (MWH) the two-fold approach, SEH was able to reduce its energy Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2013 53 Overseas Initiatives SEVEN-ELEVEN (BEIJING) Personnel data of SEB (as of December 31, 2012) Personnel development and support Full-time employees 1,053 Male 628 Supporting development of employee abilities Employees 3,135 Female 425 Part-time staff※ 2,082 SEVEN-ELEVEN (BEIJING) Co., Ltd., or SEB, focuses on hiring (Percentage of Part-time staff:66％) and training local employees as it works to expand store *including temporary workers operations. ● Percentage of employees with disabilities 1.7％ As part of its personnel development strategy, the company ● Percentage of women in management positions, excluding executive officers 47％ has established a training plan and system designed to help ● Percentage of executive officers who are Chinese 33％ new employees get promoted to store manager and/or the position of Operations Field Consultant (OFC). Those who are capable and willing can become OFCs in about a year, which is only half the time it usually takes, through the company s original training program dubbed Speed Employee s voice Training. A labor union was established in FY2012 to enhance Personnel development at SEB focuses on building store management and employee education and benefits. The personnel communication skills of employees so they department and the labor union are working together to can work smoothly with franchisees. We also oﬀer various in-house training programs funded with union want our employees to develop a vision of dues. In FY2013, senior staﬀ members of the merchandising, making our stores better. recruiting, training, and ﬁnance and accounting departments As part of our eﬀorts, the Personnel Division s are set to participate in Seven-Eleven Japan s training Employee Relations Department , which was program that will run for about a month. established in April 2013, is planning to work on improving the workplace environment and Fostering a women-friendly workplace conduct training. We will develop the capacity of managers and their staff, focusing on China s labor contract law requires companies to fostering a workplace that will facilitate good allow their employees to take suﬃcient leave for communication among employees to avoid childbirth or childcare. the stress that could accompany our Due to this legal requirement along with the company s rapid growth. Starting in the company s merit-based promotion system, nine second half of 2013, the Personnel Division out of 19 local managers are women at SEB (as of will make recommendations to departmental the end of December 2012). managers about which courses they should SEB provides female employees with seminars on take. work-life balance with an eye to fostering a Personnel Division women-friendly workplace. Vice President in charge of Personnel Division Luan Jing 54 Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2013 Development of safe, reliable products for interior lighting at one store and for signage in two stores on a trial basis. SEB is working on developing the Seven & i Group s Seven In FY2013, the company plans to introduce inverterPremium private brand products for the Chinese market controlled refrigeration systems for operating chilled with an eye to supplying safe and environmentally friendly cases and beverage refrigerators, just like it has done products. These products are made with carefully selected with its air conditioning systems. It will also install a ingredients at factories with high quality standards that device that uses a timer and optical sensor to are approved by SEB through its strict screening process. automatically switch store signboards on and off to The Wang Yang factory, jointly established with Warabeya prevent losses incurred when store personnel forget Nichiyo Co., Ltd. for the production of Seven-Eleven s to manually turn them oﬀ. In addition to continuing to original products, was completed in February 2011. After have a service provider conduct regular inspections, it the factory had been granted a production and sales also plans to replace refrigeration equipment that license (QS license) by the Beijing Municipal uses chloroﬂuorocarbon (CFC) refrigerants. Administration of Quality and Technology Supervision, SEB started selling sandwiches in May 2012 and boxed meals Stores and environmental data of SEB in October 2012. The QS license is one of China s toughest standards, requiring a lower limit of viable count* FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 than required by Japanese standards. The factory became Stores 100 147 200 one of the ﬁrst to successfully meet all of the QS license requirements in China and serves as a model plant that Electricity consumption (MWh) 11,851 13,216 20,675※1 assures food safety and reliability. The ceremony held to Water consumption (1,000 m3) 54 55 82※2 mark its opening was attended by the deputy mayor of *1 Gas ranges at in-store kitchens were switched to electric Beijing. ranges due to government restrictions on the use of gas. This When it comes to products other than those sold under resulted in an increase in electricity consumption in FY2012. *2 The data collection method was changed. its private brand, SEB is ﬁlling out its product lineup with items that do not use any additives or preservatives, including high quality fruit juices and more. * A count of the number of neutrophilic aerobic bacterial cells present in food. It s used to measure food freshness. In-store fundraising Each store has had a charity box since November 2006 that is used to collect contributions from customers. Funds raised are donated to the Beijing Afforestation Foundation, a government-certified environmental organization. The foundation is working to build sand break forest belts in Beijing and the surrounding area. Funds raised are used to plant trees that will protect the area from dust storms and prevent desertification. In addition to donating contributions Reducing the Environmental Impact from customers to the foundation, SEB attended the ceremony celebrating the completion of a sand break Electricity charges have gone up in China due to forest, which was held by the foundation in September supply failing to keep pace with growing demand. 2011. SEB was commended by the foundation in July Businesses are mandated to conserve electricity to 2011 and March 2012 for the support it had provided. reduce costs as well as decrease their environmental impact. Historical data on funds raised In FY2012, SEB switched to energy-saving lighting and FY2010 80,931 yuan reduced the number of such ﬁxtures when its stores were renovated just as it did last year. Air FY2011 148,586 yuan conditioning units at some stores were replaced with FY2012 164,884 yuan those employing inverters. Moreover, looking to increase use of LED lighting, SEB installed LED lights Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2013 55 Overseas Initiatives Hua Tang Yokado, Chengdu Ito-Yokado across the organization. Through these meetings, individual Promoting localization and supporting skill development employees and departments report on the progress made in customer service, sales promotion, cost reduction, In December 1996, Chengdu Ito-Yokado Co., Ltd. was environmental improvement, enhanced performance of established in Chengdu in Sichuan Province. Then in tenants, etc., and those who made outstanding progress September 1997, Hua Tang Yokado Commercial Co., Ltd. are commended. Other programs designed to motivate was launched in Beijing. These companies now operate employees are also in place, including an employee Ito-Yokado stores at 13 locations in China (as of the end recognition program that commends employees who have of February 2013). Focusing on localizing their store made a signiﬁcant contribution to the company and serve operations, the two companies work to oﬀer products and as role models (Hua Tang services that match local needs, buy products from local Yokado), sales and suppliers, and shift control of store operations to local t e c h n o l o g i c a l staﬀ. competitions, and an Both Hua Tang Yokado and Chengdo Ito-Yokado are employee suggestion currently developing organizations for store operations p r o g r a m f o r b u s i n e s s Presentation meeting mainly consisting of locally hired employees. All of the improvement. managers and assistant managers of Chengdo Ito-Yokado and Hua Tang Yokado stores are Chinese, with the exception of one Hua Tang Yokado location, which is Development of safe, reliable products managed by a Japanese employee. Chinese employees account for 98% of all managers and higher-ranked managerial employees at Hua Tang Yokado and 91% at Chengdo Ito-Yokado. ISO9001 certiﬁcation Along with local hiring, positive eﬀorts are also being made Chengdo Ito-Yokado obtained ISO9001 certiﬁcation for all of its to support employees skill development. Quarterly store operations in 2007 in order to ensure quality management presentation meetings are held to share the outcome through clearly deﬁned and standardized work procedures. Employee s voice Receiving the Ito Honorary Award through the employee recognition program Earning recognition at the Q1 2013 presentation meeting I have worked as a cashier for ten years. I m grateful My work on developing the pbi private brand and increasing to win this award. I couldn t have done it without sales paid oﬀ and led to the recognition of those eﬀorts at the everyone s support. presentation meeting for the ﬁrst quarter of FY2013. It was Being a cashier is a hard but rewarding job. The other my ﬁrst time participating in the presentation meeting. I m so day, a regular customer said to me, You re working glad that my eﬀorts were singled out and was excited to have on a holiday. I admire your hard work. I was really been recognized by the company. I m still a novice buyer and glad to hear that. I enjoy talking with our customers as there s a lot more for me to learn. I look forward to continuing if they were my family. The words of encouragement to work with my fellow merchandising team members on they give me are my inspiration. I want to return the developing products that will appeal to customers as we favor to our customers by providing them with the move forward with an eye to increasing sales of pbi products best customer service possible. to 10% of total apparel sales. Hua Tang Yokado Commercial Co., Ltd. Chengdu Ito-Yokado Co., Ltd. Asian Games Village store Apparel Product Division Leader, Cashier Department pbi buyer Bi Yan Hong Tang Ying Ying 56 Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2013 Bringing Traceable Food to the Chinese market Supporting local communities In response to the rising tide of concern over food As good corporate citizens, Hua Tang Yokado and safety in China, in March 2013, Chengdo Ito-Yokado Chengdo Ito-Yokado conduct various community launched the Chinese version of Traceable Food programs including fundraising and employee (see p. 20), a line of products already available in volunteer activities. Japan. Customers can find out the grower of a Hua Tang Yokado established the Yokado Charity product as well as how and where it was produced Fund for Assisting with the Education of Children in by visiting the special website and entering the ID collaboration with the Beijing Charity Association in code labeled on the product or reading a two2008. In FY2012, the company donated 246,800 dimensional barcode attached to the product using yuan, which was used to purchase personal their cellular phone. There are 27 vegetables and computers and other school supplies. Chengdo Itoone fruit product currently available under the label. Yokado donated 285,500 yuan in support of Chengdo Ito-Yokado plans to expand product lines education and organized to include pork, ﬁsh, rice and more. employee volunteer Hua Tang Yokado activities, including also offers 16 monthly neighborhood products for which cleanups and holiday customers can visits to elderly people Employees who participated in search traceability living alone. volunteer activities information using instore terminals. ■ Chengdo Ito-Yokado s Traceable Reducing the Environmental Impact Food products As China faces challenges in energy conservation, Mechanism of Traceable Food Hua Tang Yokado and Chengdo Ito-Yokado are implementing various measures to reduce power consumption, such as the use of energy-efficient lighting and LED lights. PC/ Farm Ito-Yokado Electricity consumption in FY2012 fell 2% year on mobile phone year at Hua Tang Yokado as a result of promoting (2) Farming environment (1) Information disclosure the use of LED lighting at tenant stores as well as Chengdo Ito-Yokado selects We disclose growers that produce their information about the Daxing store s temporary closure. Chengdo Itocrops in a good environment (4) Making improvements grower of products as Yokado saw a 37% year-on-year increase in and works to further improve We work with growers well as where and their farming environment. how they were electricity consumption due to the opening of a new to make continual (3) Fertilizer management improvements and produced via the store location in Gaoxin. We work with growers to ensure regularly report on product package, the appropriate management of progress. Traceable Food website, mobile site, Stores and environmental data of Hua Tang Yokado fertilizer, pesticides and chemicals and reduce inputs. and in-store signage. FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 Stores 8 8 8 (5) Safety and quality We ensure safety and quality (taste and Customers Electricity consumption (MWh) 61,318 55,847 54,609 freshness) using our own standards. 3 Water consumption (1,000 m ) 407 413 360 Third party Stores and environmental data of Chengdu Ito-Yokado (6) Third-party audit We have specialized third-party organizations that conduct FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 regular inspections in order to increase the transparency of Stores 4 5 5 safety, quality, fertilizer management, etc. Electricity consumption (MWh) 59,666 61,378 84,226 3 Water consumption (1,000 m ) 550 571 674 Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2013 57 Seven-Eleven Japan Co., Ltd Number of stores as of the end of FY2012: 15,072 Website： http://www.sej.co.jp/social/index.html (in Japanese) Reducing the Environmental Impact FY2012 Targets/Results and FY2013 Targets ○： Target achieved △： Target nearly achieved ×： Fell signiﬁcantly short of target Challenges FY2012 Targets and Plans FY2012 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2013 Targets Improving energy eﬃciency and introducing renewable energy CO2 emissions per store: Reduce to 66.4 CO2 emissions per store: 85 tons*7 Promote use of LED lighting for tons or below Solar panels installed at 6,500 △ chilled cases Install solar panels at 5,000 stores stores in total Promote use of hybrid vehicles in logistics Reducing waste and developing a recycling-oriented society Reduce the use of plastic bags relative to Reduce year-on-year use of Use of plastic bags per store: 0.94 the previous ﬁscal year plastic bags per store tons △ Food waste recycling rate: 36.1% or Food waste recycling rate: 50.9% Food waste recycling rate: 48.9% higher or higher Raising environmental awareness among employees Review the details of training provided to Started planning for basic environmental training Implement basic environmental employees in cooperation with Group companies ○ training Publish a CSR leaﬂet Published a leaﬂet in December 2012 Environmental Data Challenges Unit FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 1 2 CO2 emissions* * t-CO2 1,022,901 1,039,043 1,372,058 CO2 emissions from store operations (per store)*2 t-CO2 880,044 (69.9) 897,183 (66.4) 1,222,882(85.0) Logistics-related CO2 emissions*3 t-CO2 140,742 140,121 146,581 Electricity consumption in store operations (per GWh 2,241 (178) 2,285 (169) 2,444 (169) store)*2 (MWh) Water consumption in store operations*4 1,000 m3 ― ― 7,811 Plastic bag consumption per store (by weight) t 0.89 0.92 0.94 5 Waste disposal (recycling rate)* t (％ ) 324,540 (45.3) 308,724 (43.8) 324,753 (46.4) Food waste recycling rate*6 ％ 31.7 34.1 48.9 *1 The data show CO2 emissions stemming from the use of energy in store, logistics, headquarters, training center and district oﬃce operations. *2 Calculations are based on estimated electricity consumption for stores where data was not available. *3 This data represents CO2 emissions stemming from the use of energy for distribution center operation and delivery trucks. For FY2011, some data were not available due to the inﬂuence of the Great East Japan Earthquake. *4 Calculations are based on estimated water consumption by approximately 3,000 stores in Tokyo and other ordinance-designated cities. *5 Calculations are based on estimated emissions by the stores in Tokyo, Kyoto, etc. The period of the calculations was January to December, and the amount of baseline emissions was changed in FY2011. The amount of food waste was calculated based on the standard of *6. *6 Calculated based on the reports submitted by food recycling companies. The period of the calculations was April to March. Providing Safe, Reliable Products and Services Data for Customer Response Services Moving forward under the banner of nearby, convenient stores, we are Description of contacts received by Customer Response Service by topic (FY2012) focusing on customer services that will bring our stores closer to the customer Contacts received: 87,863 (107% of the previous ﬁscal year) both physically and psychologically. We will also make continual Environment 4％ Compliments 1％ improvements to our customer service training course, allowing employees to Service Other 10％ take it repeatedly so that they can get back to the basics again and again. 5％ Customer General care inquiries 51％ 13％ Products 16％ 58 Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2013 FY2012 Targets/Results and FY2013 Targets ○： Target achieved △： Target nearly achieved ×： Fell signiﬁcantly short of target Challenges FY2012 Targets and Plans FY2012 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2013 Targets Ensuring the quality and safety of products and services Take efforts in a planned manner, to have Certiﬁed plants: 139 of 161 Certiﬁcation ratio: Take eﬀorts in a planned manner, to have △ all plants obtain NDF-HACCP certiﬁcation 86.3% (90.1% in the previous ﬁscal yearʼs level) all plants obtain NDF-HACCP certiﬁcation Making stores and facilities more customer-friendly and reliable Stores adopting barrier-free design: 328 stores Stores adopting barrier-free design: 294 (111.6% of the previous ﬁscal yearʼs level) Stores adopting barrier-free design: 298 S to r e s where the minimum necessary Stores where the minimum necessary facilities ○ Stores where the minimum necessary facilities facilities continue operation even during continue operation even during blackouts: 1,354 continue operation even during blackouts: 1,500 blackouts: 1,350 stores (100.3% of the previous ﬁscal yearʼs level) Assuring appropriate information provision Add a new webpage to the corporate website Made information about about measures designed to ensure food safety Make part of the product and other products, sale/campaigns, and and reliability. Provide information on the information on the website viewable on ○ services viewable on elimination of artiﬁcial preservatives and coloring in smartphones smartphones addition to information on the reduction of transfatty acids, which has already been made available Responding sincerely to customer opinions (organization) The number of calls received was 107.3% of the Enhance skills of customer service Post the toll-free phone number on the website, previous ﬁscal yearʼs level. Enhancing the skills of employees through internal and external with a target of increasing the number of calls △ customer service employees enabled us to respond training to be able to better respond to received to 110% of the previous ﬁscal year to more customer opinions and comments. opinions and comments from customers. Coexisting with Local Communities FY2012 Targets/Results and FY2013 Targets ○： Target achieved △： Target nearly achieved ×： Fell signiﬁcantly short of target Challenges FY2012 Targets and Plans FY2012 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2013 Targets Supporting young parents and the elderly Number of mobile stores: 33 Increase the number of mobile stores Increase the number of in operation to 50, We run mobile stores in 15 to 100, and the number of product and strengthen the supporting measures for prefectures across Japan, △ delivery service vehicles (electric product delivery. providing local customers with vehicles) to 1,000 in a further eﬀort shopping support to be nearby, convenient stores Assisting in local community revitalization Concluded comprehensive cooperation Work to conclude agreements Continue with support for boosting the local agreements for community revitalization with additional municipalities economy based on the comprehensive with Fukuoka City, Mie Prefecture, and ○ and strengthen ties with existing cooperation agreements Yokohama City (renewal), bringing the municipal partners total to 32 prefectures and 10 cities Providing support in times of disaster Strengthen ties with public disaster prevention Deepen collaboration with disaster Concluded disaster support agencies to build an organization that can prevention desk of municipalities for building agreements with Yamaguchi ○ deliver a more eﬀective response in light of the an organization that enables even more Prefecture and Fukuoka City increasingly vital role the retail industry plays in prompt responses (cumulative total) the community when a major disaster hits Implementing crime prevention measures for local communities Strengthen ties with local crime Increase the membership ratio in crime Membership ratio to crime prevention councils, etc. to boost prevention council and the participation prevention council: 38.0% △ member store participation in ratio among member stores in crime Participation ratio to crime crime prevention drills and prevention drills to 50% prevention drills: 48.7% seminars to 50% Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2013 59 Creating Fulﬁlling Workplaces FY2012 Targets/Results and FY2013 Targets ○： Target achieved △： Target nearly achieved ×： Fell signiﬁcantly short of target Challenges FY2012 Targets and Plans FY2012 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2013 Targets Supporting development of employee abilities Conducted regular training (6-month Start providing Operations Field Enhance training (compliance training, and 1-year courses) for new OFCs Consultants (OFCs) with annual training ○ training for new OFCs and new DMs, Provided training to employees of Enhance the education program for OFC candidates nationwide TS meeting, etc.) directly operated stores Assuring fair assessment and treatment of employees Number of applicants to the candidate system: 120% of the previous ﬁscal yearʼs level Number of applicants: 116 (75.3% of the previous ﬁscal yearʼs level) Number of applicants: 120% of the previous ﬁscal yearʼs level △ Percentage of female managers: 10% Percentage of female managers: 7.6% Percentage of female managers: 10% Achieving a work-life balance Increase the number of male users at least to one Increase the number of male users at least to one Number of male users: 1 △ Encourage employees to take consecutive leave twice a year Encourage employees to take consecutive leave twice a year Making use of diverse human resources Employ 30 foreign students Employed 23 foreign students (vs. 17 in the previous ﬁscal year) Employ 30 foreign students △ Employ 15 people with disabilities Employed 6 people with disabilities (2 in the previous ﬁscal year) Employ 15 people with disabilities Assuring consideration for worker health and safety Reduce the number of traﬃc accidents and violations by 10% year on year Number of traﬃc accidents and violations: 1,944 (111.3% of the previous ﬁscal yearʼs level) Reduce the number of traﬃc accidents and violations by 10% year on year × Reduce the number of industrial accidents by 10% year on year Number of industrial accidents: 128 (100.0% of the previous ﬁscal yearʼs level) Reduce the number of industrial accidents by 10% year on year Personnel Data Breakdown of number of employees (as of the end of February 2013) FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 Full-time employees 6,070 Average length of service (full-time employees) 9 years 4 months 9 years 7 months 9 years 5 months Male 4,527 Number of full-time employees who took childcare leave (males) 45 (0) 65 (0) 49 (1) Female 1,543 Number of full-time employees who took nursing leave (males) 0 0 0 (0) Part-time staﬀ* 1 3,830 Number of volunteer leave recipients 1 0 0 (0) *2 Employees (full-time employees + Percentage of women in management positions 7.0％ 7.1％ 7.6％ 9,900 part-time staﬀ) Percentage of employees with disabilities*3 1.87％ 1.89％ 2.05％ New graduate employees hired (males, females) 322 (Males 162, Females 160) Percentage of paid holidays taken by full-time employees*4 5.5％ 5.7％ 8.1％ *5 Mid-career employees hired 295 Frequency rate of industrial accidents 0.08 0.06 0.04 Re-employment 18 Severity rate of industrial accidents 0.003 0.002 0.002 *1 Number of part-time staﬀ working at directly operated stores (the monthly average number, with 8 hours/day counted as one employee) *2 Excluding executive oﬃcers *3 The rate for the ﬁscal year is the rate as of June 1 of the following ﬁscal year. The percentage of workers with disabilities is for the ﬁve qualiﬁed Group companies: Seven & i Holdings , Terre Verte (special subsidiary for severe disabilities), Seven-Eleven Japan, Ito-Yokado, and Seven & i Food Systems. *4 Holidays remaining from the preceding ﬁscal year are not included. Data for Consultation Services for Employees The number of consultations received in FY2012 Description of contacts received by Customer Response Service by topic (FY2012) By user category was up year on year to total 48 due partly to our Contacts received: 48 (141% of the previous ﬁscal yearʼs level) eﬀorts to promote the help line system. Unrelated consulting Families of employees 6％ Since there was an obvious lack of communication 29％ between regular employees and part-timers Full-time Part-time working at our directly operated stores, we reSuspected Communications* employees staff noncompliance 52％ 58％ examined our training programs and worked to 35％ 2％ Working increase their awareness. conditions We also started semiannual departmental 17％ training aimed at ensuring compliance by all employees in light of last yearʼs trend. 60 Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2013 Ito-Yokado Co., Ltd. Number of stores as of the end of FY2012: 174 Website： http://www.itoyokado.co.jp/company/iycsr/ (in Japanese) Reducing the Environmental Impact FY2012 Targets/Results and FY2013 Targets ○： Target achieved △： Target nearly achieved ×： Fell signiﬁcantly short of target Challenges FY2012 Targets and Plans FY2012 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2013 Targets Improving energy eﬃciency and introducing renewable energy Number of stores using LED light bulbs: 140 Reducing CO 2 emissions by 12,700 Environmental impact index: Improve the environmental impact index t-CO2 after switching from conventional deteriorated by 10% from the by 1% lighting previous ﬁscal year △ Reduce the delivery distance per store by Delivery distance per store: 261,000 Reduce the delivery distance 1% km (1% reduction for existing per store by 5.3% centers; a 12,000-km increase due to opening of 3 additional frozen food distribution centers) Reducing waste and developing a recycling-oriented society Food waste recycling rate: Food waste recycling rate: 48% Food waste recycling rate: 45%, stores 45.2% Stores that implement the recycling: that implement the recycling: 100 storesr Stores that implement the ○ 100 stores Turndown rate of plastic bags in the ﬁnal recycling: 90 stores Turndown rate of plastic bags in month of FY2012: 50% Turndown rate of plastic bags February 2014: 70% in February 2013: 66.1% Environmental Data Challenges Unit FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 *1 CO2 emissions t-CO2 591,464 466,187 533,110*2 CO2 emissions from store operations t-CO2 564,975 439,934 507,499*2 (Environmental impact index*3) (t-CO2/m2×1 million h) (117) (94) (103) CO2 emissions by delivery vehicles t-CO2 24,017 24,070*4 23,340*2 Electricity consumption in store operations GWh 1,256 943 853*2 Water consumption in store operations 1,000 m3 7,353 7,684 5,793*2 Plastic bag consumption (turndown rate) at the t 2,717 (43.1) 2,725 (43.3) 2,409 (47.6) food section Waste disposal (recycling rate)*2 t (％ ) 131,918 (65.2) 129,375 (66.2) 132,051 (66.3) Food waste recycling rate*2 ％ 36.7 39.4 45.2 *1 CO2 emissions stemming from the use of energy in store, headquarters, training center and distribution center operations and by delivery vehicles. *2 The period of the calculations was April to March. *3 CO2 emissions per (total sales ﬂoor area x opening hours) Figures for FY2010 and 2011 were recalculated using the new method implemented to calculate the FY2012 data. *4 For some vehicles, the in-vehicle terminal models were updated to include CO 2 emissions from transportation between delivery companies and distribution centers, because of which the amount of CO2 emissions increased. Some data was not available due to the impact of the Great East Japan Earthquake. CO2 emissions were calculated according to the Seven & i Holdings Group-Wide CO2 Emissions Calculation Manual. CO 2 emissions for FY2012 were calculated in accordance with the manual revised in March 2013. Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2013 61 Providing Safe, Reliable Products and Services Data for Customer Response Services The number of contacts received from customers in FY2012 was up and Description of contacts received by Customer Response Service by topic (FY2012) totaled 93,108 (113% of the previous ﬁscal yearʼs level). Thirty-ﬁve percent of Contacts received: 93,108 (113% of the previous ﬁscal yearʼs level) them were about services. We will continue to respond to customer feedback Household goods Others, tenants by analyzing the causes of the complaints. 7％ 17％ Service Apparel 35％ 7％ Cash registers 12％ Food 21％ FY2012 Targets/Results and FY2013 Targets ○： Target achieved △： Target nearly achieved ×： Fell signiﬁcantly short of target Challenges FY2012 Targets and Plans FY2012 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2013 Targets Ensuring the quality and safety of products and services Revise our own quality standards for the first Published the revised standards Develop a guidebook designed for enhancing customer services ○ time in ﬁve years, including product categories in November Enter the Best Contributors to Product Safety Awards for the ﬁrst time in two years Making stores and facilities more customer-friendly and reliable Formulate countermeasures against Developed countermeasures against Revise the Tokyo Metropolitan Area Epicentral Earthquake Countermeasures volcanic disasters accompanying possible eruption of Mt. Fuji as part of our ○ Share the countermeasures against possible eruption of Mt. Fuji across earthquakes large-scale disaster countermeasures the organization and develop speciﬁc departmental countermeasures Assuring appropriate information provision Enhance training through management Enhance training through management meetings for Ratio of items graded A: 96% meetings for the apparel, household the apparel, household goods and food products (up a point from the previous ○ goods and food products divisions in divisions in order to maintain appropriate labeling ﬁscal year) order to maintain appropriate labeling Maintain the ratio of items graded A at 96% Responding sincerely to customer opinions (organization) Enhance ability to respond to service-related complaints by Number of complaints about services: 32,524 Reduce complaints on services analyzing their causes with an eye to reducing such complaints (99% of the previous ﬁscal yearʼs level) Increase the number of complimentary ○ Actively share complimentary comments throughout Number of complimentary comments: 1,631 comments the company and implement a commendation (1% of the previous ﬁscal yearʼs level) program, etc. to increase the number of compliments Coexisting with Local Communities FY2012 Targets/Results and FY2013 Targets ○： Target achieved △： Target nearly achieved ×： Fell signiﬁcantly short of target Challenges FY2012 Targets and Plans FY2012 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2013 Targets Supporting young parents and the elderly Develop products that will help the elderly live more convenient and comfortable lives, not limited Developed 200 new products, Develop products that will help eliminate the to nursing care goods, and enhance the education conducted training 7 times △ inconveniences elderly people experience in of salespeople so that they can appropriately with 280 participants their daily lives explain the product functions to customers Providing support in times of disaster Continue to work on concluding agreements with Hiroshima, Continue to work on concluding agreements with Concluded agreements with Hyogo, Okayama, Nagano and other prefectures and municipalities to provide support in times of the Japan Ground Self-Defense ○ municipalities to provide support in times of disaster disaster and look into opportunities to sign an Force, 1 ward, 2 cities, and 1 Work to conclude agreements with ﬁre and police departments for agreement with the Japan Self Defense Forces ﬁre department the provision of food and other supplies in the event of a disaster 62 Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2013 Creating Fulﬁlling Workplaces FY2012 Targets/Results and FY2013 Targets ○： Target achieved △： Target nearly achieved ×： Fell signiﬁcantly short of target Challenges FY2012 Targets and Plans FY2012 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2013 Targets Supporting development of employee abilities Increase the percentage of employees Percentage of personnel in ranks 1 to 3: 46.3% Narrow down courses necessary for store in ranks 1 to 3 to 60% Oﬀered 8 courses including 2 new courses taught managers to increase their participation rate △ Provide managers of existing stores by external instructors. Conducted hands-on Strengthen hands-on training for each rank with new training follow-up training (in-store training) for each rank to enhance employeesʼ practical skills Assuring fair assessment and treatment of employees Promote the establishment of workplaces where the abilities Percentage of female managers: Foster a workplace environment where the ○ of employees are fairly evaluated regardless of gender 18.2% (Up 1.5% year on year) abilities of employees are fairly evaluated Achieving a work-life balance Reduce the overtime to 95% of the 110% of the previous ﬁscal yearʼs Streamline operations to reduce overtime by 5% year on year. × previous ﬁscal yearʼs level level Ensure all employees take days oﬀ. Making use of diverse human resources Hold readily understood and highly persuasive Hold seminars where employees learn about the context Number of training sessions: 51; seminars on human rights and normalization, by and basic ideas behind promoting human rights total number of participants: ○ showing the backgrounds, speciﬁc examples, and awareness and normalization through speciﬁc examples 2,846 numerical data to participants with an eye to enhancing employeesʼ practical skills Assuring consideration for worker health and safety Examine the causes of industrial accidents and countermeasures, and make all Frequency rate: 1.81, severity Focus on reducing lost work-time △ employees aware of the results to prevent the reoccurrence of similar accidents rate: 0.03 accidents Personnel Data Breakdown of number of employees (as of the end of February 2013) FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 Full-time employees 8,672 Average length of service (full-time employees) 19 years 2 months 20 years 0 month 20 years 4 months Male 6,474 Number of childcare leave recipients (males and part-time staﬀ) 201 (0, 87) 192 (0, 97) 194 (0, 100) Female 2,198 Number of nursing leave recipients (males and part-time staﬀ) 26 (2, 23) 8 (1, 7) 22 (0, 18) Part-time staﬀ*1 28,637 Number of volunteer leave recipients 3 14 2 *2 Employees (full-time employees + Percentage of women in management positions 16.3％ 16.7％ 18.2％ 37,309 part-time staﬀ) Percentage of employees with disabilities*3 1.87％ 1.89％ 2.05％ New graduate employees hired (males, females) 91 (Males 42, Females 49) Percentage of paid holidays taken by full-time employees *4 16.5％ 11.2％ 11.4％ Mid-career employees hired 14 Frequency rate of industrial accidents 1.72 1.67 1.81 Re-employment 170 Severity rate of industrial accidents 0.03 0.03 0.03 *1 Monthly average number, with 163 hours/month counted as one employee *2 Excluding executive oﬃcers *3 The rate for the ﬁscal year is the rate as of June 1 of the following ﬁscal year. The percentage of workers with disabilities is for the ﬁve qualiﬁed Group companies: Seven & i Holdings , Terre Verte (special subsidiary for severe disabilities), Seven-Eleven Japan, Ito-Yokado, and Seven & i Food Systems. *4 Holidays remaining from the preceding ﬁscal year are not included. Data for Consultation Services for Employees The majority of contacts came from part-time Description of contacts received by Customer Response Service by topic (FY2012) By user category employees. Most of them were concerned about Contacts received: 220 (91.3% of the previous ﬁscal year s level) interpersonal relationships with their supervising Other 17％ Other/ managers. We will continue our ongoing efforts unknown 27％ Suspected Unrelated consulting 3％ to teach managerial employees about the Part-time noncompliance importance of daily communication in training staff 2％ Families of sessions for new managerial employees, etc. 52％ Working employees 6％ conditions Communications* Full-time employees 19％ 59％ 14％ Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2013 63 Sogo & Seibu Co., Ltd. Number of stores as of the end of FY2012: 24 Website： http://www.sogo-seibu.co.jp/csr.html (in Japanese) Reducing the Environmental Impact FY2012 Targets/Results and FY2013 Targets ○： Target achieved △： Target nearly achieved ×： Fell signiﬁcantly short of target Challenges FY2012 Targets and Plans FY2012 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2013 Targets Attaining an appropriate grasp of environmental impact Launched measures to acquire ISO 14001 certiﬁcation at two Robinson stores Robinson (now Seibu) acquired ISO14001 certiﬁcation at two stores ○ Undergo an ISO14001 renewal audit and get its certiﬁcation renewed Improving energy eﬃciency and introducing renewable energy Reduce CO2 emissions by 1% Introduced LED lights on the ground ﬂoor of core Reduce CO2 emissions by 1% ○ Examine introducing more LED lights stores and ﬁtting rooms at 14 store locations Examine introducing more LED lights Reducing waste and developing a recycling-oriented society Food waste recycling rate: 52% Food waste recycling rate: 51.1% Food waste recycling rate: 52% △ Increase the waste recycling rate to 100% at the main store in Ikebukuro The main store in Ikebukuro achieved a 100% waste recycling rate Waste recycling rate: 61% Implementing measures to conserve biodiversity Increase peopleʼs awareness of green Increase peopleʼs awareness of green Planted 1,270 trees over the year wrapping to plant 1,200 trees wrapping to plant 1,300 trees Planted 1,270 trees in the Kai ○ Plant trees in the Kai Zenko-ji forest to create Plant trees in the Kai Zenko-ji forest to Zenko-ji forest an ecologically rich satoyama forest create an ecologically rich satoyama forest Oﬀering eco-friendly products Continue proposing environmentally friendly products Proposed environmentally friendly products on an ongoing basis: 97 items ○ Continue proposing environmentally friendly products Raising environmental awareness among employees Increase employeesʼ awareness on a continual basis All employees completed an e-learning class Increase employeesʼ awareness on a continual basis Implement a campaign to encourage employees Implemented a campaign to encourage all ○ Implement a campaign to encourage employees to save the use of electricity at their homes employees to save electricity at their homes to save the use of electricity at their homes Environmental Data Challenges Unit FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 *1 CO2 emissions t-CO2 206,473 173,868 188,486*2 CO2 emissions from store operations t-CO2 205,937 173,365 187,831*2 Electricity consumption in store operations GWh 444 376 357*2 Water consumption in store operations*2*3 1,000 m3 2,892 2,704 2,438 Packaging consumption t 1,720 1,675 1,623 *4 Waste disposal (recycling rate) t (％ ) 31,687 (58.2) 32,749 (61.2) 32,020(60.6) Food waste recycling rate ％ 42.5*4 51.2 50.3 *1 CO2 emissions stemming from the use of energy in store, headquarters and distribution center operations. *2 The period of the calculations was April to March. *3 Figures for FY2010 and 2011 were recalculated using the same categories as used for the FY 2012 data. *4 Seibu Kasukabe store (formerly Robinsonʼs Kasukabe store) and Seibu Odawara store (formerly Robinsonʼs Odawara store) are not included in the results. CO2 emissions were calculated according to the Seven & i Holdings Group-Wide CO2 Emissions Calculation Manual. CO 2 emissions for FY2012 were calculated in accordance with the manual revised in March 2013. Providing Safe, Reliable Products and Services Data for Customer Response Services During FY2012, we analyzed and identiﬁed causes of complaints speciﬁc to Description of contacts received by Customer Response Service by topic (FY2012) each department based on customer feedback and implemented specific Contacts received: 12,503 (90.3% of the previous ﬁscal yearʼs level) improvement measures to increase customer satisfaction. Moreover, in our Misunderstanding or unreasonable complaints 4％ Other 3％ internal newsletters, we continually featured examples of good sales practices that helped increase customer satisfaction and should be common goals for Customer all salespersons. In FY2013, we will continue our efforts to cultivate a Products 21％ care corporate culture that leads to better customer satisfaction by solving the 44％ problems facing each department. Service 28％ 64 Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2013 FY2012 Targets/Results and FY2013 Targets ○： Target achieved △： Target nearly achieved ×： Fell signiﬁcantly short of target Challenges FY2012 Targets and Plans FY2012 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2013 Targets Ensuring the quality and safety of products and services Continue to conduct audits and production process Continue to have store managers and other Conducted audits and inspections at 34 locations inspections at plants that produce private brand products management personnel conduct kitchen inspections Store managers and other management personnel Store managers and other management personnel Strengthen inspection system for private brand attended the Department Store Food Safety Adviser are to conduct hygiene inspection in kitchens. apparel and general merchandise seminar (149 managers attended, as of April 2013) ○ Acquisition of the Department Store Food Safety Introduce e-learning system to the educational Audit accuracy was improved as a result of Adviser qualiﬁcation is to be mandated. curriculum for apparel and general merchandise establishment and review of production Audit plants that make private brand categories and provide 1,500 employees with such an processes, inspection documents, etc. apparel and general merchandise e-learning opportunity Making stores and facilities more customer-friendly and reliable Installed automatic doors on the first Consider installing more Consider installing more equipment basement level entrance to Kobe store ○ equipment at the time of sales at the time of sales ﬂoor renovation Installed toddler toilet seats in the bathrooms on the ﬂoor renovation childrenʼs clothing ﬂoor at six large-scale stores Responding sincerely to customer opinions (organization) Promote activities to analyze customer needs by Article series entitled 1,000 Voices (customer service on the sales Continue to step up on activities to analyze customer department, identify issues facing each department, ﬂoor) was featured 12 times in the internal newsletter in order to ○ needs by department, identify issues facing each and reﬂect them in sales strategies enhance customer response abilities at stores department, and reﬂect them in sales strategies Coexisting with Local Communities FY2012 Targets/Results and FY2013 Targets ○： Target achieved △： Target nearly achieved ×： Fell signiﬁcantly short of target Challenges FY2012 Targets and Plans FY2012 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2013 Targets Supporting young parents and the elderly Expand Pre-Mama Stations Pre-Mama Station: 6 stores Continue operating the Pre-Mama Establish the Pre-Mama Counters at all the Oﬀered monthly seminars/Number of consultations: 18,109 Stations and Counters and hold seminars stores, where customers can consult with Pre-Mama Counter: 12 stores and events for the whole family to enjoy midwives and health nurses on a regular basis Oﬀered weekly consultation sessions/Number of consultations: 1,728 Develop products by incorporating the Develop more products by incorporating the Developed products that incorporate wishes customers ○ wishes customers share with the midwives wishes customers shared with the midwives shared with the midwives/22 products in FY2012 Develop more specialty salespersons Develop more specialty salespersons 34 baby product advisers, 26 shoe fitters, and Increase the number of childrenʼs shoes Continue to operate the permanent trade-in 32 shoe advisers to be traded in to 90,000 pairs service corners for childrenʼs shoes Number of childrenʼs shoes traded in: 83,687 pairs Assisting in local community revitalization Hosted various local events at stores, including green curtain Hold more localized events events, water sprinkling activities, work experience programs Conclude a comprehensive Hold more localized events ○ for elementary school students, and locavore campaigns cooperation agreement with Concluded a comprehensive cooperation agreement with Saitama Prefecture Akita Prefecture Providing support in times of disaster Hosted a disaster preparedness fair at each store location Continue fostering cooperation with in cooperation with the Ministry of Internal Affairs and local governments and companies, Continue fostering cooperation with Communicationsʼ Fire and Disaster Management Agency, including measures for people local governments and companies, Kanagawa prefectural government, etc. having difficulties in going home in including measures for people Participated in a council that discussed measures to aid people who ○ the event of large earthquakes having difficulties in going home in will have difficulty getting home in the event of a disaster. The Conclude an agreement with the event of large earthquakes council, composed of municipalities and companies located around Saitama Prefecture concerning main terminal stations, such as Ikebukuro, Shibuya, and Chiba the provision of supplies in the Stations, discussed ways to work together in the event of a disaster event of a disaster Implementing crime prevention measures for local communities Continue to cooperate with local Participated in community disaster drills (designed to aid Continue to cooperate with local communities to establish disaster people who may have diﬃculty getting home in the event ○ communities to establish disaster and crime prevention systems of a disaster), crime prevention patrols, etc. and crime prevention systems Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2013 65 Creating Fulﬁlling Workplaces FY2012 Targets/Results and FY2013 Targets ○： Target achieved △： Target nearly achieved ×： Fell signiﬁcantly short of target Challenges FY2012 Targets and Plans FY2012 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2013 Targets Supporting development of employee abilities Hold open seminars with better Target was achieved with a total of Develop and implement measures to boost the number content for an additional 3,000 3,135 participants (26 more than ○ of seminar participants and license holders with an aim employees per year the previous ﬁscal year) to secure 3,000 new seminar participants each year Assuring fair assessment and treatment of employees Percentage of female managers: (1) team leaders: 50.0% and (2) (1) Team leaders: 32.5% (2) Section managers Percentage of female managers: at least 10.0% of section △ section managers and those in higher positions: 10.0% and those in higher positions: 8.0% managers and those in higher positions are women Achieving a work-life balance Hold a consultation meeting to help Held a round table discussion for female employees on maternity/childcare Develop and implement measures to employees who will return to work from leave (giving 4 from Kansai and 12 from Kanto an opportunity to consult make the workplace more womenchildcare leave relieve their concerns with employees who have taken maternity/childcare leave in the past) ○ friendly (work with the Group Expand and enhance the system to allow Made special arrangements for business locations Diversity Promotion Committee) employees to work shorter hours for childcare where employees raising children work Making use of diverse human resources Continue implementing the system to Continue implementing the system to promote non-regular Number of contractual employees promote non-regular employees to regular △ employees to regular employees (about ﬁve employees) promoted to full-time status: 3 employees (about ﬁve employees) Hire mid-career specialist employees (about ﬁve employees) Assuring consideration for worker health and safety The Health and Safety Committee carried out inspections on Reduced frequency rate and severity rate of industrial Step up on measures to prevent lifestyle-related diseases and the workplace environment to decrease the number of accidents thanks to the Health and Safety Committee which ○ promote mental health (reduce the number employees on industrial accidents year on year. includes at least one industrial physician leave due to mental health problems on a year-on-year basis) Personnel Data Breakdown of number of employees (as of the end of February 2013) FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 *2 Full-time employees 4,470 Average length of service (full-time employees) 19 years 6 months 20 years 9 months 21 years 0 month Male (3,034) Number of childcare leave recipients (males and part-time staﬀ) 48 (0, 23) 89 (0, 12) 148 (2, 54) Female (1,436) Number of nursing leave recipients (males and part-time staﬀ) 2 (0, 2) 4 (1, 4) 13 (5, 3) Part-time staﬀ* 1 3,826 Number of volunteer leave recipients No system No system No system Employees (full-time employees + Percentage of women in management positions*3 24.3％ 23.3％ 20.3％ 8,296 part-time staﬀ) Percentage of employees with disabilities *2*4 1.85％ 1.89％ 2.00％ New graduate employees hired (males, females) 38 (Males 23, Females15) Percentage of paid holidays taken by full-time employees*5 12.8％ 11.4％ 6.6％ Mid-career employees hired 1 Frequency rate of industrial accidents 0.43 0.59 0.30 Re-employment 428 Severity rate of industrial accidents 0.01 0.01 0.00 *1 Robinsonʼs is not included in the results. Monthly average number, with 8 hours/day counted as one employee *2 Robinsonʼs is included in the result. *3 Excluding executive oﬃcers *4 The rate for the ﬁscal year is the rate as of June 1 of the following ﬁscal year. *5 Holidays remaining from the preceding ﬁscal year are not included for FY2010 or after. Data for Consultation Services for Employees There were some isolated cases where a lack of Description of contacts received by Customer Response Service by topic (FY2012) By user category communication caused problems. We will instruct Contacts received: 79 (95.2% of the previous ﬁscal yearʼs level) managers to maintain and enhance communication Business Other Unrelated Unknown 21％ with their staﬀ. The headquartersʼ General Aﬀairs partner 10.1％ consulting 8.9％ employees Department will inspect the progress every six months. In FY2012, compliance training will Suspected Full-time 37％ Communications noncompliance employees continue to be provided on legal affairs, safety 46.8％ 16.5％ 19％ management, and quality management. Working Part-time conditions staff 17.7％ 23％ 66 Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2013 York-Benimaru Co., Ltd. Number of stores as of the end of FY2012: 184 Website： http://www.yorkbeni.co.jp/enviro/index.html (in Japanese) Reducing the Environmental Impact FY2012 Targets/Results and FY2013 Targets ○： Target achieved △： Target nearly achieved ×： Fell signiﬁcantly short of target FY2012 Results and Challenges FY2012 Targets and Plans Evaluation FY2013 Targets Outcomes Improving energy eﬃciency and introducing renewable energy Power usage was 103.0% of Promote improved implementation of power-saving Limit the use of electricity to what it was in the previous standards in a well-planned and eﬃcient manner up to 110% of the previous ﬁscal year. ○ Overhaul air conditioning systems (switch from heavy ﬁscal yearʼs level Open more all electric oil to electricity) Open more all electric stores stores Switch to high-eﬃciency lighting equipment Environmental Data Challenges Unit FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 *1 CO2 emissions t-CO2 156,865 130,307 187,299*2 CO2 emissions from store operations (per store) t-CO2 138,777 (816) 116,011 (659) 165,186 (898)*2 CO2 emissions by delivery vehicles t-CO2 13,094 9,169*3 14,294*2 Electricity consumption in store operations GWh 333 280 301*2 Water consumption in store operations 1,000 m3 1,078 1,004 1,028*2 Plastic bag consumption (turndown rate) at the food section*3 t (％ ) 381 (70.3) 370 (70.8) 392 (70.2) Waste disposal (recycling rate) t (％ ) 40,661 (52.4) 41,372 (47.5) 41,997 (50.3) *4 Food waste recycling rate ％ 30.2 24.0 30.2 *1 CO2 emissions stemming from the use of energy in store, headquarters, training center and distribution center operations and by delivery vehicles. *2 The period of the calculations was April to March. *3 Excluding the data for March to May, which was unavailable due to the inﬂuence of the Great East Japan Earthquake CO2 emissions were calculated according to the Seven & i Holdings Group-Wide CO2 Emissions Calculation Manual. CO 2 emissions for FY2012 were calculated in accordance with the manual revised in March 2013. Providing Safe, Reliable Products and Services Data for Customer Response Services As part of our eﬀorts to listen to our customersʼ voices and respond to every Description of contacts received by Customer Response Service by topic (FY2012) one of them, we share examples of individual stores successfully meeting Contacts received: 2,732 (109.2% of the previous ﬁscal yearʼs level) customersʼ needs with all our stores. Our headquarters and stores will work Other 32％ Customer care together to provide customers with a more timely response and incorporate 32％ customer suggestions into our operations with an eye to making our stores fun and comfortable places to shop. Facilities 5％ Sales 20％ Compliments 5％ Sales promotion 6％ Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2013 67 FY2012 Targets/Results and FY2013 Targets ○： Target achieved △： Target nearly achieved ×： Fell signiﬁcantly short of target Challenges FY2012 Targets and Plans FY2012 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2013 Targets Ensuring the quality and safety of products and services Increase the amount of sales of three-star vegetables to 126.0% Increase the amount of three-star vegetable compared to the previous fiscal 116.6% of the previous ﬁscal sales to 130.3% of the previous ﬁscal yearʼs yearʼ level yearʼs level level △ Increase the amount of sales of 115.2% of the previous ﬁscal Increase the amount of locally produced locally produced vegetables to yearʼs level vegetable sales to 114.5% of the previous 120.1% compared to the previous ﬁscal yearʼs level ﬁscal yearʼ level Making stores and facilities more customer-friendly and reliable I n c r e a s e the number of stores 92 stores (as of end of certified pursuant to the revised ○ Continue to increase in FY2013 and onward February 2013) Barrier-Free Law Responding sincerely to customer opinions (organization) Installed toll-free phone Install toll-free phone numbers and Install toll-free phone numbers and numbers and customer ○ customer feedback box customer feedback box suggestion boxes Coexisting with Local Communities FY2012 Targets/Results and FY2013 Targets ○： Target achieved △： Target nearly achieved ×： Fell signiﬁcantly short of target Challenges FY2012 Targets and Plans FY2012 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2013 Targets Supporting young parents and the elderly Continue the blood drive, “Heartful 717 donors (blood drive held ○ Aim to get more than 500 donors Saturday, aiming for 450 donors on October 13, 2012) Assisting in local community revitalization Continue holding the Opening Memorial Held the Opening Memorial festival as an opportunity for the stores and ○ Hold the festival again in FY2013 festival again this year local communities to make exchanges Providing support in times of disaster Continue to cooperate with municipalities The number of municipalities Consider entering agreements with by concluding comprehensive cooperation increased by two to 20 as of ○ municipalities upon request agreements and other measures the end of FY2012 Implementing crime prevention measures for local communities Continue to promote activities that provide Continued the activity ○ Continue the activity in FY 2013 children with shelters 68 Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2013 Creating Fulﬁlling Workplaces FY2012 Targets/Results and FY2013 Targets ○： Target achieved △： Target nearly achieved ×： Fell signiﬁcantly short of target Challenges FY2012 Targets and Plans FY2012 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2013 Targets Supporting development of employee abilities The average results dipped slightly Make further eﬀorts to widely establish and Make steady use of the Target from 2.44 in September 2011 promote OJT based on the Target △ Achievement Records* in OJT to 2.41 in March 2012 (down 1% Achievement Records to boost the average year on year) results Assuring fair assessment and treatment of employees The percentage of female Increase the percentage of female managers to 10% Increase the percentage of managers remained flat from the × Conduct training for female managers in order to female managers to 10% previous ﬁscal year at 7.2% retain them Achieving a work-life balance The number of employees who take Encourage more employees, Increase the number of employees including childcare leave is increasing every year especially male employees, to full-time employees who take childcare leave and is expected to remain on the rise ○ take childcare leave and take Continue to encourage male employees to Childcare leave was taken by male paid holidays for childcare take childcare leave employees two years in a row Making use of diverse human resources Increase the percentage of The percentage of employees with disabilities Increased to 1.96% but failed to employees with disabilities to △ required by law is now 2.0% as a result of an achieve the target 2.0% amendment to the law. Ensure achieving 2.0%. Assuring consideration for worker health and safety Provide education on industrial Introduced risk assessment to Reduce the number of industrial accidents △ accidents in Oﬀ-JT reduce industrial accidents per year by 10% *The Target Achievement Records set speciﬁc requirements necessary for performing assigned duties, such as customer service, sales ﬂoor management, order placement, and cooking. Personnel Data Breakdown of number of employees (as of the end of February 2013) FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 Full-time employees 2,520 Average length of service (full-time employees) 12 years 6 months 14 years 7 months 15 years 3 months Male 2,255 Number of childcare leave recipients (males and part-time staﬀ) 40 (0, 35) 47 (1, 40) 63 (1, 55) Female 265 Number of nursing leave recipients (males and part-time staﬀ) 2 (0, 1) 6 (3, 3) 4 (0, 4) Part-time staﬀ 10,396 Number of volunteer leave recipients No system No system No system Employees (full-time employees + Percentage of women in management positions 25.9％ 7.1％ 7.2％ 12,916 part-time staﬀ) Percentage of employees with disabilities 1.96％ 1.90％ 1.96％ New graduate employees hired (males, females) 110 (Males 74, Females 36) Percentage of paid holidays taken by full-time employees 9.8％ 8.8％ 9.2％ Mid-career employees hired 0 Frequency rate of industrial accidents 2.56 2.94 2.27 Re-employment 13 Severity rate of industrial accidents 0.008 0.030 0.1 *1 Monthly average number, with 8 hours/day counted as one employee *2 Excluding executive oﬃcers *3 The rate for the ﬁscal year is the rate as of June 1 of the following ﬁscal year. *4 Holidays remaining from the preceding ﬁscal year are not included. Data for Consultation Services for Employees York-Benimaru provides employees with a help Description of contacts received by Customer Response Service by topic (FY2012) By user category line service. Contacts received: 76 (138.2% of the previous ﬁscal yearʼs level) The service enables them to receive counseling Other 17％ Unrelated consulting Part-time staff on workplace issues, request investigations into 7％ 22％ noncompliance, etc. Employee suggestions are Full-time used to create a better workplace environment. Suspected Communications employees noncompliance Unknown 45％ 9％ 10％ 61％ Families of Working conditions employees 21％ 8％ Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2013 69 Seven & i Food Systems Co., Ltd. (in Japanese) Number of stores as of the end of FY2012: 844 Website： http://www.7andi-fs.co.jp/7fs/company/csr.html (in Japanese) Reducing the Environmental Impact FY2012 Targets/Results and FY2013 Targets ○： Target achieved △： Target nearly achieved ×： Fell signiﬁcantly short of target Challenges FY2012 Targets and Plans FY2012 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2013 Targets Improving energy eﬃciency and introducing renewable energy Stores with LED bulbs installed: 166 stores, Stores with LED bulbs installed: 166 stores, with CO2 with CO2 emissions reduced by 434 tons emissions reduced by 434 tons ntroduced three 3-ton hybrid vehicles in Stores with LED bulbs installed: 122 stores, △ Verify the effect of introducing a hybrid car (since 2012.Although CO2 emissions were cut by with CO2 emissions reduced by 268 tons November 2011) as a delivery vehicle 993 kg, delivery was less eﬃcient than with the 4-ton vehicles currently used for delivery. Reducing waste and developing a recycling-oriented society Recycle food waste at more store locations. Made thoroughgoing efforts on separating Continue to promote waste sorting and reduce waste Food waste is currently recycled at 96 waste and recycling cardboard, cans, glass generation, aiming at increasing the food waste ○ stores including Denny s.Bring the number of and plastic bottles, etc. and achieved a food recycling rate to 35% or higher stores that recycle food waste up to 100 in waste recycling rate of 40.5% FY2013. Raising environmental awareness among employees Held an explanatory meeting (workshop) on Take advantage of environmental awareness Hold an explanatory meeting on waste sorting, waste sorting, reduction, and recycling at month to raise employees environmental reduction of waste generation, and recycling of food stores in cooperation with a waste consciousness and work with local waste management company △ municipalities on awareness-raising Distribute reference materials on energy conservation Distributed reference materials on energy initiatives six times a year to stores to boost employee conservation for four times a year to stores, Distribute the reference materials for six awareness on the matter thereby increasing all employeesʼ awareness times a year to stores of the matter Environmental Data Challenges Unit FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 CO2 emissions*1 t-CO2 93,274 83,147 96,117*2 CO2 emissions from store operations t-CO2 91,225 80,927 93,811*2 *3 CO2 emissions by delivery vehicles t-CO2 1,904 2,091 2,155*2 Electricity consumption in store operations GWh 172 156 152*2 Water consumption in store operations 1,000 m3 2,403 2,272 2,141*2 Waste disposal (recycling rate) t (％ ) 13,103 (24.7) 10,557 (25.6) 10,183 (25.8) Food waste recycling rate ％ 30.7 33.0 40.5 *1 CO2 emissions stemming from the use of energy in store operations (Seven & i Food Systems) and in headquarters operations and by delivery vehicles (Dennyʼs only). *2 The period of the calculations was April to March. *3 The values are for Dennyʼs only. CO2 emissions were calculated according to the Seven & i Holdings Group-Wide CO2 Emissions Calculation Manual. CO 2 emissions for FY2012 were calculated in accordance with the manual revised in March 2013. Providing Safe, Reliable Products and Services Data for Customer Response Services Description of contacts received by Customer Response Service by topic (FY2012) Contacts received: 6,554 (90.2% of the previous ﬁscal yearʼs level) The number of contacts received in FY2012 declined by 9.8% year on year to sunderstanding or unreasonabl6 MiFacilities aints 4％ e compl％ Other 5 Store cleanliness 3％ total 6,554.We will continue to get the fundamentals straight via OJT at stores, as well as employee education and training, in order to enhance Menu and Other 8％ menu Customer customer satisfaction and cut customer complaints by half while doubling Customer suggestions Products 21％ care care compliments. 8％ 44％％ 48 Service Compliments 28 10％ Cooking 15％ 70 Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2013 FY2012 Targets/Results and FY2013 Targets ○： Target achieved △： Target nearly achieved ×： Fell signiﬁcantly short of target Challenges FY2012 Targets and Plans FY2012 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2013 Targets Ensuring the quality and safety of products and services Obtain consent to our terms and conditions regarding all food materials Confirmed that requirements of terms and Conﬁrm that requirements of terms Have staﬀ in charge observe plants and conditions were complied with and conditions are complied with ○ confirm that quality is being managed Observed plant operations about 400 times Observation of plants: about 500 pursuant to standards in total times Observation of plants: about 400 times Assuring appropriate information provision Maintained a service on the mobile phone website for searching allergenic substances usedThe information can be accessed by Continue a search service on the usage Continue a search service on the scanning the QR codes printed on menus. ○ of allergenic substances usage of allergenic substances The system displays menu items that do not use the allergenic substances selected from the list. Responding sincerely to customer opinions (organization) Establish Operation Support Division Complaints decreased a mere 4% and Conduct trend analysis on Customer Satisfaction (CS) for sorting compliments increased 7% although our complaints received as well as out customersʼ opinions and results of targets were set for a 50% reduction in monitor surveys, and share ﬁndings ○ store monitor surveys and disseminating complaints and a two-fold increase in throughout the company to improve information in an appropriate manner, compliments.Still significant headway was the situation.Reduce complaints by thereby improving customer satisfaction made in the second ﬁscal half. half and double compliments. Coexisting with Local Communities FY2012 Targets/Results and FY2013 Targets ○： Target achieved △： Target nearly achieved ×： Fell signiﬁcantly short of target Challenges FY2012 Targets and Plans FY2012 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2013 Targets Supporting young parents and the elderly Convey significance of work Review work experience program and Reviewed work experience program and experience program and improve ○ reference materials to be distributed accepted 250 children at 135 store locations the quality of stores that accept children Assisting in local community revitalization Used and sold products made with locally Continue developing and selling produced food ingredients at a three-star Continue developing and selling menus menus using local products for the restaurant in Nagano Prefecture using local products for the promotion promotion of local consumption of Oﬀered discount services in coordination with of local consumption of locally produced locally produced products childcare support programs implemented by products Continue to assist with community local municipalities in 10 of the 16 prefectures Give support for the succession of local ○ revitalization based on careful where Dennyʼs operates. food culture through support to consideration when requested by Two prefectures newly joined the program in childcare and other activities local municipalities FY2012. Develop menus that help promote Develop and continue oﬀering menu Added health food pages to the main menu health and beauty items that help promote health and and included menu items that help promote beauty health and beauty Providing support in times of disaster Actively consider opportunities to Send store employees to training provide shelter for local residents in seminars held by local governments to Failed to continue × the event of a disaster when foster information sharing requested by municipalities where we operate Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2013 71 Creating Fulﬁlling Workplaces FY2012 Targets/Results and FY2013 Targets ○： Target achieved △： Target nearly achieved ×： Fell signiﬁcantly short of target Challenges FY2012 Targets and Plans FY2012 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2013 Targets Supporting development of employee abilities Utilize the personnel records in which the items Use of personnel records varied from one store to Utilize the communication records along with the for business operations are clearly shown, thereby another.It helped assess progress made by new ○ personnel records to further improve operational improving the level of business operations employees in their assigned duties. eﬃciency. Assuring fair assessment and treatment of employees Have the targeted employees carry out the selfEmploy three-sheet carbon paper for an evaluation Revise the self-check period and interview dates check evaluation and treat them according to form to conduct self-check interviews with all △ to ensure fair evaluations the results employees and ensure feedback on the evaluation Achieving a work-life balance Did not revise the job details.Made a slight Review the job details by job type to increase cutback to working hours of employees who the work efficiency and ensure that no ○ Ensure achieving three work goals of the Group usually work many hours after consulting with employees will work longer than the limit them individually. Making use of diverse human resources Hire employees at a higher hourly wage on the condition Proactively promote part-timers to full-time 46 employees switched their working categories △ that they will switch employee categories or become fullemployees from a Unit employee to a National employee timers, and organize contractual employees Assuring consideration for worker health and safety Enhance the system to have employees on leave take interviews Had employees on leave and employees who -Enhance follow-up of employees who have workwith industrial physicians and support them in returning to work work long hours see an industrial physician related problems (have not taken leave, work long ○ Decrease the number of industrial accidents through risk Industrial accidents declined slightly.Risk hours).Encourage employees who work the lateassessments assessment was conducted only for trial stores. night shift to get a physical exam. Personnel Data Breakdown of number of employees (as of the end of February 2013) FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 Full-time employees 1,253 Average length of service (full-time employees) 13 years 6 months 14 years 2 months 14 years 3 months Male 1,093 Number of childcare leave recipients (males and part-time staﬀ) 46 (1, 30) 67 (0, 53) 39 (0, 32) Female 160 Number of nursing leave recipients (males and part-time staﬀ) 0 0 0 Part-time staﬀ* 1 10,130 Number of volunteer leave recipients 0 0 0 2 Employees (full-time employees + Percentage of women in management positions* 21.7％ 28.8％ 31.9％ 11,383 part-time staﬀ) Percentage of employees with disabilities*3 1.87％ 1.89％ 2.05％ New graduate employees hired (males, females) 15 (Males 1, Females 14) Percentage of paid holidays taken by full-time employees* 4 7.0％ 9.8％ 10.8％ Mid-career employees hired (males, females) 46(Males 36, Females 10) Frequency rate of industrial accidents 1.22 1.28 1.41 Re-employment (males, females) 16(Males 16, Females 0) Severity rate of industrial accidents 0.03 0.02 0.03 *1 Monthly average number, with 8 hours/day counted as one employee *2 Excluding executive oﬃcers *3 The rate for the ﬁscal year is the rate as of June 1 of the following ﬁscal year. The percentage of workers with disabilities is for the ﬁve qualiﬁed Group companies: Seven & i Holdings , Terre Verte (special subsidiary for severe disabilities), Seven-Eleven Japan, Ito-Yokado, and Seven & i Food Systems. *4 Holidays remaining from the preceding ﬁscal year are not included. Data for Consultation Services for Employees The number of contacts increased to 119 (up Description of contacts received by Customer Response Service by topic (FY2012) By user category 32% year on year) due partly to our eﬀorts to get Contacts received: 119 (132.2% of the previous ﬁscal yearʼs level) everyone on the same page with the Action Other 13％ Unrelated consulting Families of Unknown 3％ Guidelines, which were revised in FY2012. We 7％ employees 4％ provided our store managers in the Restaurant Suspected Full-time employees 7％ Part-time Business Division with awareness education noncompliance staff during CSR training in FY2012 in order to increase 6％ 86％ employeesʼ compliance awareness. Working conditions Communications In FY2013, we will provide awareness education 22％ 52％ to store managers across all business divisions. 72 Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2013 Seven Bank, Ltd. Number of ATMs installed as of the end of FY2012: 18,123 Website： http://www.sevenbank.co.jp/corp/csr/ (in Japanese) Reducing the Environmental Impact FY2012 Targets/Results and FY2013 Targets ○： Target achieved △： Target nearly achieved ×： Fell signiﬁcantly short of target Challenges FY2012 Targets and Plans FY2012 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2013 Targets Improving energy eﬃciency and introducing renewable energy Reduced electricity consumption Devise measures to reduce the use of from 1,204,000 kwh in FY2011 Pro mo t e a p ape rle ss o f f i c e b y electricity at offices by introducing to 1,182,000 kwh in FY2012 introducing image workflow (an complex machines which incorporate a Replaced 7,797 ATMs with electronic decision-making process) printer, a fax machine and a copier, and third-generation machines as of to the internal office automation updating the in-house OA systems the end of FY2012 systems Replace about 4,900 ATMs with thirdImplemented power-saving Replace about 5,000 ATMs with ○ generation machines and complete the measures for second-generation third-generation machines that cut replacement of 7,800 machines (about ATMs (decreasing the second electricity consumption by about 45% of the total) by the end of FY2012 display brightness and making half compared with conventional Implement power-saving measures the ATMs switch to the energyATMs, bringing the total number of voluntarily and in response to requests saving mode faster) from midthird-generation ATMs up to 13,000 from society June to September and from midby the end of FY2013 December to March Reducing waste and developing a recycling-oriented society F o r m u l a t e the guidel ines for green Formulate the guidelines for green Continue discussions aimed at developing △ purchasing and procurement purchasing and procurement green procurement guidelines Oﬀering eco-friendly products Replace ATMs with third-generation machines Third-generation ATMs accounted Target ratio of the third generation ○ Target ratio of the third-generation ATMs for 45% of the total. ATMs to the total: 67% to the total: about 45% Raising environmental awareness among employees Actively participate in Seven & i Actively participate in Seven & i Holdingsʼ A total of 34 employees Holdingsʼ environmental volunteer environmental volunteer activities participated in three programs. activities Conduct environmental volunteer Bonolonʼs Forest Environmental ○ Increase the number of participants activities under Seven Bankʼs own Activity was conducted with 33 in environmental volunteer activities programs participants under Seven Bankʼs own programs Environmental Data Challenges Unit FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 Volume of paper ordered for office automation 1,000 sheets 7,152 6,898 7,565 equipment Electricity used at the oﬃces MWh 1,501 1,204 1,182 * Data was not available for some rental oﬃces. Data includes staﬀed branches and directly managed ATMs. Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2013 73 Providing Safe, Reliable Products and Services Data for Customer Response Services The Customer Service Department of Seven Bank strives to heighten customer Description of contacts received by Customer Response Service by topic (FY2012) satisfaction through the improvement of customer response and service, Contacts received: 629,908 under the slogan Best for You (doing our best for customers). It compiles By contact point (outer circle) By topic (inner circle) Other 2.6％ some 630,000 customer suggestions and comments that are ﬁled each year, Comments and requests Telephone centers and shares them with relevant divisions and partner companies. 0.4％ 32.2％ The customer center for overseas money transfers was opened in February ATM 2013, providing customer services in nine languages. call Inquiries centers 99.6％ 65.2％ * The method of aggregation has changed since FY2011. FY2012 Targets/Results and FY2013 Targets ○： Target achieved △： Target nearly achieved ×： Fell signiﬁcantly short of target Challenges FY2012 Targets and Plans FY2012 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2013 Targets Ensuring the quality and safety of products and services Conducted intensive BCM/BCP training for the Conduct comprehensive drills and Strengthen the BCPs for mission president, managers and personnel in relevant seminars that take into account the critical operations departments new scenarios added to the business Start developing BCPs for nonConducted additional drills, including the setting up continuity management (BCM) and ○ mission critical operations of an emergency response headquarters using business continuity plan (BCP), which Develop a capability to ensure wireless communication systems were formulated after the Great East employee safety and stable Reviewed the safety confirmation system and Japan Earthquake business continuity conducted drills Making stores and facilities more customer-friendly and reliable Reviewed and made arrangements to Overhaul ATM screens Develop a user-friendly interface for make ATM screens user friendly and ○ Display overseas money transfer ATM display receipts readily understood screen in multiple languages Responding sincerely to customer opinions (organization) Study indexes aiming at even further Relevant departments met three times to Continue to look into specific ○ improvement of customer satisfaction (CS) discuss the matter ways to quantify the CS index Coexisting with Local Communities FY2012 Targets/Results and FY2013 Targets ○： Target achieved △： Target nearly achieved ×： Fell signiﬁcantly short of target Challenges FY2012 Targets and Plans FY2012 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2013 Targets Supporting young parents and the elderly Hold story hours featuring Bonolon, Warrior of the Held story hours at childrenʼs centers Promote story-telling activities via Forest at local childrenʼs centers, etc. Issued 13,579 Bonolon Cash Cards and the sponsorship for Bonolon, Continue donating picture books to childrenʼs donated a corresponding number of picture Warrior of the Forest facilities in a number commensurate with the books to childrenʼs centers ○ Continue the donation of picture number of Bonolon Cash Cards issued Conducted click fundraising in support of the books Make examinations to give support to the recovery Arahama Childrenʼs Center in Watari-cho, Build stronger ties with childrenʼs of childrenʼs centers in the disaster-aﬀected areas Miyagi Prefecture (raising 359,126 yen in total) centers Assisting in local community revitalization Make examinations for the introduction Introduced the volunteer leave system in Promote employee participation in ○ of a volunteer leave system FY2013 community volunteer opportunities Implementing crime prevention measures for local communities Cases of cooperation with the police: 61,818 Respond to ﬁnancial crimes promptly Implement measures against financial Reported individual cases, cooperated with the Cooperate with the police, implement crimes promptly, and collect ○ police, and implemented countermeasures in countermeasures, and gather information about new types of crimes cooperation with the police, etc. information about new types of crimes 74 Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2013 Creating Fulﬁlling Workplaces FY2012 Targets/Results and FY2013 Targets ○： Target achieved △： Target nearly achieved ×： Fell signiﬁcantly short of target Challenges FY2012 Targets and Plans FY2012 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2013 Targets Supporting development of employee abilities Continue to provide training to 20 employees took correspondence English classes, 13 took Enhance support for language build staﬀ skills for communicating TOEIC examination, 2 employees assigned to work overseas ○ learning in foreign languages took private lessons, and more employees received training Conduct training for female managers Achieving a work-life balance Allowed employees to take paid childcare leave for up to ﬁve days Continue to promote work-life balance by using Enhance the childcare leave Implemented work-life balance promotion measures including cross○ the daylight saving time system and encouraging system industry gatherings for working mothers employees to leave the oﬃce on time Making use of diverse human resources Continue implementing Continue implementing measures to Percentage of employees with disabilities: 2.29% as of the measures to maintain the maintain the percentage of employees end of March 2013 ○ percentage of employees with disabilities required by law Conducted nursing care training with disabilities Continue nursing care training Assuring consideration for worker health and safety Ensure that employees will take Percentage of employees who took consecutive Continue to ensure that employees consecutive leave leave: 94.9%, take consecutive leave Devise measures to ensure that Percentage of paid leave taken: 82.6% ○ Devise measures to ensure that employees will leave the office on Dedicated three separate weeks to encouraging employees will leave the oﬃce on time time at least during the targeted employees to leave the office on time in FY2012; at least during the targeted week week and verify the results reduced overtime hours Personnel Data Breakdown of number of employees (as of March 31, 2013) FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 Full-time employees* 453 Average length of service (full-time employees)*3 4 years 6 months 5 years 3 months 5 years 7 months Male 309 Number of childcare leave recipients (males and part-time staﬀ) 6 (0, 0) 4 (0, 0) 10 (2, 0) Female 144 Number of nursing leave recipients (males and part-time staﬀ) 1 (1, 0) 0 (0, 0) 4 (3, 1) Part-time staﬀ*2 103 Number of volunteer leave recipients No system No system No system 4 Employees (full-time employees + Percentage of women in management positions* 7.3％ 8.3％ 8.0％ 556 part-time staﬀ) Percentage of employees with disabilities 1.97％ 2.06％ 2.29％ New graduate employees hired (males, females) 5 (Males 4, Females 1) Percentage of paid holidays taken by full-time employees*5 81.8％ 75.8％ 82.6％ Mid-career employees hired 16 Frequency rate of industrial accidents 0.00 0.00 0.00 Re-employment 36 Severity rate of industrial accidents 0.00 0.00 0.00 *1 Data includes contractual employees and temporary employees. *2 Monthly average number, with 8 hours/day counted as one employee *3 The company was founded in 2001. *4 Excluding executive oﬃcers *5 Remaining holidays from the preceding ﬁscal year are not included. Ensuring Compliance throughout the Organization Seven Bank believes compliance with laws and social Compliance Guidelines File norms is a prerequisite for gaining the trust of its Compliance rules are put together in a file stakeholders, so it gives this matter a top business priority. and kept by each employee. It has established a system to ensure compliance and Using this file, employees read out the developed corporate-wide as well as departmental compliance rules during a morning assembly compliance programs that specify tasks, policies, plans, as a way to raise their compliance awareness. and implementation schedules. Compliance Standards Card Brochure on the use of the Internal Consultation Services Pocket-size cards containing our management All employees are provided with a handy philosophy and compliance standards are brochure that introduces where and how provided to all employees. Employees always they can get advice about compliance issues carry the cards with them for easy reference. as well as rules for using the services. Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2013 75 Awards and Recognition by Outside Parties Major Awards and Recognition in FY2012 Organizer or awarding Title of recognition or award Reason for recognition Recipient organization Comprehensively assessed from ﬁve diﬀerent Second place, NICES corporate Nikkei, Inc. perspectives of investors, consumers/corporate Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. rankin clients, employees, society, and growth potential 16th Nikkei Environmental Appreciated for its energy conservation initiatives Management Survey including use of solar panels and LED lighting as Seven-Eleven Japan Co., Ltd Ranked ﬁrst in the retail and well as visualization of power use via smart sensors restaurant section (Seven-Eleven Appreciated for its recycling initiatives such as the Japan) Nikkei, Inc. zero waste program as well as eﬀorts to protect Sogo & Seibu Co., Ltd. Ranked third in the retail and biodiversity and curb global warming via the restaurant section (Sogo & Seibu) Present Tree program at the Ikebukuro store Ranked fourth in the retail and Appreciated for its Seven Farm program as well as restaurant section (Ito Yokado) Ito-Yokado Co., Ltd. use of automatic PET bottle collection machines Appreciated for its Star Club membership The Senken ES (Employee Satisfaction) Award, program that recognizes employees, including Sogo & Seibu Co., Ltd. Shimbun Fourth Department Store Awards employees dispatched by its business partners, Company who demonstrate excellent sales skills Appreciated for its environmental morning Environmental Education Award, Chiyoda Ward, assemblies using monthly Environmental Sogo & Seibu Co., Ltd. Chiyoda Ward Global WarmingTokyo News publications, etc. as well as annual Considerate Action Plan System environmental e-learning Countermeasure Technology Introduction and Dissemination Appreciated for its installation of energy-saving Ministry of Seven-Eleven Japan Co., Ltd Category of the Minister of the equipment and devices after the Great East Environment Environment's Commendation for Japan Earthquake Global Warming Prevention Activity Appreciated for the idea of growing a green Outstanding Achievement Award in curtain on the glass wall by an escalator the Creativity Category, Ministry of Ministry of leading to the rooftop of the Hiroshima outlet Sogo & Seibu Co., Ltd. Environmentʼs Green Curtain Photo Environment with an aim to raise environmental and energy Competition conservation awareness among local customers Received a commendation for the second consecutive year, appreciated for its ongoing Akita Cityʼs Commendation for Best Akita City waste management eﬀorts at the Akita outlet, Sogo & Seibu Co., Ltd. Practice in General Waste Reduction including use of composters and waste separation instruction for employees Appreciated for the eﬀorts of OFCs in southern Grand Prix Award, 2012 Eco Drive Oita Prefecture and northern Oita to reduce payload and Seven-Eleven Japan Co., Ltd Competition eliminate traﬃc violations Corporate Energy Management Award for 2012 and the 2012 Energy Association of Appreciated for its LED lighting retroﬁt for 4,500 7-Eleven, Inc. Project of the Year Award (selected Energy Engineers stores in the U.S. and Canada from Region IV) Hosted by Food Appreciated for its eﬀorts aimed at improving Food Action Nippon Award 2012 food self-suﬃciency by featuring rice ﬂour in Action Nippon Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd Grand Prix Award in the distribution all processes from product development to Committee (cocategory (Seven & i Holdings) product display hosted by Ministry Outstanding Performance Award in of Agriculture, Appreciated for its eﬀorts to develop original the merchandising category (Seven Forestry and Japanese sweets using only domestically produced Seven-Eleven Japan Co., Ltd Eleven Japan) Fisheries) ingredients including adzuki beans and rice Facility Development Category of Appreciated for setting up 111 Omoiyari the People-friendly Welfare Town Miyazaki (thoughtfulness) parking spaces for people Seven-Eleven Japan Co., Ltd Development Award (Miyazaki Prefecture with disabilities, pregnant women, etc., the District Oﬃce) greatest number of spaces in Miyazaki. Appreciated for its large number of multi-purpose Citizens Award, Okayama Universal Okayama bathrooms and disabled parking spaces, normalization Mall & SC Development Inc. Design Building Contest Prefecture training for employees, etc. at Ario Kurashiki Nikkei MJ Grand Prize, Nikkei Superior Appreciated for its shopping service using Nikkei, Inc. Seven-Eleven Japan Co., Ltd Products and Services Awards 2012 COMS Bronze Award in the General Service Category (Tokyo Metropolitan and Sankei Living Appreciated for convenience of the Seven Meal Seven-Eleven Japan Co., Ltd Osaka/Kobe areas), 19th Sankei Living Shimbun Inc. service Seven-Meal Service Co., Ltd Shimbunʼs Big Help Awards Japan Good Appreciated for its private brands Traceable Agricultural 2012 GAP Dissemination Award Fruits and Traceable Vegetables as well as Ito-Yokado Co., Ltd. Practice Seven Farmʼs GAP initiatives Association Appreciated for Oimachi Storeʼs initiative to Shinagawa Ward Commendation for Local Welfare allow facilities for the disabled to use its store Council on Social Ito-Yokado Co., Ltd. Contributor space free of charge for selling products made Welfare by people with disabilities since April 1997 Electronic Appreciated for the fact that sales of online Grand Prix, 16th Japan Online Commerce supermarket operations account for almost 50% of total Ito-Yokado Co., Ltd. Shopping Awards Research Council sales generated by the online supermarket industry Appreciated for its eﬀorts to actively promote Seven-Eleven Japan Co., Ltd Minister of sales of products from areas hit by the Great Ito-Yokado Co., Ltd. Letter of Appreciation Economy, Trade East Japan Earthquake, thereby signiﬁcantly York-Benimaru Co., Ltd. and Industry contributing to the reconstruction of these areas Seven Net Shopping Co., Ltd. In recognition of Socially Responsible Investment (SRI) (as of September 25, 2013) Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. is selected as a constituent in the following index. Morningstar Dow Jones Sustainability Index: Member of ETHIBEL Socially Responsible Investment Index ETHIBEL Excellence DJSI World and DJSI Asia-Paciﬁc. Sustainability Index Global 76 Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2013 SEVEN&i HLDGS. CSR Department 8-8, Nibancho, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 102-8452, Japan TEL. 03-6238-2448 http://www.7andi.com/en/
