Communication on Progress 2013 Dear Stakeholders Foodlink, via its daily management activity and business communication, devotes itself to achievement of the UN Millennium Development Goals, and reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti‐Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Jia Li Chairman Human Rights Assessment, policy and goals Since joining the Global Compact, Foodlink has been taking Human Rights Principle as a part of social responsibility Commitment we shouldered. We will go on supporting The UN Global Compact confirmedly. Our promise means that we will implement our improvement for Human Rights measures into the enterprise’s actual operation thought our continuous effort. Implementation In the last year, Foodlink company executed the corporate social responsibility actively. ¾ Foodlink became “Dust fund commission ”director through donating to the fund commission. And subsidized a leukocythemia student who named Weiqian Zhang and studied in Pingdu Overseas Chinese Middle School via Dust fund commission ¾The company focused on the staffs’ working safety, carried forward the Company safety production standardization. Passed on the audit of Safety supervision department, and then obtained the third grade enterprises qualification for safety production standardization. ¾Continued to subsidize the students who came from the poor family. ¾Enriched staff’s amateur life through athletic meeting and the get-together. The get-together of Foodlink The athletic meeting of Foodlink Donation to education Measurement of outcomes Through above all activities, Foodlink pleased to see that all staffs achieved the great progress at the aspects of spirit and body: They worked efficiently and passionately, and became a perfect team. Their temperament and personal power were showed adequately, and took shape an excellent enterprise culture. Labor Assessment, policy and goals Foodlink adequately respected the staffs’ labor freedom. And resolutely ban all forms of forced or compulsory labor. We took all measures to completely eradicate the behavior of using and employing child labor . Every staff could obtain the equal salary-raise opportunity through the company raised the minimum income level and perfected salary system . Implementation Foodlinlk had detailed state in the labor contract that the company would assure to respect the staffs’ labor rights, avoid to infringe the interests of employees, protect the greatest advantage of the Ignored group In essence. And the followings are the measures the company took: 1.The company raised the minimum income level in 2013, every staff could obtain the equal salary-raise opportunity annually, and the company raised the salary for the excellent staffs according to promotion requirements . 2.In order to improve staff accommodation circumstance, the company organized to install the air-conditionings in staffs’ dormitories, and greatly enhance the accommodation circumstance. 3.Completely impeded child labor phenomenon through checking the certificate of identification and the household registration confirmation. 4. The company provided commercial assurance besides of social assurance in order to protect the interests of employees to a greater extent. Measurement of outcomes Foodlink had been taking staffs’ salary-increase and better living environment as important as the enterprise development. And in the future, Foodlink will insist executing ILO core conventions on labor standards and other international convention as in the past, strictly implementing the principles of Global Compact on the labor standard, Continuously improving staffs’ working environment and salary level and enhancing employee satisfaction and happiness Environment Assessment, policy and goals Protecting environment and building human beautiful homes is our everyone’s Bounden duty. We not only take green food and high quality food but also green environment as our mission. We had added this internationally accepted guidelines into our company management system and quality control system, and took environmental protection and energy saving , emission reduction as the focus of the work. Implementation Our implementation for this global policy including but not limited to the following contents: 1. In Foodlink's system, every production process had it’s energy consumption standard. 2.In daily life, we developed some activities aimed at energy saving ,for example, shut the windows when using the air-conditions; Turned off the lights ,air-conditions and computers when leaving the office; Took public transportation rather than took a taxi or derived company car. 3.In the worker’s operation regulations, we definitely specified the processing methods for recyclable and unrecyable waste . Some hazardous chemicals,such as aluminum phosphate, it needed specialized persons to handle, and they took regulatory measures to ensure the environmental pollution to a minimum. 4. For the sake of providing with our clients with green food, we recommend our supplier green pollution-free technology, and recommend the special laboratory and government office. Measurement of outcomes In the COP period, There weren’t any complaint about the environment. We provided the clients with green safe food to a large extent. The proportion of complaints decreased greatly. Also the Employee’s environment awareness was Strengthened. Foodlink was very proud that our staff could stand out to stop the happening of the environmental pollution in any place. Anti-Corruption Assessment, policy and goals In the past year, we further improved the rules on the aspects of anti-corruption and business integrity, and strengthened the financial expenditure audit, continued to increase prevention efforts, prevented any kind of violations of duty crime. In order to strengthen all staffs’ good faith consciousness, the company held training sessions regularly. Foodlink developed the effective mechanism of supervision and reporting included the general manager mail feedback channel. Implementation From the year of 2013,We established mechanism for work plan management and supplier management, the work plan of each department listed on the schedule, especially refused our suppliers’ bribery . In Foodlink , any form of corruption would be circulated a notice of criticism and punished according to Staff Behavior Rule. We opened general manager mail box to receive the feedback information from various aspects. Eepecially, the feedback about corruption could be handled preferentially. Measurement of outcomes In the COP period, Foodlink didn’t refer to any legal cases on corruption and bribery, a ruling or other events. Because of the Anti-Corruption action, all stuffs knew the violations effects of corruption and bribery. At the meantime, the financial department made out a more stringent vetting procedures so that they could confirmed fake payment involved the bribery or corruption.
