Period covered by this Communication on Progress July 2013 to July 2014 July 2014 CEO Statement of Continued Support The United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) is one of the leading multilateral forces helping to create a future characterized by a sustainable and inclusive economy that will benefit people, communities and markets over the longest term. Bryan Mills Iradesso Corp. (BMIR) is pleased and proud to affirm its continuing support for the UNGC and its principles. BMIR is a strategic communication consultancy and we expect that we will be judged more by what we do than by what we say. We believe it is important to integrate the UNGC’s 10 principles into our daily working lives and that doing so will make us a better company – for our clients, our employees, our owners, suppliers, and neighbors. To ensure that our commitment to the UNGC and its 10 principles is visible to our employees, we will incorporate reference in our background and profile documents and post it on our company’s intranet. Nancy Ladenheim Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Bryan Mills Iradesso / BMIR Human Rights Principles Assessment, Policy & Goals BMIR actively endorses the United Nations Global Compact’s principles regarding the support, respect and protection of internationally proclaimed human rights, and our obligation to avoid complicity in human rights abuses. We further acknowledge our obligation under the UNGC to promote human rights. We also acknowledge and respect the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and Canada’s Charter of Rights and Freedoms. Additionally, as noted throughout this document, our company maintains and complies with a formal Code of Conduct, several parts of which specifically address such human rights abuses as discrimination and workplace harassment or violence. Implementation  To ensure that employees understand our commitment to the human rights principles regarding all employees, suppliers and partners, our Code of Conduct is published on our intranet  Whistleblower phone line set up for confidential reporting  Mandatory video training of all employees to raise awareness and educate on issues of human rights  Consultation with our partner network MDC Partners on best practice principles and implementation  Allocation of training and grievance process to a partner in the firm to underscore the seriousness of the issue Measurement of Outcomes  We became aware of one internal instance of bullying, and undertook immediate investigative action. After proper due diligence including consultation with a third party HR Specialist, attempts at corrective action and steps to protect the bullied employee, the ultimate result was termination of the employee and internal reinforcement of our human rights principles  There are no other issues that we are aware of either with employees, suppliers or partners Labour Principles Assessment, Policy & Goals BMIR supports the eight core conventions of the International Labor Organizations. Our parent company’s formal Code of Conduct further expresses the commitment to provide and maintain a safe, orderly, diverse and tolerant work environment, as well as a requirement to comply with the law. More specifically, we will not tolerate discrimination against any employee or other person with whom the company has business dealings on the basis of gender, race, color, religion, age, marital status, national origin, sexual orientation, disability or veteran status. This applies to all areas of employment, including hiring, training, scheduling, advancement, compensation, benefits, discipline and termination. These principles are also applied to all dealings with suppliers, who may be required to acknowledge such obligations and provide assurance of compliance through declarations. Our company also strives to provide a safe and healthy workplace by following safety and health rules and practices. These include mandatory prompt reporting of accidents, injuries and unsafe work environment. Employees are required under this policy to report for work in condition to perform their duties to their best ability. Implementation  To ensure respect for colleagues and the maintenance of a safe workplace, BMIR has instituted a formal zero-tolerance policy for a broadly defined spectrum of behaviors recognized as workplace violence  Our policy provides definitions, management and employee responsibilities, complaint procedures and investigations, confidentiality measures, a prohibition against retaliation and corrective actions which include discipline up to and including termination of employment. Employees have two options for grievances. One is a confidential report to a Partner in the firm. And the other is an investigation under the company’s Workplace Violence Policy which is within the ambit of our parent company’s (MDC Partners) Whistleblower Response Policy  To ensure familiarity with the company’s policy on workplace violence, all BMIR employees are required to view an online education presentation and individual employee compliance is recorded  To ensure that persons with disabilities have appropriate access to our services (as provided by the Accessibility for Ontarians With Disabilities Act), and to ensure that our employees understand the special circumstances and needs of persons with disabilities, all BMIR employees are required to view the “Helping Hands” online education presentation. “Helping Hands” establishes company responsibilities and provides practical guidance on dealing with persons with various forms of disability and ensuring their ability to obtain services from us  One employee and one partner were trained in the “H.E.A.R.T” program – Harassment Education Advisory Response Team. This program is to ensure that we are properly trained to deal with harassment in the workplace based on Ontario Bill 168  Following completion of a customary enrollment waiting period, all BMIR employees are provided with company-paid health care insurance which encompasses extended medical benefits, dental and vision care, disability insurance and life insurance. We believe this benefit is essential to supporting the health and well-being of our employees.  In order to reduce employee stress, a company-paid 20 minute massage is offered weekly in the Toronto office  In Calgary, employees are provided with a ½ day off per month fully paid Measurement of Outcomes BMIR’s senior officers are responsible for the company’s adherence to the United Nations Global Compact’s labor principles and periodically review potential violations or other concerns. ‐ We had no work related injuries in 2013/2014 ‐ We had 1 case of workplace bullying which was immediately dealt with through a confidential investigation, remedial action, and ultimately in the termination of the bullying employee ‐ We annually ensure that there is zero discrimination in our hiring process which involves multiple interviewers ‐ Our workforce is diverse in age, gender, ethnicity, sexual orientation, religion, color, marital status, race and national origin Environment Principles Assessment, Policy & Goals BMIR is a strategic communications consultancy working out of three small offices. We are completely office-based and accordingly, the environmental impacts of our operations are small, compared to UNGC participants in manufacturing, processing or resource extraction industries. We acknowledge that our total environmental impact encompasses our own operations, as well as those of our suppliers in the production of work for our clients (for example in the printing process). The environmental footprint of our client work varies enormously – from communication strategies delivered in a single short email, to complex, multi-dimensional design-print production assignments running to hundreds of pages and tens of thousands of copies. BMIR is committed to sustainable business practices and reducing its environmental footprint. We regularly examine the impacts of our daily activities, identify opportunities for improvement and act on those opportunities wherever reasonably practical. Implementation  In keeping with best practices, BMIR recommends to clients the use of Forest Stewardship Council-certified and the use of vegetable-based ink for print production assignments. Where permissible by our clients’ purchasing protocols, we also specify recycled materials and purchase carbon offsets for large print runs  BMIR’s own environmental action program focuses on the aspects of our business that have the greatest impact on the environment, notably waste reduction/diversion and energy efficiency o Waste reduction/diversion Our offices are located within buildings managed by another company. There are no recycling programs available to us. We have therefore taken initiatives at our own cost and effort. BMIR initiatives to reduce and/or divert waste include: ‐ Recycling of all paper by a third party onsite shredding truck ‐ Elimination of paper coffee cups, paper plates and plastic cutlery in favor of washable crockery, china and cutlery ‐ Setting double-sided printing as default on office printers ‐ Recycling of plastic, metal and hybrid containers ‐ Recycling of newspapers and magazines ‐ Reduction of print subscriptions to esubscriptions ‐ Recycling of printer toner cartridges ‐ Recycling of depleted batteries ‐ Recycling of outdated electronic equipment ‐ Use of water cooler, rather than plastic water bottles o BMIR use of business paper ‐ Since much of our work involves communication for publicly traded companies and government agencies, security of information is a significant client concern. As a result, we are not able to take advantage of conventional business waste paper recycling programs. Instead, all business paper is collected in secure storage bins and shredded onsite by a certified contractor and subsequently sent for recycling. o Energy efficiency ‐ A significant part of BMIR’s environmental footprint consists of energy purchased to run our office business computers and related equipment. Since we occupy leased space in all three locations, the measurement of our energy use is not practical. However, to minimize energy consumption, our policy is to require all workers to power-down their equipment at the end of the workday. Office lighting is also turned to safe minimums at the day’s end ‐ To minimize energy consumption for business travel, we are making increasing use of videoconferencing, and have invested in equipment to support group meetings, both between our offices and with our clients. In addition, our employees are using desktop videoconferencing more frequently to reduce business travel and enhance their operational effectiveness with colleagues and clients ‐ We installed double-layered glass to strengthen the office’s insulation against temperature fluctuations, thereby saving energy ‐ In our largest office, the temperature control system minimizes the energy outlay after hours (both heat and a.c.) Anti-Corruption Principles Assessment, Policy & Goals Any company’s greatest asset is its reputation for honesty, integrity and fair dealing. BMIR is an MDC Partner company, listed on the TSX and Nasdaq which imposes the obligations and duties of public ownership on our operations, including setting and maintaining clear standards for honest and ethical conduct. These obligations include policies, procedures and compliance mechanisms to prevent corrupt business behaviors, as well as reporting and remediation processes. Implementations BMIR’s anti-corruption principles are implemented through a formal Code of Conduct, which is updated regularly and distributed to all employees annually. Employees are required to read the Code of Conduct and acknowledge their personal responsibility for conducting themselves in accordance with the Code of Conduct. Compliance is monitored. Our Code of Conduct seeks to prevent corrupt behaviours by addressing the conduct of its directors, officers and employees through a number of targeted policies. Among other subjects, these policies include direction on: ‐ Compliance with applicable laws ‐ Conflicts of interest ‐ Confidential information ‐ Disclosures ‐ Protection and use of company assets ‐ Acceptable use of company information technology assets ‐ Inside trading ‐ Whistleblower hotline and reporting ‐ Workplace harassment and violence In addition, BMIR’s financial management and control systems have been designed and implemented to provide formal assurance of accuracy and fairness in reporting and presentations. Our parent company’s financial management and control systems meet public company standards, and its financial records and reporting are subject to annual independent audit. Measurement of Outcomes BMIR’s senior management is responsible for ensuring that the company’s operations remain free from corrupt practices. They affirm that BMIR has not been involved in any activities related to corrupt business practices.  The two owners of the business, the CEO and COO, sign a SOX Compliant document every quarter, an Officer’s Compliance Certification and an internal control quarterly update questionnaire, attesting to the legality of all operations  All thank-you gifts provided to employees, must be reported to senior management, and are equally shared amongst all employees (ex. Gift basket)  All client disbursements must be approved by senior management  The COO just undertook a complete internal control review with our Parent Company MDC Partners to ensure compliance with all regulatory requirements
