2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Enabling sustainable progress contents The 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report sets out our commitment as a responsible company and describes the actions we have taken in 2013 to put this commitment into practice. Executive statement  2 Who we are and what we do  4 Our approach to corporate responsibility  8 Creating solutions for sustainability 14 Extending our risk intelligence  22 Exploring and shaping the risk landscape 33 Reducing our environmental footprint 41 Being an employer of choice 51 Ensuring good governance  61 The Swiss Re Foundation 63 Corporate responsibility in context: Economics of Climate Adaptation (ECA) 64 Other Swiss Re publications 66 Independent assurance report to the management of Swiss Re Ltd, Zurich 68 Memberships, awards and index listings 70 The Principles for Sustainable Insurance (PSI): Our public disclosure of progress 72 GRI content index, with UN Global Compact Communication on Progress references 73 Cover 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Enabling sustainable progress With their large concentrations of people and economic assets, cities can be highly vulnerable to natural disasters. In New York City, this was dramatically demonstrated by Hurricane Sandy. We carried out an Economics of Climate Adaptation (ECA) assessment that showed how the city can reduce future damage from natural disasters through cost-effective measures. The ECA methodology and the assessment for New York City are described on pages 64–65. Executive statement Dear stakeholders In 2013, we had the privilege of The strategic priorities we have defined celebrating Swiss Re’s 150th anniversary. have remained stable in recent years. This special moment in the history of Below, we would like to give you a short our company points to an essential overview of last year’s key actions and characteristic of our business: the focus achievements in these priority areas. on the long term. Our understanding of corporate responsibility is a natural In our core re/insurance business we extension of this long-term perspective. It continue to develop solutions that make a means we seek to support sustainable tangible difference to people’s lives, by progress by helping our clients and offering financial protection against risks society at large to tackle the large-scale such as earthquakes, windstorms, drought, risks they face – now and in the future. illness etc. Through our ongoing involvement in the Grow Africa Partnership, With the 2013 Corporate Responsibility for example, we helped to insure more Report, we wish once again to inform you African smallholder farmers against bad about the actions we have taken to meet weather that threatens their crops and thus this commitment. In this latest edition of their livelihoods. And in Bangladesh, we our report, we have made an important have contributed to an innovative project improvement which underlines our that offers financial compensation to sense of accountability: All its five main vulnerable communities when they are hit chapters have now received independent by floods. assurance, up from three chapters last year. The report also reflects – and Our solutions also extended to one of the confirms – two commitments we have world’s most highly developed cities, made to the United Nations. Firstly, New York. In the wake of Hurricane Sandy, it continues to serve as our annual we helped conduct a major study on Communication on Progress for the UN climate adaptation that shows how the Global Compact. Secondly, it includes city can anticipate and reduce the damage our “public disclosure of progress” for caused by such storms in the future. the UNEP FI Principles for Sustainable Wherever we are involved in the developInsurance (PSI), in which we have been ment of such solutions, they have one taking a leading role. thing in common: they all require close cooperation between multiple partners. 2 Swiss Re 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report executive statement Walter B. Kielholz Michel M. Liès In our risk management, the focus remains As a company operating around the world, the Swiss Re Foundation, we put this on detecting and avoiding risks that may we inevitably cause certain environmental engagement on an even more solid basis. pose a threat to sustainable progress. impacts. Though they are comparatively Marking its first full operational year, We have specific tools in place to address small, we have worked hard to reduce the Foundation has published a report sustainability, political, regulatory and our footprint. In 2013, the first phase of which describes in detail how it helps emerging risks. In 2013, we made our pioneering Greenhouse Neutral communities increase their risk prepared­ important adjustments to four policies of Programme came to an end. Over the ten ness and resilience. This comprehensive our Sustainability Risk Framework; they years since its launch in 2003, we publication replaces the “corporate reflect recent risk developments affecting managed to cut our CO2 emissions per citizenship” chapter we used to include in the defence industry, nuclear weapons employee by 56.5%. As part of our renewed the Corporate Responsibility Report, and proliferation, oil and gas exploration, and commitment until 2020, we have already we invite you to read both publications. forestry and logging. launched a new seven-year cycle of our popular CO you2 Programme, which offers Finally, we would like to address our own Dialogue with our partners and our employees grants for emissionsemployees. No company can prosper for stakeholders remains as important as ever cutting investments. 150 years without a skilled, diverse and to tackling the key risks facing society; committed workforce – this is as true now without this dialogue, developing effective A strong sense of philanthropic as it has ever been. We would like to thank responses simply is not possible. Mirroring engage­ment has long been a key element all our present and former employees for this fact, the celebrations for our 150th of our commitment as a responsible their outstanding work over the years. In anniversary put a strong focus on dialogue company. Through the establishment of return, we strive to offer the kind of culture and partnership. Under the motto “Open and career opportunities that will make minds connecting generations”, we set Swiss Re an attractive meeting place for up a range of dialogue events and formats talented people for years to come. around our Top Topics. They included Open Minds Forums, a global risk perception survey and an Open Minds blog. Zurich, May 2014 Walter B. Kielholz Michel M. Liès Chairman of the Board of Directors Group Chief Executive Officer Swiss Re 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report 3 Who we are and what we do Swiss Re aims to be the leading player in the wholesale re/insurance industry. We seek to outperform peers in core areas, combined with a smart expansion into areas where additional growth opportunities exist. Swiss Re at a glance from policyholders”, our ten biggest organisation has settled well into the new markets at the end of 2013 were: the Group structure. Higher transparency and Swiss Re is a leader in wholesale United States, the United Kingdom, accountability drive a positive business reinsurance, insurance and risk transfer Australia, China, France, Canada, Germany, culture and allow for agility and flexibility. solutions. Our clients include insurance Ireland, Japan and Italy. Over the full year, companies, corporations and public sector they accounted for 80.1% of the Group’s We continue to expand our business bodies. Our knowledge and capital total business. where we see opportunities for sustainable strength enable the risk-taking on which growth, especially in Corporate Solutions, economies depend. In 2011, we reorganised our business into in high growth markets and in funding three Business Units: Reinsurance, longer lives and health. Headquartered in Zurich, Switzerland, Corporate Solutions and Admin Re®. The Swiss Re has operations around the globe. Swiss Re Ltd, the Group’s holding At the end of 2013, we had 67 office company, is a joint stock company, listed locations in more than 20 countries. Based on the SIX Swiss Exchange, domiciled in on “net premiums earned and fee income Zurich and organised under the laws of Switzerland. No other Group companies have shares listed. Our global presence Europe (including Middle East and Africa) Net premiums earned and fee income in 2013 (USD billions) 11.3 (USD 10.7 billion in 2012) Number of office locations as of 31 December 2013 22* (22 in 2012) Number of employees Regular staff as of 31 December 2013 7324 For more information see (7 186 in 2012) swissre.com/about_us/ * Counting all Zurich offices as one location 4 Swiss Re 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Who we are and what we do 150 years of managing risks In 2013, we celebrated our 150 Year Anniversary: Swiss Re was founded in 1863, prompted by the fire that had swept through the thriving town of Glarus in May 1861. The fire highlighted the threat to the Swiss insurance system posed by catastrophic losses. Together with our clients and partners, we have since been learning and gathering the knowledge and expertise needed to manage diverse portfolios of risks all over the world. For more information see 150.swissre.com Americas Asia-Pacific Total 11.5 6.0 28.8 (USD 9.5 billion in 2012) (USD 5.2 billion in 2012) (USD 25.4 billion in 2012) 34 11 67 (31 in 2012) (11 in 2012) (64 in 2012) 2955 1295 11574 (2 845 in 2012) (1 162 in 2012) (11 193 in 2012) Swiss Re 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report 5 Who we are and what we do One Group, three businesses The three distinct Business Units of the Swiss Re Group correspond to our core activities in reinsurance, insurance and risk transfer solutions. Reinsurance Corporate Solutions Admin Re® Reinsurance is Swiss Re’s largest Corporate Solutions serves mid-sized and Admin Re® provides risk and capital business in terms of income and the multinational corporations, with product management solutions by which Swiss Re foundation of our strength, providing offerings ranging from traditional property acquires closed books of in-force life and about 85% of gross premiums and fee and casualty insurance to highly health insurance business, entire lines income through two segments – Property & customised solutions. Corporate Solutions of business, or the entire capital stock of Casualty and Life & Health. The unit aims serves customers from over 40 offices life insurance companies. Admin Re® to extend Swiss Re’s industry-leading worldwide and is a growth engine of the solutions help clients free up capital to position with disciplined underwriting, Swiss Re Group. redeploy to new business opportunities prudent portfolio management and while reducing administrative burdens. diligent client service. How we operate Re/insurance protects Re/insurance creates stability. By managing risks and covering losses, we protect society and enables investments and enable economic growth. progress. In simplified terms, our business models works as follows: We provide tailor-made solutions through traditional reinsurance or insurance-based capital market instruments. At the core of our expertise is the costing, pricing and diversification of non-life and life risks. Against upfront premium payments, our solutions enable our clients to reduce peak risks, reduce earnings volatility, free up capital and finance growth, and achieve capital management targets for solvency and ratings. We invest assets long-term until money is needed, applying asset-liability matching techniques to align the duration and currency of invested assets to the duration and currency of our insurance liabilities, ensuring that we deliver on our promises to our clients. We compensate for our clients’ losses, using effective claims management procedures that are based on industry best practice, providing speed of payment when clients need us most. 6 Swiss Re 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Who we are and what we do Net premiums earned in 2013 Key financial data (Total: USD 28.8 billion) The table below provides an overview of some of the Swiss Re Group’s key financial data. USD millions unless otherwise stated 2012 2013 Total assets 1 221 503 213 520 Total investments 152 812 150 075 Total liabilities 1 187 477 180 543 Total debt 2 19 898 18 540 Shareholders’ equity 34 002 32 952 Retained earnings 26 322 30 766 Total revenues 33 624 36 902 ̤̤ XX.X% 50.5% P&C P & C Reinsurance Premiums earned 24 661 28 276 ̤̤ XX.X% 34.8% L&HL&H Reinsurance Reinsurance Net XX.X% EMEA XX.X% Americasincome – non-participating investment 3 4 473 3 947 ̤̤ XX.X% Reinsurance 10.1% Corporate Solutions Net investment result – unit-linked and with-profit 2 570 3 347 ̤̤ XX.X% Corporate Solutions 4.6% Admin Re® Admin Re XX.X% Total expenses ASIA-Pacific 28 101 32 077 Claims and claim adjustment expenses 7 763 9 655 Life and health benefits 8 878 9 581 Income tax expense 1 125 312 Current taxes 472 641 Deferred taxes 653 –329 Net income 4 4 201 4 444 Earnings per share in CHF (basic) 11.13 12.04 Dividends on common shares 1 134 2 760 Return on equity in % 13.4 13.7 1 The values for total assets and total liabilities differ from those reported last year because we have updated our balance sheet presentation of deferred tax assets and liabilities. 2 Total debt expressed as total carrying value 3 Excluding unit-linked and with-profit business 4 Net income attributable to common shareholders Group structure Operational Group structure Group Chief Executive Officer Group Executive Committee Corporate Functions Business Units Enabling Units Group Strategy Reinsurance Corporate Solutions Admin Re® Group Underwriting ̤̤ Americas ̤̤ Regions ̤̤ Origination & ̤̤ Asia ̤̤ Products & Global Structuring Group Finance ̤̤ Europe, Markets ̤̤ Pricing & Portfolio Group Asset Middle East & Africa ̤̤ Claims Management Management ̤̤ Globals ̤̤ Finance Corporate ̤̤ Asset Management Group Operations ̤̤ Property & Specialty Solutions ̤̤ Pricing ̤̤ Human Resources Underwriting ̤̤ Operations ̤̤ Reassure Admin Re® ̤̤ Legal & Compliance ̤̤ Casualty ̤̤ Corporate ̤̤ Admin Re® Services, ̤̤ Information Underwriting Development Admin Re® UK Technology ̤̤ Property & Casualty ̤̤ Regional ̤̤ Communications Group Risk Business Management ̤̤ Global Service Management Management Admin Re® US Operations ̤̤ Life & Health Products ̤̤ Finance Admin Re® ̤̤ Corporate Real ̤̤ Life & Health Business ̤̤ Legal Admin Re® Estate & Logistics Management ̤̤ Finance Reinsurance Swiss Re 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report 7 Our approach to corporate responsibility We are committed to being a responsible company. Contributing to sustainable, long-term value creation serves as a guiding principle for our practical actions. Swiss Re has a long-standing commitment This long-term view is embedded in Our commitment to to being a responsible company. A key Swiss Re’s normative framework and enabling sustainable element in our understanding of what this governance (ie the Group Code of progress underpins means is the desire to contribute to Conduct). It is one of the principles that Swiss Re’s values. sustainable value creation, for the benefit form the foundation of our values: of our clients and society at large. ̤̤ Being open, honest and transparent in everything we do; ̤̤ Treating everyone with respect – both inside and outside the company; ̤̤ Taking the long-term view and playing our part in enabling sustainable progress – for stakeholders and society in general; ̤̤ Creating an inclusive culture that encourages diversity of thought and opinion. For more information see swissre.com/about_us/our_values/ For more information see swissre.com/corporate_responsibility/ 8 Swiss Re 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Our approach to corporate responsibility Our understanding of materiality published a Corporate Environmental Report covering the business year of 1998. A key question for any company that seeks to take a long-term view and enable Reflecting this long-standing engagement sustainable progress is what this means in for sustainable progress, our under­ the context of its own business and industry: standing of “materiality” has developed which of its activities and which topics are gradually over time. This process has “material” to achieving this goal? culminated in our Commitment to Corporate Responsibility: it describes We first began to address a specific sustain­ in general terms what we find important ability issue more than 20 years ago when in which areas of our business. As such, we drew attention to the potential risks it also sets the standard against which created by climate change. Our first our practical actions should be assessed. effort to disclose sustainability-related information dates back to 1999, when we Our Commitment to Corporate Responsibility General commitment “Corporate responsibility” expresses Swiss Re’s commitment to being an open, honest and transparent organisation that treats all its stakeholders – employees, shareholders, clients, government regulators and the general public – with respect and integrity. In particular, we aim to take a long-term view and to play our part in enabling sustainable progress. Sustainability as a guiding principle Sustainable progress – or sustainability – can be described as development that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their needs. To be sustainable, progress must improve economic efficiency, protect and restore ecological systems, and enhance social well-being. In all our main activities aimed at implementing corporate responsibility, the principle of sustainability is a key criterion: ̤̤ Business solutions Within our core business (re/insurance and asset management), we strive to develop innovative solutions that help tackle key environmental and social challenges. To this end, we actively work together with our clients and partners, both in the private and public sectors. ̤̤ Risk intelligence We develop and apply tailor-made tools to extend the scope of our risk management. In this way, we seek to identify and appropriately address sustainability-related and emerging risks in our core business. ̤̤ Stakeholder dialogue Through regular dialogue with our clients and further stakeholders, we help develop effective responses to sustainability and other key issues, by raising awareness of both the risks and the opportunities arising from them. ̤̤ Our footprint We apply best-practice standards of resource management to our properties and logistical operations as well as guidelines to our sourcing activities. In doing so, we continually reduce Swiss Re’s direct environmental impact. ̤̤ Corporate citizenship Playing an active role in society beyond our core business is important to us. We support selected humanitarian and development aid projects across the world, while promoting volunteering and charitable work at our business locations. ̤̤ Our employees We want to provide our employees with a working environment conducive to their personal and professional development. We nurture a culture of diversity and inclusion across the company, offer excellent training possibilities, and provide a range of health and other benefits. Swiss Re 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report 9 Our approach to corporate responsibility Determining key sustainability issues We consider these Top Topics to be highly In our human resources management, too, Our Commitment to Corporate material: they represent major challenges we use our existing expertise to determine Responsibility is deliberately expressed in to sustainable progress which a re/insurer material issues. These have remained terms of general objectives: it does not can help overcome by creating suitable stable over recent years and comprise: specify the issues we consider material risk transfer solutions. This is why these diversity and inclusion, development and because these may evolve over time. To Top Topics figure prominently in our own training, employee relations, and determine these material issues, we product development, our stakeholder compensation and benefits. All four have continuously use the risk knowledge and dialogue and, by extension, our internal a strong influence on our longer-term expertise embedded across our company. environmental management. performance. Our Group Issue Management is a formal, In our risk management, determining Climate change overarching process to identify key topics materiality raises a different question, For a reinsurer, climate change constitutes that are strategically important to us, our which is why we use a separate process. a key risk. It will lead to an increase in the clients and society at large. It collects and Here, the challenge is to identify risks that frequency and severity of natural cata­ evaluates the specialist knowledge of pose such a potential threat to sustainable strophes such as floods, storms, excessive our risk and product experts in a structured progress that we may want to avoid rainfall and drought. In combination with way. After an extensive review, we them in our core business transactions. We growing asset concentrations in exposed adopted a revised set of five such Top conduct this analysis through our areas and more widespread insurance Topics in 2012: Sustainability Risk Framework. Since its protection, this will cause a significant rise ̤̤ Advancing sustainable energy solutions launch in 2009, we have identified eight in losses. We have been an acknowledged ̤̤ Funding longer lives critical sectors and issues: the defence thought leader on climate change for ̤̤ Managing climate and natural disaster risk industry, oil and gas, mining, dams, animal more than 20 years and, by devoting two ̤̤ Partnering for food security testing, forestry and logging, nuclear Top Topics – “Advancing sustainable ̤̤ Supporting financial stability weapons proliferation as well as human energy solutions” and “Managing climate rights and environmental protection. For and natural disaster risk” – to it, we each, we have developed a policy that continue to take this challenge very clearly defines specific concerns that seriously. We tackle climate change with We determine material may lead us to abstain from individual a compre­hensive strategy resting on sustainability issues by transactions or exclude them entirely. four pillars. These are described below, using the risk expertise Though we make these decisions on ethical together with the strongest business embedded in our grounds, their “business case” is that they impacts. company. help us protect Swiss Re’s reputation. The four pillars of our climate change strategy ̤̤ Advancing our knowledge and understanding of climate change risks, quantifying and integrating them into our risk management and underwriting frameworks where relevant; ̤̤ Developing products and services to mitigate – or adapt to – climate risk; ̤̤ Raising awareness about climate change risks through dialogue with clients, employees and the public, and advocacy of a worldwide policy framework for climate change; ̤̤ Tackling our own carbon footprint and ensuring transparent, annual emissions reporting. The main business impacts of climate change ̤̤ We need to understand how climate change affects natural catastrophe risks, so we can price our covers accurately. See pages 14–15 ̤̤ Efforts to mitigate climate change create opportunities to offer insurance protection for renewable energy projects. See page 16 ̤̤ Efforts to adapt to climate change create opportunities to develop innovative products offering protec­tion against natural catastrophes. See pages 15–21 and 64–65 ̤̤ Regulatory responses to climate change may create new reporting requirements we need to be aware of. See page 27 10 Swiss Re 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Our approach to corporate responsibility Governance and management Disclosure and accountability operations. While we do provide information responsibility on our sourcing and procurement policies, We have voluntarily reported on our we do not report on the performance of At Swiss Re’s highest governance level, the performance as a responsible company our suppliers because the re/insurance task of overseeing implementation of our since the business year of 1998. The range business does not involve a proper supply commitment to corporate responsibility of topics covered in these yearly reports chain. Starting with the present report, we has been assigned to a Committee of has gradually widened since. While early are, however, extending our emissions the Board of the Directors: It is one of the editions had a strong focus on environ­ reporting to include some of the emissions responsibilities of the Chairman’s and mental concerns, later editions gradually caused along our supply chain (“Scope 3” Governance Committee to periodically extended their focus to social and emissions). review the Group’s sustainability and governance issues. Since 2007, we have citizenship activities. published a comprehensive Corporate As explained above, our corporate citizen­ Responsibility Report, guided by ship activities will from now on be described On an operational level, numerous units best practice in corporate responsibility in a separate report published by the are involved in implementing Swiss Re’s reporting. Swiss Re Foundation (see page 63). commitment to corporate responsibility in daily business. The Sustainability & Political Content definition Independent assurance Risk Management unit also carries out The structure of the present report reflects Our 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report certain coordination tasks and is respon­ our Commitment to Corporate Respon­ is the first one in which all main chapters sible for producing the Group’s Corporate sibility: each of the areas of our business have received independent assurance Responsibility Report. specified as relevant there is covered by from PricewaterhouseCoopers. Previously, an individual chapter – with one exception: assurance applied to our published CO2 as the Swiss Re Foundation is now emissions (from 2004 onwards), and in responsible for our corporate citizenship last year’s report was extended to three full activities, these are described in a separate chapters. The assurance statement from report published by the Foundation (see PricewaterhouseCoopers is included on page 63). pages 68–69. The content presented in these chapters Reporting frameworks Our 2013 Corporate reflects material issues within the As far as is applicable to a business-toResponsibility Report is respective areas, as explained there. An business company in financial services, the first one in which additional chapter highlights some key this report takes into account the G3.1 all main chapters have features of Swiss Re’s corporate Sustainability Reporting Guidelines received independent governance regime, including the Group of the Global Reporting Initiative assurance. Code of Conduct: (www.globalreporting.org). The detailed ̤̤ Creating solutions for sustainability GRI Content Index is included in the ̤̤ Extending our risk intelligence report on pages 73–75. ̤̤ Exploring and shaping the risk landscape Furthermore, the 2013 Corporate ̤̤ Reducing our environmental footprint Responsibility Report incorporates our ̤̤ Being an employer of choice Communication on Progress on 2013 ̤̤ Ensuring good governance for the UN Global Compact (www.unglobalcompact.org). In line with In our 2011 Corporate Responsibility the United Nations’ recommendations, Report we first included two special references to the Compact’s ten principles sections in addition to these core chapters. are incorporated into the GRI Content Under the heading of “Corporate respon­ Index. For the second time, we also report sibility in context”, they are intended to against the Principles for Sustainable provide some background information on Insurance, PSI (www.unepfi.org/psi). important sustainability topics. In this Our “public disclosure of progress” can year’s edition we present one such section: be found on page 72. ̤̤ Corporate responsibility in context: Economics of Climate Adaptation (ECA) The present report succeeds the 2012 edition and covers the calendar year of Scope 2013. We plan to maintain our yearly Our Corporate Responsibility Report publishing cycle and to present our next covers the whole Swiss Re Group, ie the Corporate Responsibility Report in the listed holding company, its three Business second quarter of 2015, covering the year Units and all directly or indirectly held of 2014. subsidiaries. As in past years, the scope of the report is limited to Swiss Re’s own Swiss Re 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report 11 Our approach to corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility goals As most of our objectives are defined in strategic terms, the attempt to break them In the last few years, we have stated some down into annual goals has added little of our main corporate responsibility value in our view. goals here and have then reported on our progress made against them in the Below is the progress report on the goals following year. After careful consideration, defined for 2013: we have decided to stop this practice: Report on our 2013 corporate responsibility goals ̤̤ Help exposed communities get ̤̤ Maintain 50% reduction in CO₂ better insurance protection against emissions per employee achieved a range of risks, by engaging in since 2003 despite rise in business public-private partnerships and travel, and devise follow-up strategy microinsurance schemes. until 2020 comprising carbon Contributed to several new neutrality and extended scope. solutions and continued engage­ Reached total reduction of CO2 ment in existing programmes, emissions by 56.5% per employee thus improving communities’ in ten years since 2003 and defined resilience against a range of risks. key elements of follow-up See pages 17–21 emissions strategy, including extended reporting scope. ̤̤ Through ongoing dialogue, assist See pages 41–43 clients in devising and implementing long-term adaptation strategies to Swiss̤̤Re Dots Imagery Further enhance the effectiveness Title: Dotstitle climate change based on the of our corporate citizenship activities Category: Categorytitle Economics of Climate Adaptation by transferring them to the newlymethodology. established, independent Swiss Re In partnership, conducted a major Foundation. climate adaptation study for New The Swiss Re Foundation York City, detailing measures successfully completed its first to reduce damage from potential full year of operation, marked natural disasters in the future. by the publication of a compre­ See page 65 hensive report. See page 63 ̤̤ Further sharpen our positions on key sustainability risks and collaborate with partners to advance sustainable business practices in the re/insurance industry. Revised four policies of our Scriptographer Plugin Sustainability Risk Framework and continued to play a leading role in the UNEP FI’s Principles for Sustainable Insurance. See pages 23 and 26 10 50 Copyright © 2010 Swiss Re 12 Swiss Re 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Our approach to corporate responsibility Swiss Re 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report 13 Creating solutions for sustainability With our re/insurance solutions we help address key environmental and social challenges. We focus on natural catastrophes and climate change, funding longer lives, and insurance cover in emerging countries. By managing risks and covering losses, But, just as importantly, it offers people re/insurance creates stability. There are protection for their investments, gives some environmental and social challenges, them the financial stability necessary to however, that pose a threat to societies’ get loans and allows governments to long-term sustainable development. The stabilise their budgets. Thus, our solutions wish to support sustainable progress by help create the conditions for sustained addressing such risks is at the core of our social and economic progress. commitment as a responsible company. Natural catastrophe As reflected by our Top Topics, we believe premiums in our our re/insurance solutions can help Natural catastrophes and climate reinsurance business address the following sustainability change totalled USD 2.75 billion challenges: climate and natural disaster in 2013. We regularly risks, sustainable energy, longer lives and Natural catastrophes constitute a key risk review our models to food security. We develop these solutions in our Property & Casualty (P&C) business. ensure they reflect as part of our established risk modelling Losses from floods, storms, earthquakes all factors that may lead and underwriting activities or by creating and other natural catastrophes can to losses. innovative new products, in close affect millions of lives and the economies cooperation with our clients and partners. of entire countries. Providing effective re/insurance protection against natural Our solutions frequently include one or catastrophes therefore has large social and more of the following elements: economic benefits. In 2013, we received ̤̤ Insurance-linked securities (ILS) or cat premiums worth USD 2.75 billion from our bonds: We are a leading developer of clients in Property & Casualty Reinsurance – these products, which enable large risks 18.9% of our total premiums in this to be transferred to the capital markets; business segment. ̤̤ Index-based insurance products: We are a pioneer in creating innovative Globally, insured natural catastrophe losses insurance solutions that use an index are becoming more frequent and severe to determine payments; due to the increasing use of insurance and ̤̤ Public-sector partners: In addition to the concentration of insured assets in direct insurers and corporate clients, exposed areas. This development is likely we seek to develop risk transfer solutions to be further compounded by the effects for, and in cooperation with, govern­ of climate change. According to the Special ments and various public-sector Report on Extremes (SREX) published organisations. by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), a changing climate In addition, creating solutions tailored to gradually leads to shifts in the frequency, the needs of emerging and developing intensity, spatial extent, duration and timing countries has a high priority for us. of extreme weather events. Helping to increase financial security in the face of risks such as drought, flooding, For more information see windstorms and earthquakes enables swissre.com/rethinking/climate_and_ natural_disaster_risk/ communities and governments to better cope with immediate damage if required. 14 Swiss Re 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Creating solutions for sustainability It is vital that we understand natural cata­ ECA methodology enables decision-makers Non-life ILS underwritten strophe risks and the impact of climate to understand the future economic impact by Swiss Re change in order to assess our P&C business of climate change and to identify the most USD millions accurately and to structure sound risk cost-effective actions to minimise that 3000 transfer solutions. This is why we invest impact. This makes it possible to integrate 2500 49.7 in proprietary, state-of-the-art natural adaptation to climate change with 2000 catastrophe models and collaborate with economic development and sustainable 1500 universities and scientific institutions. growth. This enables us to stay abreast of the latest 1000 knowledge on the economic impact of In 2013, we completed an ECA-based risk 500 natural disasters, including the effects of assessment for New York City. Both the 0 climate change. ECA methodology and the assessment for 2010 2011 2012 2013 New York are described in detail on pages While the impact of climate change will 64–65.  as a sponsor manifest itself over the coming decades,  as an arranger for clients most of our business is renewed annually and our risk models are refined every Insurance-linked securities few years. Risks are essentially covered for For reinsurers they are attractive because 12 months, for cat bonds up to five years. We are a leading player in the insurancethey free up scarce capital; for insurers and Thus, reinsurance premiums do not reflect linked securities (ILS) sector. ILS are capital corporate clients they provide multi-year expected loss trends over the next decades. market instruments, typically in bond or collateralised protection; and for investors Rather, for underwriting and risk manage­ derivative format, designed to meet they offer attractive diversification ment purposes, our models provide an the risk or capital management needs of a possibilities, as they are relatively uncorre­ estimate of today‘s risk. However, as natural transaction “sponsor“. In exchange for a lated with other asset classes. catastrophe losses continue to rise as a coupon or premium payment, the sponsor result of the different factors described receives single or multi-year collateralised In 2013, new ILS totalling USD 7.42 billion above, our models will gradually reflect this protection for specified risk events. If such were issued in the market, the second trend, as they are updated at regular an event occurs, the sponsor receives all highest amount ever after 2007. New intervals. or part of the principal; otherwise this is issuance again exceeded the amount of paid back to the investors in full at maturity. maturing bonds, bringing the total of In addition to providing re/insurance cat bonds outstanding to USD 20.2 billion covers, we support our clients with strategic Insurance-linked securities are particularly at the end of 2013, the highest ever expertise and integral risk assessment of well-suited to provide protection against recorded. Since 2011 (its low point after natural disasters and climate adaptation. peak risks – events that happen infrequently the financial crisis) the market has thus These include our expertise publications, but tend to lead to high losses, for example grown by almost 50%, underlining the free access to Swiss Re‘s CatNet® and our earthquakes or windstorms. ILS are used fact that insurance-linked securities are Economics of Climate Adaptation (ECA) for both risk and capital management now considered an efficient instrument to studies. With a time horizon of 2030, the purposes in the P&C and the L&H business. manage large-scale risks, on a compli­ mentary basis to traditional reinsurance. Our registered broker-dealer subsidiaries underwrote and distributed to institutional investors non-life ILS worth USD 100 million on our behalf during 2013. They underwrote and distributed an additional USD 2.52 billion of non-life ILS for clients. Thus the total value of ILS underwritten by Swiss Re in 2013 was USD 2.62 billion, or a little more than one third of the whole ILS market. Climate and natural catastrophe risks are high on our agenda. By pricing current risks accurately and estimating future damages, For more information see swissre.com/investors/ils/ we offer our clients effective protection against them. Swiss Re 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report 15 Creating solutions for sustainability Sustainable energy solutions Life & Health insurance and Offering financial funding longer lives protection for renewable Sustainable energy sources play a crucial energy projects requires role in reducing CO2 emissions and Life and health (L&H) insurance products a good understanding securing future energy supplies. Given our play a crucial role in creating stability for of their complex risks. strategic focus on climate change, we are individuals and society. They provide keen to support energy generation from financial security in the event of death or renewable sources. But as sustainable illness, give access to medical treatment energy projects increase in scale and and offer dependable income in retire­ complexity, so do the risks associated ment. By providing reinsurance, we help with them. However, innovative risk primary L&H insurers and other clients – transfer solutions can help reduce these from the private and public sector – to risks and drive investment in the sector. manage such risks efficiently, thanks to our specialist knowledge of mortality, Offshore wind is considered one of the morbidity and longevity trends. most promising renewable energy sources. But what is true of renewable energy in Longevity and health are two of our strategic general also applies to offshore wind. priorities in the L&H business. The demand These facilities present very complex risks: for longevity solutions is expected to grow in comparison to traditional lines, there is further as demographics shift. We have no long loss history to refer to. From an invested in research and development to insurance perspective, underwriting such improve our ability to predict mortality and risks is therefore challenging. longevity trends. In the last few years, we completed several longevity insurance Swiss Re Corporate Solutions takes a contracts with pension funds in the UK. special interest in offshore wind as it has both the large capacity and the technical Demand for commercial health insurance expertise to help manage the associated solutions is also growing, driven by several risks. We are continually enhancing our major demographic and socio-economic understanding of these risks and share our trends. These include: the greater health­ insights with our clients as well as other care needs of ageing societies; rising insurers. healthcare expectations of the new middle class, especially in growth markets; and Recently, we completed a major transaction healthcare finance reform, particularly in with E.ON to insure risks during the mature markets. We offer a variety of construction phase of Amrumbank West, health reinsurance solutions to meet these an offshore wind farm in the North Sea. needs, from short-term protection against Comprising 80 individual wind turbines, the risk of volatility in medical expenses it will generate 288 megawatts when it for insurers or employers, to very long-term starts operating. Currently, the foundations protection against the financial impact of of the turbines are being fixed into the disability or critical illness. sea floor – 24 metres below the surface and 35 kilometres from the nearest shore. For further details on this wind farm cover see 2013 Business Report, pages 20–23 For more information see swissre.com/rethinking/sustainable_ For more information see energy/ swissre.com/rethinking/longer_lives/ 16 Swiss Re 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Creating solutions for sustainability Our commitment to the Grow To meet our commitment, we work closely Africa Partnership with several partner organisations, including Oxfam America, the World Food In many parts of Africa, people depend Programme, USAID and the Global Index directly on agriculture for their livelihoods. Insurance Facility. By the end of 2013, we All too often, though, they face the threat had helped to establish a total of 32 pro­ of volatile weather and subsequent harvest grammes, bringing weather insurance failures. What’s more, this risk is likely to to 300 000 smallholder farmers in 12 Subincrease, as climate change leads to a rise Saharan countries. in droughts, heavy rainfall and floods. As most smallholder farmers do not have any Partnering with the Global Index insurance protection, such weather events Insurance Facility can have devastating consequences. Our cooperation with the Global Index Insurance Facility (GIIF) dates back to 2011. 300 000 In 2011 the Grow Africa Partnership Established by the International Finance (www.growafrica.com) was established by Corporation, IFC (www.ifc.org) – the several partner organisations to find private-sector arm of the World Bank – and answers to this problem. Its chief objective supported by the European Commission, Smallholder farmers benefiting from our engagement in the Grow Africa Partnership is to promote public-private collaboration GIIF is a platform designed to bring indexafter two years and investment in African agriculture. The based insurance products to farmers in Group of Eight (G8) soon decided to align developing countries. Our cooperation with its own work with the Grow Africa GIIF takes the form of a technical partner­ Partnership and in 2012 launched the ship, through which we can contribute New Alliance for Food and Nutrition our extensive know-how and experience Security, a commitment to help 50 million in developing such insurance products. people in Africa climb out of poverty Based on the results we have been able within ten years. to achieve together, GIIF has decided to renew our partnership for another year. We are one of 45 companies that made a tangible commitment to the Alliance, and On the next page we describe two thus to supporting Grow Africa. Stretching solutions we have developed in over five years, our commitment combines cooperation with GIIF and other partners. three goals: ̤̤ Give farmers in Sub-Saharan Africa access to tools such as weather and yield index insurance products; ̤̤ Invest in resources equivalent to about USD 2 million per year to support the development of sustainable agricultural risk management markets; ̤̤ Provide agricultural insurance for up to 1.4 million smallholder farmers. For more information see swissre.com/rethinking/food_security/ Swiss Re 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report 17 Creating solutions for sustainability The Kilimo Salama programme After another successful year, Kilimo Salama (kilimosalama.wordpress.com) is now the largest weather index insurance programme in Africa. It was first launched in Kenya in 2009 (“kilimo salama” actually means “safe farming” in Kiswahili, the language spoken in much of northern Kenya), and was then expanded to Rwanda and Tanzania. By the end of 2013, a total of 185 000 smallholder farmers were insured through Kilimo Salama. Currently, the programme offers financial protection against drought, excess rain, crop yield volatility and diseases, and is being used for maize, beans, wheat, sorghum, coffee, potatoes and livestock. Kilimo Salama’s success is grounded in an effective and innovative partnership between GIIF, the Syngenta Foundation for Sustainable Agriculture, local mobile phone operator Safaricom, local insurer UAP and Swiss Re Corporate Solutions. For example, the use of mobile phone technology means it is easier for farmers to join the programme and receive Food security in Kenya payouts. Our role is to assume the Since he has had crop insurance, Francis Gitonga Magwu from Embu, Kenya, can afford programme’s risk and price the insurance better seeds and achieve a higher yield. covers. The Guy Carpenter programme in Mozambique Another innovative programme we are What’s special about the Guy Carpenter Close public-private collaboration has involved in was launched in 2012 in programme is that it uses a “portfolio again proved indispensable to create a Mozambique. At present, only a fraction pricing” model: instead of calculating programme capable of introducing of Mozambique’s arable land is under premiums for each farmer’s plot, the agricultural insurance to a new market. cultivation; the lack of agricultural sum insured in the whole region is Alongside Guy Carpenter – a reinsurance insurance is regarded as one of the rea­ used for risk calculation. The insurance intermediary – partners include GIIF, sons for this. Thanks to this pioneering policy, too, covers a whole group two agribusiness firms, two local programme, 43 000 cotton farmers and of farmers and is purchased by an insurance companies, the Cotton Institute some maize farmers acquired insurance “aggregator”. Both these features of Mozambique (IAM) and Swiss Re protection against the effects of drought, make the programme more affordable Corporate Solutions. Our role is to low temperatures and excess rainfall and easier to administrate. assume the risk on the programme and by the end of 2013. to provide technical support. 18 Swiss Re 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Creating solutions for sustainability The MiCRO programme were insured through Kore W benefited products in Central America, in coop­ from the programme. Today, Fonkoze has eration with local microfinance institutions The massive earthquake that struck Haiti coverage which protects the microfinance and other partners. in 2010 underlined again how vulnerable institution against natural catastrophes. people in poorer countries are to natural Central American countries are particularly disasters – even those who survive such a Our secondment of MiCRO’s CEO vulnerable to natural disasters. CADME is calamity. As many families do not have any From the start, MiCRO was designed as a geared towards meeting the needs of lowinsurance protection to fall back on, they “scalable” facility that can extend its risk income people and micro-entrepreneurs in may lose their whole livelihoods and management solutions to other countries Central America, whose livelihood and will struggle to recover after such an event. and regions. In order to support this productive activities are highly exposed to United by the desire to find workable process, we decided to second Melanie the impacts of natural disasters. To offer remedies for this situation, we teamed up Slack to become MiCRO’s first CEO. Ms effective insurance protection, CADME will with Fonkoze (www.fonkoze.org), Haiti’s Slack has held positions of increasing have to collect a substantial amount of largest microfinance institution, and strategic importance for Swiss Re for data on the region’s vulnerability to natural Mercy Corps (www.mercycorps.org) to the past twelve years, focused on under­ catastrophes and the potential effects of establish the Microinsurance Catastrophe writing and, most recently, internal audit. climate change. Risk Organisation, or MiCRO for short. By providing MiCRO’s CEO, we can now actively drive expansion of MiCRO’s MiCRO’s first product was launched in products into new markets, building on Flood insurance in Bangladesh Haiti in 2011 and offered insurance the experience and lessons learnt from protection against earthquakes, hurricanes the catastrophe cover in Haiti. Bangladesh is one of the most flood-prone and excess rainfall. Called Kore W (which countries in the world. Through the means “for you” in Haitian Creole), it was MiCRO’s expansion to Central estuaries of the rivers Ganges, Brahmaputra tailored to the needs of Fonkoze’s 60 000 America and Meghna, the country receives water female clients who run various small In 2013, MiCRO launched CADME from a drainage area twelve times its own businesses to provide for their families and (Central America Disaster Microinsurance size. In spells of heavy rainfall, not all the gradually build better lives for them. When Expansion) in partnership with the Swiss water can be absorbed; this leads to Haiti was hit by Tropical Storm Isaac and Agency for Development and Cooperation periodic flooding, which is one of the main Hurricane Sandy in 2012, approximately (SDC) and the Multilateral Investment reasons for the widespread and persistent 28 000 out of the 60 000 women who Fund (MIF). It is a platform to develop and poverty in Bangladesh. implement innovative microinsurance For 150 years we have worked with our partners to help society advance, become more resilient and feel more secure. As part of our anniversary celebrations, awardwinning photographers Mathias Braschler and Monika Fischer travelled around the world and visited eighteen risk-prone regions where we seek to make a difference to people‘s lives – through our re/insurance solutions or grants from the Swiss Re Foundation. Here, we show three of these photographs. All the others can be viewed at: 150.swissre.com/protecting_generations/ overview/ Faster recovery in Haiti After Hurricane Sandy had destroyed their house, Lormicienne Georges had to live in a temporary hut with three of her children and a grandchild. Swiss Re 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report 19 Creating solutions for sustainability Over the last decades, the Bangladeshi By using an index-based solution, the with complementary skills and know-how government has attempted to reduce the programme has managed to meet two has proved crucial. Our own contribution damage caused by flooding through challenges. Firstly, there was a lack of flood is to support the project with product structural measures. But such measures, loss data and flood hazard models in the structuring, pricing and underwriting. We alone, cannot provide complete protection, area. As building a fully-fledged flood also reinsure the risks, so the programme and so many local communities have hazard model is expensive and timecan cope with exceptional flood damage remained vulnerable to the dramatic conse­ consuming, one of the project partners if needed. quences of large floods. (Institute of Water Modelling, IWM) developed a model based on flood water To help these communities, several level/depth and duration (instead of Pacific Catastrophe Risk partners from the public and the private calculating actual flood losses). This index Insurance Pilot sector have developed a pioneering triggers the payment of an insurance scheme that offers low-income households benefit; the information is also used to Spread across the vast space of the Pacific in Bangladesh insurance protection identify the households eligible for the Ocean lie the island groups of Micronesia, against flood damage. In its pilot phase, payment. Secondly, using such a model Melanesia and Polynesia. While they are the programme insures 1660 families in ensures that payouts can be made quickly famous for their picture-postcard setting, 14 villages located in the Char areas of the and flood victims receive compensation the Pacific Islands share another, less wellSirajganj district. In the case of flooding, within a short time. known characteristic: the region is one the families will each receive cash relief of the most vulnerable to natural disasters of up to USD 100. As with all innovative insurance anywhere in the world. These recurring programmes designed for low-income disasters not only cause widespread communities, bringing together partners destruc­tion, they also put a huge financial strain on the islands’ governments and Fourteen vulnerable hamper economic development as a result. communities in Bangladesh are now financially protected against flood damage through a pioneering index-based programme. Insurance for the Pacific Islands Leausa Key works as a receptionist at the Virgin Cove Resort in Samoa. Her house was destroyed by cyclone Evan and she is still saving to have it rebuilt. 20 Swiss Re 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Creating solutions for sustainability In response to this predicament, the Pacific The project is divided into different phases. Asian Development Bank Catastrophe Risk Insurance Pilot was Six cities were selected in phase 1. In (ADB) launched in 2013. Arranged by the World phase 2, Swiss Re, as part of a consortium Since its founding in 1966, Bank with the support of several partner of consultants, has been mandated by ADB has been committed organisations, it has selected Swiss Re and ADB to develop DRF options for each of the to improving people’s lives several other re/insurers to provide cities. Such instruments are now being in Asia and the Pacific. protection against earthquakes, tsunamis developed until 2015 and will be tailored It supports its member and tropical cyclones to the region’s to the specific exposures and vulnerabilities countries through investment governments. Initially, the Marshall Islands, of the six selected cities: Davao and in infrastructure, health care Samoa, the Solomon Islands, Tonga and Marikina City in the Philippines, Padang services, financial and public Vanuatu decided to take part in the and Manado in Indonesia, and Can Tho administration systems, and programme and, later in the year, the Cook and Hue in Vietnam. helps them prepare for the Islands joined as well. impact of climate change or better manage their natural The pilot uses a state-of-the-art “modelled Investment in microinsurance resources. loss” approach which quickly approxi­ www.adb.org/ mates the damage caused by a natural Through the solutions we develop with our disaster. As a result, the insured govern­ various partners, we bring insurance directly ments automatically and rapidly receive to low-income communities. In 2013, compensation, which they can use to along with other institutional investors, we finance emergency measures and carry also invested in a new private equity fund, out necessary reconstruction work. which raised over USD 200 million for investment in insurance and financial The Pacific Catastrophe Risk Insurance services aimed at low-income consumers Pilot is the first programme in the region in developing countries. This is the second to use such a mechanism. We provide fund raised by LeapFrog Investments capacity for the programme and have (www.leapfroginvest.com), a private equity given technical feedback. fund manager specialising in such microfinance solutions, particularly insurance. Disaster risk management in Southeast Asian cities The new fund will invest in companies that offer insurance and related services to Indonesia, the Philippines and Vietnam low-income consumers in South-East Asia are all vulnerable to a variety of natural and Sub-Saharan Africa. Typically, these disasters, eg earthquakes, floods or wind­ companies target people who earn less storms, which not only cause widespread than USD 10 a day, do not have sufficient human suffering, but often have a huge access to financial services or are even impact on the public finances of national, excluded from them. provincial and city governments. Such purpose-driven investment vehicles To address this issue, the Asian are important to accelerate the develop­ Development Bank (ADB) launched a ment of fledgling insurance markets in “Technical Assistance” project to help developing and emerging countries. different cities in the three countries to The evidence of the last few years clearly develop and implement proactive “disaster shows that there is demand for basic risk financing” (DRF) instruments. Once in financial services in low-income place, they will help public authorities to communities – now the vital thing is to be better prepared financially for potential expand the supply. future disaster shocks. For more information see swissre.com/global_partnerships/ Swiss Re 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report 21 Extending our risk intelligence We address sustainability, political, regulatory and emerging risks in our core business transactions. For this purpose, we have developed specific tools and know-how. Risk management is at the core of Swiss Re’s Swiss Re’s Sustainability Risk Sustainability risks business model. Controlled risk taking Framework We define sustainability requires a strong risk culture across the risks as ethical concerns organisation, strengthened by comprehen­ In a market environment, profitable busi­ related to environmental and sive risk management processes to ness activities create economic value. socio-economic impacts identify, assess and control the Group’s However, sometimes, they may also of our business transactions, and the Business Units’ risk exposures. The adversely affect the environment and and the reputational risks main categories of our risk landscape certain vulnerable groups. If ignored, such they may entail. comprise core risks (insurance, financial impacts may pose a threat to societies’ market and credit) as well as operational long-term sustainable development. and other risks that arise as a result of doing business: liquidity, strategic, For companies, this situation can cause regulatory and reputational (see 2013 dilemmas: a specific business transaction Financial Report, pages 50–61). may be economically beneficial and perfectly fine from a legal perspective, yet Sound risk management is essential for a may have significant environmental and re/insurer: tight control of our exposures social downsides. At Swiss Re, we believe guarantees that we can be a reliable it is important to recognise and address partner to our clients when they need us. such dilemmas. Doing so requires a wellThere is an additional dimension to risk defined approach and the willingness to management, though: as a responsible make decisions based on ethical principles. company, we need to pay attention to further, non-standard risks we may be Our Sustainability Risk Framework is an exposed to, especially in the longer term. advanced risk management instrument specifically designed to identify and Sustainability, political, regulatory and address such “sustainability risks” in our emerging risks are particularly relevant core business. It applies to all of our in this respect. For all, we have developed business transactions, ie re/insurance instruments and know-how that help us as well as investments, to the extent that identify and assess them. This allows us to we can influence their various aspects. determine those risks we think should be avoided – because of their loss potential, The Sustainability Risk Framework for ethical reasons, or both. consists of: ̤̤ Eight policies on sensitive sectors or This extended risk awareness is also key issues; to managing our assets responsibly. ̤̤ The Sensitive Business Risks (SBR) The risk assessments we make through process − a due diligence tool for our Sustainability Risk Framework, in assessing individual business particular, flow directly into our investment transactions; decisions. ̤̤ Company exclusions; ̤̤ Country exclusions beyond mere For more information see compliance with international trade swissre.com/corporate_responsibility/ managing_env_risks.html controls. 22 Swiss Re 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Extending our risk intelligence Policies business thus became a legal require­ In 2013, we revised At present, the framework comprises ment; we sharpened both our existing four policies of our policies on eight sectors and issues where “defence industry” and “nuclear Sustainability Risk we perceive major sustainability risks: weapons proliferation” policies to fully Framework to account the defence industry, oil and gas (including account for the WMA. for recent risk oil sands), mining, dams, animal testing, developments. forestry and logging, nuclear weapon ̤̤ Oil and gas proliferation, plus an overarching human Oil sands, fracking (hydraulic fracturing) rights and environmental protection policy. and Arctic oil exploration are three highly controversial topics in the energy In 2013, we made important amendments sector, because they pose substantial to four of these policies. environmental risks. We revised our “oil and gas” policy to describe criteria that ̤̤ Defence industry and nuclear weapons establish which practices we exclude proliferation: and which we give preference to. On 1 February 2013, the revised Swiss War Material Act (WMA) came into ̤̤ Forestry and logging: force. It regulates the involvement of We updated this policy primarily to Swiss companies and citizens in create stricter criteria to deal with nuclear, chemical, biological and cluster timber and palm oil production in weak weapons and anti-personnel mines, regulatory environments. including direct and indirect financing. Our voluntary commitment to exclude certain defence activities from our Oil drilling in the Arctic carries considerable risks for this fragile environment. In 2013, we adjusted the “oil and gas“ policy of our Sustainability Risk Framework to define the practices we support and those we do not. Swiss Re 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report 23 Extending our risk intelligence The key concerns addressed by the eight policies of our Sustainability Risk Framework are listed below: Main concerns in key sectors Defence industry Dams Nuclear weapons proliferation ̤̤ Particularly cruel weapons that inflict ̤̤ Human rights abuses; ̤̤ Activities associated with nuclear indiscriminate harm to humans and ̤̤ Significant adverse environmental energy or similar in countries that are the environment, often after a conflict or social impacts, particularly where outside the established framework has ended; critical natural habitats, vulnerable and international regime of global ̤̤ The provision of certain services by groups and/or critical cultural non-proliferation efforts. private security companies. heritages are impacted; ̤̤ Non-involvement of relevant Human rights and environmental Oil and gas stakeholders; protection ̤̤ Human rights abuses; ̤̤ Non-involvement of affected ̤̤ Human rights violations and abuses ̤̤ Significant adverse environmental neighbouring states. such as murder, torture, deprivation or social impacts, particularly where of liberty, forced labour or harmful critical natural habitats, vulnerable Animal testing child labour; groups and/or critical cultural ̤̤ Unethical and inhumane treatment ̤̤ Countries that lack an operational, heritages are impacted. of animals. effective and internationally recognised government; Mining Forestry and logging ̤̤ Companies that are causing ongoing, ̤̤ Human rights abuses; ̤̤ Illegal logging; severe and unmitigated damage to ̤̤ Significant adverse environmental ̤̤ Significant adverse environmental the environment, flora and fauna of a or social impacts, particularly where or social impacts, particularly where particular place and biodiversity in critical natural habitats, vulnerable critical natural habitats, vulnerable general, especially in industries and groups and/or critical cultural groups and/or critical cultural activities that have had a problematic heritages are impacted; heritages are impacted. track record in this area in the past. ̤̤ Poor occupational health & safety record and risk of increasing HIV penetration. The Sensitive Business Risks process The decisions we take as part of the assessment of a transaction and its local Each of the eight policies of our Sustainability Risk Framework are based effects, often in collaboration and dialogue Sustainability Risk Framework contains on internationally recognised ethical with external experts and local stake­ criteria and qualitative standards which principles. Swiss Re is a signatory to the holders. define precisely when our underwriters UN Global Compact, which derives its and client managers need to refer a human rights principles from the Universal Thus our decisions are neither subjective transaction to the Sensitive Business Risks Declaration of Human Rights, its labour nor entirely objective. In essence, they (SBR) process. In such a case our sustaina­ principles from the ILO Declaration on reflect our recognition of global funda­ bility and other experts carry out a due Fundamental Principles and Rights at mental rights, of human suffering and our diligence assessment: they carefully analyse Work, its environment principles from commitment to limiting unwanted negative the benefits and downsides of the the Rio Declaration on Environment and impacts of our business transactions. transaction at hand and decide whether Development and its anti-corruption it is acceptable on ethical grounds. principles from the United Nations In 2013, the number of transactions Convention against Corruption. referred to the SBR process rose to 210. This decision takes the form of a recom­ We issued negative recommendations in mendation either to go ahead with the This web of ethical principles helps us 27 cases and positive recommendations transaction, to go ahead with certain make decisions that consider universal with conditions in 26 cases. conditions attached or to abstain from it. fundamental rights. However, this is not If there is disagreement about the sufficient for decisions in a business recommendation, the case can be context. What also needs to be considered escalated to the next management level. are the social and economic implications of our decisions in their respective cultural contexts. Last but not least, we need to take into account the implications for our For more information see swissre.com/corporate_responsibility/ business. Balancing these various aspects sensitive_risks_process.html requires the careful and consistent 24 Swiss Re 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Extending our risk intelligence Sensitive Business Risk referrals 2013 Number of Sensitive Business Risk referrals  19% Defence 200  17% Oil and gas 180  11% Excluded/critical country 160  11% Mining 140  9% Dams 120  9% Environmental degradation 100  8% Other industry/issue 80  6% Human rights 60  4% Forestry and logging 40 20  3% Nuclear weapons proliferation  2% Animal testing 0 2010 2011 2012 2013  1% Multi-issue  Proceed  Proceed with conditions  Abstain  Not materialised 210 Total number of business transactions In view of our expansion into highgrowth markets, we expect the number of Sensitive Business Risk referrals to continue rising. This will indicate to us that investments in entities that are based in these countries. At the end of 2013, the countries excluded from our business for human rights reasons were North Korea, referred to the Sensitive Business Risks the Sustainability Risk Framework works Somalia, Sudan (North only) and Syria. process in 2013 effectively. Training Company exclusions Over the years, we have made consider­ The policies of our Sustainability Risk able efforts to ensure that our underwriters Framework specify certain criteria that and client managers know how to properly may lead to the exclusion of a company apply the Sustainability Risk Framework. from both our re/insurance transactions In 2013, 754 employees completed the and our investments, to the extent eLearning course which we had specially that such an exclusion is permissible designed for this purpose. For 574 newly (eg by virtue of mandatory law or internal joining employees who work in under­ policies) and possible (eg if existing writing and with our clients, this training documentation relating to such re/ was mandatory. insurance transactions and investments provide for it). These criteria include: In addition, we provided training personally involvement in prohibited war material; or via web-based conferences to 62 verifiable complicity in systemic, repeated experienced underwriters and graduates, and severe human rights violations; and gave three presentations on the infliction of repeated, severe and Sustainability Risk Framework, which were unmitigated damage to the environment; attended by 93 people. and proliferation of nuclear weapons. Client and industry interaction Country exclusions Efforts to address environmental and social Swiss Re also excludes certain countries risks are obviously more effective when from its business, beyond compliance with many companies join forces. This is why international trade controls (ITCs). The we seek to further promote sustainability criteria for these country exclusions are a risk management within the re/insurance particularly poor human rights record and industry. Internally, we have a “champions no prospect of improvement. Our goal network” of client managers and is not to directly underwrite risks or make Swiss Re 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report 25 Extending our risk intelligence underwriters who focus on the three topics Accounting for political risks Environmental, Social and of energy, mining and food. Their role Governance factors in is to examine their client contacts and to In today’s increasingly integrated world we Country Risk explore where a closer dialogue with need to be aware of political develop­ Management – a new horizon Swiss Re might help some clients to ments, actions and decisions that can have This paper argues that improve their sustainability performance. an adverse impact on our business. Within environmental, sociothe Group’s risk management organisation, economic and geopolitical We take an active role in several industry we have a team of specialists who look at developments shaping organisations that promote sustainable a wide range of both commerceand country risk profiles have business practices. One of them is the security-related political risks – at global, become a focal point for Chief Risk Officer (CRO) Forum country and business transaction levels. the insurance industry in (www.thecroforum.org). In 2013, we the past few years. This chaired its working group that produced These specialists identify, assess and is because they affect the the publication “Environmental, Social monitor political risks on an ongoing basis, stability of countries, and Governance factors in Country Risk so we understand their implications and a business-critical issue. Management – a new horizon”. This 30can initiate appropriate mitigation measures page paper has proved to be a big success if required. Particular attention is paid to and has attracted interest far beyond key markets and sectors, current political the CRO Forum’s member companies; hotspots and emerging developments. presently, of all the CRO Forum’s publications it is the one with the most Our knowledge of political risks is also downloads. highly relevant for ensuring sustainable business operations in line with environ­ We were also strongly involved in the mental, social and governance (ESG) development of the Principles for principles: Several of the sectors and issues Sustainable Insurance (PSI) by the UN covered by the eight policies of our Environmental, Social and Governance factors in Country Risk Management – a new horizon Environment Programme Finance Initiative, Sustainability Risk Framework (see pages October 2013 UNEP FI (www.unepfi.org/psi) and are 22–25) have an important political Full Members: Aegon, Allianz, Aviva, AXA, Achmea, Ageas, Generali, Groupama, Hannover Re, ING, Munich Re, Prudential, Swiss Re, Zurich Financial Services Associate Members: Lloyds Banking Group, Manulife Financial, Old Mutual, RSA, Unipol, ACE, Legal and General, Chartis one of its original signatories. Launched dimension. Implementing these policies, in 2012, these principles address environ­ both through Sensitive Business Risk mental, social and governance issues in assessments and exclusion policies, thus the re/insurance industry, spanning risk requires a clear understanding of political management, underwriting, product and risks. This is particularly true with regard service development, claims management, to human rights violations, the proliferation sales and marketing, and investment of armaments into conflict areas or the management. Our “public disclosure of identification of areas prone to civil unrest. progress” for 2013 is included in this report on page 72. Furthermore, we distil our ongoing assessments of political risks into several As the PSI’s co-chair in 2013, we political and sustainability risk ratings at contributed to the development of its country level, which play an important mid-term strategy, which focuses on the role in our underwriting and investment re/insurance industry’s key role in decisions. increasing society’s resilience to major risks. The PSI have witnessed strong growth since their launch in June 2012: by the end of 2013, 12 more companies joined the initiative, with combined gross premiums of approximately USD 30 billion and USD 1 trillion of assets under management. Thus, there were a total of 39 PSI signatories at the end of 2013, representing approximately USD 530 billion in gross premiums written (11.5% of the world total) and USD 6 trillion in assets under management. 26 Swiss Re 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Extending our risk intelligence Regulatory risks Climate change In line with our strategic focus on climate Regulatory risk represents the potential change, we closely monitor regulatory impact of changes in the regulatory and developments in this area. The renewed supervisory regimes of the countries in interest of various governments and which we operate. The global regulatory administrations in the topic has led to an agenda continued to accelerate in 2013. increase in climate-related reporting Governments and regulators rolled out requirements. In the US, for example, the new policies and conducted numerous Securities and Exchange Commission consultations on rules and regulations with (SEC) has issued “Guidance Regarding direct implications for the re/insurance Disclosure Related to Climate Change”. sector. The current wave of regulatory Furthermore, regulators in California, reform started in response to the financial New York, Washington, Connecticut crisis of 2008/2009 and has sought to and Minnesota mandated that insurers address the flaws in regulatory, corporate domiciled or licensed in those states, and macroeconomic structures this had which have USD 300 million or more in revealed. direct written premiums, must complete a survey on risks associated with climate Swiss Re was actively engaged in the change. The early detection of regulatory dialogue throughout 2013. emerging risks is part Our goal is to support reforms that could of our comprehensive facilitate convergence of regulatory Managing emerging risks approach to risk standards and achieve increased appli­ management. cation of economic and risk-based Re/insurers operate in a risk landscape principles. At the same time, we strive to that is changing faster today than ever mitigate developments that may adversely before. New economic, technological, affect the re/insurance industry’s ability to socio-political, regulatory and environ­ foster financial and economic stability. For mental developments all have the potential example, we are involved in the systemic to change risks or create new ones. risk debate and proposed policy measures What’s more, growing interdependencies on systemically important financial between these developments can lead to institutions. We also remain concerned accumulations of risk and create significant about the cumulative and cross-sectoral knock-on effects. Important changes are impacts of some of the proposed reforms. also taking place in the general business Regulatory fragmentation is a key environment: liability and regulatory threat – particularly in Europe, with the regimes continue to evolve, stakeholder challenges in introducing Solvency II, and expectations are strengthening and the protectionist measures introduced in people’s risk perceptions are shifting. some growth markets. This complex landscape gives rise to We also share concerns that the design “emerging risks”, ie newly developing or and implementation of regulatory reforms changing risks that are difficult to quantify may increase procyclicality, which would and whose potential impact on our exacerbate the effects of short-term business is not yet sufficiently taken into market volatility. In 2013, we participated account. in various consultations with the Financial Stability Board (FSB), the OECD, the We detect and investigate such risks early European Insurance and Occupational on as part of our comprehensive approach Pensions Authority (EIOPA) and the to risk management. Our aim is to reduce European Commission on the implications uncertainty and prevent unforeseen losses, of regulatory reforms on long-term finance. while identifying new business In Solvency II, the European institutions opportunities and raising awareness – agreed to address the concerns regarding within the Group and across the industry. excessive volatility on long-term guarantee Therefore, we try to understand how risks products. are changing, assess their impact and recognise potential links between them. For more information see swissre.com/about_us/managing_risks/ emerging_risks.html Swiss Re 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report 27 Extending our risk intelligence 160 Our SONAR framework into emerging risks, others may well do To manage emerging risks, we operate a so. As it is impossible to anticipate which Group-wide risk management framework signals will fall into which category, all called SONAR (“systematic observation of them warrant equal attention. Total of risk notions and discussions fed into the SONAR process in 2013 of notions associated with risk”). Firmly embedded in the Group’s risk management Thus, our emerging risk specialists organisation, SONAR allows us to identify assessed all these risk notions for their and assess emerging risks in a timely potential impact on our business and manner and to factor them into our deci­ subsequently carried out more in-depth sions. investigations of selected topics, for example driverless cars (see below). SONAR uses an interactive, web A comprehensive report on the emerging 2.0-based platform which enables all our risk landscape has been made available employees to share risk notions quickly to the public for the first time (see and easily and to stay up-to-date on new page 29). developments. In 2013, 160 risk notions and discussions were fed into the SONAR process, drawing on all main areas of the emerging risk landscape. While many of these early signals will never actually turn New forms of mobility – potential emerging risks? How societies organise the movement of The spread of intelligent vehicles and Much self-driving technology is already people and goods is changing. New systems is likely to reduce traffic available. How exactly it will be forms of mobility mirror trends towards accidents and associated insurance implemented depends on regulations, more energy efficiency and carbon losses. For society as a whole this is but also on consumer acceptance and neutrality, but most of all they make use obviously a good thing, but property & demand. For example, adaptive cruise of intelligent information & communica­ casualty insurers might see a substantial control, automated collision avoidance tions technology (ICT). Individual decline in their revenues from motor and self-parking may either be provided vehicles can be equipped with all sorts insurance premiums. Likewise, pilotless and used as a wholly integrated package of automated devices to make them air travel could reinforce the downward or as individual features. Drivers can also safer, but a true revolution in mobility will trend in air traffic accidents, also putting be given the option to choose between come about by integrated systems pressure on insurance prices. On the manual driving and having the vehicle of driverless cars and pilotless aircrafts. other hand, testing and rolling out drive autonomously (shared driving). Such systems have the potential to driverless cars may expose manufac­ The range of possible applications and optimise traffic flows and the utilisation turers to new risks and result in high combinations will make legal and of transport infrastructure, while freeing litigation costs. insurance perspectives on the topic highly up passengers to focus on activities complex. Therefore, we need to keep a other than driving or flying. close eye on these developments. Pictures of a concept car with self-driving technology. Thanks to its redesigned interior, the now unburdened “ drivers“ can use their time for other purposes. 28 Swiss Re 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Extending our risk intelligence Strategic risk initiatives WEF Risk Response Network (RRN) International Risk Governance Identifying and addressing emerging risks The RRN was launched in 2011 to provide Council (IRGC) can be challenging: The novelty and private and public sector leadership with IRGC is an independent organisation, interconnectedness of such developments an independent platform to better map, whose purpose is to help the under­ make it difficult to determine when a monitor, manage and mitigate global risks. standing and management of global risks particular risk notion must be considered www.weforum.org/community/riskthat impact on human health and safety, an emerging risk. Timing is thus of crucial response-network the environment, the economy and society importance: If measures to exclude a at large. particular risk are taken too early, we can CRO Forum Emerging Risks Initiative www.irgc.org/ offer our clients less insurance protection; (CRO ERI) if measures are taken too late, we may end The CRO ERI was launched in 2005 to iNTeg-Risk up with increased loss potential. raise awareness of major emerging risks iNTeg-Risk was a large-scale integrating relevant to society and the re/insurance research project (from December 2008 Given these challenges, we believe it is industry. to May 2013) aimed at improving the essential to foster risk dialogue with www.thecroforum.org/emerging-riskmanagement of emerging risks related to various partners. By sharing perceptions initiative-2/ new materials and technologies in and assessments, all parties can gain a European industry. better understanding of potential emerging www.integrisk.eu-vri.eu/ risks. In 2013, we actively contributed to the following four strategic initiatives: As a partner of these strategic risk initiatives, we contributed to two reports on relevant risk developments in 2013 (see below). Swiss Re publication Publications with partner organisations ight Copyr © 2010 Swiss Re 50 10 her ograp Script Plugin Swiss Re SONAR Image ry Insight Report Emerging risk insights Re Dots Swiss Dotstitle orytitle Title: ory: Categ Categ Global Risks 2013 Eighth Edition An Initiative of the Risk Response Network June 2013 Swiss Re SONAR: Emerging risk Global Risks 2013, Eighth Edition, The CRO Forum’s Position Paper insights provides a high-level overview of on Food deals with risks associated The Swiss Re SONAR report 50 selected global risks, based on a with both food security and food features emerging risk topics which survey with over 1 000 experts from safety. While a drop in food production could impact the insurance industry industry, government, academia and harmfully affects economies, in the future. Topics were mainly civil society around the world. It aims societies and individuals, unsafe derived from our SONAR process to improve public and private sector food can cause severe and life-long and were assessed by our emerging efforts to map, monitor, manage and diseases. Insurers can bear some of risk management experts. mitigate global risks and seeks to help the risks triggered. swissre.com/rethinking/emerging_ decision-makers evaluate complex www.thecroforum.org/food-and-itsrisks/sonar_keeping_tabs_on_ risk events and respond proactively in impact-on-the-risk-landscape/ emerging_risks.html times of crisis. www.weforum.org/reports/globalrisks-2013-eighth-edition Swiss Re 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report 29 Extending our risk intelligence Responsible investment ESG integration We believe that As a re/insurer, Swiss Re is a long-term integrating environmental, Asset-liability management (ALM) is the investor (see “Facilitating long-term infra­ social and governance cornerstone of our investment philosophy. structure investment”, below). Therefore, (ESG) factors can have a We invest the premiums generated by our it is important that we also take a longpositive long-term impact underwriting activities in assets whose term view on the risk factors that may have on our investment cash flows match our re/insurance liabilities. an adverse impact on our investment portfolio. Therefore, we favour higher-quality fixed portfolio. income investments with stable long-term returns. At the end of 2013, such invest­ Our Sustainability Risk Framework is the ments accounted for 63% of our total key approach through which we integrate assets under management (excluding ESG considerations into our investment cash and short-term investments). decisions (see pages 22–25). Consisting of eight detailed policies dealing with sensitive Swiss Re is committed to investing its sectors and issues, the framework enables Investment mix assets responsibly through a controlled us to identify and assess major sustaina­ as of 31 December 2013 and structured investment process, which bility risks. Each policy defines criteria for (Total: USD 130.1 bn; assets for own account also reflects our commitment to corporate excluding specific companies and only, excluding unit-linked and with-profits) responsibility by integrating environmental, countries from our re/insurance and invest­ social and governance (ESG) criteria. ment transactions. We strictly apply these criteria to the vast majority of our invest­ We believe that integrating these factors ment assets, and to certain asset classes can have a positive impact on the longwhenever possible. term financial performance of our invest­ ment portfolio. Thus, we apply sustainability-related risk information Facilitating long-term consistently across our entire investment infrastructure investment portfolio. Formally endorsing this commit­ Current global infrastructure ment, Swiss Re signed the Principles for 6% Cash and cash spending is estimated at USD 2.6 Responsible Investment (PRI) in 2007 and equivalents trillion whereas, by 2030, financing the Principles for Sustainable Insurance 16 % Short-term investments needs are expected to amount to (PSI) in 2012. over USD 4 trillion. Re/insurers can 32% Government bonds help soften this emerging financing incl. agency Governance gap. Given that their liabilities are 24 % Corporate bonds Our investment management activities are long-term, they are well-placed to governed in line with those of the Swiss Re 5% Securitised products make investments in transport, Group and its Business Units. Our key water, energy and communications. 8% Equities* internal document is the Responsible 2% Mortgages and other loans Investment Policy, issued by our Group In order for this to happen, though, Chief Investment Officer, which describes 7% Other the investment and regulatory the integration of sustainability-related environment needs to become more * Listed equities, hedge fund equities, aspects into asset management. private equity and Principal Investments supportive of long-term investment. In particular, regulatory incentives We use various approaches to monitor (ie capital charges for longer-term how we meet our commitment to assets) need to be aligned, policy responsible investment. Overall responsi­ uncertainty needs to be minimised bility lies with the Asset Management and appropriate financial market Executive Team, chaired by the Group instruments need to be available. Chief Investment Officer. Furthermore, an ESG Advisory Group connects our risk Taking appropriate action to develop management, investment and sustaina­ a supporting framework is key to bility experts. This Group-wide platform for increasing the potential investment coordination and knowledge sharing appetite and capacity of insurers as ensures that our overall commitment to long-term investors. This is why responsible investment is reflected in our Swiss Re engages in public day-to-day investment activities. consultations with policymakers to unlock the potential of long-term For more information on long-term investment investment. see 2013 Financial Report, page 25 30 Swiss Re 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Extending our risk intelligence Focus areas Engagement of external investment For key aspects of our investment activities, managers we have developed specific requirements At the end of 2013, approximately 35% to ensure ESG criteria are duly taken of our investment portfolio was managed into consideration. These areas include by external asset managers. Before being sovereign fixed income investments, the appointed, all of the managers had to run engagement of external managers, the through a comprehensive due diligence exercise of voting rights and direct real process, also to approve their compliance estate investments. with our responsible investment principles. We work closely with the managers to Sovereign fixed income investments ensure they integrate ESG considerations Reflecting our emphasis on asset-liability into their investment and decision-making matching, sovereign fixed income processes. Their individual performance is products constitute the largest asset class monitored in line with our Responsible in our investment portfolio, with a share Investment Policy, and they are required to of 32% at the end of 2013 (excluding cash report regularly and short-term investments). To guide on their responsible investment activities. investment decisions and monitor the quality of our sovereign fixed income port­ Approximately 90% of our externally folio, we have developed political risk and managed assets are currently managed sustainability assessments at country level. by entities that have signed the Principles These rating measures are used to define for Responsible Investment themselves. the investment mandates for our portfolio All of them have contractual provisions managers. In addition, we periodically with Swiss Re, specific to responsible review and assess the portfolio to account investments. for any change in the assessment of political and sustainability-related country Exercise of voting rights risks. We recognise the rights and responsi­ bilities that come with being an asset owner – and in particular with being a share owner – as an integral part of our Political Country Risk Rating commitment to responsible investment. The Political Country Risk Rating comprehensively measures the politi­ The Swiss Re Voting Policy lays down cal risk in a country, which is defined the guiding principles that apply to all our as events of a political, economic or voting activities. We actively exercise social nature that harm business these rights to enhance our portfolio value. operations or adversely affect the We believe that ESG considerations − in business climate. The overall country particular, good corporate governance and score is derived from multiple transparency towards shareholders − are external and internal data sets and key drivers for sustainable value creation. Swiss Re’s expert assessment. With internally managed assets, we use Sustainability Rating our influence as a responsible shareholder The Sustainability Rating, a deriva­ by directly exercising our voting rights. tive of the Political Country Risk With externally managed portfolios, we Rating, measures the overall social, delegate the exercise of proxy votes and environmental and human rights related engagement activities to the situation in a country, and supports relevant portfolio managers. We have Swiss Re’s alignment with relevant defined a voting framework to ensure United Nations principles. appropriate oversight and review external managers’ voting policies as part of our due diligence process to ensure they are in line with our own. In addition, external managers are required to report on a quarterly basis on the voting activities conducted on Swiss Re’s behalf, including an explanation of any votes cast against management. Swiss Re 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report 31 Extending our risk intelligence Our voting activities in 2013 General voting information Direct real estate investments By the end of 2013, we exercised our Our investment portfolio includes direct voting rights on 98% of our listed equity investments in real estate, principally portfolio, which represents about 61% in our home market of Switzerland and of the overall equity portfolio and 5% of in neighbouring Germany. Comprising the total investment portfolio. We voted buildings for both residential and on 4 791 ballots through our external commercial use, the total value of the managers. We voted in favour of the portfolio was USD 2.55 billion at the end respective management resolution in of 2013. 4 335 cases (91%) and against it in 398 cases (8%). For these real estate investments we apply  98% Votes cast ambitious sustainability standards. For  2% No votes cast Besides shares of listed companies, our projects in Switzerland, the applicable equity portfolio mainly includes invest­ criteria are defined in the Energy Mission ments in equity exchange-traded-funds Statement of Swiss Re, Zurich: This lays (ETFs). The fund managers exercise the down that all new buildings need to Breakdown of our voting behaviour proxy votes on these ETFs for all investors conform to the MINERGIE® standard by agenda items in 2013 according to their own voting policies (www.minergie.ch), a Swiss quality label and processes. specifying high levels of energy efficiency and superior user comfort. When an Due to our large-/mid-cap company focus existing building in the portfolio is due for and the moderate total size of our equity renovation, this standard has to be applied exposure, Swiss Re’s holdings generally whenever it is feasible from an architec­ represent a very small part of a company’s tural, technical and financial point of view. total shares issued. This means that we can rarely determine the outcome of By the end of 2013, the combined value of a vote. our MINERGIE®-certified buildings had reached USD 390 million, or 18.8% of our  91% Votes on agenda items in line with Swiss portfolio of direct real estate invest­ management’s recommendation ments. The total energy consumption  8% Votes on agenda items against surface in accordance with the MINERGIE® management’s recommendation standard was 77 250 m2 at the end of  1% Votes withheld 2013. In addition, more than 56 000 m2 had been successfully sold on to third parties in previous years. Currently, a new building which applies the MINERGIE-ECO® standard is under construction: in addition to environmental specifications, this residential complex with 40 flats also includes health criteria and demands on building materials. It will be completed in 2014. Furthermore, in 2013 we started developing a new building with 16 flats which will meet the MINERGIE® standard. 32 Swiss Re 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Exploring and shaping the risk landscape Exploring and shaping the risk landscape We regularly engage in dialogue with our stakeholders to advance our understanding of the changing risk landscape and to help society develop effective responses to key risks. Re/insurance creates economic and social Through our Top Topics dialogue we also value by offering financial protection aim to help shape public policy in a way against major risks. But developing effec­ that facilitates the development of effective tive risk transfer solutions requires a sound responses to the issues identified. understanding of the changing risk landscape. This is why we continuously We periodically review our Top Topics explore developments that may affect the portfolio to reflect new business global risk landscape – including market, developments and shifting global agendas. regulatory, technological, socio-economic Following an extensive review in 2012, and environmental trends. The insights we we adopted a revised set of five Top Topics gain from our regular dialogue with key for our stakeholder dialogue: stakeholders play an important role in this. ̤̤ Advancing sustainable energy solutions ̤̤ Funding longer lives At the same time, we are keen to play an ̤̤ Managing climate and natural disaster active role in discussions on important risk risk topics and are valued for the quality of our ̤̤ Partnering for food security contributions. Sharing our risk expertise ̤̤ Supporting financial stability with stakeholders allows us to help society and business form adequate responses Independently or in cooperation with our and develop effective risk transfer partners from the public and private instruments. sectors, we developed a number of new communication formats to share our expertise on each of these topics. ReflectGroup Issue Management ing our strong commitment to ongoing Our Top Topics denote dialogue with our stakeholders, four of key issues we want to With Group Issue Management (GIM), our five Top Topics also featured strongly address in dialogue we have a formal process to identify and in the events we held to celebrate our with our stakeholders. communicate on topics which are stra150 Year Anniversary. t­egically important to us, our clients and society at large. These Top Topics denote Below we provide a brief introduction to the global challenges we want to help the five Top Topics, explain why we address, and thus set the focus for our consider them to be important and give stakeholder dialogue. some examples of our activities: The GIM process involves risk specialists, product experts and other professionals from across the Group. Through different channels, we share their risk expertise and solutions with our key stakeholders: clients, investors, regulators, policymakers, academics and civil society groups. Swiss Re 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report 33 Exploring and shaping the risk landscape Advancing sustainable energy Life and health reinsurance is part of our and the concentration of assets in exposed solutions core business, and we are the world’s areas, as well as climate change. If no Sustainable energy sources are essential to largest reinsurer of mortality risk. action is taken, climate change could cost reduce CO2 emissions and secure future Consequently, we are a natural home for the world economy an estimated 20% of energy supplies. But as sustainable energy the longevity and health risks associated global GDP by the end of this century. projects increase in scale and complexity, with ageing societies, and have the so do the risks associated with them. financial strength to take on risks across Financing measures to mitigate disaster a person’s whole lifespan. Our in-depth risks and to adapt to climate change Innovative risk transfer solutions can help research and development in the life and strengthens the resilience of companies reduce these risks and drive investment in health area combines medical, demo­ as well as local and national economies. the sector. Building on our long-standing graphic, social, behavioural and financial Insurance puts a price tag on risk and commitment to sustainability, we recently expertise to deliver unique insights into the creates an incentive to invest in prevention intensified our renewable energy research implications of funding longer lives. Our measures. Understanding Nat Cat risks to help our clients and the global global presence and deep understanding and the impact of climate change is critical community develop a secure energy of different demographic needs to assess our business accurately and supply for years to come. throughout the world allow us to adapt structure sound risk transfer solutions. and develop innovative solutions Notable achievements in 2013: in new markets. The public sector is increasingly interested ̤̤ Published report “Profiling the risks in in comprehensive strategies to manage solar and wind”. This joint study with Notable achievements in 2013: country risk and new solutions to finance Bloomberg New Energy Finance ̤̤ Highlighted the topic at our 150 Year potential disaster losses to make their analyses the importance of sound risk Anniversary events and online in cities and countries more resilient. management for institutional investors conjunction with our risk perception in expanding the renewable energy survey – most popular topic on our Notable achievements in 2013: sector; Open Minds blog in 2013; ̤̤ Launched the publication “Mind the ̤̤ Promoted activities around Corporate ̤̤ Promoted the “Funding longer lives” risk: A global ranking of cities under Solutions’ partnership with Solar theme as a key aspect of our new brand threat from natural disasters”. This Impulse, the world’s first solar-powered and its claim “We’re smarter together”; publication is based on Swiss Re’s risk airplane able to fly day and night ̤̤ Strengthened focus on the health models and the detailed hazard data without fuel. In 2013, Solar Impulse aspect of living longer, eg through available in our CatNet® database, and flew coast-to-coast across America; health symposia in Asia, activities at the provides a global risk index for 616 ̤̤ Launched new publication “Building a Centre for Global Dialogue and longcities around the world; with 34 000 sustainable energy future: risks and term care roundtable in the UK. downloads since its publication in opportunities”. This report examines the September 2013, it is one of our most implications of six climate change Managing climate and natural successful publications ever; scenarios for the global energy mix disaster risk ̤̤ Provided expert input for New York City along with the associated risks, focusing Losses from floods, storms, earthquakes risk mitigation study. In the aftermath of on renewable energy and the and other natural catastrophes (Nat Cat) Hurricane Sandy, New York City’s then role re/insurance plays in fostering can impact the economies of entire Mayor, Michael Bloomberg, announced innovation in the sector. countries and are therefore a key driver of the creation of the Special Initiative for the re/insurance business. Such losses are Rebuilding and Resiliency. Relying Funding longer lives becoming more frequent and severe due heavily on Swiss Re’s modelling tools, People are living longer today than ever to the more widespread use of insurance the study identified over 250 before, but the share of the working recommendations to increase the city’s population is shrinking. As a result of this resilience and reduce future losses from demographic megatrend, the costs of natural disasters (see page 65); funding retirement income, healthcare and ̤̤ In partnership with the Rockefeller long-term care in old age are increasing Foundation and two other partners, we dramatically. This could have significant made a commitment to support 100 financial consequences for individuals, cities around the world to become more insurers, employer pension funds and resilient to climate and natural disaster society in general. Public-private partner­ risks (see page 35). ships are needed to overcome this challenge. For more information see swissre.com/rethinking/longer_lives/ For more information see For more information see swissre.com/rethinking/climate_and_ swissre.com/rethinking/sustainable_energy/ natural_disaster_risk/ 34 Swiss Re 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Exploring and shaping the risk landscape Making 100 cities more resilient: Swiss Re supports the Rockefeller Foundation’s commitment to the Clinton Global Initiative Former US President Bill Clinton announced during the opening plenary of the Clinton Global Initiative Annual Meeting in September 2013 that Swiss Re, the Rockefeller Foundation and two other partners had committed to support 100 cities around the world to become more resilient. This “100 Resilient Cities Centennial Challenge” was launched by the Rockefeller Foundation on its 100th anniversary. The goal is to help at least 100 cities over the next three years to appoint Chief Resilience Officers (CROs), create resilience strategies and establish an international CRO support network to share information and best practices. The Rockefeller Foundation, Swiss Re, AIA/Architecture for Humanity and software company Palantir will each make specific contributions. Ours will consist of practical risk management insight and access to risk assessment and risk financing tools. 100resilientcities.rockefellerfoundation.org Swiss Re 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report 35 Exploring and shaping the risk landscape Partnering for food security agricultural insurance can help create the Financial stability emerged as a key topic Today, about 870 million people – or one financial resilience needed by farmers, following the 2008/2009 financial crisis, in eight – are chronically hungry and banks and the agricultural industry. which revealed flaws in regulatory, malnourished. The expected growth of the Supporting the agricultural sector there­ corporate and macroeconomic structures. world population to an estimated 9 billion fore helps to improve food security and New regulatory regimes have been people by 2050 will push up demand for contributes to the fight against poverty. introduced to address the causes of the food. Meeting this demand is particularly crisis. As a result, re/insurers now face a challenging as supply is constrained by Notable achievements in 2013: new dimension of macro-prudential aggravating factors such as climate change, ̤̤ Creation of an innovative video regulation and new institutions unfamiliar depleted agricultural soils and the distri­ highlighting the key importance of food with the re/insurance industry. These bution of land, water and energy. security; reforms are taking place against the ̤̤ Published sigma study “Partnering for backdrop of a very challenging and Farmers and the agricultural industry hold food security in emerging markets” uncertain macroeconomic environment. one of the keys to this demand-supply (1/2013), which highlights the role challenge, as there is a need to increase insurance can play in improving food Notable achievements in 2013: productivity, especially in emerging security for over 850 million people ̤̤ In cooperation with the Institute of markets. The role of the insurance industry globally; International Finance (IIF), we published is to offer farmers the financial security ̤̤ Participated in global multi-stakeholder the report “Strengthening the role of they need to invest in better seeds, platforms such as the WEF, B20, G20 long-term investors”, highlighting the fertiliser and farm infrastructure. These and G8 to share our insights on food crucial role of long-term investors and investments will increase productivity and security, and continued efforts to meet how this is currently at risk; the supply of crops, vegetables, fruit and our five-year commitment to the Grow ̤̤ Participated in and contributed to the livestock, helping to ensure enough food Africa Partnership (see pages 17–18). WEF initiative and associated report for all and sustainable agricultural “The Role of Financial Services in practices. Supporting financial stability Society: A Multistakeholder Compact”; We define financial stability in the context ̤̤ Closely monitored and followed the Emerging markets are of particular impor­ of regulatory reforms and the macrodevelopment of Solvency II, as an end to tance because they contribute roughly eco­nomic environment. These two the deadlock regarding Omnibus II was 70% of worldwide food production. elements affect both sides of insurers’ and finally reached in 2013, paving the way However, at present, farmers in emerging reinsurers’ balance sheets: on the one for implementation in 2016. markets have limited access to credit for hand, asset allocation and counter-party financing investments. By covering credit risk and, on the other, supervisory shortfalls in production and loss of income, and prudential requirements. For more information see For more information see swissre.com/rethinking/food_security/ swissre.com/rethinking/financial_stability/ “Partnering for food security“ is one of our Top Topics. Recently we produced an evocative papercraft video which summarises the key challenges the world faces in producing enough food for a growing population – and describes some of the solutions Swiss Re can offer. You can watch the video at swissre.com/rethinking/food_ security/ 36 Swiss Re 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Exploring and shaping the risk landscape Top Topics at our 150 Year Besides organising events, the Centre Anniversary celebrations engages in research projects with external 2013 was marked by Swiss Re’s 150th third parties, principally from academia. anniversary. Four of our five Top Topics The projects provide fresh perspectives (advancing sustainable energy solutions, on topics of pressing concern to the funding longer lives, managing climate and re/insurance industry. The Centre also natural disaster risk, and partnering for has responsibility for managing some of food security) have been at the centre of Swiss Re’s important external networks. most celebration events: Most prominent among these is the ̤̤ The events were built around dialogue Swiss Re Advisory Panel, an external sessions in the “TED Talk” style. In these consulting body to the Board and senior Open Minds Forums, we encouraged management, featuring prominent public our clients and partners to participate in figures from the fields of finance, science, an open dialogue and to raise security and politics. awareness of the risks the future holds. The sessions were built around the four The Centre reflects Swiss Re’s commit­ Top Topics indicated above. In total, well ment to being a knowledge company, over 15 000 stakeholders around the and to the belief that the open exchange world used these opportunities to learn and sharing of this knowledge can lead more about our Top Topics; Swiss Re, our clients and stakeholders ̤̤ Swiss Re’s risk perception survey: to be smarter together. Based on the four selected Top Topics, The Gallup Organisation – Europe Below are summaries of three events we canvassed 22 000 people in 19 markets held at the Centre in 2013: across the globe, asking them “What’s on your mind?” This risk perception Reputational risk drivers for the survey is the largest of its kind ever insurance industry conducted and offers unique insights The financial industry has often been into how people of different generations viewed as somewhat detached from perceive risk. You can view and analyse discussions about ethical business the survey data online with our risk behaviour and related reputational risks. window (riskwindow.swissre.com/). This is largely due to the fact that the ̤̤ The Open Minds blog industry often perceives its role as a (openminds.swissre.com/stories/) was fiduciary one in which it merely acts as a developed as an anniversary dialogue financier or insurer of the real economy, platform to stimulate discussion around but has a limited obligation to look beyond the four Top Topics. It is a place to traditional financial risks. As a result, debate risks, especially those we face in reputational risks emanating from environ­ the future. The platform also enables mental, social and governance factors users to comment on the findings from have often been neglected. our risk perception survey. This conference took a fresh look at the risks faced by the re/insurance industry Our Centre for Global Dialogue and the challenges involved. While participants agreed that the financial crisis The Swiss Re Centre for Global Dialogue is of 2007 and the ensuing scandals was a Through the events we an important platform for interaction with defining moment for reputational risk, hold at our Centre for our external stakeholders. Located near attention was also drawn to broader trends Global Dialogue we can Zurich, this state-of-the-art conference at work. In an increasingly connected and engage directly with our centre hosts client and expert events. It transparent world, intangibles such as stake­holders. allows us to present our thinking on some reputational risks have generally become of the key issues confronting the industry, more relevant and more closely linked to while exploring topics critical to a better financial performance. understanding of the risk landscape we are facing. Swiss Re 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report 37 Exploring and shaping the risk landscape Many speakers argued that this presents Connecting generations: Meeting the an opportunity for re/insurers. As insurance energy challenge has a clear social value, its business model Thanks to continuous energy innovation, can be applied to address social issues the majority of people in developed such as poverty and food security. Rules, countries have reliable access to heat, processes and regulations have a role to light, transport and communications. But play in building and preserving reputation, there is also strong evidence that this has but the consensus at the conference was created dangerous dependencies and that it is corporate culture that ultimately severe environmental consequences. As holds the key: If re/insurers have genuine societies try to envision their energy future, ethical values, these will be reflected some key challenges present themselves: in their decision-making, thus shoring up securing affordable energy supplies, reputation. changing the energy mix towards more sustainable sources and providing energy to those who currently have no access. The first event in the “Connecting generations” series to celebrate our 150 Year Anniversary was titled “meeting the energy challenge”. A mixed age group of entrepreneurs, industry experts, researchers and behavioural experts met at the Centre for Global Dialogue to discuss these issues and, in particular, Switzerland’s potential contribution as a global centre of energy innovation. The discussion with the audience and the online community focused on three topics: the market’s distrust of long-term invest­ ments in renewable energy projects; which renewables to invest in first; and the argument that investments should be with­ held while returns remain unclear. Given this sense of ambiguity, participants were asked what political measures they would prioritise. The most popular of the proposed measures was changing market incentives in favour of renewables, although many A panel discussion in full swing at the conference on “Reputational risk agreed that a combination of actions should drivers for the insurance industry“. This is one of many events we held at be taken. our Centre for Global Dialogue in 2013. Connecting generations: Partnering for food security It is estimated that 850 million people go hungry every day. At the same time, 1.3 billion tonnes of food – or a third of all food produced – is lost or wasted every year. As the world’s population reaches 9 billion people by the middle of this century, the For more information see cgd.swissre.com challenges of securing enough food and wasting less will further intensify. 38 Swiss Re 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Exploring and shaping the risk landscape The second of our “Connecting Below are two examples of research generations” events focused on the topic partnerships focusing on climate-related of food security. Addressing a mixed group risks: of entrepreneurs, industry experts, govern­ ment representatives and researchers, the ProClim event sought to examine how we can ProClim – the Forum for Climate and Global produce enough food for all more sustain­ Change – seeks to facilitate integrated ably and what we can do to reduce food climate research activities and the waste. necessary interrelations among scientists, policymakers, business and the public. One aspect emphasised in the discussion We are a member of ProClim’s steering was the difference in the challenges faced committee. This partnership offers us by developed and developing countries: access to an extensive network of scientists in developed countries, most food and the opportunity to exchange findings waste occurs at the consumption stage on the latest climate-related research. The (about 100 kg per person and year) – IMILAST (“Intercomparison of mid-latitude in devel­oping countries, however, too storm diagnostics”) project, for example, much food is lost during production and brought together many international storm along the supply chain. researchers to generate insights of practical use for decision-makers in business and The interactive session with the audience other sectors of society. and the online community addressed a www.proclim.ch/imilast/index.html whole range of topics, eg increasing food prices, using genetically modified As a special service for Swiss Re, ProClim organisms, challenging consumer beha­v­ monitors the latest climate change-related iours, reforming agricultural production research worldwide and reports the findings systems and facilitating trade. One issue to us in quarterly meetings. stood out, though: the need to raise awareness of food waste in developed Swiss advisory body on climate countries and to change behaviour change (OcCC) accordingly. In 2013, Federal Councillor Doris Leuthard, Head of the Federal Department of the Environment, Transport, Energy and Research partnerships Communications, commissioned the Swiss Climate and natural Academy of Sciences to establish an disaster risks continue If we are to adequately address key risks advisory body on climate change, the to be a key topic of our we need to thoroughly understand them. OcCC (Organe consultatif sur les change­ research partnerships. To advance our knowledge of specific ments climatiques). Swiss Re is proud to risks, we often find it beneficial to comple­ provide one of the nine OcCC committee ment our own expertise with external members. The body’s remit is to evaluate research. Thus, we participate in research research results relevant to Switzerland, projects with selected academic institutions to explore solutions to potential conflicts and other partners. of objectives, and to formulate position statements and recommendations for the Swiss Federal Administration. www.occc.ch As part of our 150 Year Anniversary, the Swiss Re Foundation has supported further research projects aimed at improving society’s risk resilience. For more information see The Swiss Re Foundation in 2013, pages 32–33 Swiss Re 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report 39 Exploring and shaping the risk landscape Selected communication products of 2013 The publications and other media we produce in-house or in cooperation with our partners play an important role in our efforts to help clients and society form effective responses to key risks. Listed below are eight media products described in this chapter. Further Swiss Re publications are displayed on pages 66–67. Swiss Re publications Online Building a sustainable energy future: Compagnie Suisse de Réassurances SA risks and opportunities Mythenquai 50/60 Boîte postale 8022 Zurich Mind the risk Suisse A global ranking of cities under threat from natural disasters Téléphone +41 43 285 2121 Fax +41 43 285 2999 www.swissre.com Swiss Re Dots Imagery Title: Dotstitle Category: Categorytitle Scriptographer Plugin 10 50 Swiss Re – Copyright © 2010 Swiss Re Mind the risk_Umschlag.indd 1 16.09.13 09:33 Risk Window Building a sustainable Mind the risk: A global sigma 1/2013: riskwindow.swissre.com/ energy future: risks ranking of cities under Partnering for food and opportunities threat from natural security in emerging disasters markets Publications with partner organisations risk windows Strengthening the role Profiling the risks in solar and wind of long-term investors The Role of Financial Services in Society A case for new risk management approaches The crucial role of long-term investors is at risk – in the renewable energy sector Eight fact sheets on issues and challenges A Multistakeholder Compact Prepared in collaboration with Oliver Wyman August 2013 Swiss Re Dots Imagery yregamI stoD eR ssiwS lenaP raloS :eltiT Title: Graph yrtsudnI & ecneicS :yrogetaC Category: Business and Finance nigulP rehpargotpircS eR ssiwS 8002 © thgirypoC Swiss Re – Open Minds open minds Scriptographer Plugin IIF Publication_DavosFactsheets.indd 1 25.01.13 11:39 With Bloomberg New With the International By the openminds.swissre.com/ Energy Finance: Copyright © 2008 Swiss Re Institute of Finance: World Economic Forum: stories/ Profiling the risks in Strengthening the role The Role of Financial solar and wind of long-term investors Services in Society: A Multistakeholder Compact 40 Swiss Re 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Reducing our environmental footprint Reducing our environmental footprint We want to lead by example and work to minimise the environmental impact of our operations. Cutting CO2 emissions and reducing energy consumption are key targets across the Group. Compared with industrial companies, we In the past, our practice was to certify the do not cause large environmental impacts departments of large individual locations through our own operations. Nonetheless, according to the ISO 14001 Environmental we firmly believe it is important for a Management Standard (www.iso.org). responsible company to reduce its environ­ At the end of 2013, 38% of our employees mental footprint, thus leading by example. were thus working at an ISO 14001-certified location. Reflecting our long-standing commitment to tackling climate change, our highest The drop from 45% in the previous year to environmental priorities are to reduce our 38% was due to the fact that we did not CO2 emissions and energy consumption. In recertify our location at Armonk in the US. recent years, we launched two pioneering This is because we intend to have initiatives: the Greenhouse Neutral Pro­ Corporate Real Estate & Logistics certified gramme and the COyou2 Programme. For globally according to ISO 14001. As a both we have launched a new seven-year result, all our employees will be working at cycle, running until 2020. a location with a certified EMS in the future, with the exception of Admin Re® Furthermore, we continue to apply specific locations, which are not included in this sustainability guidelines to our sourcing project. The project is well underway, and and construction activities. Extending we expect to complete it by early 2015. our efforts beyond our company, we have been taking a leading role in the Swiss Climate Foundation. The Greenhouse Neutral Programme Management system and Climate change has been a strategic priority certification for Swiss Re for more than 20 years. It is a key topic for a re/insurer, because it We run a global environmental manage­ is likely to cause more extreme and ment system (EMS), which is incorporated more frequent weather events, resulting in into our Corporate Real Estate & Logistics higher damages and insurance losses. division. Through a Group-wide reporting Our strategy to tackle climate change has process, we continuously monitor our four dimen­sions, one of which is the environmental performance and pledge to reduce our own CO2 emissions. implement appropriate improvement measures. Successful completion of the programme’s first phase We define environmental objectives and Our Greenhouse Neutral Programme has For more information see swissre.com/corporate_responsibility/ targets centrally at our headquarters, but been the principal initiative to achieve reducing_footprint.html responsibility for implementing improve­ this goal. Launched in 2003, it originally ment measures lies with the Corporate combined two commitments: firstly, to For more information see Real Estate & Logistics departments of the reduce our CO2 emissions by 15% per swissre.com/corporate_responsibility/ greenhouse_neutral.html respective locations. employee (full-time equivalent or FTE) Swiss Re 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report 41 Reducing our environmental footprint 56.5% within ten years and, secondly, to fully ten years, it is important to point out, offset all the remaining emissions by however, that the potential for further purchasing high-quality emission reduction reductions is much smaller. In view of credits, thus making the company green­ our expansive and ambitious business Total reduction in CO2 emissions per employee between 2003 and 2013 house neutral for the whole period between strategy, especially in high-growth 2003 and 2013. markets, a more realistic target is to maintain the current level of our CO2 This ten-year commitment phase of the emissions. Greenhouse Neutral Programme reached its official end last year and can be At the same time, we will extend the scope described as a resounding success. We of our emissions accounting and reporting. already met the original 15% per employee Based on this, we commit ourselves to After completing the reduction target in 2007. We then raised offsetting the emissions from four further first phase of our the reduction goal to 30% and, after that sources, in addition to those caused by Greenhouse Neutral target was met in 2009, to 45%. By the power consumption, heating and business Programme, we made end of 2013, we achieved a total reduction travel. And at an operational level, we will a new seven-year in CO₂ emissions per employee of 56.5% seek to further reduce our energy intensity. commitment until 2020. compared to the base year 2003. The following measures have enabled us to Key elements of the Greenhouse arrive at this figure: switching to renewable Neutral Programme – phase 2: power at many of our locations, continuous ̤̤ Maintain emissions reductions improvements in energy efficiency and, we achieved over the last ten to a lesser degree, curbing business travel. years regarding power consumption, heating and business travel; The Greenhouse Neutral ̤̤ Fully offset the remaining Programme – phase 2 emissions from three former and Our commitment to tackling our own four new sources; carbon footprint remains intact; we have ̤̤ Explore further potential to launched a second phase of the reduce our energy intensity Greenhouse Neutral Programme, which (power consumption and will run until 2020. After more than halving heating). our CO2 emissions per employee within CO2 emissions per employee (full-time equivalent, FTE), Swiss Re Group Base year Change since 2003 2012 2013 base year 2003 in % kg/FTE kg/FTE kg/FTE Power 3 703 *635 613 –83.4 Heating 706 *383 370 –47.6 Business travel *2 187 *1 908 1 888 –13.7 Total 6 596 2 926 2 871 –56.5 * The restatements of these data are due to small corrections at single data points. The adjustments are not significant (<1%). Underlying environmental data, Swiss Re Group Change since 2003 2012 2013 base year 2003 in % Power kWh/FTE 8 801 *5 076 4 575 –48.0 Heating kWh/FTE 3 381 *2 008 1 940 –42.6 Energy intensity kWh/FTE 12 182 7 084 6 515 –46.5 (power & heating) * The restatements of these data are due to small corrections at single data points. The adjustments are not significant (<1%). Business travel km/FTE *13 029 *11 144 11 091 –14.9 * The restatements of these data are due to small corrections at single data points. The adjustments are not significant (<1%). 42 Swiss Re 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Reducing our environmental footprint The extended scope of our emissions Starting next year, we will report on the GHG Protocol emissions accounting and reporting second phase of our Greenhouse Neutral scopes To calculate and report on its CO2 emis­ Programme using the extended setup The Greenhouse Gas (GHG) sions, a company can use three different with the new base year 2013. Protocol defines three “scopes”, as defined by the Greenhouse different scopes for Gas Protocol (see description on the left). Moving to an extended setup will make it emissions accounting and easier for us to identify emissions-related reporting: In the first phase of the Greenhouse risks and opportunities along our supply Scope 1: Direct emissions Neutral Programme, we reported our chain. from own sources, eg Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions (heating burning fuels to heat offices; and power consumption) as well as a Having said this, we are aware that the full Scope 2: Indirect emissions major source of Scope 3 emissions (busi­ Scope 3 is much more extensive than the from purchasing electricity; ness travel). In the programme’s second extended scope of emissions we will Scope 3: Indirect emissions phase until 2020, we will extend the scope report. An assessment commissioned by from all other activities of our emissions accounting and reporting us has shown that, under Scope 3, along the value chain, to include the following activities along our Swiss Re’s total emissions could be three eg purchase of goods and supply chain (Scope 3): employee com­ to five times as high as the amount we services, employee muting, copy paper use, waste generation currently report. However, due to the high commuting, investments etc. and water use. uncertainty of some of these emissions www.ghgprotocol.org/ data, we have decided to report only those In order to make a transparent transition we can measure reliably and influence from the first to the second phase of directly. our Greenhouse Neutral Programme, we calculated our CO2 emissions in 2013 according to both the old and the new, extended setup. The table below compares the emissions covered under the two setups and their respective values. It also shows which emissions we are going to offset in the future. CO2 emissions in 2013 calculated under old and new setup (extended scope) Old New setup Change in % from old To report on the second kg/FTE setup (extended scope) to new setup Offsetting phase of our Greenhouse Power 613 774 **26.3% yes Neutral Programme Heating 370 379 **2.4% yes up to 2020, we are going Business travel 1 888 2 612 **38.3% yes to use the new setup Commuting not reported *1 500 no shown on the right. Copy paper not reported 40 yes – new from 2013 Waste not reported 51 yes – new from 2013 Water not reported 11 yes – new from 2013 Technical gases not reported 34 yes – new from 2013 Total 2871 5 401 **88.1% * Due to data uncertainty, the figure for commuting has been rounded up. ** In addition to extending the scope of our emissions accounting and reporting, we have adapted the underlying calculation factors to reflect current best practice, eg to differentiate between air travel classes. As a result, the values for power consumption, heating and business travel differ under the old and the new setup. Swiss Re 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report 43 Reducing our environmental footprint 46.5% Using renewable power Switching to renewable power at many of Cutting power consumption at our locations has been one of two principal our global data centre measures we have taken to reduce our CO2 Running a company like Swiss Re Reduction in energy intensity per employee between 2003 and 2013 emissions. Our drive to use power from involves huge amounts of electronic renewable sources started in 2005 at four data. As recently as 2009, we European locations. We then set ourselves maintained ten data centres around the goal of using 100% renewable power the world to host our business data at all locations where it is available in and business applications. Between reliable and trustworthy quality by the end 2009 and 2012, we consolidated of 2013. Based on our quality assessments our data in one global data centre in of available energy sources, we believe we Switzerland, split between an reached this goal and used 100% renew­ existing and a new site. able power at 25 locations in Asia, Europe, North America and Oceania at the end of After the consolidation was com2013. plet­ed, we started an ambitious programme to increase the energy To guide our assessments and select efficiency of the existing data centre suitable sources, we created a “minimum site. The measures we took included: standard” that clearly states how we define ̤̤ Installation of additional cold renewable power and what requirements aisles for more energy-efficient it needs to meet. At our Zurich headquarters, cooling; for example, we only buy “naturemade ̤̤ Implementation of energystar” electricity (www.naturemade.ch), efficient air-conditioning which meets high ecological quality equipment; standards in its production, beyond those ̤̤ Consolidation and virtualisation required by environmental legislation. In of servers, reducing the total Munich, we purchase our electricity from number by 25% to approximately NaturEnergie (www.naturenergie.de), 750. one of Germany’s premier suppliers of renewable energy. Together, these measures had a substantial impact. They enabled Reducing energy consumption us to reduce power consumption In addition to buying power from renew­ at the Group’s data centre by 16%, able sources, we have made continuous resulting in cost savings of about efforts to lower the actual amount of USD 330 000 per year. energy consumed per employee – or in other words, to reduce our energy intensity. For this, we also established a Group-wide goal: measured in kWh per Minimising business travel employee (FTE), we pledged to reduce Over the years we have taken a number of energy intensity by 20% compared with measures to curb business travel. Travel 2003 levels. Through many small budgets are continuously monitored, while measures to improve energy efficiency and travel data are centrally collected and fed by concentrating back-office tasks in fewer into our environmental reporting platform. and more energy-efficient buildings, we We also built up a dense network of videomet and clearly exceeded this goal: At the conferencing equipment across the Group. end of 2013, energy intensity across the Recently, we have partly replaced these Group was 46.5% lower than in 2003 – facilities through state-of-the-art tele­ and down by 8.0% from 2012. presence technology, which creates a realtime, life-size virtual meeting experience in specially designed rooms. By the end of 2013, we had 92 video-conferencing rooms and 57 telepresence facilities. 44 Swiss Re 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Reducing our environmental footprint At the end of 2013, our CO₂ emissions Offsetting our remaining CO₂ caused by business travel were 13.7% emissions lower per employee than in 2003. In The second commitment of our the first few years of the CO₂ Greenhouse Greenhouse Neutral Programme has been Neutral Programme, we managed to to compensate all CO₂ emissions that gradually reduce business travel by a remain after our reduction efforts. From considerable margin. Then, in both 2011 2003 to 2012, we bought and retired and 2012, the average amount of high-quality Voluntary Emissions kilometres travelled by our employees Reductions (VERs) for a total of 469 000 increased significantly and so did the tonnes of CO2e. To offset the emissions we resulting CO2 emissions. In 2013, travelling caused in 2013, we bought and retired activity stabilised again, reflected by a VERs for a further 55 800 tonnes of CO2e. slight fall in CO2 emissions by 1%. This amount has been calculated according to our new setup (see table on page 43) The increase we registered in 2011 and and includes additional voluntary commit­ 2012 had two reasons: on the one hand, ments to offset the CO₂ emissions caused the general recovery in the business by events such as our Annual General environment after the financial crisis and, Meeting and conferences held at our Centre lately, our strategy of seeking new business for Global Dialogue in Rüschlikon near in high-growth markets. On the other hand, Zurich. Swiss Re’s realignment into a holding company with three distinct Business Units, We are keen to ensure that the VERs we including primary insurance, has led to buy are of a high environmental standard. the creation of additional functions and, as Therefore, we have developed a set of a consequence, an increase in business criteria to select projects that generate travel required for management purposes. certificates. In particular, we give priority to projects which come with strong The figures for 2013 suggest that business social side-effects and benefit the poorest When compensating travel has stabilised again, though at a regions. our CO2 emissions, we higher level. But our financial results for the make sure we only last two years show that our new Group support projects with structure and our strategic focus on highstrong social benefits. growth markets have benefited our clients and shareholders. In essence, we thus saw the effects of a dilemma between two objectives: necessary adaptation to create economic value in a changing world, and reducing environmental impacts. While we remain committed to curbing unnecessary business travel, we think that putting a cap on it would be wrong, because it would be detrimental to our clients and shareholders. Swiss Re 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report 45 Reducing our environmental footprint Compensating our CO2 emissions in Thailand In 2013, the bulk of the Voluntary Emissions Reductions we bought and retired again came from a wastewater treatment project at a starch plant in Thailand. Before the project was launched, the inhabitants of the surroun­ding villages could smell the open lagoons used for clearing the starch wastewater from the plant. What’s more, the process released methane, a greenhouse gas 21 times stronger than CO2. The installation of a closed anaerobic wastewater treatment facility made it possible to capture the methane and use it to produce clean energy directly on the plant site (through biogas production and heat utilisation). Not only has this led to a massive reduction in emissions and local air pollution, the plant was also able to cut its use of fossil fuels by 80%. Furthermore, the water released at the end of the new wastewater cycle is now so clean that it can even be used for fish farming and irrigating nearby agricultural fields. Just as importantly, the project has had large social and educational benefits, thanks to the carbon revenues it generates: These funds have been used to support the local kindergarten, fund vocational computer trainings at a local school, build and equip a library at the local elementary school, and more. Together, the project’s many environ­ mental and social benefits provide a solid foundation for the local community to gradually improve living standards. Schoolboys in Thailand take a break from a game of football. Both their uniforms and the playground have been funded through a CO2 offsetting project from which we bought our bulk of emission reduction credits in 2013. 46 Swiss Re 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Reducing our environmental footprint External verification of our CO₂ Paper, water and waste Group sourcing guidelines and reporting minimum standards Since the start of our Greenhouse Neutral CO₂ emissions and energy consumption Programme in 2003, we have been are our two environmental priorities. For As a provider of financial services, Swiss Re disclosing our CO₂ emissions, their these, we have set ambitious reduction does not have an extended supply chain. principal sources and relative performance targets over the last ten years – and Our core business does not require us to over time. The calculation of our emissions exceeded them. For paper use, we have buy intermediate inputs like a manufac­ is based on the guidelines of the not set a quantitative target but have turing company. But to run our operations, Greenhouse Gas Protocol, the most taken a number of measures to reduce we do require a range of goods and widely-used emissions accounting the amount used and to ensure we only services. standard (www.ghgprotocol.org). Before purchase paper of a high ecological quality. our emission figures are published, We regard other environmental impacts For the procurement of these goods and PricewaterhouseCoopers performs an as less relevant to Swiss Re, not least services, we apply general and individual assurance engagement to verify our because we cannot directly influence them criteria. Our overarching Group Sourcing calculations. In this year’s report, at locations where we rent office space. Policy contains criteria to select suppliers assurance has been extended to the full However, for the office buildings we own, that offer best value for money, meet high “Reducing our environmental footprint” we require appliances to meet high quality standards and adhere to the UN chapter as well as four further chapters. standards of water efficiency. Global Compact. As a signatory to the The complete assurance report from Compact, we are committed to honouring PricewaterhouseCoopers is included on Paper use fell by 17.1% per employee all its ten principles; amongst other things, pages 68–69. between 2012 and 2013; thus, since these prohibit any sort of discrimination 2003 we have managed to reduce paper or the use of child or forced labour and use per employee by more than 60%. require that the freedom of association Two important factors have been the more and the right to collective bargaining be frequent scanning of docu­ments, at upheld. least partly as a result of our Document Induction Process, and encour­aging Environmental criteria must be included our employees to use double-sided in purchasing decisions with regard printing, which is the default setting to materials and ingredients, production on our computers. methods, recycling and waste. For some sourcing categories, we have developed Our sourcing guidelines Through our Group sourcing guidelines “minimum standards” that further specify clearly state that and our “minimum standard for copy paper”, our requirements: besides power (see our suppliers need to we set clear environmental requirements page 44) and paper, they cover office conform to the ten for the type of paper we purchase (see supplies, cleaning services and agents, principles of the UN below). In 2013, 70% of the paper used furniture and building materials. Each Global Compact. across the Group came from recycled standard lists objectives, ecological aspects, fibres, and 96% was of FSC-labelled quality. ecological minimum standards, excep­ tions, controlling and labels. Both water consumption and waste gene­ration were lower in 2013 than in 2012; it needs to be stressed, though, that data quality is moderate for both. Paper use per employee (FTE), Swiss Re Group 2003 2012 2013 Change in % since 2012 Paper kg/FTE 93 41 34 –17.1 Recycling paper % 14 76 70 –7.9 FSC-labelled paper % n/a 95 96 1.1 Water consumption and waste generation per employee (FTE), Swiss Re Group 2003 2012 2013 Change in % since 2012 Water m3/FTE *16 18 16 –11.1 For more information see swissre.com/corporate_responsibility/ Waste kg/FTE *164 *190 182 –4.2 procurement_guidelines.html * Data coverage for water and waste is low. We have recalculated our past data with improved extrapolation algorithms, which has led to significant changes in the reported figures. Swiss Re 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report 47 Reducing our environmental footprint When we select new suppliers, we Swiss Re Next examine whether they comply with these Under the title of Swiss Re Next, we are requirements as part of the overall evalua­ currently constructing a replacement tion process. Existing strategic suppliers building at the Group’s Zurich headquarters. are re-examined in the periodical contract From the start, sustainability was defined reviews, and individual suppliers are as one of the key features of the project: visited and inspected onsite. Our goal is to be awarded the MINERGIEP-ECO® certificate as well as the highest Internally, we conduct regular awareness certification level of the US LEED trainings with all our sourcing staff. system – LEED Platinum. In 2013, the old building was demolished, Sustainable construction and producing around 6 000 tonnes of rubble, Swiss Re Next which was prepared for recycling when­ ever possible. During this process, great Swiss Re has over 60 offices in more than emphasis was placed on the careful, safe 20 countries. For construction projects at removal of all hazardous materials, these offices – new building or renovation including asbestos, which was the firework – we apply a number of principles. resistant material of choice used in the One of them is sustainability, which 1960s when the building was constructed. translates into criteria such as stringent The sprayed asbestos used in the old construction standards, high-quality building – harmless to our employees due fittings and finishes, a comfortable ambient to complete sheathing – was removed climate, environmentally sound, durable according to best-practice standards by materials, low energy consumption creating a safe environment with negative and low maintenance and running costs. pressure units, ensuring that no asbestos Constructing or renovating an office would be released into the atmosphere. building in line with such sustainability Afterwards, the waste material was dis­ criteria is the most effective way to posed at a state-of-the-art landfill site minimise its environmental footprint. in Switzerland suitable for this purpose. For construction projects in Switzerland, The logistics of constructing such a large the applicable criteria are defined in detail building on a confined site next to offices in the Energy Mission Statement of Swiss Re, and flats are very complex and demanding. Zurich: They stipulate that new buildings Furthermore, obtaining MINERGIE-P-ECO® need to conform to the MINERGIE® and LEED Platinum certifications requires standard (www.minergie.ch) – a Swiss detailed documentation of the whole quality label specifying high levels of materials management process during the energy efficiency and superior user comfort. construction phase. To meet this double When we renovate old buildings, the challenge, we had a special software tool standard is to be applied if feasible from called “buildX” developed. It is used to an architectural, technical and financial track – in real time – the purpose, compo­ Leadership in Energy and perspective. The same criteria are applied sition, origin and transport routes of all Environmental Design by our pension fund in Switzerland for materials delivered to the site by the more (LEED) all its direct investments into real estate than 80 contractors. If set targets are LEED is a set of rating projects. missed, the project managers can systems for the design, intervene and take necessary action at construction, operation and In practice, we usually go beyond these once. maintenance of ecologically requirements and use further standards sound buildings, homes and such as MINERGIE-ECO® – which also neighbourhoods. Developed includes health criteria and demands on by the U.S. Green Building building materials – and, more recently, Council (USGBC), LEED MINERGIE-P-ECO®, which specifies the is intended to help building characteristics of a “passive house” owners and operators be that consumes even less energy than environmentally responsible a MINERGIE®-certified building. and use resources For more information see efficiently. next.swissre.com/ www.usgbc.org/leed 48 Swiss Re 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Reducing our environmental footprint One of the buildings at our Zurich headquarters is being pulled down to make way for Swiss Re Next, designed to set a prime example of sustainable construction. The old Swiss Re headquarter building dating from 1913 can be seen at the back. The COyou2 Programme completed their probation period and have In 2013, we launched a been with Swiss Re for a minimum period new seven-year cycle of time (currently three months). Reducing our own CO₂ emissions is one of of our CO you2 four pillars of our climate change strategy Programme, which (see page 10). In 2007, we launched the In the first seven years of its existence, assists our employees COyou2 Programme because we wanted to the programme was a resounding success: in cutting their own make our commitment more tangible for in total, we granted more than 9 000 carbon footprints. our employees and help raise their aware­ subsidies. In view of this, we decided to ness of climate change. The programme start a new seven-year cycle, running from offers subsidies for a range of investments 2014 until 2020, for which all our regular through which they can reduce their own emplo­yees have received a new subsidy carbon footprints. To our knowledge, it was allowance. the first global corporate initiative of its kind when we launched it. The basic features of the programme remain the same, but we have made its The investment options eligible for subsidies technical requirements more stringent. are clearly specified in the programme. Through this adjustment we want to Some of them are supported at all our strengthen the overall environmental locations, while others vary to account for objectives of the programme. regional differences in climate, living conditions etc. Our subsidies cover 50% The inclusion of regular bicycles among of the investment amount up to a locally the eligible investments in 2012 proved a For more information see swissre.com/ determined maximum allowance. big success and continued to be one of corporate_responsibility/coyou2_ programme.html The programme is open to all regular the most frequently used options in 2013. employees who have successfully Over the full seven years between 2007 Swiss Re 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report 49 Reducing our environmental footprint COyou2 payouts 2007–2013, by type Number of COyou2 payouts 2007–2013, per 1000 FTEs 400 350 300 250 200 38% Home appliances 150 22% Alternative individual transport 20% Public transport 100 14% Heating 6% Other 50 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Americas Asia-Pacific Europe (including Middle East and Africa) and 2013, various home appliances such Partner initiative: The Swiss Since becoming operational in 2009, the as energy-efficient washing machines and Climate Foundation Foundation has supported more than refrigerators were the most popular 550 SMEs in Switzerland and Liechtenstein options, followed by bicycles and other In 2008, we set up the Swiss Climate with CHF 10 million in total. In 2013, forms of alternative individual transport Foundation with a number of partner 358 SMEs were supported with a total of (see graph above). companies. It was a response to the intro­ CHF 3 million. These projects are expected duction of the Swiss CO2 law, which to help avoid about 100 000 tonnes of Relative to the number of employees who provides the basis for the CO₂ levy on CO₂ emissions over the next ten years. work in our different regions, the highest heating fuels in Switzerland. This levy is number of subsidies between 2011 and not a proper tax but an environmental In August 2013, the Swiss Climate 2013 was granted in Europe (see graph market mechanism: It imposes a charge Foundation celebrated its fifth anniversary – above). This was largely due to the strong on the use of heating fuels and then first at our Centre for Global Dialogue in growth of our Bratislava location, where reimburses the money thus raised – to Rüschlikon and then at an event hosted by many newly hired employees claimed private companies proportionate to their Vaudoise Assurances in Lausanne. subsidies. While smaller investments such total salary expenses. For financial service Representatives from business, politics as bicycles and home appliances providers, who use relatively small amounts and science gathered to celebrate the dominated the requests in Europe and of heating fuel but employ large work­ success of the Foundation, look through an Asia, the subsidies in the Americas were forces, this means they receive a total exhibition portraying 14 of the supported often requested for more expensive home “net reimbursement”. innovation projects and gain an insight infrastructure options such as heating into the future of the Foundation and the systems, insulation or windows and doors. The reason for setting up the Foundation potential of climate protection measures. Thus, our employees in the Americas was to collect these funds and to use them could frequently claim one benefit only, to support various climate-friendly projects In addition to paying our net levy reimburse­ while those in Europe and Asia were undertaken by small and medium-sized ment, Swiss Re has been sponsoring the able to request several smaller payouts. companies (SMEs) in Switzerland. In 2012, Foundation’s managing director position the Foundation broadened its scope and since it was established in 2008. started to collaborate with the LIFE Climate Foundation Liechtenstein, generating more partner companies and enabling SMEs in Liechtenstein to benefit from the funds too. By the end of 2013, 24 renowned financial service providers from Switzerland and For more information see swiss-climate-foundation.ch Liechtenstein were partner companies of the Swiss Climate Foundation. 50 Swiss Re 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Being an employer of choice Being an employer of choice Our goal is to attract talented people from a broad range of disciplines and backgrounds. We offer them a culture of diversity and inclusion, excellent development opportunities, a supportive environment and attractive total rewards. Employees by region Swiss Re’s mission is to be the leading As a knowledge-based company, we as of 31 December 2013 player in the re/insurance industry. We consider four areas to be particularly want to be the preferred partner for our important for this: we foster diversity clients – earning their long-term trust and inclusion; we provide excellent and confidence, and delivering a service development and training opportunities; unmatched elsewhere in the market. we work to maintain favourable employee relations; and we offer competitive Our employees are the key to fulfilling this compensation and benefits. mission, through the skills, diversity and talent they bring to the company. Swiss Re’s Swiss Re is a global company with a goal is to be seen as an employer of choice presence in all major markets. As of that can attract talents from around the 31 December 2013, we employed 11 574 63% Europe (including world2 788 and Americas offer them a place to succeed. people (regular staff) from 89 nationalities. Middle East and Africa) 6 973 EMEA Currently, 63% of our employees work in 26% Americas 1 027 ASIA-Pacific Europe (including the Middle East and 11% Asia-Pacific Africa), 26% in the Americas and 11% in the Asia-Pacific region. Employee data 2011 2012 2013 Total headcount regular employees 10 788 11 193 11 574 Full-time 9 845 10 237 10 611 Part-time 943 956 963 Temporary employees 308 373 244 Turnover rate (incl. company sales) 11.2% 10.1% 8.0% Voluntary 6.3% 5.0% 5.5% Involuntary 4.9% 5.1% 2.5% Average tenure regular staff (years) 9.1 9.0 9.1 Swiss Re 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report 51 Being an employer of choice Diversity and inclusion European Diversity Award An inclusive corporate culture is a Our progress on Diversity & Inclusion prerequisite for a diverse workforce and gained external recognition in 2013, the diversity of thought, opinion and when Jean-Jacques Henchoz, experience this helps create. It is Swiss Re’s CEO Reinsurance EMEA, motivating for employees, helps attract won a European Diversity Award for fresh talent and is good for bottom-line his leadership and strategic vision results. There is strong evidence that in fostering diversity in his senior diverse teams outperform non-diverse management team. teams, avoid group think and therefore institutional blindness, and are more agile The “Inspirational role model of the in responding to changes in the external year” award goes to “someone in environment. Furthermore, a strong business who is contributing in representation of local talent is key to some way to developing a culture developing new markets, a strategic that allows the most skilled and priority for Swiss Re. talented people to succeed, regardless of gender, race, physical In essence, inclusion is about respecting abilities or sexual orientation”. Including you: the uniqueness of every individual and europeandiversityawards.com Stories of how we do it about providing an atmosphere in which This 76-page publication every­one feels valued and empowered to showcases concrete perform at a consistently high level. We examples of how Diversity & want to achieve an inclusive culture and Inclusion is lived at Swiss Re a leadership climate founded on fairness, “Do you feel comfortable openness and trust, which makes all employees feel they belong, are respected expressing your opinion, even when it’s not the common opinion?” “Swiss Re is already an incredibly colourful crowd of people. In terms and heard – in short, a culture that fosters of emerging risks, the demographic shift in generations is our biggest challenge.” diversity of thought, opinion and “Being a D&I Champion is quite a big commitment experience. In addition to addressing D&I within Swiss Re, we also want to promote con­ and a lot of work, but it is also one of the most rewarding parts of my job.” “Our commitment to Diversity & Inclusion maximises our prospective talent pool as demographic changes accelerate.” “Swiss Re needs a colourful employee landscape made up of people who think and act independently, but always in the best interest of the company as a whole.” “It is my conviction that D&I enhances our labour pool, improves innovation, customer centricity, inclusion and regulatory expectations.” “I profoundly believe in championing the uniqueness of each individual and allowing each of us to bring To achieve this goal, we have set up a sciousness of this topic in our industry. In our authenticity to the table.”“I am proud to work for a company that is making D&I a priority.” “One phrase sums it up to me –‘Be the Change You Want to See in the World’(Gandhi).” “D&I is important because otherwise we would be cookie-cutter employees working in a comprehensive strategic framework to June 2013, we held a conference at our promote diversity and inclusion across the Centre for Global Dialogue on the topic cookie-cutter company on a cookie-cutter dead-end road.” “Diversity is more fun and will produce better results, especially when applied consciously and tolerantly.”“If we always do what we always did, then we will always get what we always got.” “As leaders, we have to be inclusive ourselves. We need to create an open atmosphere whereby everybody feels free to whole Group. Backed by the Group CEO of “Diversity and inclusion – a competitive and the Group Executive Committee, our advantage” and its relevance for the express whatever is on their mind.” Diversity & Inclusion (D&I) strategy is driven re/insurance industry. In addition, we forward by a network of 35 D&I Champions organised industry platforms on “Women from the various business units. Regionallyin Insurance Leadership” to raise based D&I Champions and D&I Councils awareness, share best practices and help ensure a “glocal” approach: this support networking. means that local differences with regard to diversity and inclusion are acknowledged To share best practices both within and and addressed under a global umbrella. outside the organisation, in 2013 we Last but not least, 25 inclusive employee published “Including you: Stories of how networks worldwide enable our employees we do it”, a book that showcases concrete to get engaged at grassroots level. examples of how Swiss Re employees, at all levels, have embraced and implemented our D&I vision and strategy. For more information see swissre.com/about_us/diversity/ 52 Swiss Re 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Being an employer of choice Our Group D&I strategy, the “Global Under the sponsorship of our Chief Risk Inclusion Framework”, rests on three Officer, this initiative is being launched We have refined our pillars: location by location across the Group. Diversity & Inclusion strategy to tackle The first pillar focuses on “Inclusive The third pillar, “Smashing Stereotypes, different forms of Leadership”. We have developed Inclusive Opening Minds” has broadened its focus stereotypes by drawing Leader Principles that describe exactly from “Gender Diversity”, in recognition attention to the what behaviours we expect of our leaders of the importance of combatting different “unconscious biases” and managers in terms of inclusion. These forms of stereotypes to achieve true behind them. principles are firmly embedded in our inclusion. It now centres on “unconscious Group Leadership Imperatives – which bias”: Neuroscience research confirms that provide guidance for assessing perfor­munconscious bias is universally wired ance against behavioural objectives – and into humans. Everyone has hidden biases our leadership development. which can strongly influence perceptions and decision-making. However, it is “Own the Way You WorkTM: Living Team possible to overcome them. Rather than To support the three strategic pillars of our Spirit” forms the second pillar of our Global trying to deny unconscious biases, it Global Inclusion Framework, D&I has been Inclusion Framework. It is a cultural change is preferable to accept them and to do embedded in our core talent and human initiative that aims to give our employees something about them. resources policies (eg recruitment, succes­ more autonomy to decide how, when and sion planning and talent management). where they carry out their tasks; this kind Through awareness events as well as faceof empowerment is becoming increasingly to-face and web-based training, we assist Going hand in hand with Swiss Re’s policy important to motivate high-performing our employees in identifying and of fostering diversity, we also have strong teams. Own the Way You WorkTM is based addressing unconscious bias such as those provisions in place to penalise any on four building blocks: related to generations, sexual orientation infringing behaviour. Our Group Code of 1. One size does not fit all: and gender. Training on unconscious bias Conduct clearly states that discrimination Embrace flexibility and support has also been embedded into our leader­ in the workplace against any employee or non-traditional work models. ship development and manager training. job applicant based on the person’s age, 2. Work smarter not longer: (dis)ability, origin, gender, religion or sexual YES to managing by results; Regarding our efforts to promote gender orientation (or any other characteristic NO to presenteeism. balance, the Women Leading Swiss Re protected by local law) is not tolerated 3. Focus on the team rather than Programme is a key initiative. It is designed under any circumstances. We encourage the individual: to strengthen the pipeline of talented our employees to report violations of the Discover how you and your team women for leadership positions and, in Group Code of Conduct, laws, rules or perform best. doing so, also tackles gender stereotypes. regulations, explicitly stating that reporting 4. Reinforce trust, respect and in good faith is treated with discretion and open dialogue: that retaliation will not be tolerated. Between you, your manager and your team. Women in management positions (in %) 2011 2012 2013 Total workforce 47.7 47.3 46.8 Executive/senior management positions* 20.8 21.7 21.5 All management positions* 30.2 30.7 31.1 * “ Executive/senior management positions” is comprised of the management levels of Director/Senior Vice President upwards. “All management positions” refers to Vice President and above. Swiss Re 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report 53 Being an employer of choice Employee photo competition ­ One of the ways in which we celebrated our 150 Year Anniversary was by engaging our employees in a dialogue about risk. And, in particular, how risk is seen through the eyes of different generations. A dialogue is not just about words, though, it is also about pictures. So we invited our employees to take part in a photo competition and to submit photos on the main themes of our anniversary: “Generations” and four of our Top Topics. Hundreds of photos were submitted and, after the 10-week competition, employees voted for the best picture in each category. Grand prize Armel Francisco, Armonk “The photo is of the roller coaster in image brought back a lot of fond memories Seaside Heights, New Jersey. It once sat at and a poignant reminder of what has now the end of the now gone Casino Pier. The been lost. But rather than evoke sadness, image has become a symbol of the impact it actually inspired. Just as the structure from Superstorm Sandy. It reminded stood strong, so will the local population. everyone of the power of nature. For those It galvanised the public to ‘Restore the of us who grew up in New Jersey, the Shore’.” 54 Swiss Re 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Being an employer of choice Category winner: Managing Category winner: Partnering for climate and natural disaster risk food security Ravichandran Sandresekeram, London Maya Christensen-Ruch, Zurich “One October morning I awoke early and “I took this picture of my younger daughter decided to go for a walk before breakfast. in our summer holidays on the island of It was a still, slightly chilly morning with Moen (Denmark), where my mother-in-law pockets of mist all around. I approached lives. Annika was running through one of this forest glade and was taken with its the thousands of corn fields in that beauti­ beauty. The fallen red leaves which carpeted ful area and was only partly impressed as the ground reminded me, quite briefly, of the plants came up to her face. Look at Category winner: Generations Remembrance Sunday, and the quietness her facial expression. When I read about Anthony Hopper, Zurich seemed most appropriate. It is a special the photo competition and the categories, photograph to me and I am so pleased that I thought of sending in this picture as it “The photo was taken in Melbourne, those who voted for it liked it too.” shows food for generations.” one of my favourite cities. I was so impressed with the architecture there and this photo really illustrates how the beautiful and well maintained traditional buildings are made even more impressive by the new buildings towering high above them. This to me captures the essence of “Generations”. You have to imagine not only the old living purposefully with the new, but just think about the number of people throughout the generations that have contributed to these buildings and have had a positive impact on the growth of Category winner: Advancing Category winner: Funding longer lives a great city.” sustainable energy solutions Natalia Honold-Carranza, Zurich Haris Veeraselvam, Bangalore “The photo was taken way back in my “These are my grandparents Celedonio undergraduate days in 2008. My close and Lucia on the 100th birthday of my friends and I decided to bunk a hectic day grandfather. They still lived at their home in off college and enjoy nature! So we Madrid when my grandfather celebrated travelled 180 kilometres from Bangalore his 100th birthday after more than 70 years to the waterfall region of Hogenakkal on of marriage. He died last year at the age of the border of the states of Karnataka and 103 years.” Tamil Nadu. We hired a guide-cumboatman who took us to the main area where the water cascades from different sides and creates this panoramic view filled with fierce energy. After lunch, we decided to walk closer to the tip of the waterfall to get a better view of the lower You can look at more photos from the competition at: side, and that’s when I took this picture.” 150.swissre.com/employee_activities/photo_competition/ Swiss Re 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report 55 Being an employer of choice Development and training Swiss Re Academy in numbers Reflecting our The number of employees making use of employees’ preferences, Developing our people, at every level and our training and development we seek to offer our in all functions, remains a strong focus for opportunities added up to 11 368 partici­ extensive training Swiss Re. Offering our employees toppants in 2013. In total, our employees thus opportunities in flexible quality development and training oppor­ completed 169 938 hours of training, an formats. tuni­ties has significant mutual benefits: average of 14.9 hours each. As a general Highly skilled employees help Swiss Re trend, employees wish to have more retain a competitive edge in ever-changing flexibility in how they organise their training, market conditions. Vice versa, as a global learning more often and at the same time market leader we can offer our employees wanting to spend fewer hours in the class­ exciting and fulfilling career prospects. room. Therefore, we expect course participation to remain stable in the future, Our approach but the amount of learning hours to Personal and professional development at decrease. Swiss Re combines technical, professional and leadership skills training. We design In support of our flexible training and our training internally or in collaboration development philosophy, the Swiss Re with leading external partners and deliver Academy intranet site gives our employees it through our long-established Swiss Re easy access to an extensive set of learning Academy. solutions, links to regional learning offerings and other development resources. Swiss Re Academy has developed More than 80% of our training is delivered extensive personal and professional through eLearning formats, which reduces development curricula in order to respond the need for our employees to travel and to changing business needs. Currently, spend days away from the office, while we offer more than 750 different training giving them access to training irrespective courses in total. Our employees and line of their working locations. In addition, managers attend training in areas as using such learning formats supports our diverse as underwriting, finance, sales and commitment to reducing our carbon negotiations, leadership, diversity and footprint. inclusion, interpersonal skills, project management, office tools and language Our value proposition for clients and skills. Certain courses, such as compliance other stakeholders training, are mandatory. Employees who A special feature of Swiss Re Academy is work directly with our clients are recom­ that we also provide industry-leading mended to invest at least two days per insurance and finance training to clients, year in formal sales training. regulators, government officials and members of non-governmental To support our employees’ professional organisations. These training offerings are development, Swiss Re Academy provides tailored to different global market and a portfolio of “blended” learning paths: client needs. In 2013, Swiss Re Academy combining face-to-face learning, eLearning, trained 1 026 representatives from clients peer-to-peer coaching, one-to-one and other stakeholders onsite in coaching and virtual classrooms, they offer classrooms. The feedback on our external a flexible approach to learning. Topics client training courses continues to be very offered in these blended learning paths positive. To give clients further cost include communication skills, coaching effective access to training opportunities, skills, conflict handling, influencing skills, Swiss Re Academy launched an eLearning presentation skills, and remote managing client portal in 2013. and working. Learning hours 2011 2012 2013 Total learning hours recorded 168 011 179 007 169 938 Learning hours per trained employee 14.3 16.7 14.9 56 Swiss Re 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Being an employer of choice Our career development philosophy As mentoring is by nature “self-organising”, between 10 and 12 weeks, while in and Virtual Career Centre (VCC) it is not possible to provide exact statistics Germany and Switzerland the internships Our philosophy at Swiss Re is that career on how many of our employees and manusually span four to six months. development is a shared responsibility a­gers are officially involved in a mentoring between each employee, his or her line relationship, but an estimated 500 people In Zurich and Munich, Swiss Re offers a manager and the company. Employees are are listed as interested in being mentored Junior Power programme that dates back encouraged to think in terms of a multior offering to be a mentor. to 1981. Nearly 100 apprentices and dimensional career “lattice” and not just a trainees aged between 15 and 25 vertical career ladder. There is no single, Intensifying senior management participate in the programme each year pre-set career path at Swiss Re; rather, development and are trained in a broad range of the paths are as diverse as the individuals In today’s business environment, which is occupations. In turn, they contribute new working in our company. characterised by increased competition, perspectives to Swiss Re and challenge volatility, uncertainty and complexity, established practices. We offer training for Our Virtual Career Centre (VCC), launched strong leadership capabilities are critical businesswoman/man, information and in 2012, supports this philosophy by to being successful and remaining a global documentation specialist, computer providing a one-stop shop for all career market leader. Strengthening the leader­ specialist, chef, qualified waitress/waiter, development matters for both employees ship capabilities of our senior leaders is the hotel housekeeper and media specialist. and managers. Through 2013, the number ambitious goal Swiss Re has set itself for About 30% of all our former apprentices of individuals who accessed the online site the future. and trainees are still working at Swiss Re. averaged 1 400 per month, with a peak of 1 908 employees visiting in October. The At the beginning of 2013, we introduced VCC encourages all employees to explore executive development programmes and Employee relations the variety of career and development selective master classes that put a strong opportunities that exist within Swiss Re focus on leadership. They aim to create Swiss Re sets high standards regarding its by providing easy access to “stretch a common understanding of how to drive duty of care for employees and their wellassignments”, job rotations and training Swiss Re forward and how to develop being. In some regions we have dedicated opportunities. leaders consistently across the entire Group. Employee Relations specialists who can provide independent coaching in difficult Mentoring Our Early Joiners programmes personal or professional circumstances: Complementing the wide range of training Each year, the graduates@swissre they help find workable solutions which courses provided by Swiss Re Academy, programme provides entry positions for minimise the risk of escalating situations we also offer our employees a mentoring around 50 university graduates with little and/or of long-term absences. We also use programme. In a mentoring relationship, a or no work experience. It offers an external employee assistance providers person with less experience in whatever excellent opportunity for young talents for counselling services in many countries. area of business or personal development to discover the world from Swiss Re’s Offering such services not only helps (“mentee”) is matched with a more perspective. preserve valuable skills and know-how, it experienced person (“mentor”) who acts can also reduce the risk of reputational as an active listener and guide. This offers Over a period of 18 months, the graduates damage and potential legal cases. a confidential relationship outside the receive on-the-job training in their reporting line that helps individuals develop respective functions. They also attend a Through a well-established Care their skills, knowledge and behaviours as number of classroom-based training Management Team we provide support to well as to move successfully through times sessions which are specially designed for employees, line managers and affected of change and transition. Our Virtual the programme and focus on Swiss Re’s family members in emergency situations Career Centre includes a special search core business areas. Currently, there are through professional crisis intervention. tool that helps our employees identify about 270 employees working at Swiss Re Typically, such incidents deal with potential mentors. who have completed this programme the sudden death of an employee and are since its launch in 2007. They are employed handled in accordance with corporate across many different functions and governance to mitigate any kind of risks. regions. Swiss Re also offers around 65 internship positions in Europe, India and the US each year. The interns@swissre programme is mainly aimed at university students who are pursuing a Bachelor or Master degree and graduates with less than one year of For more information see swissre.com/careers/recent_graduates/ full-time work experience. An intern will be part of a team where she/he will take on specific tasks and various projects. In India, For more information see swissre.com/careers/apprenticeships/ the US and the UK we offer traditional summer internships that typically last Swiss Re 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report 57 Being an employer of choice Assistance and prevention employees working at this location. In We are committed to reviewing and further Munich, we held our annual seminar for developing our prevention and support line managers on “psychological health at services on an ongoing basis. Our goal is work”, whilst in the US we strengthened to help employees take a constructive crisis intervention by establishing a threat approach to their own health, while impro­vmanagement team and created an ing and retaining their ability to perform. employee awareness programme on This also supports their sense of well-being handling violent intruders. and ability to balance work and family life. We also maintain an open and constructive Examples of activities in 2013 include the dialogue with employees throughout the development of “Healthy Minds@Swiss Re”, company to accommodate the needs a new guideline to support line managers of working parents. Last year we had 182 in Switzerland with their duty of care and children in Switzerland take advantage of early detection of potential problems. our one-week child vacation programmes Building on earlier programmes in Zurich in spring and summer, and we have a centring on health, we organised a Health number of reserved places at day care Day for our employees in Bangalore. In centres in and around Zurich. As part of Bratislava we ran a stress management the Parents@Swiss Re initiative, which was workshop and introduced an Employee launched in 2012 to provide important Assistance Programme covering all information during pregnancy and as employees become parents, we published a brochure and an online support page for employees in Munich and Bratislava. Expedition Everbest As part of our 150 Year Anniversary In the UK, a new range of family services celebrations, we provided our is now available which meets typical employees with a clever little device challenges faced by working parents and that tracks the number of steps carers. Services include offering taken each day, and ran a voluntary employees a certain number of emergency competition inviting them to climb a childcare sessions or school holiday cover virtual online Mount Everest within as well as providing back-up adult and 40 days. Prizes were awarded to elder care. individuals as well as teams. Employee engagement surveys The challenge was taken up by We aspire to communicate openly and thousands of employees, who walked Our latest Employee an amazing total of 1 571 392 976 transparently with our employees: An Engagement Survey steps – equivalent to 22 times integral part of this is having a constructive showed improvements around the world! This worlddebate on how we want to develop our in most areas and wide activity not only inspired corporate culture and to live our strategy. confirmed our great employee enthusiasm but One way we do this is through our employees’ strong sense a health­ier lifestyle, too! employee engagement survey, which asks of commitment. employees for their views on over 70 questions. The results of the most recent survey taken in May 2013, in which 74% of our employees took part, showed improve­ ments in most areas. We believe this demonstrates the positive impact of various change activities and new initiatives introduced in response to the previous survey carried out in 2011. Employee health data: Sick leave days, Switzerland regular staff 2011 2012 2013 Number of employees 3 042 3 171 3 259 Number of employees who have recorded absence due to illness 1 774 1 918 1 893 Average number of sick days 7.9 6.9 7.0 58 Swiss Re 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Being an employer of choice The results give us an overall engagement we work closely with the Personnel score; from the previous survey this rose Committee (PECO). Representing the by 2 points to 72, a figure that compares interests of all Zurich employees, PECO very favourably with the external financial aims to create and preserve a positive services benchmark of 58. working environment. It is involved in changes or adaptions to the General Positive results were especially notable in Working Conditions or other important the area of emotional commitment to the policies such as the Social Plan. The company, which is very high at 83 points: Committee also seeks to ensure the deour employees say they are very proud of facto equality of men and women, and working for Swiss Re and recommend it as places a special focus on the challenges a great place to work. In addition, 80% of faced by employees with family respondents felt their job matches their obligations. interests, which helps create a committed workforce. One of the weaker scores In the UK, Swiss Re has an Employee was in the area of our managers’ ability Liaison Group (ELG), consisting of elected to inspire others. This is being actively representatives from across all functions. addressed through our leadership The ELG provides a forum for employee programmes described in the “Development representatives and managers to discuss and training” section. However, our scores company policy and practices which affect were well above the financial services all employees. It is legally recognised as benchmark in all areas, with the exception the collective consultation body for of the “Execution” category where it was redundancy purposes. When a business equal. unit is likely to be affected by proposed collective redundancies, the respective Employee groups employee representatives are consulted. We are a signatory to the UN Global Compact and support its ten principles in At our Munich office there is a Works the areas of human rights, labour, the Council, which has clearly defined coenvironment and anti-corruption. In many deter­mination rights in several areas. The of our locations there are active employee Works Council has the legal obligation groups. We believe that these employee to support topics such as diversity, training representatives can play an important part and development, career opportunities in the company’s success, by contributing and work-life balance. The eleven members valuable perspectives and by helping to of the Works Council are elected for four identify employment-related challenges. years by the employees. These bodies are elected by local At our smaller branches in Europe (eg employees and have clearly defined France, Italy, Luxembourg, Denmark) there information and consultation rights. are also Works Councils or Staff Delegates, Though there are significant local depending on the size of the branch and differences in the applicable legislation, local regulations. their rights typically refer to: ̤̤ Working conditions Networks ̤̤ Benefits Our former employees have helped make ̤̤ Reorganisation and restructuring Swiss Re what it is today and form an ̤̤ Redundancies essential part of our extended employee ̤̤ Disciplinary actions and conflict cases community. They remain important stakeholders for Swiss Re. Furthermore, At our Zurich headquarters, where almost as many of our alumni work for our clients, a third of our total workforce is employed, they also help deepen our client relationships. Through the Swiss Re Alumni Network, we offer our former employees the opportunity to continue sharing their knowledge and experience and to keep in contact with colleagues. The network has continued to grow and currently counts more than For more information see 3 000 members. swissre.com/about_us/alumni/ Swiss Re 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report 59 Included in the network are our retirees. A balanced compensation package is Our compensation This important group of stakeholders generally complemented by competitive framework includes continues to take great interest in the pension plans and other employee incentive programmes company. Through extended access rights, benefits, and a first-class working environ­ that reflect the we enable them to read news items and ment. Such benefits include, for example, long-term nature of utilise resources that are normally available the Continuous Contribution Award, which our business. to employees only. The Senior Consultants recognises the loyalty, commitment and initiative, created as a pilot in 2012, continuous contribution of our employees continued to grow and will be officially by offering them opportunities at defined launched in 2014. This initiative creates milestones to enjoy additional time off opportunities for our retirees to get at the expense of the company. Health involved in specific projects on a part-time benefits and financial protection in case of basis. It creates a beneficial situation ill-health are an important part of our for all involved, as Swiss Re gains access overall packages. We provide medical, to people with extensive know-how of the life and disability insurance in excess company and the business, while the of state provisions in many of our locations. retirees can continue to do some work in Further­more, we support employees a flexible way. in accumu­lating retirement benefits to supplement any state provisions. Compensation and benefits In addition, the CO you2 Programme con­tinues to offer our employees the Swiss Re’s compensation framework is oppor­tunity to claim subsidies from designed to attract, motivate and retain the the company for a range of emissionsqualified talent the Group needs to succeed, cutting invest­ments they want to make while creating a tangible link between pay in their private lives. and performance. The aim is to provide compensation that is competitive in local At Swiss Re, we strive for a high perfor­mlabour markets, while ensuring that ance culture in which our individual and employees focus on delivering outstanding team goals and behaviours – what we do results without taking inappropriate risks. and how we do it – are aligned to the Group’s business strategy and purpose. For most employees, total compensation The what is assessed based on challenging comprises the base salary and the Annual targets and goals. For measuring the how Performance Incentive (API), which is we use our newly designed Leadership linked to both individual and business/ Imperatives to ensure that our senior leaders company performance. are behavioural role models for the next generation, creating an environment that Swiss Re uses additional incentive pro­ inspires and engages others. The overall grammes which reflect the long-term nature performance assessment is then aligned of our business: both the Value Alignment to variable reward outcomes to reflect Incentive Plan (VAI) – the deferred part of achievement and contribution, and to the API – and the Leadership Performance reinforce a pay-for-performance linkage. Plan (LPP) aim to reward sustained performance rather than short-term results. Dialogue and feedback are important This helps to align shareholder and em­ aspects of our performance management ployee interests more closely. The target cycle. In 2013, close to 100% of the audience for the LPP is our senior leaders Group’s employees completed year-end and, for VAI, employees who have an API performance reviews. in excess of a defined threshold. Further information on Swiss Re’s We also encourage ownership of Swiss Re approach to compensation and benefits shares for all employees through the can be found in our 2013 Financial Report Global Share Participation Plan (GSPP) and (pages 105–127). the Incentive Share Plan (for all employees who receive an API). 60 Swiss Re 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Ensuring good governance Ensuring good governance We consider good corporate governance the basis to ensure sustainability throughout all the company’s activities. Swiss Re considers good corporate 1 January 2009. Swiss Re’s corporate of the Board of Directors meet our governance indispensable to maintaining governance also complies with applicable independence criteria. The Chairman of long-lasting, valuable relationships with its local rules and regulations in all the Board of Directors devotes himself fullstakeholders. We recognise that jurisdictions where it conducts business. time to his role. In line with Swiss Re’s transparent disclosure of our governance revised independence criteria, a full-time structure fosters assessment of the quality In our Corporate Responsibility Report, Chairman will not be considered indepen­dof our organisation and business conduct. we highlight key elements of Swiss Re’s ent going forward. Swiss Re’s corporate governance adheres corporate governance concerning the to the SIX Swiss Exchange’s Directive on structure and independence of the Board The members of the Board of Directors are Information Relating to Corporate of Directors, shareholder rights and the also subject to procedures to avoid any Governance, including its annex. It is also Group Code of Conduct. Comprehensive conflict of interest. in line with the principles of the Swiss Code information following the structure of of Best Practice for Corporate Governance the SIX Directive is available in the 2013 The organisation of the Board of Directors (Swiss Code) issued in 2002 by economie­ Financial Report, pages 63–97. is set forth in the Group Bylaws, which suisse, the Swiss business federation. An define the responsibilities of the Board of additional appendix was issued in 2007 Directors, its committees and the Group which deals with compensation principles. Swiss Re’s corporate governance Executive Committee, as well as the Swiss Re, moreover, conforms to the Swiss framework respective reporting procedures. Financial Market Supervisory Authority (FINMA) provisions on corporate Swiss Re has a dual Board structure: the The Board has delegated certain res­ governance, risk management and internal Board of Directors is responsible for ponsibilities, including the preparation and control systems, which came into effect on oversight, while the Group Executive execution of its resolutions, to five com­ Committee is responsible for managing mittees: the Chairman’s and Governance operations. This structure maintains Committee, the Audit Committee, the effective mutual checks and balances Compensation Committee, the Finance between the top corporate bodies. and Risk Committee, and the Investment Committee. Swiss Re’s dual Board structure maintains Independence of the Board of Audit Committee effective mutual checks Directors All members of the Audit Committee are and balances between non-executive and independent. In addition the top corporate Swiss Re’s Group Bylaws stipulate that the to the independence criteria applicable bodies. Board of Directors consists of at least a to Board members for other committee majority of independent members. To be memberships, members of the Audit considered independent, a director may Committee may not accept any consulting not be employed as an executive officer or advisory fee from the Swiss Re Group, of the Group, or have been employed in and will be required to possess such such a function for the previous three additional attributes as the Board may, years. Moreover, he or she must not have from time to time, specify. Each member of a material relationship with any part of the the Audit Committee has to be financially Group, directly or as a partner, director or literate. For more information see shareholder of an organisation that has a swissre.com/about_us/corporate_ governance/ material relationship with the Group. As of 11 April 2014, eleven of twelve members Swiss Re 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report 61 Ensuring good governance The central task of the Audit Committee is Corporations, which entered into effect on The Code also offers practical guidance to assist the Board of Directors in fulfilling 1 January 2014, stipulates that represen­ and examples for deciding the appropriate its oversight responsibilities as they relate tations by corporate bodies or proxies for course of action and solving ethical dilem­ to the integrity of Swiss Re’s and the deposited shares are no longer permitted. mas. It further sets out how all employees Group’s financial statements, the Swiss Re should react when they observe a possible Group’s compliance with legal and regula­ Corporations may be represented by legal breach of the principles in the Code. All tory requirements, the external auditor’s or authorised representatives or other employees are obligated to uphold both qualifications and independence, and proxies, married persons by their spouses, the letter and spirit of the Code and the the performance of the Swiss Re Group’s minors and wards by their guardians, even Group’s corporate governance principles in internal audit function (GIA) and the though such representatives are not their daily business activities, and to Group’s external auditor. shareholders. respect and obey applicable laws and regulations in all jurisdictions where we do Defence measures business. Shareholders’ participation rights Swiss Re has not put in place any specific measures to defend against potential The Code is regularly reviewed and Shares unfriendly takeover attempts. The Board of updated to reflect changes in regulations All shares issued by Swiss Re Ltd are fully Directors believes that the company’s best and principles. paid-in registered shares, each with a par protection is a fair valuation of its shares, value of CHF 0.10. Each share carries and that the efficiency of a free market is Swiss Re’s commitment to one vote. There are no categories of shares preferable to artificial obstacles, which can sustainability with a higher or limited voting power, have a negative impact on the share price Our commitment to sustainability is fully privileged dividend entitlement or any in the long term. integrated in the Code’s section on busi­ other preferential rights, nor are there any ness ethics. It provides a guiding principle other securities representing a part of the for Swiss Re’s efforts to act as a responsible company’s share capital. The company Group Code of Conduct company. cannot exercise the voting rights of treasury shares. The Group Code of Conduct (Code) is one Bribery and corruption in a series of documents governing The Code’s section on moral behaviour Voting right restrictions, statutory the organisation and management of the contains, among other things, Swiss Re’s group clauses and exception rules company. It sets the framework and position on bribery and corruption. This There are no voting right restrictions and defines the basic legal and ethical compli­ clearly states that “Swiss Re prohibits all no statutory group clauses. Therefore, ance principles and policies we apply forms of bribery and corruption” and that there are no procedures or conditions for globally. “bribing governmental agents, regulators cancelling restrictions and no rules on or other officials is a crime”. making exceptions to them. Accordingly, no such exceptions were made in 2013. The Group Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy was rolled out, and Group-wide Statutory rules on participating in the training delivered in 2012. This training is General Meeting of shareholders Our commitment a mandatory eLearning course and was The share whose owner, usufructuary or to sustainability is completed by 99.8% of all new joiners in nominee is entered in the share register as integrated in the 2013. having voting rights on a specific qualifying business ethics day determined by the Board of Directors section of the Group Employee training on the Group Code entitles its holder to one vote at the General Code of Conduct. of Conduct Meeting of shareholders. All new employees joining Swiss Re must undergo training on the Group Code of Effective from 1 January 2014, Swiss Re’s Conduct. Completion of the training is legal provisions allow any shareholder with tracked and instances of non-completion voting rights to have his or her shares are escalated until resolution. To date, 100% represented at any General Meeting of of new hires in 2013 have completed their shareholders by another person authorised training. in writing to do so or by the Independent Proxy. Such representatives need not In addition, all our employees were be shareholders. The Ordinance Against required to complete a Code of Conduct Excessive Compensation at Public Acknow­ledgement in 2013. By the end of the year, 99.2% had done so. 62 Swiss Re 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report the Swiss Re Foundation The Swiss Re Foundation Swiss Re has a long tradition of contributing responsibly to society and the world we work in. The Swiss Re Foundation makes visible and tangible our social and humanitarian values, working to increase risk preparedness and resilience – with special attention to the poorest and most vulnerable. Working in partnership Effective action is best achieved through Global Programmes Community Programmes partnership. The Swiss Re Foundation’s The Swiss Re Foundation is committed The Swiss Re Foundation’s community partners include respected governmental to reducing vulnerability in at-risk work aims to promote social welfare and non-governmental organisations, communities. Its grants support social, and protect the environment where national and international foundations, humanitarian and environmental causes, Swiss Re has offices. Through its academic institutions as well as Swiss Re such as increasing access to safe water programmes, Swiss Re employees and its employees. Together, we are and sanitation or improving risk around the world can spend time working to promote sustainable ways of resilience among subsistence farmers. volunteering – often in very different living that can empower communities. The Foundation focuses on five grant settings from their day-to-day work. areas: Disaster Risk Reduction, Capacity The Foundation also gives grants to The Swiss Re Foundation pursues its Building, Research & Innovation, Social national charities chosen by employees objectives through three different types Entrepreneurship and Emergency Aid. In working in Swiss Re’s main locations. of programmes. In 2013, the Foundation each area, the Foundation prioritises Employees who devote their free time also launched a special set of projects projects that help communities manage to non-profit volunteer work or to commemorate Swiss Re’s 150 Year risks caused by inequality, climate community projects can also receive Anniversary. change, natural disasters and pressure funding from the Foundation. on water resources. Award Programme The Swiss Re Foundation As populations grow and lifestyles in 2013 – Improving risk change, the pressure on water resources resilience is intensifying. Climate change adds Projects commemorating This report provides a further pressure by disrupting rainfall Swiss Re’s 150 Year Anniversary comprehensive overview of patterns and raising temperatures. Marking Swiss Re’s 150th anniversary, the Swiss Re Foundation’s For millions of people in developing the Swiss Re Foundation teamed up strategic focus and countries, these pressures have with partners, clients and Swiss Re activities in 2013. become so intense that their access to employees throughout the year to launch clean water is threatened, putting their an exceptional set of projects. Mirroring Swiss Re Foundation health, safety and even survival at risk. the anniversary’s motto “open minds Mythenquai 50/60 P.O. Box 8022 Zurich Switzerland www.swissrefoundation.org The Swiss Re Foundation in 2013 Watershed management – work that connecting generations”, these Improving risk resilience enhances and sustains the supply and initiatives demonstrate a shared com­ quality of clean water – helps to reduce mitment to improving the risk resilience this risk through improved forest of communities today – and of future management, irrigation and rain water generations. collection and storage. For more information see swissrefoundation.org/ Swiss Re 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report 63 Corporate responsibility in context: Economics of Climate Adaptation (ECA) Storms, floods, droughts and other Measures to adapt to climate change are An ECA study follows a sequence of three extreme weather events can threaten available, but in order to achieve climatesteps: cities, regions and entire nations. Losses resilient development, decision-makers 1. Assessing the risk from such natural catastrophes are rising. need the facts to identify the most cost2. Addressing the risk There are two drivers behind this trend: effective investments. The questions they 3. Covering residual risk economic growth, which means there are typically ask are: more people and economic assets ̤̤ What is the potential climate-related Step 1: Assessing the risk concentrated in areas particularly exposed damage to our economies and societies In the first step of an ECA study, we esti­ to natural disasters; and climate change, over the coming decades? mate the region’s “total climate risk” as a which is causing changes in the frequency, ̤̤ How much of that damage can we monetary value. This comprises today’s intensity and duration of extreme weather avert, with what measures? risk, the additional risk created by events. ̤̤ What investments will be required to economic development and the additional fund those measures – and will their risk as a result of climate change. To arrive These two drivers are having a cumulative benefits outweigh their costs? at today’s risk, we use the evidence of effect; indeed, it has been estimated that historical events and probabilistic natural if climate change is left unchecked, the catastrophe modelling. Additional risk costs of its impact could amount to 20% of Economics of Climate Adaptation due to economic growth is calculated by global gross domestic product by 2100 making transparent assumptions about (source: Stern Review on the Economics of The Economics of Climate Adaptation future economic and population growth. Climate Change). (ECA) methodology is an attempt to help To calculate additional risk due to climate decision-makers answer these questions change, we derive three scenarios from in a systematic way. It provides a fact base the latest scientific findings: no change, Shaping climate-resilient enabling decision-makers to understand moderate change and extreme change. development the impact of climate change on their eco­no­mies and identify specific actions to In view of this, it is essential to make minimise that impact at the lowest cost to Risk today future development “climate-resilient”, by society. This allows them to integrate + Risk resulting from economic blending economic development with adaptation with economic development development (growth) adaptation to climate change. Doing so not and sustainable growth – resulting in + Risk increase due to climate change only helps to secure development gains climate-resilient development. Total climate risk already made, it also ensures that future growth will be sustainable: Since launching the methodology as a member of the Economics of Climate Adaptation Working Group in 2009, we Step 2: Addressing the risk Economic have so far carried out more than 20 ECA In the study’s second step, we identify a development studies. They have shown that up to 65% basket of possible adaptation measures Climate-resilient of expected losses due to climate change and conduct a cost-benefit analysis to Low-carbon development development can be averted. evaluate which are the most cost-effective to address the expected loss. Adaptation Climatemeasures typically include infrastructure compatible development improvements such as strengthening buildings, technological measures such as Mitigation Adaptation improved use of fertilisers, and behavioural initiatives such as awareness campaigns. All the identified adaptation measures are plotted on an adaptation cost curve to make them comparable. This curve is not Source: Swiss Re meant to prescribe certain measures, however; rather, its goal is to provide a fact base that can support local decisionmaking. 64 Swiss Re 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Corporate responsibility in context: Economics of Climate Adaptation (ECA) Step 3: Covering residual risk Economics of Climate Adaptation study for New York City Our ECA studies conducted so far have shown that cost-effective adaptation In October 2012, the New York City that damage from such a storm would measures are available in all the examined region, including New York State and likely increase more than fourfold, locations. They can help avert between New Jersey, were hit by Hurricane from USD 19 billion to USD 90 billion, 15% and 65% of the total climate risk Sandy. Over several days, one of the and that the average loss per year identified. Yet, there are certain risk events world’s most highly developed urban from windstorms could be expected that are unlikely to occur and that could areas was battered by flood surges to rise from USD 1.7 billion today only be averted at enormous cost. For such of up to four metres high, while scores to USD 4.4 billion by the 2050s if no rare events, risk transfer solutions (ie of trees crashed into buildings and remedial action were taken. insurance) can offer effective additional brought down power lines. protection. They also reinforce efforts to Engaging with various stakeholders and minimise residual risk through risk Hurricane Sandy’s toll was enormous: the New York City Mayor’s Office of prevention measures, because they create over 650 000 homes were destroyed Long-Term Planning and Sustainability, an incentive to keep the associated or damaged; more than eight million we identified a range of possible insurance premiums in check. people lost power during the storm, of adaptation measures, quantifying their which 2.7 million were in New Jersey net economic benefit. Some of the Through these three steps, the Economics and 2.2 million in New York. Three measures under consideration include of Climate Adaptation approach presents nuclear power stations were shut beach nourishment, wetlands a strong case to take early action against down, 19 729 flights cancelled and the restoration, raising bulkheads in lowclimate risks. Adopting comprehensive New York Stock Exchange was closed lying neighbourhoods, retrofitting adaptation strategies to improve climate for two days. And despite all the public housing units and nursing homes, resilience is likely to be much more effective precautions taken, 44 people were and hardening key electric transmission than a reactive approach centring on relief killed in New York City. In total, 160 and distribution infrastructure such as efforts. people died in the US and more than vulnerable overhead lines. 200 along Hurricane Sandy’s path. Source: Ultimately, the city outlined some 250 Economics of Climate Adaptation – The trail of destruction left by the measures that could reduce damage Shaping climate-resilient development hurricane underlined how vulnerable in the future, most of which focus large metropolises are to natural on coastal protection, protecting A global overview of case studies with a focus disasters of this scale. The scientific buildings, hardening city infrastructure, consensus is that in many regions such and making neighbourhoods stronger on infrastructure Economics of Climate Adaptation – Shaping climate-resilient development weather extremes will become more and more vibrant. The plan laid numerous and severe due to climate out the need for investments of about change (see the Special Report USD 20 billion – USD 10 billion of on Extremes published by the Interwhich has received funding governmental Panel on Climate commitment as of spring 2014. Change). It is against this background that we took part in a “Risk Assessment Through this process and through for Hurricane Sandy” using the consultation with hundreds of Economics of Climate Adaptation (ECA) stakeholders and experts, New York metho­dology. Our role was to estimate City’s authorities now have a credible, the potential cost of losses to New York long-term plan to better protect the City from severe weather in the current city’s population against the impact of climate, how they might increase in natural disasters. a future climate scenario and to assess how these costs could be reduced. The plan can be downloaded at www.nyc.gov/html/sirr/html/report/ The assessment reached some report.shtml sobering conclusions: Hurricane Sandy caused USD 19 billion worth of damage to New York City’s five boroughs. And while a storm leading to this kind of loss can currently be expected to occur on average once every 70 years, climate change is expected to make them noticeably more frequent: once every A STRONGER, MORE RESILIENT 50 years by the 2050s under the NEW YORK For more information see climate change scenario used in the swissre.com/rethinking/climate_and_ project. The study further envisaged natural_disaster_risk/ Swiss Re 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report 65 Other Swiss Re publications Our publications provide the gateway to Swiss Re’s broad knowledge base and expertise. They cover a broad range of topics: from technical re/insurance issues and emerging risks to natural perils, economic trends and strategic issues in our industry. This is a selection of our recent publications, in addition to those featured on page 40. Our publications can be downloaded or ordered at www.swissre.com/library/ you A History of Insurance A mature market Building a capital market for longevity risk The future of human longevity: focusing on you Conference report you SR Mature Market brochure v7 11825.indd 1 13/09/2012 11:48 A History of Insurance Swiss Re’s Sustainability A mature market: Building a The future of human Since the time of our founRisk Framework capital market for longevity longevity: focusing on you dation in 1863, the world has This eight-page brochure risk (Conference report) changed a lot. And insurance provides information on A capital market for longevity This stakeholder conference has been an instrumental part Swiss Re’s approach to risk could help address the was the latest in a series about of this change. We all know managing sustainability risks. challenges of funding longer our growing life expectancy that without risk protection, no It describes the context of our lives. Such a market would and its implications for the skyscraper could be built, no Sustainability Risk Framework, form part of an overall solution future. Focusing on consumer products marketed, no goods what issues it strives to adinvolving the cooperation and behaviour, health policy and shipped. dress and how it is managed innovation of the public and translational medicine, it in detail. private sectors to ensure that sought to answer what recent we continue benefiting from developments mean for the our ageing societies. individual. 66 Swiss Re 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Other Swiss Re publications A window into the future: Understanding and predicting longevity Flood – an underestimated risk Inspect, inform, insure Understanding the Drivers of Longevity Risk Dialogue Series Swiss Swiss Re Re Centre Centre Global Global for for Dialogue Dialogue Swiss Re Dots Imagery Title: Dotstitle Category: Categorytitle Swiss Re Centre for Global Dialogue Scriptographer Plugin 10 50 Copyright © 2010 Swiss Re Understanding the Drivers Flood – an underestimated Floods in Switzerland – A window into the future: of Longevity (Risk Dialogue risk: Inspect, inform, insure an underestimated risk Understanding and Series ) Floods affect more people Floods are the most important predicting longevity Over the past 150 years, life worldwide than any other type natural peril in Switzerland. Unprecedented increases in expectancy among the world’s of natural disaster. But the risk And Swiss Re’s new probabillife expectancy experienced population has increased by from flooding is often underistic model makes one thing in recent decades have been more than 30 years. How has estimated. In many countries, clear: it would not take much consistently underestimated, this happened? Why do we flood insurance is not widely for the magnitude of flood causing funding difficulties live longer? Can the current available or affordable. damage to exceed that of the for employers, insurers and trend continue and, if so, to August 2005 flood event. governments. Forwardwhat extent? This publication looking models will play a vital provides a broad overview role in the overall solution. of current research on the mechanisms and drivers of longevity. The hidden risks of climate change: An increase in property damage from Economics of Climate Adaptation (ECA) Shaping climate-resilient development soil subsidence in Europe Closing the financial gap A framework for decision-making New partnerships between the public “We must build a and private sectors to finance disaster risks stronger, more resilient city – and this plan puts us on a path to do just that.” -New York City Mayor, Michael Bloomberg Background Hurricane Sandy was the most costly natural disaster to ever hit New York City. Fortythree New Yorkers lost their lives and many more lost homes or businesses. Economic losses for the city were $19billion but rising sea levels mean a similar storm in the future could cause far greater losses. Climate adaptation is an urgent priority for the custodians of national and local economies, such as finance ministers and mayors. Such decision-makers ask: What is the potential climate-related loss to our economies and societies over the coming decades? How much of that loss can we avert, with what measures? What investment will be Swiss Re Dots Imagery Title: Dotstitle required to fund those measures – and will the benefits of that investment outweigh the Category: Categorytitle costs? The ECA methodology 1 provides decision-makers with a fact base to answer these questions in a systematic way. It enables them to understand the potential impact of climate change on their economies – and identify actions to minimize that impact at the lowest cost to society. It therefore allows decision-makers to integrate adaptation and resilience building measures with economic development and sustainable growth. In essence, we provide a methodology to pro-actively manage total climate risk, which means: ̤ Assess today’s climate risk and how that might change under future economic paths and climate change scenarios, and assess the most cost effective risk reduction measures to minimise future losses. Scriptographer Plugin Where and from what are we at risk? In a first step, for a given location, economic sector and affected population, we identify the most relevant hazards and analyze historic events (e.g., from disaster data sets). What is the magnitude of the expected Using state-of-the-art probabilistic modeling, we estimate the expected economic loss 10 loss? today and any further incremental increase due to economic development paths and climate change. 50 1 The methodology is based on the findings of a study by the Economics of Climate Adaptation Working Group, a partnership between the Global Environmental Facility, McKinsey & Company, Swiss Re, The Rockefeller Foundation, Climate Works Foundation, the European Commission and Standard Chartered Bank. http://media.swissre.com/documents/rethinking_shaping_climate_resilent_development_en.pdf Copyright © 2010 Swiss Re Bild: Getty Images 99047250 The hidden risks of climate Closing the financial gap: Economics of Climate sigma: the series change: An increase in New partnerships between Adaptation (ECA) fact sheets For more than three decades, property damage from soil the public and private secThe Economics of Climate the sigma series has been subsidence in Europe tors to finance disaster risks Adaptation (ECA) methodology a trusted source of market Property damage from This publication features provides decision-makers with information for managers and drought-induced soil subsome of our most innovative a fact base to identify the most specialists in direct insurance sidence has risen dramatically transactions and shows how cost-effective investments to companies worldwide. To across Europe. Climate change governments in different make their communities more ensure a truly global readerwill further magnify the risks. regions have used risk transfer resilient to the impact of climate ship, sigma appears in six products to prepare for the change. These fact sheets languages: English, German, economic consequences of summarise the findings of ECA French, Spanish, Japanese catastrophic events and make studies we have completed. and Chinese. their societies more resilient. Swiss Re 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report 67 Independent assurance report to the management of Swiss Re Ltd, Zurich (“Swiss Re”) ­ We have been engaged to perform d) The consolidated CO2 emissions 2013 The accuracy and completeness of CR assurance procedures to provide limited (Scope 1, 2 and business travelindicators are subject to inherent assurance on the consolidated CO2 related Scope 3 in adherence with the limitations given their nature and methods emissions reporting and Corporate Greenhouse Gas Protocol) of the for determining, calculating and Responsibility (“CR”) topics and sections tables entitled “CO2 emissions per estimating such data. Our assurance disclosed with the 2013 Swiss Re employee (full-time equivalent, FTE), report should therefore be read in Corporate Responsibility Report Swiss Re Group” on page 42 and “CO2 connection with Swiss Re’s internal (“CR Report”). emissions in 2013 calculated under guidelines, definitions and procedures on old and new setup (extended scope)” the reporting of its CR performance. Scope and subject matter on page 43 in the 2013 CR Report Our limited assurance engagement for the period of October 1, 2012 till Responsibility and methodology focused on the following data and September 30, 2013; The Swiss Re management is responsible information disclosed with the CR Report e) The retirement of 55 800 tonnes of for both the preparation and the presen­ of Swiss Re and its consolidated CO2e (CO2 equivalents) described on tation of the selected subject matter in subsidiaries, for the financial year ended page 45 of the 2013 CR Report. accordance with the reporting criteria. December 31, 2013: Our responsibility is to form an indepen­da) The management and reporting Criteria ent conclusion, based on our limited processes with respect to the The management reporting processes assurance procedures, on whether consolidated CR reporting as well with respect to the CR Report were anything has come to our attention to as the control environment in relation assessed against the internal policies and indicate that the subject matter is not to the aggregation of data and procedures as set forth in the following: stated, in all material respects, in information; ̤̤ “Internal Environmental Performance accordance with the reporting criteria. b) The organizational measures and Indicators for the Financial Industry” internal key controls in place at the published by the Verein für We planned and performed our corporate level regarding aggregation Umweltmanagement in Banken, procedures in accordance with the of information obtained from the Sparkassen und Versicherungen e.V. International Standard on Assurance subsidiaries and reporting functions; (VfU) published in 1997; Engagements (ISAE 3000), “Assurance c) The consolidated data and information ̤̤ “The Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A engagements other than audits or disclosed in the sections “Creating Corporate Accounting and Reporting reviews of historical financial information”. solutions for sustainability” on pages Standard (Revised Edition)” published This standard requires that we comply 14 to 21, “Extending our risk intelli­ in 2001 by the World Resources with ethical requirements and plan and gence” on pages 22 to 32, “Exploring Institute and the World Business perform the assurance engagement to and shaping the risk landscape” on Council for Sustainable Development; obtain limited assurance on the identified pages 33 to 39, “Reducing our ̤̤ The framework document environmental data. environmental footprint” on pages “Environmental Performance 41 to 50 and “Being an employer of Indicators Reporting at Swiss Re”, For the subject matter for which we choice” on pages 51 to 60; version 2013; and provide limited assurance, the nature, ̤̤ The defined internal guidelines, by timing and extent of procedures for which CR data and information are gathering sufficient appropriate evidence internally gathered, collated and are deliberately limited relative to a aggregated. reasonable assurance engagement. 68 Swiss Re 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Independent assurance report to the management of Swiss Re Ltd, Zurich (“Swiss Re”) ­ We have complied with the indepen­d̤̤ Reconciliation of CO2 emissions Limited assurance conclusion ence and other ethical requirements of data Based on our work described in this the Code of Ethics for Professional Reconciling the CO2 emissions data report: Accountants issued by the International for energy consumption and business a) Nothing has come to our attention that Ethics Standards Board for Accountants, travel and CR data and information to causes us to believe that the Swiss Re which is founded on fundamental the data used for the internal CR internal CR reporting guidelines are principles of integrity, objectivity, emissions reporting of the selected not applied in all material respects, in professional competence and due care, locations; accordance with the reporting criteria; confidentiality and professional ̤̤ Assessment of the key figures b) Nothing has come to our attention that behaviour. Performing tests on a sample basis of causes us to believe that the internal evidence supporting selected CR data reporting processes to collect and During 2013 we have not performed any and information (Sensitive Business aggregate CR data and information is tasks or services for Swiss Re that would Risks process, management of not functioning as designed and does conflict with our independence, nor have emerging and political risks, not provide an appropriate basis for we been responsible for the preparation responsible investment, HR data and the presentation of CR data and of any part of the environmental data information, diversity and inclusion, information, in all material respects; reporting; and therefore qualify as development & training, compensation & c) Nothing has come to our attention that independent as defined by Code of Ethics benefits, energy consumption, causes us to believe that the CR data and applicable legal and regulatory business travel, other environmental and information disclosed in the 2013 requirements. data, group sourcing, construction CR Report is not stated, in all material management) to assess their respects, in accordance with the Main assurance procedures completeness, accuracy, adequacy reporting criteria; Our assurance procedures included the and consistency; d) Nothing has come to our attention that following work: ̤̤ Review of the documentation causes us to believe that the CO2 ̤̤ Evaluation of the application of Reviewing the relevant documentation emissions data and information Swiss Re CR reporting guidelines on a sample basis, including Swiss Re’s disclosed in the 2013 CR Report is not Assessing whether the methodology CR-related policies, the management stated, in all material respects, in applied by Swiss Re is in line with the of reporting structures, the documen­ accordance with the reporting criteria; reporting criteria; tation and systems used to collect, and ̤̤ Interviews and management analyse and aggregate reported CR e) Nothing has come to our attention that inquiry data and information; causes us to believe that the Evaluating the CR reporting and ̤̤ Assessment of the processes and retirement of 55 800 tonnes of CO2e underlying performance indicators by data consolidation has not been conducted, in all material performing analytical procedures and Reviewing the appropriateness of the aspects, in accordance with the interviewing selected key contacts to management and reporting processes internal requirements. assess whether the internal for CR reporting, and assessing the Environmental Performance Indicators processing and consolidation of data at Reporting guidelines and CR guidance Swiss Re’s Group level; and Zurich, 23 May 2014 were consistently applied by the ̤̤ Review of verified emission selected locations; performing reductions PricewaterhouseCoopers AG enquiries of personnel responsible for Reviewing the retirement of 55 800 internal CR reporting and data tonnes CO2e verified emission collection at the Swiss Re corporate reductions (VER) according to the level to evaluate the reporting and Voluntary Carbon Standard or Gold Marc Schmidli Stephan Hirschi aggregation process and to assess its Standard. appropriateness; We have not carried out any work in respect of projections and targets nor such outside of the agreed scope and therefore restrict our conclusion to the 2013 CR Report of Swiss Re. We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our limited assurance conclusion. Swiss Re 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report 69 Memberships, awards and index listings Listed here is a selection of Swiss Re’s most important memberships, recent awards and index listings with regard to corporate responsibility. ­ Memberships Clinton Global Initiative Öbu (“Ecologically conscious Established in 2005 by President Bill enterprises” network) CDP Clinton, the Clinton Global Initiative (CGI) Öbu is a Swiss think tank for CDP is an international, not-for-profit convenes global leaders to devise and sustainability and management topics. It organisation providing the only global implement innovative solutions to some carries out projects focusing on system for companies and cities to of the world’s most pressing challenges. corporate and economic policy, and measure, disclose, manage and share www.clintonglobalinitiative.org promotes experience-sharing among its vital environmental information. CDP members. works with market forces to motivate ICRC Corporate Support Group www.oebu.ch companies to disclose their impacts on The ICRC Corporate Support Group is an the environment and natural resources innovative and long-term partnership set Principles for Responsible and take action to reduce them. up by the International Committee of the Insurance www.cdp.net Red Cross (ICRC) and a group of selected Developed by the UN Environment Swiss companies. The members of the Programme’s Finance Initiative, the Chief Risk Officer Forum Corporate Support Group have Principles for Sustainable Insurance (PSI) The CRO Forum is a group of professional committed themselves to supporting the are a framework for the global insurance risk managers from the insurance ICRC’s humanitarian work in the years industry to address environmental, social industry that focuses on developing and ahead. and governance risks and opportunities. promoting industry best practices in risk www.icrc.org Currently, a Swiss Re representative has management. The Forum consists of the co-chair of the UN PSI Board. Chief Risk Officers from large multiInternational Risk Governance www.unepfi.org/psi national insurance companies. Council www.thecroforum.org IRGC is an independent organisation The Climate Group whose purpose is to help the The Climate Group is an independent, ClimateWise understanding and management of not-for-profit organisation working ClimateWise is the collaborative global risks that impact on human internationally with government and insurance initiative through which health and safety, the environment, business leaders to advance smart members aim to work together to the economy and society at large. policies and technologies to cut global respond to the myriad risks and www.irgc.org emissions and accelerate a clean opportunities of climate change. industrial revolution. A former member of Swiss Res Klimastiftung Schweiz www.theclimategroup.org Board of Directors currently acts (Swiss Climate Foundation) as Chairman of ClimateWise. The Swiss Climate Foundation is a nonwww.climatewise.org.uk profit foundation that directly champions the cause of climate protection in Switzerland, helping to fund small and medium enterprises that are proactive in their approach to reducing CO2 emissions. Swiss Re is one of the foundation’s members and is sponsoring its managing director. www.swiss-climate-foundation.ch 70 Swiss Re 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Memberships, awards and index listings ­ The Geneva Association Recent awards Selected index The Geneva Association is a leading inter­national insurance think tank for Ethisphere World’s Most Ethical listings and ratings strategically important insurance and Companies in 2013 Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes, risk management issues. It identifies For the fifth consecutive year, Swiss Re Gold Class 2014 fundamental trends and strategic issues has been recognised as one of the where insurance plays a substantial role world’s most ethical companies by or which influence the insurance sector. Ethisphere, a leading international think www.genevaassociation.org tank. UNEP Finance Initiative Global 100 Most Sustainable Ethibel Pioneer & Excellence UNEP FI is a global partnership between Companies 2013 Investment Register UNEP and the financial sector. Over Swiss Re was once again included in this 190 institutions, including banks, insurers data-driven corporate sustainability and fund managers, work with UNEP to assessment by Corporate Knights. understand the impacts of environmental and social considerations on financial European Diversity Awards 2013 performance. Jean-Jacques Henchoz, Swiss Re’s CEO www.unepfi.org Reinsurance EMEA, won the 2013 FTSE4Good Index Series European Diversity Award in the World Economic Forum Risk “Inspirational role model of the year” Response Network category. The World Economic Forum’s Risk Response Network (RRN) aims to AIIA General Reinsurer of the Year address the new world of risk we live in. 2013 Uniquely placed to catalyse a response Swiss Re won this Asia Insurance oekom research, to this new landscape, the World Industry Award (AIIA) for enhancing Nat Prime investment status Economic Forum’s RRN provides a Cat tools and partnering with platform to better under­stand, manage governments for pre-disaster financing, and respond to complex, interdependent amongst other things. risk. www.weforum.org ILS Advisor of the Year 2012 Our ILS team won Reactions Magazine’s “ILS Advisor of the Year ” award for a second consecutive year, due to a number of innovative deals and the high volume of issuances closed in 2012. Swiss Re 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report 71 swiss re at a glance | how we operate The Principles for Sustainable Insurance (PSI): OUR Public disclosure of progress Developed by the UN Environment Swiss Re and the PSI We support the PSI’s call for transparency Programme’s Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) We are keen to support the spread of and disclose our progress on implementing in collaboration with leading re/insurance sustainable business practices in the its principles below. companies, the Principles for Sustainable re/insurance industry. Not only are we one Insurance (PSI) provide a framework of the original signatories to the Principles for the global insurance industry to address of Sustainable Insurance, we have played environmental, social and governance an active role in their development and risks and opportunities. have provided its co-chair since 2012. Principle 1 Principle 2 Principle 3 We will embed in our decision-making We will work together with our clients We will work together with environmental, social and governance and business partners to raise governments, regulators and other key issues relevant to our insurance awareness of environmental, social and stakeholders to promote widespread business. governance issues, manage risk and action across society on environmental, develop solutions. social and governance issues. As expressed in our Commitment to Corporate Responsibility, we seek As expressed in our Commitment As expressed in our Commitment to embed environmental, social to Corporate Responsibility, we to Corporate Responsibility, we and governance issues in both our engage in regular dialogue with our engage in regular dialogue with all business solutions and risk clients and other stakeholders, our stakeholders (see page 9). management (see page 9). and apply ESG guidelines in our sourcing activities (see page 9). ⇒ We plan to achieve this by: We plan to achieve this by: sharing and advancing our risk a) developing innovative risk We plan to achieve this by: expertise with a special focus on transfer solutions (eg index a) interacting with clients and taking five Top Topics, supported by our insurance products and cat bonds) an active role in industry initiatives own dialogue platform, the Centre and by working closely with to advance sustainable business for Global Dialogue. partners both in the private and practices; public sectors; b) sharing and advancing our risk Key actions taken in 2013: b) using tailor-made tools in our expertise with a special focus on See stakeholder dialogue risk management to address five Top Topics, supported by our achievements on pages 33–40. sustainability risks; own dialogue platform, the Centre c) integrating ESG criteria in our for Global Dialogue; Principle 4 asset management. c) applying overarching guidelines We will demonstrate accountability and and specific “minimum standards” transparency in regularly disclosing Key actions taken in 2013: in our sourcing activities. publicly our progress in implementing a) for business solutions, the Principles. see achievements described Key actions taken in 2013: on pages 14–21; a) for client and industry Starting in 2012, we have been b) for risk management, cooperation, see achievements disclosing our progress in see achievements described described on pages 25–26; implementing the Principles on an on pages 22–29; b) for general risk dialogue, see annual basis, as an integrated part c) for asset management, achievements described on of our Corporate Responsibility see achievements described pages 33–40; Report. on pages 30–32. c) for sourcing guidelines, see achievements described For more information see on pages 47–48. www.unepfi.org/psi/ 72 Swiss Re 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report GRI content index GRI content index with UN Global Compact Communication on Progress references This content index refers to the Global We have self-declared our reporting Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3.1 Guidelines to be Application Level B. for Sustainability Reporting. The guidelines form a voluntary framework setting out References to the UN Global Compact principles and indicators that companies principles addressed as part of our can use to measure and report their Communication on Progress (COP) are economic, environmental and social incorporated into the GRI content index, performance. in line with UN recommendations. UN Global Compact principle Page Profile Strategy and analysis 1.1 Chairman’s and CEO’s statement Statement of continuing support 2–3 1.2 Key impacts, risks and opportunities  10, 14, 24, 33–36 Organisational profile 2.1 Name of the organisation  4 2.2 Brands, products and services  4–6 2.3 Operational structure  6–7, FR 10–11 2.4 Headquarter location  4 2.5 Countries of operation  4–5, FR 218 2.6 Nature of ownership  4, FR 66–71 2.7 Markets served  4–5, FR 209–218 2.8 Scale of the organisation  7, 51, FR 22–37 2.9 Significant organisational changes  4, BR 2 2.10 Awards received  71 Report parameters 3.1 Reporting period  11 3.2 Most recent previous report  11 3.3 Reporting cycle  11 3.4 Contact point  76 3.5 Content definition  11 3.6 Boundary of the report  11 3.7 Limitations on the report’s scope  11 3.8 Reporting on other entities  11 3.9 Data measurement techniques  42–43, 53, 68–69 3.12 GRI content index  73–75 3.13 External assurance 68–69 BR = 2013 Business Report; FR = 2013 Financial Report Swiss Re 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report 73 GRI content index UN Global Compact principle Page Governance, commitments and engagement 4.1 Governance structure  61–62, FR 64, 72–85 4.2 Independence of chairman  61 4.3 Independence of board members 61, FR 72–80 4.4 Shareholder and employee representation 62, FR 92–93 4.5 Executive compensation  FR 105–127 4.6 Conflicts of interests  61–62, FR 64, 72–80 4.8 Mission statements and Code of Conduct  9, 62 4.9 Governance procedures on CR 11 4.11 Precautionary approach principle 7 8–10, 22–32 4.12 Externally developed charters and principles  2, 26, 30, 72 4.13 Memberships  70–71 4.14 List of stakeholder groups  9, 33 4.15 Stakeholder identification  33 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement  9, 25–26, 29, 33 Management approach and performance indicators Product and service impact Disclosure on management approach: We provide comprehensive disclosure on our management approach to product and service impact in the two chapters “Creating solutions for sustainability” and “Extending our risk intelligence”. FS1 Environmental and social policies in business lines 1, 2, 7–9 9, 14, 22 FS2 Screening of environmental and social risks 1, 2 and 8 22–25, 30 FS4 Environmental and social training for staff 1, 2 and 8 25 FS5 Interactions with clients/investees/business partners 1 and 2 14, 25–26 FS7 Products with specific social benefit  14–21, 64–65 FS8 Products with specific environmental benefit 7 and 8 14–21 FS11 Environmental and social screening in asset management  30–32 Economic dimension Disclosure on management approach: Our management approach to the economic dimension is primarily disclosed in the 2013 Financial Report. Specific aspects (“implications of climate change” and “indirect economic impacts”) are disclosed in this report in the “Who we are and what we do”, “Creating solutions for sustainability” and “Exploring and shaping the risk landscape” chapters. EC1 Direct economic value generated  7, FR 130–136 EC2 Implications of climate change 7 14–21, 33–35, 64–65 EC3 Benefit plan obligations  FR 194–201 EC9 Indirect economic impacts  6, 14–21 Environmental dimension Disclosure on management approach: We provide comprehensive disclosure on our management approach to the environmental dimension in the chapter “Reducing our environmental footprint”. EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 8 47 EN2 Recycled materials used 8 and 9 47 EN4 Indirect energy consumption 8 42–44 EN5 Energy conservation and efficiency 8 and 9 44 EN6 Initiatives to use renewable energy 8 and 9 44 EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption 8 and 9 44, 48 EN8 Total water withdrawal 8 47 EN16 Greenhouse gas emissions 8 42–43 FR = 2013 Financial Report 74 Swiss Re 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report GRI content index UN Global Compact principle Page EN17 Indirect greenhouse gas emissions 8 42–43 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions 7, 8 and 9 41–45, 48 EN22 Total weight of waste 8 47 EN29 Environmental impact of transport 8 42–45 Labour practices and decent work Disclosure on management approach: Our management approach to labour practices and decent work is disclosed in the chapter “Being an employer of choice”. LA1 Breakdown of workforce  51–53 LA2 Employee turnover 6 51 LA4 Freedom of association and collective bargaining 3 47, 59 LA7 Number of lost days  58 LA8 Training on serious diseases 1 57–58 LA12 Performance review  60 LA13 Workforce diversity 1 and 6 51–53 Human rights Disclosure on management approach: We address human rights aspects relevant to our business through our Sustainability Risk Framework and our sourcing guidelines. The corresponding management approaches are disclosed in the chapters “Extending our risk intelligence” and “Reducing our environmental footprint”, respectively. HR2 Supplier screening on human rights 1–6 47–48 HR6 Child labour 1, 2 and 5 22–25, 47–48 HR7 Forced or compulsory labour 1, 2 and 4 22–25, 47–48 Society Disclosure on management approach: We address society aspects relevant to our business through our business solutions, Group Code of Conduct and stakeholder dialogue. The corresponding management approaches are disclosed in the chapters “Creating solutions for sustainability”, “Ensuring good governance” and “Exploring and shaping the risk landscape”, respectively. FS14 Access to financial services for disadvantaged people  14, 17–21 SO3 Anti-corruption training 10 62 SO5 Public policy positions  33 Product responsibility We consider the definition of product responsibility in the GRI guidelines to be of little relevance for a company providing business-to-business services in the financial industry, and hence provide no information in this area. Swiss Re 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report 75 Contact details Contact address Sustainability & Political Risk Management David Bresch Telephone +41 43 285 6361 Fax +41 43 282 6361 David_Bresch@swissre.com 76 Swiss Re 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report © 2014 Swiss Re. All rights reserved. Title: 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Enabling sustainable progress Production: Sustainability & Political Risk Management Group Communications Graphic design and production: Swiss Re Corporate Real Estate & Logistics/ Media Production, Zurich Writing and editing: Printing: Stefan Moser/Swiss Re Multicolor Print AG, Baar Additional editing: Orla Harte/Swiss Re Photographs: Brad Rickerby, Getty Images (Cover) Geri Krischker (page 3) Swiss Re (page 6) Swiss Re (page 15) Mathias Braschler & Monika Fischer/Swiss Re (pages 18–20) This report is printed on sustainably produced paper. Dan Guravich, Keystone (page 23) The wood used comes from forests certified to Rinspeed (page 28) 100% by the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC). Getty Images/Swiss Re (page 35) Swiss Re (page 36) Visit www.swissre.com to Fredi Lienhardt/Swiss Re (page 38) download or to order additional South Pole Carbon (page 46) copies of Swiss Re publications. Stephan Birrer/Swiss Re (page 49) Swiss Re (pages 54–55) Order no: 1490937_14_EN Swiss Re (page 58) 05/14, 4000 en Swiss Reinsurance Company Ltd Mythenquai 50/60 P.O. Box 8022 Zurich Switzerland Telephone +41 43 285 2121 Fax +41 43 285 2999 www.swissre.com
