IKEA Group Sustainability Report FY13 0 2 contents Contents PAGE 13 Find out how we’re making products that enable people 0 3 In t roduc t ion to live a more sustainable life at home. 0 4. A b o u t t he IK E A g ro up 06. A message from Pe ter 0 7. A m e s s a g e f r o m S t e v e 08. The ye ar in br ief 0 9. O u r P e o p l e & P l a n e t p o s i t i v e s t r at e g y 1 1 a m o r e s u s tai n a b l e l i f e at h o m e 1 3 . S o l u t i o n s f o r a m o r e s u s tai n a b l e l i f e at h o m e 17. e n g a g i n g c u s t o m e r s PA GE 6 0 2 0 R esourc e and energ y independenc e Learn about our high standards for IKEA suppliers and our supplier 22. R esponsible sourcing 40 code of conduct, IWAY. 3 2 . M o r e s u s tai n a b l e p r o d u c t s 3 6 . M o r e s u s tai n a b l e b u i l d i n g s a n d t r a n s p o r t 4 6 . E n e r g y a n d w at e r i n o u r s u p p ly c h ai n PA GE 81 Get all the details on our perforSee our plan to produce as much 5 2 a be t ter l ife for people and communi t ies mance towards our goals set out in renewable energy as all the 5 4 . A g r e at p l a c e t o w o r k the People & Planet Positive stratenergy we consume by 2020. egy. 5 8 . H u m a n r i g h t s at I K E A 60. T he bes t pl ac e to wor k — suppl ier s 70. s t rong communi t ies 7 3 Gover nanc e and e t hic s PA GE 7 0 74 . h o w w e w o r k Discover how IKEA Foundation 7 5 . s u s tai n a b i l i t y g o v e r n a n c e a n d m a n a g e m e n t works with global charitable part78. business e t hics ners to create substantial and lasting change for millions of children 7 9. p u b l i c p o l i c y and their families. 80. ab ou t our r ep ort ing 8 1 P e r f o r m a n c e t OWA RDS ta r g e t s Content s > Introduc tion > A more sustainable life at home > Resource and energy independence > A bet ter life for people and communities > Governance and ethics > Per formance towards targets 0 3 Introduction At IKEA, sustainability is a part of our roots. Our company comes from the farmlands of Sweden where thin soil and harsh conditions meant people had to be innovative and strong-willed to make the most of limited resources. We’ve grown a lot since our humble beginning in 1943, but our values haven’t changed. In this report you’ll read about how we’re building on many years of working with social and environmental issues to ensure we have a positive impact on people and the planet. Content s > Introduc tion > A more sustainable life at home > Resource and energy independence > A bet ter life for people and communities > Governance and ethics > Per formance towards targets 0 4 I NTRODUCT I ON About the IKEA Group 135,000 Co-workers per region Europe: 95,000 Total co -w Retail: 101, orkers2 North America: 18,000 500 Asia and Australia: 11,000 Purchasing, Russia: 11,000 distribution, sale, range wholeThe IKEA Group has and other: 15 2 New way of calculating co-workers Industry gr ,100 The IKEA Group has adopted a new way operations in 43 countries oup: 18,400 of calculating the number of co-workers. Previously published numbers for FY12 €27.9 We have a total of 303 stores FY03 FY12 and FY13 contained temporary and FY13 in 26 countries1; 28 Trading Service Offices in billion 76,000 139,000 135,000 seasonal positions. Total sales 24 countries; Total sales F Y13 Total IK EA Gr oup co-w of all managers or kers are women. 32 Distribution Centres and increased by €27.9 billion 3.1% to 11 Customer Distribution (+3.6% adju currency im sted for Centres in 16 countries; pact). 44 IKEA Industry production FY03 units in 11 countries. FY12 FY13 11.4 27.0 27.9 Billions of Eu ros 684 million Store visits In FY13, the IKE A Group stores had 684 million visit s. FY03 FY12 FY13 309 690 684 ns IKEA Group store visits in millio 303 More than 2/3 of our cotton is from more sustainable sources, including Better Cotton. IKEA Group stores 9,500 products In FY13, the IKEA Group opened 5 new stores in 4 countries. As The IKEA range consists of of August 31, 2013, the IKEA approximately 9,500 products. FSC certified wood Group had a total of 303 stores Every year we launch about 32% of our wood is from more in 26 countries1. sustainable sources (Forest 2,000 new products. We have Stewardship Council certified 12 in-house designers and and recycled). FY03 FY12 FY13 60-70 external designers via 165 298 303 contracts. million Number of IKEA Group stores LED products In FY13 we sold 22.4 million LED products. 2 At the end of FY13, there was a total of 345 IKEA stores in 42 countries operated under franchise agreements with Inter IKEA Systems B.V. Of these, 42 stores were operated by franchisees outside the IKEA Group. Content s > Introduc tion > A more sustainable life at home > Resource and energy independence > A bet ter life for people and communities > Governance and ethics > Per formance towards targets 0 5 I NTRODUCT I ON IKEA Industry IKEA Industr y manufactures wood-based furniture and boards. It’s a part of the IKEA Group and its role is to develop and manage production capaci1,046 ties. In total, IKEA Industr y Suppliers* has 18,400 co-workers in 44 In FY13, the IKEA production units located at 36 Group had 1,046 home sites in 11 countries. furnishing suppliers in €1.4 billion 52 countries. IKEA Food turnover IKEA Food is comprised of the IKEA Restaurant, IKEA Bistro, IKEA Swedish Food Market and the IKEA co-worker restaurant. 1.3 billion Visits to IKEA .com IKE A.com had 1.3 billion visits during FY13, up 23.1% (from 1.1 billion in FY12). FY03 FY12 FY13 0.76 1.1 1.3 IKEA .com visit s in billio ns €101 million IKEA Foundation 212 million The IKEA Foundation donated Printed catalogues €101 million in 2013 and over Wind turbines 212 million copies of the IKEA cata100 million children will benefit In our efforts to become resource logue were printed in 29 languages from current IKEA Foundationand energy independent we have and 62 editions. Of the paper used funded programmes by FY15. committed to own and operate in the IKEA catalogue, 68% was 137 wind turbines (and in FY13 Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) Solar panels we had 96 in operation). certified. The IKEA catalogue app 550,000 solar panels are now was downloaded 9.7 million times. installed on IKEA buildings worldwide. *Includes IKEA Industry production which accounts for 12% of the total purchase value. Content s > Introduc tion > A more sustainable life at home > Resource and energy independence > A bet ter life for people and communities > Governance and ethics > Per formance towards targets 0 6 I NTRODUCT I ON A message from Peter Committed to sustainable business How does the world tackle the expected shortages tainability, and affordability. We, and society, will of resources and the impacts of climate change never succeed if sustainability becomes a luxury while providing people with a good quality of life? only affordable to the few. These are among the biggest challenges of this We’ve decided to become resource and energy century. independent and during last year we substanEveryone, including IKEA, has a part to play tially increased our investments in wind and solar in finding solutions. With our vision of creating “a energy. We also moved a step closer to our 2015 better everyday life for the many people” I know goal for all main home furnishing materials to there is no other way of doing business than in a be made from renewable, recyclable or recycled sustainable way. materials. We have a long-term approach and strategy We want to contribute to a better life for that guides us into the future as well as to action people and communities. So, we continue to here and now. It’s about asking ourselves, what strengthen the work we’re doing with IWAY, our we can do with this product right now to make supplier code of conduct. We’re not perfect and it more sustainable. It’s about many small steps our systems need constant improvement, but it is that combine to make a big difference. absolutely clear IWAY has made a very big differThat’s why I am committed to our People & ence. Through the IKEA Foundation, we focus on Planet Positive strategy. It fits perfectly with our helping to create a better life for children in many vision and I am convinced it’s good for our cusparts of the world and by 2015 over 100 million tomers, our suppliers, the planet and IKEA. children will benefit from current IKEA FoundaCompanies like ours can play an important role tion-funded programmes. as we move towards a more sustainable society. A better everyday life for the many people Just imagine, with 684 million visitors to our is what all IKEA co-workers work for every day. stores every year, what a fantastic opportunity we The IKEA values are our common base and the have to provide solutions for life at home that are engagement and enthusiasm I’ve seen when regood for the environment and save money too. cently visiting colleagues in China, Russia, Poland, And, the unique way we work across the value Austria and other countries is a great inspiration! chain — designing, manufacturing, transporting We have a long way to go and many challenges and selling large volumes — means we can have a we face are much bigger than IKEA, which is why positive influence at every stage, often all the way we partner with governments, NGOs and supplifrom raw materials to final product. ers. In some areas we’ll take a lead, but it will The task is big, but the challenges we face are never be a one-company show. energising, as they relate to our vision and strong We have to work together for a better planet commitment to develop products that fit with our for generations to come. idea of democratic design. By this we mean everything we sell must meet five conditions: good Peter Agnefjäll design, functionality, the right quality, built-in susPresident and CEO, IKEA Group Content s > Introduc tion > A more sustainable life at home > Resource and energy independence > A bet ter life for people and communities > Governance and ethics > Per formance towards targets 0 7 I NTRODUCT I ON A message from Steve Making progress towards our goals Everyone has such an important role to need to work side by side with independplay when it comes to making sustainability ent experts, like WWF, who understand the happen at IKEA. Purchasers support suppliissues on the ground and who challenge us ers to improve energy efficiency, logistics to do better. co-workers recycle in the early morning and The popularity of our LED LEDARE light sales co-workers show customers how our bulbs has proved beyond doubt that moreproducts can save them money and help sustainable products will always be attracthem live more sustainably — these are tive when our customers can see the obvijust a few examples. The commitment and ous savings they can make from day one. enthusiasm I see every day is an inspiration. Every time a person buys a LEDARE bulb, We have so much work to do if we are to they save around €7 on their annual elecmeet the goals in our People & Planet strattricity bill, and the 12.3 million LEDARE we egy, but I know when you have good people sold during FY13 added up to an annual savdoing good things for good reasons, many ings of €86 million for our customers. That’s things become possible. why we continually work to bring down costs We made some great progress in FY13, so more people can afford products that including more than doubling the amount help them to live a more sustainable life at of cotton we buy from more sustainable home. sources to over 70% of the total and selling My favourite product at the moment is 22.4 million LED products. We passed the the solar energy service we have started in 500,000 milestone for the number of solar the UK, together with the energy company panels installed on our buildings and have Hanergy. Customers in the UK can now buy now committed to owning and operating solar panels, including installation, for less 137 wind turbines around the world. All our than the market price and it can save them home furnishing, components, goods transup to half their yearly electricity bill. It just port and global food suppliers maintained makes such perfect sense, for the wallet and approval under our supplier code of conduct the planet. (IWAY) or were being phased if they were I look forward to reporting back on our not able to show a commitment to improve. progress again next year. We realise we can’t find solutions to the complexity of sustainability by ourselves, Steve Howard especially in agriculture and forestry. We Chief Sustainability Officer, IKEA Group don’t want to be the judge and jury on how to manage natural systems. That’s why we Content s > Introduc tion > A more sustainable life at home > Resource and energy independence > A bet ter life for people and communities > Governance and ethics > Per formance towards targets 0 8 I NTRODUCT I ON Renewable energy The year We produced 366 GWh of electricFSC certified wood ity from our wind turbines and solar panels in FY13. That’s enough to We’re one of the world’s largest power around 110,000 homes. in brief buyers of FSC certified wood in the retail sector. In FY13 we sourced 100% IWAY approved almost 1/3 (4.5 million m3) of all of All home furnishing, components, the wood we used from more susgoods transport and global food suptainable sources (FSC or recycled). pliers are IWAY (our supplier code All suppliers must meet our IWAY of conduct) approved or were being Forestry Standard (see p. 26). phased out as suppliers. €40million We’ve saved €40 million through ener12.3 million That’s how many LED LEDARE bulbs we sold. Each one saves €7 of elecgy efficiency efforts in our stores and tricity costs per year, compared with warehouses since FY10. incandescent. Which means with the bulbs we sold in FY13 our customers are saving a total of €86 million annually. Better cotton More than 2/3 of our cotton came from more sustainable sources. We invested €1.35 million in projects to 68% of the paper in the help 110,000 cotton farmers improve 2014 IKEA catalogue their incomes and produce cotton usis FSC certified. ing less water and chemicals. That’s nearly triple the amount of FSC-certified paper used in the previous catalogue (23%). 550,000 Almost 1/2 of Supporting the rights of solar panels our managers children There are 550,000 solar panels are women The IKEA Foundation donated €101 installed on IKEA buildings worldThat’s significantly higher than million in 2013 to projects that crewide. That’s enough to cover about the global workforce average of ate substantial and lasting change 130 football pitches and to provide a little more than 1/3.* for millions of children in some of the the annual electricity needs of * Source: Grant Thornton, Women in world’s poorest communities. 20,300 homes. senior management: setting the stage for growth, 2013. Content s > Introduc tion > A more sustainable life at home > Resource and energy independence > A bet ter life for people and communities > Governance and ethics > Per formance towards targets 0 9 I NTRODUCT I ON People & Planet Positive contains many that will enable us to meet our objectives. Our People & Planet targets and performance indicators which we report on here. We’ve also defined key Our strong values and belief in innovation, togetherness and enthusiasm will ensure Positive strategy performance indicators, which you can we can continue to meet future customer find on p. 10. needs and address the higher price of raw We’re on a journey. Sustainability is one materials and energy, while driving down of the four corners of our long-term straemissions and maintaining our low prices. tegic direction, Growing IKEA Together, Read the full strategy: People & Planet Positive IKEA Group Sustainability Strategy 2020 We believe, through our People & PlanStrive for resource and energy indeet Positive strategy launched in FY12, we pendence. Securing long-term access to can build on our many years of working sustainable raw materials, promoting rewith environmental and social issues and cycling and using resources within the limplay our part in meeting the world’s bigits of the planet, producing more renewgest challenges, while growing our busiable energy than we consume and driving ness. energy efficiency throughout our value chain. Our strategy focuses on three areas: Inspire and enable millions of cusTake a lead in creating a better life for tomers to live a more sustainable life the people and communities impactat home. Taking the lead in developing ed by our business. Extending our code and promoting products and solutions that of conduct throughout our value chain, behelp customers save or generate energy, ing a good neighbour, acting in the best reduce or sort waste, use less or recycle interest of children and supporting human water — all at the lowest possible price. rights. Content s > Introduc tion > A more sustainable life at home > Resource and energy independence > A bet ter life for people and communities > Governance and ethics > Per formance towards targets 1 0 I NTRODUCT I ON People & Planet Positive Key Performance Indicators GOAL FY12 FY13 Ensure sustainability is part of our everyday work Share of IKEA co-workers who agree with the statement: “Within my department sustainability is a 95% by FY15 70% 70% natural part of the everyday work” A more sustainable life at home Sales value of products classified as “more sustainable life at home” products €2.6 bn by FY20 N/A1 €641 m Resource and energy independence Wood used in IKEA products coming from more sustainable sources2 50% by FY173 22.6% 32.4% Share of cotton used in IKEA products from more sustainable sources 4 100% by FY15 34% 72% Renewable energy produced as share of total energy consumption 100% by FY20 34% 37% Home furnishing materials, including packaging, made from renewable, recyclable (in at least one 100% by FY15 91% 98% IKEA market) or recycled materials Share of waste from stores and other IKEA operations sorted for recycling 90% by FY15 86% 87% Share of the total sales value coming from home furnishing products classified as “more sustainable” 90% by FY205 35% 39% (using our product scorecard) Reduction of carbon emissions from our own operations (compared with FY10 baseline and relative to 50% by FY15 21.3% 19.3% sales) Reduction of carbon emissions from our suppliers (compared with 2011 baseline, relative measure) 20% by FY15 N/A6 -0.1% A better life for people and communities Share of co-workers that view IKEA as a company that takes social and environmental responsibility 95% by FY15 83% 82%7 Share of suppliers that view IKEA as a company that takes social and environmental responsibility 95% by FY15 87% 89% Share of customers that view IKEA as a company that takes social and environmental responsibility 70% by FY15 42% 41% Share of home furnishing suppliers that are IWAY approved, or being phased out 8 100% by FY12 and 96% 99%9 maintained thereafter Share of suppliers (within the IWAY scope) that are IWAY approved 100% by FY15 N/A10 68% Share of tier 1 home furnishing sub-suppliers identified as providing critical materials and processes 100% by FY14 N/A11 20% and compliant with IWAY Musts 1 Baseline set in FY13. 2 More sustainable sources for wood are: Forest Stewardship Council certified or recycled. 3 Equivalent to 10 million m3 of wood. 4 More sustainable sources for cotton are: Better Cotton, cotton grown to other sustainability standards in the USA and cotton from farmers working towards the Better Cotton Initiative standards. 5 Revised from 90% by FY15. 6 Baseline set in FY12. 7 Data based on 82,488 participants of our VOICE survey. Not directly comparable with FY12 as different parts of IKEA participate in VOICE each year. 8 Excludes new suppliers that have up to 12 months to be approved. Includes suppliers where a noncompliance has been identified and are within the 90-day period allowed to correct the noncompliance. 9 In China we are working with suppliers to reduce working hours to a weekly average of 49 hours in each month. As an interim step, suppliers can become IWAY approved if working hours do not exceed 60 hours a week including overtime. 10 Scope for this indicator not defined in FY12. 11 Identification of critical sub suppliers not complete in FY12. Content s > Introduc tion > A more sustainable life at home > Resource and energy independence > A bet ter life for people and communities > Governance and ethics > Per formance towards targets 1 1 A more sustainable life at home Our products for a sustainable life at home are just like any others from IKEA — stylish, functional and affordable. But they’re designed with the added goal of inspiring and enabling our customers to live more sustainably: to recycle more easily, to use less energy and water and to reduce waste. With more than 680 million visitors to IKEA Group stores worldwide and one billion visitors to IKEA.com, even small changes our customers make will add up to a big impact. By the end of FY20, our goal is to have achieved more than a fourfold increase in sales from products and solutions for a more sustainable life at home, compared with our baseline of around €641 million in FY13. Content s > Introduc tion > A more sustainable life at home > Resource and energy independence > A bet ter life for people and communities > Governance and ethics > Per formance towards targets 1 2 a m o r e s u s tai n a b l e l i f e at h o m e SAVing WATER SAVES HALF THE WATER2 saving energY ENASTÅENDE dishwasher saves 41% INDUCTION HOBS USE 9/10 the 1 40% 3 water reduction in energy less ENERGY THAN CERAMIC HOBS 700 million EACH LED BULB SAVES €160 4 people visit our stores every year, COMPARED TO finding products and ideas that inspire INCANDESCENT a more sustainable life at home. BULBS Many small changes add up to make a big difference for the planet and to people’s wallets. REDUCING WASTE €500 worth of food IS thrown away by each houseHOLD EVERY year5 Space saving solutions Food storage containers help cut food waste, make recycling easy. saving money on food bills. 1 Our ENASTÅENDE dishwasher uses 10 litres of water compared to 120 litres needed to wash-up using a running tap without an aerator. 2All our taps use an aerator that reduces water flow by up to 50% (compared with the EU standard) while maintaining water pressure. 3All our energy consuming products are, on average, 41% more efficient than our range was in 2008. 4Over the life of a bulb at average EU electricity costs. 5Based on UK and Netherlands data (WRAP/Zero Waste Europe). Content s > Introduc tion > A more sustainable life at home > Resource and energy independence > A bet ter life for people and communities > Governance and ethics > Per formance towards targets 1 3 a m o r e s u s tai n a b l e l i f e at h o m e PEOPLE & PL A NET PERFORM A NCE i n FY1 3 POS I T I VE TA RGETS Solutions for a more By FY20, achieve more than a fourfold Established baseline data to enable us to sustainable life at home increase in sales, compared with FY13, from products and solutions that inspire track progress against our target. This showed that in FY13, sales from products and enable customers to live a more for a more sustainable life at home were sustainable life at home. €641 million. Allocated €20 million for development of additional products for a more sustainable life at home. By FY15, our energy-consuming products Energy-consuming products are on will be, on average, at least 50% more average 41% more efficient than our efficient than our range was in 2008. range in 2008. By FY16, our entire lighting range will In FY13, 51% of all lighting products sold switch to LED and be offered at the were LED or were compatible with LED lowest prices. bulbs (e.g. lamps which customers can use with an LED bulb). Sold 22.4 million LED products including 12.3 million LED bulbs. The LED bulbs alone saved each customer €7 of electricity costs per bulb per year compared with incandescent. Customers will save a combined total of €86 million per year with the LED bulbs sold.* * Assumes three hours usage each day. Electricity price source: European Residential Energy Price Report, 2012, Vaasa ETT Global Energy Think Tank. By FY16, all our electric hobs will be 43% of the electric hobs in our range are energy efficient induction hobs, where now induction hobs. technically feasible. By FY17, offer the most energy efficient All of our fridges, ovens, dishwashers home appliances at the lowest price. and washing machines are A to A++ and we’re working to offer A+++ in all relevant appliance categories by FY17. Our range of products and solutions for a Products that enable customers to live by FY20. and water-efficient showers. In FY13 we more sustainable life at home enable cusa more sustainable life at home are idenWe research what our customers need allocated €20 million for development of tomers to: tified in our sales tracking system so we to live a more sustainable life at home and additional products for a more sustainable • Use energy more efficiently can monitor sales and improve customer explore how their needs may change over life at home. • Produce renewable energy information. The sales value from these the next five years. This is helping us iden• Reduce waste products was €641 million in FY13. We tify opportunities for new products outside • Recycle more will track progress against this baseline our traditional ranges, such as insulation • Save, reuse or purify water towards our target of a fourfold increase for windows, solar panels for the home Content s > Introduc tion > A more sustainable life at home > Resource and energy independence > A bet ter life for people and communities > Governance and ethics > Per formance towards targets 1 4 a m o r e s u s tai n a b l e l i f e at h o m e Energy ford energy-efficient products, such as LEOur energy-consuming products include DARE LED light bulbs. lighting, televisions and appliances such In FY13 our energy-consuming prodas hobs, fridges, ovens and dishwashucts were on average 41% more efficient ers. Making these products more energywhen compared with the range in 2008. efficient reduces carbon emissions and The majority of this increase in energy efsaves customers money on their energy ficiency is because of improvements in enbills. Price is important to our customers, ergy efficiency of lighting products since and our continual focus on reducing costs 2008. means we can enable more people to afGoing solar with IKEA in the UK Solar panels help families and busiprices) they will have saved enough nesses reduce carbon emissions and to cover the purchase and installation reduce energy costs. costs. After that point the system will They are already an important part produce renewable energy for free and of our own renewable energy stratthe panels have a lifespan of around egy, and we want to make it easier for 30 years. customers to get the benefits in their Following a successful pilot in FY13, own homes. That’s why we’re offering we’re rolling out the service to all 17 Induction hobs a new solar panel purchase and instalof our UK stores in partnership with Compared with glass ceramic hobs, our induction hobs are up lation service, starting in the UK. Peter Hanergy UK. IKEA FAMILY members to 60% faster and use up to 40% less energy because they and Jane Grey, pictured above, are receive a discount which takes the transfer heat directly to the pot, without directly heating the IKEA UK solar customers who expect total cost of installation to 15-20% hob or surrounding air. We’re working to substitute our glass to earn €805 a year from their panels. below the average market price. ceramic hobs with induction hobs, so that customers who buy An average UK household can save We hope to introduce the service to any of our electric hobs can save energy and money. In FY13, up to 50% on their electricity bills more countries over the coming years. 43% of the electric hobs in our range were energy efficient by installing solar panels and after induction hobs and we’re aiming for all our electric hobs to be around seven years (at current energy Read more about the pilot project induction hobs by FY16, where technically feasible. Content s > Introduc tion > A more sustainable life at home > Resource and energy independence > A bet ter life for people and communities > Governance and ethics > Per formance towards targets 1 5 a m o r e s u s tai n a b l e l i f e at h o m e Water products in our range in 2008. LED l i g h t i n g Domestic water use accounts for 10% of LED lights use 85% less energy than light range, and our UPPLEVA LED TV. overall freshwater consumption. All IKEA • ENASTÅENDE dishwasher uses 10 liincandescent bulbs and last 20 times All our new LED light bulbs now use taps use a pressure compensating aerator tres of water on its eco-cycle programme, longer. They don’t contain mercury polycarbonate plastic domes, rather like fluorescent lighting does. Comthan glass, which reduces breakages. which reduces the flow of water to eight which is 90% less water compared to pared with incandescent, our LED We have also improved the light litres per minute for kitchen taps and six washing up using a running tap that bulbs save customers €7 of electricquality and energy efficiency of our litres per minute for bathroom taps, comdoesn’t have a pressure compensating ity costs per bulb per year and €160 LED light bulbs. In FY13 we sold 22.4 pared to the EU standard flow of 12 litres aerator. over the life of the bulb.* million LED products, and we’re comIn FY13, 51% of all lighting prodmitted to stimulate demand by furper minute. This can reduce consumption ucts sold were LED or were compatther reducing the price of LED bulbs by 30-50%, saving between 1,800 and ible with LED bulbs (e.g. lamps which whenever advances in technology 3,000 litres of water for each tap in the customers can use with an LED bulb). allow. In FY14 we will introduce bulbs We’re converting all IKEA lighting that are even more affordable thanks average European household, reducing GRANSKÄR mixer tap features “cold start” ranges to LED by FY16. to improvements in the production costs for customers through lower energy energy-saving technolIn FY13, new LED products includprocess, including greater automabills for hot water and lowering water bills ogy. The tap automatically releases cold ed our first dimmable LEDARE LED tion and changes to the design and light bulb, our CENTIGRAD LED spotmaterials used. Read about how our where water use is metered. water when you lift the lever straight up, avoidco-workers got involved in our LED In FY13 we sold over 1.2 million taps, ing wasting hot water and saving the energy campaign on p. 18. which resulted in a combined saving of 2.5 used for water heating. * Assumes three hours usage each day. Electricity million m3 of water, compared with taps price source: European Residential Energy Price Report, 2012, Vaasa ETT Global Energy Think without pressure compensating aerators. Tank. Our research shows the best way to save water when doing the washing up is to use a water efficient dishwasher, such as our ENASTÅENDE dishwasher that • BOHOLMEN sink accessories such as uses 10 litres of water on its eco-cycle the strainer, sink stopper and water trap programme. This compares to 120 litres let you do your washing up without continof water used if you wash up under runuous running water. Washing up this way ning water using a tap that doesn’t have a can use up to 60% less water, compared pressure compensating aerator. For peowith using a running tap without a presple who don’t have the budget or space to sure compensating aerator. buy a dishwasher, they can replace their old tap with an IKEA tap (which all have • MÄLAREN filters, which we sell in Itaaerators) and use a BOHOLMEN sink acly, enable customers to filter their water cessory. This combination reduces the straight from the tap. It can reduce the amount of water needed to do the washing need for customers to buy bottled water up to approximately 49 litres. and also reduces the water flow to 5.4 liAcross our dishwasher range, we have tres per minute which means less water is improved water efficiency by up to 50%, used overall. depending on the model, compared with Content s > Introduc tion > A more sustainable life at home > Resource and energy independence > A bet ter life for people and communities > Governance and ethics > Per formance towards targets 1 6 a m o r e s u s tai n a b l e l i f e at h o m e In Sweden we Waste We want to encourage recycling by mak+ removed our AA and AAA ing it easier for our customers to sort their conventional non-rechargeable waste at home. batteries from sale Our kitchen furniture is space-saving in our stores and and has integrated sorting systems that replaced them with our rechargeable encourage recycling and waste reduction. ones. We’ll review The RATIONELL waste sorting system can this pilot project and be used as part of the FAKTUM kitchen and – assess how to extend the initiative to more the new METOD kitchen uses the VARIretail countries. ERA sorting system. Both RATIONELL and VARIERA can be used in non-IKEA kitchens and outside the kitchen too. VARIERA, sold globally, is made of recycled plastic. and AAA conventional non-rechargeable We offer customers advice on the benbatteries from sale in our stores and reefits of sorting their waste, and support placed them with our rechargeable ones. to integrate recycling into their everyday We’ll review this pilot project and assess Customers are sorting lives. For example, in Denmark, we enhow to extend the initiative to more retail more waste in Poland able customers to find out more about local regulations and recycling options. Our countries. Using information, tips and ideas on website in Denmark guides them to choose IKEA.com and in our stores we aim to By offering affordable and innovative RATIONELL is our most popular the right IKEA waste sorting system. communicate the benefits of these simsystems we have, for many years, waste sorting product in Poland — When combined with a change in beple, affordable solutions that save money made it easier for our customers to consisting of plastic containers of haviour, simple products can make a big for our customers and help to protect the sort their waste at home. different sizes that can easily fit into In 2013, Poland introduced a new small spaces, such as under the kitchcontribution to a more sustainable life at environment. law to encourage people to sort their en sink. SORTERA bins are also very home. For example, IKEA food containwaste at home and increase recypopular because they can be stacked ers are used to store, freeze and reheat cling. To motivate people, some towns to provide maximum space efficiency. and cities have halved the collection We reduced the price of the RAleftovers — reducing food waste. Customcharge for pre-sorted waste. TIONELL series by 20% in Poland and ers can also use our KORKEN containers, “Sort and pay less!” is the name of organised in-store events for custommade from at least 40% recycled glass, the new IKEA Poland campaign that ers and their families to learn about for preserving summer foods, like fruit, for gives top tips on how to manage waste sorting waste. at home, particularly when space is In June and July 2013, sales of winter. limited. By providing examples from waste sorting solutions in the country LADDA rechargeable batteries can other European countries where recywere up to eight times more than the be recharged up to 500 times, reducing cling is well established, the campaign same months the previous year. reassures customers that sorting waste and saving money for customers. waste can easily become a part of We sell them pre-charged and ready for their everyday lives. use with a wide range of battery operated products. In Sweden we removed our AA Content s > Introduc tion > A more sustainable life at home > Resource and energy independence > A bet ter life for people and communities > Governance and ethics > Per formance towards targets 1 7 a m o r e s u s tai n a b l e l i f e at h o m e Engaging customers To create a more sustainable life at mental and cost savings, the more they home we need to make sure our customcan communicate the benefits to our cusers are not only aware of how our prodtomers. ucts can help but are excited about their We have started including sustainability benefits. Understanding people’s lives at information on the price tags of our prodhome is essential if we’re to design afforducts in the store, on our website and in our able products that meet their needs and catalogue which is distributed to millions enable them to make a better everyday of households and available online and as ble life life. That’s why we visit homes all over the a mobile app. This means customers can e sustaina ons for a moreveryday acti e, rgy at hom like using ene – matter appliances and efficient , and aving taps water-s more. clin g recy world to understand better how we can now begin to read for themselves about 1 Kitchen 01 enable people to live more sustainably. the sustainability advantages of many hobs Inductionboth save you money, time and they’re products. So far, information has been desorting because use up to Waste bins several gs. fast and energy mands rent thin 40% less r hobs. for diffe in them all than othe Collect e to make one plac easier. Customer Communications recycling added to the products we’ve identified as 01 GOR M shelving can be treated Untreate d wood; ng paint unit $00 for a pers 0/ea onal with ce. oil or glazi more durable surfa 19 helping customers save energy, water and a When it comes to sustainability, the best touch and 000.585. 5, H174cm. W78×D5 ers, ration stick a MOR TORP deco You can create 02 k $000 by fram floor cloc er clock grandfath the personal clock with ary wall paper. way to inspire our customers is to get our waste and we’re working to include this ining an ordin Plastic and cm. n sticker. decoratio Graaf. H194 : Anne de Designer 28 002.090. co-workers engaged and excited about it. formation on the price tags of all products The more they know about the environthat have a sustainability benefit. 11m 2 02 kitchen: /nORje 000 faK TuM $ price? See hen in the kitc What’s page xx. je oak with nOR kitchen fronts faK TuM drawer PEOPLE & PL A NET PERFORM A NCE i n FY1 3 doors and wer front s in veneer JE doors/dra oak veneer. $000 NOR oak/ ered solid in clear clear lacqu VÄRDE handles inium and Styled with ted alum , nickel-pla top. POS I T I VE TA RGETS lacquered lamin ate work white PRÄGEL add: iances for appl $ 000 ice for this ion Serv Installat Kitchen kitchen: 000 * $ t our tion abou e informa Service, see for mor ion Installat kitchen page xx. By the end of FY15, at least 70% of 41% of customers view IKEA as a mcki05 a TF: 30 000xx_000 Integrating sustainability into 000CF: 30 consumers view IKEA as a company company that takes/demonstrates social CF: 30 000mcki05 a that takes social and environmental and environmental responsibility. This customer communications responsibility. score indicates we have more work to do to communicate our sustainability efforts to consumers. The score is a global average — the score for individual countries varies significantly. In many With over 680 million visitors to our and ideas on how to save energy, save countries a low score is consistent with a stores and over one billion visitors to water and reduce waste. low score given to companies in this area IKEA.com every year, we have a huge That’s why sustainability is a natural in general. An additional consumer survey opportunity to engage with people part of the way we communicate, we conducted in FY13 indicated IKEA about living more sustainably. reflecting how integral it is to what we is rated highest amongst competitors Our customers say they welcome do. During FY13 we started to introin 22 out of 25 countries when asked our encouragement and support. duce more information on sustainabilwhich companies are committed to Along with making products in a susity in our product labels, in stores, on sustainability. We will review the 70% tainable way, we need to share tips IKEA.com and in our catalogue. target during FY14 to see what a postFY15 target could be. Content s > Introduc tion > A more sustainable life at home > Resource and energy independence > A bet ter life for people and communities > Governance and ethics > Per formance towards targets 1 8 a m o r e s u s tai n a b l e l i f e at h o m e IKEA FAMILY IKEA FAMILY is our club for loyal customers, with more than 65 million members worldwide. Among other benefits, members get special prices on the IKEA FAMILY product ranges and selected parts of the IKEA range. We’ve developed new products for the IKEA FAMILY range that help our customers to live more sustainably, like the cook book for left-overs (sales started in October FY14). In the UK, IKEA FAMILY members can receive a discount on full solar panel installation for their homes through our pilot project in partnership with Hanergy UK (see p. 14). Members across all countries receive regular communications about our ambitions to be a sustainable company, and inspiration for how to live a more sustainable life at home. Promoting LED lighting around the world We want everybody to be able to live a a free LEDARE LED bulb so they could message about LED light bulbs in creamore sustainable life at home and LED experience the benefits and tell our tive ways. lighting is a simple way for people to customers. We launched a “bulb-swap The buzz created through these acsave energy and money. LED light bulbs competition” which encouraged cotivities helped us sell 12.3 million LED use 85% less energy than traditional workers to swap their standard light bulbs in FY13, contributing to the sale incandescent light bulbs, and can last bulbs for the LED one they received, of 22.4 million LED products in total in up to 20 times longer. take a photo and share it using our FY13. By using LEDARE IKEA and our In FY13, we launched a global camintranet and internal social networking customers saved enough energy to 65 million paign to promote the energy-saving site. power around 136,000* homes. benefits of the LED light bulb, and enWe promoted LEDARE through our We’re bringing the benefits of LED to couraged everybody — customers and website and in our catalogue to show our own locations too. So far, 50 stores IKEA FAMILY members around co-workers — to switch to LED lighting customers the benefits of switching to have converted to LED lighting (see p. the world receive information at home. LED. Many individual IKEA stores ran 39). and discounts to encourage them We gave nearly 135,000 co-workers their own local campaigns to spread the to live a more sustainable life at home. * Source for household electricity consumption: World Energy Council. Content s > Introduc tion > A more sustainable life at home > Resource and energy independence > A bet ter life for people and communities > Governance and ethics > Per formance towards targets 1 9 a m o r e s u s tai n a b l e l i f e at h o m e “Our biggest challenge is lack of space — solutions for storing our bikes, sorting our waste and managing our laundry would make a big difference to our family life.” Marina Wyckmans, Antwerp, Belgium Learning about living sustainably in Belgium Understanding our customers’ daily and are motivated to save resources buy and install, and make life easier. our waste and managing our laundry lives is important if we’re to enable for the benefit of future generations. Design and price are still the most would make a big difference to our famthem to live more sustainably. In FY13, Customers are keen to teach children to important factors in customer buying ily life.” we ran a research project in Wilrijk, live more sustainably and we’ve learned decisions. Our products must be beautiMarina Wyckmans, Antwerp, Belgium Belgium with 12 customers and four coour communications can encourage the ful and inspiring, while also offering workers, building on similar work done whole family to take part in activities sustainability benefits and money sav“We’re a couple, currently renting our in China and Sweden. such as waste sorting. ings. flat but we will soon be moving to our We found that saving money is one Local studies can help us spot new own house. We’re interested in how of the main motivations for making opportunities for products and solu“As a family with two teenage girls, we we can save money on energy and changes at home and many customers tions. For example, in Belgium, waste struggle to have enough space at home. water bills, and transport costs, and believe being sustainable is more costly. sorting is obligatory, with high costs We’re not planning to make big changes we’re considering installing LED lights. We can make a difference by showing for those who do not comply. But many to make our home more sustainable, We’d like to see IKEA providing inspircustomers how to take the necessary customers are not satisfied with their but we would like IKEA to provide inspiring solutions for people who don’t have steps without big investments. methods of sorting and this gives us ing, easy and cheap sustainability ideas. much space, and making it easier to live Many customers feel proud when an opportunity to provide affordable Our biggest challenge is lack of space — sustainably.” they do something good for the planet solutions that are well designed, easy to solutions for storing our bikes, sorting Ilse Vanleene, Antwerp, Belgium Content s > Introduc tion > A more sustainable life at home > Resource and energy independence > A bet ter life for people and communities > Governance and ethics > Per formance towards targets 2 0 Resource and energy independence It has always been part of our culture to make more from less, and to economise and save resources. Now our goal is to become resource and energy independent, so we can continue to offer great products at affordable prices while protecting the planet. We’re integrating sustainability more deeply into product design and working to source and use resources like cotton and wood more sustainably. We’re investing in energy efficiency and renewable energy generation so by 2020 the renewable energy we produce will be equal to the energy we consume. By encouraging and supporting our suppliers to do the same we will have an impact beyond our business too. Content s > Introduc tion > A more sustainable life at home > Resource and energy independence > A bet ter life for people and communities > Governance and ethics > Per formance towards targets 2 1 r esourc e and energ y independenc e IKEA GROUP STORES AND BUILDINGS 1/3 WE Produced renewable energy equivalent to 1/3 of our total energy use efficient TRANSPORT 8% more energy efficient compared with 2010 BILLY BOOKCASE PRODUCT 30% LIGHTER INNOVATION 87% our 11 criteria to evaluate products of WASTE RECYCLED More from less 62% Renewable materials Reused and recycled materials FILL RATE Materials from more sustainable sources SKARPÖ CHAIR Recyclability at end of life Quality 100% MORE 60% SUSTAINABLE Transport efficient Energy use in production RECYCLED SOURCES 1/3 PLASTIC direct delivery from Renewable energy in production suppliers to stores Raw-material utilisation 2/3 saving CO2 Sustainable life at home OF WOOD FROM more sustainable SOURCES OF COTTON FROM more 10% sustainable . li v SOURCES es improvement in e’s energy efficiency pl o pe compared with 2012 M an to y d sm t an all ne SUPPLIERS go renewable ch an g pla es a the dd f or up t o m e nc e ake a big dif fer Content s > Introduc tion > A more sustainable life at home > Resource and energy independence > A bet ter life for people and communities > Governance and ethics > Per formance towards targets 2 2 r esourc e and energ y independenc e Responsible sourcing “IKEA’s ambition to transform its business model in the face We work with suppliers and partners to wood more efficiently and to buy more of global overconsumption of make sure the raw materials we use are timber from responsibly managed forests. resources demonstrates leaderbetter for the environment and the people All suppliers must meet our IWAY Forestship. Their intention to produce more renewable energy than in the countries we source from. We focus ry Standard, designed to ensure wood is they consume reflects a sense a lot of our attention on wood and cotton, logged legally and doesn’t have a negative of urgency and opportunity to which are essential to our range, as well impact on the environment. We suspend scale solutions. At the same time, IKEA’s strategy towards as leather, down and feathers (see p. 30), deliveries from suppliers who fail to meet natural resources stewardship palm oil and food. the IWAY Forestry Standard and we stop using best available practices and standards to align with is Responsible sourcing enables us to working with them if they repeatedly fail a smart strategy. A complex safeguard future supplies at an affordable to meet the standard. We’re one of the challenge remains which is to price, and to protect valuable natural relargest purchasers of Forest Stewardship define an accurate, reliable and credible way to implement and sources for future generations. Council (FSC) certified wood in the retail measure progress against their sector. By FY17, we aim for 50% of our stated commitment to ‘use re“Establishing the right definiWood projected wood volume to come from sources within the limits of the tions and measurements is an planet’.” important part of being able to Wood is an essential raw material in many more sustainable sources (forests certideliver on our commitment to IKEA products, and a precious natural refied to the FSC Forest Management standAndrew Steer, have an overall positive impact source. We always look for ways to use ard and recycled wood). President and CEO, on people and the planet. This World Resources Institute includes using resources in a way that is within the limits of the planet. We have made some PEOPLE & PL A NET PERFORM A NCE i n FY 1 3 progress on this, starting with POS I T I VE TA RGETS definitions for how IKEA can be forest and water positive, but we recognise that the chalBy FY17, 50% of total projected wood 32.4% of wood from more sustainable lenge is much bigger than our volume to come from more sustainable sources*, up from 22.6% in FY12. one company. We need to work sources. closely with our partners to * More sustainable sources for wood are: Forest Stewardship Council certified or recycled ensure our approach is robust, credible and can deliver the best possible outcome for people and By FY15 all cotton to be from more 72% of cotton from more sustainable the planet.” sustainable sources. sources*, up from 34% in FY12. Simon Henzell-Thomas, * More sustainable sources for cotton are: Better Cotton, cotton grown to other sustainability standards Partnerships and Engagement in the USA and cotton from farmers working towards Manager, IKEA Group the Better Cotton Initiative standards. By FY17 all leather to be fully traceable Developed additional minimum standards and produced to standards that help for leather suppliers. protect forests and respect animal welfare. Content s > Introduc tion > A more sustainable life at home > Resource and energy independence > A bet ter life for people and communities > Governance and ethics > Per formance towards targets 2 3 r esourc e and energ y independenc e wood from mor e For more than a decade we’ve been T o ta l w o o d i n I K E A p r o d u c t s (m i l l i o n m 3 r w e) s u s tai n a b l e s o u r c e s * working with our partners, such as the (% w o o d s o u r c e d ) global conservation organisation WWF, to improve forest management practices. The partnership is helping to fight illegal logging and supports credible forest certification and responsible timber trade. ToFY13 13,97 gether, we are also mapping and protectFY12 13,56 ing a number of High Conservation Value FY11 13,78 Forests, and working to spread knowledge FY10 12,32 and tools to support better management Roundwood equivalent (rwe) is the volume of roundwood (logs) of forests. required to produce our products. Data covers all wood used in IKEA products, including solid Together with WWF and others, we’re a wood and wood-based board. Wood used in packaging and printing, which makes up 5% of our total wood volume, is not founding member of the FSC and support included. Paper used in products, such as napkins, is not included. its work to increase the supply of wood Recycled wood includes joinery off-cuts, old furniture and wood from responsibly managed forests. Since from demolition sites. we began working with WWF in 2002, we have contributed to increasing FSC cerFY13 32.4% coun t r ies we source T y p e s o f w o o d s o u r c e d (%) tified forest areas by around 30 million FY12 22.6% wood from hectares (an area the size of Italy), in the FY11 16.2% (% w o o d s o u r c e d ) countries where we work together. FY10 15.8% By supporting responsible forest man* From forests certified to the FSC Forest Management standard and agement we can safeguard wood supplies recycled wood. Includes solid wood and wood based board. and play our part in preventing deforestation. In FY13 we used around 13.97 million m3 of solid wood and wood-based board Progress in FY13 materials (not including paper and packagWe increased the proportion of wood from Poland 23.3% Solid wood 45% ing). This is around 1%* of the total wood more sustainable sources to 32.4% comSweden 7.7% Wood based board 55% used commercially around the world, makpared with 22.6% in FY12. This was made Russia 7.6% ing us one of the largest users of wood in up of 28.4% FSC certified wood and an Lithuania 7.1% the retail sector. Wood makes up around additional 4% recycled material (which Germany 7.0% 60% of all materials used in our products. we were able to include in our data for the Romania 6.4% first time). China 5.2% * Based on Food and Agriculture Organization data. We trained 190 buyers and co-workers France 4.1% in our trading (purchasing) teams during Other countries <2.0% 32.0% FY13 on sourcing wood more sustainably. Forest certification systems can be comContent s > Introduc tion > A more sustainable life at home > Resource and energy independence > A bet ter life for people and communities > Governance and ethics > Per formance towards targets 0 4 2 0 r esourc e and energ y independenc e Audits of our wood supply chain FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 plex and the training will help them start a material supply chain. Together with the dialogue with suppliers on this issue and to Chinese Academy of Forestry, IKEA has Share of IKEA suppliers that are FSC 20.3% 34.9% 42.2% 52.5% Chain of Custody certified manage contracts in a way that supports created detailed risk maps that will enable Share of total wood volume from FSC 47.0% 62.0% 63.5% 84.5% more sustainable forestry. us to identify and investigate higher-risk Chain of Custody certified suppliers Wood-based board is made from many sources. Number of IKEA audits — under IWAY 124 (7) 139 (5) 116 (5) 149 (11) different materials, including sawdust, Forestry Standard and IKEA wood supply sawmill chips, logging residues, recovered Auditing and compliance chain audits (number performed by 3rd wood, and waste wood from veneering Each year the majority of our timber supparty auditors) processes. Tracing the sources of these ply chain (98% in FY13) is audited by IKEA Share of total wood volume from suppliers 10.3% 12.3% 17.3% 12.4% which underwent an IKEA audit during the materials can be challenging. In China, we or third party auditors. A small group of year require suppliers of wood-based board to suppliers are considered low risk due the Wood volumes that underwent an IKEA 97.0% 94.0% 95.2% 99.1% only use wood from counties or regions type of timber they supply or the country audit that comply with IKEA minimum where there is a low risk of unsustainable they’re located in and are audited once forestry requirements or illegally logged wood entering the board every two years. Share of total wood volume from 57.3% 74.3% 80.8% 97.8% Auditing in our wood supply chain insuppliers audited during the year (as part of FSC chain of custody audit or cludes: IKEA audit) Fsc chain of custody • Annual auditing by accredited FSC c e r t i f i c a t i o n (%) certification bodies of suppliers who have Chain of Custody certification. 84.5 • IKEA audits for other wood suppliers standard. The Chain of Custody standard ration with governments is important. against the IWAY Forestry Standard. applies to manufacturers, processors and Some recent examples include: • IKEA wood supply chain audits for traders of FSC certified forest products, Europe: We have contributed to and 62.0 63.5 higher risk areas of our supply chain, compared to the FSC Forest Management supported the introduction of the EU Tim52.5 which can cover the entire supply chain standard that applies to forest managers ber Regulation, which came into force dur47.0 back to the forest. and owners. The Chain of Custody standing FY13, both directly and through the 42.2 In FY13, nine suppliers were not able to ard verifies FSC certified material and Timber Retail Coalition. The EU Timber 34.9 provide full documentation on the source products along the production chain and is Regulation requires companies to carry of their wood, which meant we could not designed to prevent illegally logged wood out due diligence to ensure all wood enter20.3 be sure that the wood they were supplying and other types of unwanted wood from ing the EU is from legal sources. Since the was from legal sources. We stopped workentering the supply chain. It requires supinitiation of the discussions we have been ing with these suppliers until they were pliers undergo regular third-party audits. in close contact with the EU Commission. able to meet our standards on traceability. The share of suppliers that are Chain of We have approached several of the auFY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 All the companies involved were able to Custody certified increased from 42.2% in thorities in the EU to explain how we operShare of IKEA suppliers that are resolve these issues and are now supplyFY12 to 52.5% in FY13. ate our due diligence systems for legality. FSC chain of custody certified, ing IKEA. USA: We’re a member of the Forest Le% total We encourage all suppliers of products Government relations gality Alliance and have used our experiShare of total wood volume from containing wood to achieve certification Forest management is closely linked to ence to contribute to the implementation these suppliers, % total according to the FSC Chain of Custody government control, so our close collaboof the Lacey Act. Content s > Introduc tion > A more sustainable life at home > Resource and energy independence > A bet ter life for people and communities > Governance and ethics > Per formance towards targets 2 5 r esourc e and energ y independenc e Australia: We were part of the Common China and Russia to promote a consistent Platform to promote the Illegal Logging approach to cross border timber trading. Prohibition Bill, together with Greenpeace Russia: A significant part of the WWF and other stakeholders. and IKEA partnership is about influencing China: We’re in close cooperation with forestry policies to combat illegal logging the Chinese State Forest Administration and respect high conservation values. to improve forest management and the IKEA has also approached top government Chinese Academy of Forestry to map high officials to present our views on forestry in conservation forests and develop methRussia. We’re in close contact with regionods to ensure legality of the wood that’s al authorities where IKEA Industry Group sourced for our products. We also contriboperations are located. uted to guidelines for customs officials in T o wa r d s f o r e s t p o s i t i v e We have a goal to become forest positive FSC forest already added through our by 2020, promoting the adoption of more earlier partnership projects. sustainable forestry methods across the industry and contributing to ending deforWe support projects in 11 countries that estation. Part of this commitment means contribute to increasing FSC certification. supporting responsible forest management These projects also focus on: beyond the forests we need to supply the timber for our own products. • Identifying and protecting forests Our forest positive commitment includes with high conservation value and the following targets: those that are particularly important because of their biodiversity and other • By FY17, 50% of our wood will come from more sustainable sources. Based • local factors. Promoting responsible trade in forest 100% of wood in China to come from on current projections, this will represent 10 million m3, more than quad• products. Combating illegal logging. more sustainable sources by 2015 rupling the volumes of wood coming from more sustainable sources (based We also support other initiatives to improve on an FY11 baseline). forest management through funding for China is one of our key countries for from more sustainable sources (FSC • By FY17, 100% of the wood we source NGO and government training and educatimber sourcing and manufacturing of certified or recycled) by 2015. This from priority areas will come from tion initiatives. For example we’re funding wood based products. Around 5% of includes all species of solid wood and more sustainable sources.* around 15 scholarships each year for the our wood is grown there, and we also bamboo. As well as tackling the issue • By FY20, we will be contributing to the Euroforester Programme at the Swedish import wood from Russia for processof illegally sourced wood in our own FSC certification of 15 million hectares University of Agricultural Sciences up to ing in China. supply chain, this will have a positive of forest in priority areas. That’s 2018. equivalent to more than double the Production of palm oil and leather can Our sourcing teams and forestry impact on the availability of responsitotal estimated area needed to supply also contribute to deforestation, and we experts work with suppliers to prevent bly sourced wood in China overall. IKEA (from a FY13 baseline). This is consider them in our commitment to beillegally imported wood entering our We are also working together with in addition to 30 million hectares of come Forest Positive (see p. 29). supply chain in China. To support WWF in Russia and China to protect this we’ve set a target that all wood high value forests and to improve * Countries where IKEA, along with our partners, have identified there is a higher risk of sustainability chalsourced and processed in China will be legality in the global timber trade. lenges. Content s > Introduc tion > A more sustainable life at home > Resource and energy independence > A bet ter life for people and communities > Governance and ethics > Per formance towards targets 2 6 r esourc e and energ y independenc e T h e I WAY F o r e s t r y S t a n d a r d The IWAY Forestry Standard, Forest Stewardship Council part of the IKEA supplier code of standards conduct, sets out the minimum FSC standards vary from country criteria for all wood and board to country depending on the supplied to IKEA: type of forest, local conditions and stakeholder interests, but • Not from forests that have are guided by a set of common been illegally harvested principles and criteria determined • Not from forestry operations by the FSC’s members. Among engaged in forest-related other things, they aim to: social conflicts • Not harvested in • Protect biodiversity. geographically identified • Ensure forest regrowth. Intact Natural Forests (INF) • Protect the rights and needs or High Conservation Value of people who work and live forests, unless they’re in the forest. certified as responsibly • Stimulate economic managed development. • Not harvested from natural forests in the tropical and Click here to find out more on sub-tropical regions being the FSC website converted to plantations or for non-forest use • Not from officially recognised and geographically identified commercial genetically modified (GM) tree plantations Suppliers must have procedures in place to implement these standards throughout their supply chain and be able to track and report the origin of their wood. We update IWAY regularly, and in FY13 added new requirements for bamboo suppliers. Content s > Introduc tion > A more sustainable life at home > Resource and energy independence > A bet ter life for people and communities > Governance and ethics > Per formance towards targets 2 7 r esourc e and energ y independenc e Cotton working with our partner WWF and othCotton is used in many IKEA products — ers to improve social and environmental from sofas and cushions to bed sheets and standards in cotton production. We’re a lampshades. Each year, IKEA uses around founding partner in the Better Cotton Ini0.6% of all cotton grown around the world. tiative (BCI), an independent organisation We used 110,000 tonnes of cotton in FY13. that sets social and environmental criteria Conventional cotton farming techniques for more sustainable cotton production. involve intensive use of water and chemiBetter Cotton (cotton produced to BCI cal pesticides and fertilisers. Most cotton is standards) is traceable up to bale level and grown on small farms in developing counas part of the Better Cotton system, farmtries, and many cotton farmers struggle to ers are selected randomly to be audited by make a profit. The industry is known for a third party. problems such as child labour, and health Our goal is for 100% of our cotton to be risks associated with the use of chemicals. from more sustainable sources by the end For more than eight years we’ve been of 2015. Our more sustainable sources include Better Cotton, cotton grown to other sustainability standards in the USA and cotton from farmers working towards the coun t r ies we source BCI standards. cot ton from (% o f c o t t o n s o u r c e d ) We’re also finding ways to use cotton more efficiently and to reduce our use of cotton by blending it with other textiles and replacing it with alternative materials, Making a difference such as cellulose fibres. Our supplier code of conduct, IWAY, infor cotton farmers troduced 12 years ago, strictly prohibits child and forced labour in our supply chain, “With the drip irrigation system I use well as reducing fertiliser use, he has and is aligned with BCI standards (see p. less water and have fewer weeds. Now started using insect traps to help I also know how to test the soil so I him decide when and where to use 63 for IWAY information). The IKEA Founonly add the fertiliser it needs,” says pesticide. He now combines chemical dation is working with UNICEF and Save Gnaneshwar Shriram Sonwane from pesticides with non-chemical and traIndia 34.0% the Children to address the root causes the village of Ramnagar, Maharashtra, ditional methods. He has started using Pakistan 23.0% India protective equipment when sprayof child labour through projects that raise Gnaneshwar was quick to join the ing and no longer suffers from the USA 13.0% awareness of the importance of education, IKEA and WWF cotton project run in headaches, eye problems and rashes Turkey 4.0% invest in improving schools and health fathe Maharashtra district of India when he used to get. With the extra income, China 3.5% cilities, and help families find new ways to it launched in his village, hoping the Gnaneshwar wants his children to be better management techniques would well educated. His oldest son hopes to Brazil 2.5% support themselves. These projects will increase his income. become an engineer. Others 21.0% reach 16 million children at risk of child laHe has not been disappointed. As bour in India and Pakistan by 2017. Content s > Introduc tion > A more sustainable life at home > Resource and energy independence > A bet ter life for people and communities > Governance and ethics > Per formance towards targets 2 8 r esourc e and energ y independenc e Progress in FY13 In FY13 we sourced 79,000 tonnes of cotton from more sustainable sources. This 2/3 includes Better Cotton (59.3% of the cotMore than of ton from more sustainable sources), cotour cotton came from ton grown to other sustainability standards in the USA and cotton from farmers more sustainable working towards the BCI standards. sources in FY13 The share of cotton in our products from these more sustainable sources increased from 34% in FY12 to 72% in FY13. Cotton from more sustainable sources was used in every category of IKEA home furnishing products, including lamp shades, matTen years of action with WWF tresses, carpets, textiles and chairs. We think it’s important that Better Cot— a partnership for change ton becomes a standard material rather than a marginal or premium-priced prodMany sustainability challenges are so sible timber trade and map and protect abandon cotton altogether and some uct. Rather than buying the majority of complex we can’t solve them on our High Conservation Value forests. said we should move our sourcing to the Better Cotton crop in the countries own. That’s why in 2002 we joined Our cotton project with WWF began ‘safe’ countries like the US. But IKEA is where we source, in FY13 IKEA suppliers forces with WWF, a leading conservain 2005, and was designed to transform big enough to change things, so instead purchased 47,000 tonnes of Better Cotton, tion organisation, to tackle issues relatcotton production worldwide. That was we decided to work with WWF and do ing to forest management and cotton a big ambition for an initial collection something about the problem.” leaving substantial quantities on the marproduction. Ten years on, our combined of projects involving just 500 farmers. Guido Verijke, ket. This helped avoid distortions in marexpertise and scale has enabled us to But today around 110,000 farmers have Chair, Better Cotton Initiative ket prices and meant that Better Cotton make a positive difference in our own adopted more sustainable farming pracand IKEA co-worker business and beyond. tices, and the Better Cotton Initiative, was available to other purchasers, encourThe first task for our partnership of which IKEA and WWF are founding “Many big companies give money to a aging wider take up. was to improve forest management, members, continues to create more cause and that’s it. IKEA sets a good We fund projects in cotton growing primarily in our sourcing areas. Back widespread change. Our own supply example by being directly involved in in 2002 we had a responsible sourcchain has been transformed, with 72% the field and learning about every step countries that train farmers in more susing target but there just wasn’t enough of cotton now from more sustainable in the supply chain. Few companies tainable cotton cultivation. We invested wood available from well-managed sources, including Better Cotton. bother to do that, but IKEA was willing €1.35 million in FY13, reaching around forests. Through our joint projects, to dig deep into the complex details of 110,000 cotton farmers. we’ve contributed to close to 30 million Read more on the Better Cotton website cotton production, which helped them hectares of forest worldwide becoming to bring sustainability into their textile We also look for ways to use cotton certified as responsibly managed — an supply chain.” more efficiently. For example, we’ve startarea roughly equivalent to the size of Hammad Naqi Khan, ed a project to standardise the way we Italy. Besides supporting credible forest WWF’s Global Cotton Leader, certification, our partnership aims to Market Transformation Initiative construct fabric, which could reduce the combat illegal logging, promote respon“Some people suggested IKEA should amount of cotton we need for a piece of fabric by up to 15%. Content s > Introduc tion > A more sustainable life at home > Resource and energy independence > A bet ter life for people and communities > Governance and ethics > Per formance towards targets 2 9 r esourc e and energ y independenc e Palm oil United Nations Development Programme to the environment and IKEA is committed We use palm oil in candles, food products (UNDP) and their Sustainable Palm Oil to phasing it out in all leather production. and for processing rattan for furniture. (SPO) Initiative. The project, which is now In the past few years we have been workPalm plantations can be associated with in its second year, aims to encourage susing with suppliers globally to achieve this deforestation and loss of biodiversity in tainable palm oil production among smallgoal and we believe this will significantly tropical regions. scale producers and improve their livelireduce environmental impacts and that The palm oil supply chain is complex hoods, better protect the environment customers will prefer “chrome-free” leathand most of the oil produced sustainably and reduce Green House Gas emissions. er. In FY13, we made particularly good is intermingled with conventional palm oil. We received a score of 12 out of 12 on progress in moving to a fully chrome free To improve traceability we aim for all our the WWF Palm Oil Buyers’ Scorecard 2013, tanning process in Brazil. palm oil to come from segregated certified which assesses the performance of retailOur traceability requirements mean all sources by the end of 2015 (previously ers and consumer goods manufacturers suppliers globally must be able to docu2020). on their use of certified sustainable palm ment the source of leather supplied to The Roundtable on Sustainable Palm oil. them, as far back as the slaughterhouse. Oil (RSPO), a not-for-profit organisation, In Brazil we require slaughterhouses to sets standards for the production of susLeather provide us with a list of farms supplying tainable palm oil and works to increase its Leather is a popular material and used in to them. In FY13, we developed additional availability. We’re an active member and some of our sofas, rugs and other prodminimum standards for leather suppliers participate in the RSPO Trade and Traceucts. In FY13 we sourced around 5.7 milin Brazil, covering issues like deforestaability working group. lion square metres of leather, including tion and forced and bonded labour. These The GreenPalm programme — approved from cattle, sheep and goats. Leather used will be further developed and tested durby the RSPO — supports the production to upholster furniture makes up 4.5 million ing FY14, and we’ll also expand the scope of sustainable palm oil and sells tradable square meters of this total, of which 43% to address animal welfare and indigenous GreenPalm certificates to users. We puris sourced from Brazil. Australia and Arpeople’s rights. We’ll do this in partnerchased 45,000 GreenPalm certificates to gentina are also significant sourcing counship with NGOs and suppliers, integratcover every tonne of palm oil used in our tries for leather. ing the requirements into our product reproducts during FY13. Cattle farming and leather processing quirements for leather sourcing globally. More than 90% of the palm oil we buy is can be associated with deforestation, poor We’ll work with suppliers to help impleused in IKEA candles. Working with candle environmental management in the tanment these standards in their operations suppliers to secure a supply of segregated ning process, displacement of indigenous and among sub-suppliers including cattle certified palm oil takes time, but we aim to people and forced labour. Some of these farmers, slaughterhouses, tanneries and reach 30% segregated certified palm oil issues are of particular concern in Brafinishers. All IKEA suppliers need to fully in IKEA candles by early 2014 and 100% zil. We want to play our part in improvcomply with our supplier code of conduct, in 2015. ing standards in the leather supply chain, IWAY, and we’re working with suppliers In addition, we’re working with Johnson working with our suppliers and other imglobally to make sure critical sub-suppliers & Johnson, Mondelez International (forportant stakeholders. in our leather supply chain comply with merly a division of Kraft Foods) and the Chromium is often used in the tanning our IWAY Must criteria (see p. 63 for more Indonesian government to support the process. Waste from this process is toxic on IWAY). Content s > Introduc tion > A more sustainable life at home > Resource and energy independence > A bet ter life for people and communities > Governance and ethics > Per formance towards targets 3 0 r esourc e and energ y independenc e Food food suppliers. sary suffering, injury or disease. We serve and sell food to 261 million cus• Introducing regular announced and We l far e in d own an d • Animals must be respectfully and hutomers a year through our store restauunannounced third-party auditing of food feather production manely treated. For example, procedures rants and Swedish Food Markets. suppliers and sub-suppliers according to such as live-plucking or force feeding are We work with our suppliers and other our new standards. not acceptable. Around 20% of our pillows and organisations to improve the quality of our • Significantly strengthening our overall quilts contain down and feather food, to improve animal welfare and to inefforts within quality, sustainability and from ducks. Transport and slaughter tegrate sustainability into the food value health, and implement the new standards • The method of transport and slaughter IKEA does not accept animal cruelty chain. with suppliers and our business developand we prohibit live plucking of must be performed in a way that minimisWe reviewed and strengthened our apers. birds, a practice that is common in es stress and suffering to the animals. the goose down and feather inproach to working with food suppliers durdustry. To eliminate the risk of live ing FY13, partly in response to the issue of Animal welfare plucked down and feathers entering horsemeat in the food supply chain. Our We work with Compassion in World Farmour supply chain we only use down and feathers from ducks. Live pluckrevised approach is based on a compreing (CIWF), an independent NGO, to deing in the duck industry is very rare. hensive set of requirements and on-site velop animal welfare standards for our supplier audits. suppliers. We have implemented a system to enable us to trace down and We want all our customers to enjoy During FY13 we rolled out our standfeather from the supplier back to good quality, healthy and sustainable food ard for laying hens. All egg suppliers the slaughterhouse and we audit at IKEA at an affordable price. must meet the standard, which includes slaughterhouses against an animal welfare checklist. Suppliers of requirements such as outdoor access for down and feather must also ensure Strengthening IKEA Food quality hens, by the end of FY14. sub-suppliers comply with the same requirement. requirements We continued to work to implement our In FY13, three batches of meatballs idenglobal animal welfare policy (approved in tified as possibly containing traces of FY12), into our purchasing requirements. horsemeat were withdrawn from sale. We The policy contains the following requiredonated 3.5 million portions to the Euroments: pean Federation of Food Banks (FEBA), an NGO fighting hunger and food waste in EuRearing rope. We also initiated steps to strengthen To ensure a good living environment and traceability in our food supply chain and to the freedom to express normal behaviour: further ensure our products only include • Adequate space and shelter shall be the ingredients listed in our recipes and on provided to avoid unnecessary stress, inthe product labels. juries or discomfort. We’re currently working on the following • Animals must have access to enough actions: food and fresh water to ensure health and • Strengthening our standards for all vigour. food suppliers and introducing more de• Animals must have access to rapid ditailed requirements for certain types of agnosis and treatment to avoid unnecesContent s > Introduc tion > A more sustainable life at home > Resource and energy independence > A bet ter life for people and communities > Governance and ethics > Per formance towards targets 3 1 r esourc e and energ y independenc e Certification and organic food Reducing environmental impacts Coffee, tea and chocolate: All coffee In FY13 we improved the methodology sold and served at IKEA has been UTZ for calculating the carbon footprint of our Certified since 2008. UTZ Certified is a food products. This showed the CO2 emisleading independent certification scheme sions relating to the food sold and served for coffee, tea and chocolate bars that has at IKEA totalled 600,000 tonnes. been grown with care for people and the We aim to reduce the carbon footprint planet. All tea and chocolate will be UTZ of the food we sell, including by developCertified by the end of FY14 and FY15 reing lower carbon alternatives to some of spectively. our popular food items. In FY14 we’ll develop a vegetarian meatball to be introWild-caught fish: All herring products in duced in our restaurants during FY15. our Swedish Food Market come from susThis improves customer choice and has tainable fisheries. In FY14 we’ll introduce a lower carbon footprint than traditional Marine Stewardship Council (MSC) certimeatballs. We will develop a more detailed fication for herring and other wild caught carbon footprint methodology for our food seafood. products during FY14 to help us factor carbon into our food range development. Salmon: We worked with WWF to support The majority of countries met the goal the development of responsibility standof no food waste to landfill or incineration. ards for farmed salmon, an important However, in the USA and Russia we did not product for IKEA. We believe the newly esfind suitable alternatives to landfill for our tablished Aquaculture Stewardship Counfood waste and we’re working to address cil (ASC) will improve environmental and this. In FY13 we launched a set of guidesocial standards in the farmed salmon inlines on food waste for stores. dustry. All salmon products to come from ASC-certified sources by 2015. Organic food: We always provide one orC e r t i f i e d f o o d F Y1 3 ganic menu option in our restaurants. In FY13 we introduced an organic children’s of our Swedish Food meal available in every store around the 20% Market range (Organic, world. This includes a main dish, yoghurt UTZ and other) and fruit all at an affordable price. In our 100% of our coffee (UTZ) Swedish Food Market range we offer 18 organic products (out of a total of 150). 25% of our chocolate (UTZ) Content s > Introduc tion > A more sustainable life at home > Resource and energy independence > A bet ter life for people and communities > Governance and ethics > Per formance towards targets 3 2 r esourc e and energ y independenc e How we improve K aj u ta ta b l e l a m p More sustainable products The KAJUTA table lamp product sustainability performance uses 75% less material We want to make every product at IKEA our Sustainability Product Scorecard. The than its predecessor, The Sustainability Score Card more sustainable, without compromising scorecard is used to continually improve TALLVIK. It contains helps developers and technicians 35% reused or recycled assess and improve the sustainon price, quality, style, function, durability our product range, rather than as a tool ability of products. Criteria relate materials, is 100% and safety. to help us communicate with customers, recyclable and easily to how the product is designed and We aim to integrate sustainability into and the classification “more sustainable” stackable making it produced. each stage of product development, giving is an internal term that gives us a goal to more efficient to transport. Materials Guides explain the susco-workers the tools and information they aim for. tainability performance of individual need to create desirable products that are In FY13 we extended the timeline for materials and help product teams choose materials for new products high quality, low-cost and sustainable. this goal from 2015 to 2020 to better reor replace existing materials. By selecting materials that are better flect the long lead times involved in home The Resource Chain unit was initifor the environment, and integrating recyfurnishing product development. We also scores below average, we put an action ated in FY12 to support our use of cled materials into our product ranges, we set an intermediate goal to reach 70% of plan in place to improve its score or take recycled materials and tp reverse can reduce costs and avoid the impact of sales value from more sustainable prodthe decision not to include it in our range. material flows. rising material prices. ucts by 2017. We have now assessed 88% of prodThe Material Risk Council asProduct developers use the scorecard ucts in our current range, by sales value, sesses all potential new materials Sustainability product to assess a product’s sustainability peragainst the Scorecard. We made progress from a safety, quality and sustainability perspective. scorecard formance and to target areas for improvetowards our goal, with 39% of sales value Our goal is to get 90% of our sales value ment. As well as its overall score, each coming from products identified as more The Life Cycle Assessment Tool from more sustainable products by 2020. product is assessed on how it compares sustainable, compared with 35% in FY12. helps product developers to understand and compare the relative The products we define as “more sustainwith the average score for other prodWe’re providing training on sustainabilenvironmental performance of difable” are those that score over 120 on ucts in its category. If a new product ity and the Scorecard for product develferent materials. opers, technicians, category leaders and others. This improves awareness of the PEOPLE & PL A NET PERFORM A NCE i n FY 1 3 POS I T I VE TA RGETS Scorecard and helps co-workers use it tainability performance. from the earliest stage of the design proAll our home furnishing suppliers must cess and in their interactions with supplialso comply with IWAY, our supplier code All main home furnishing materials and 98% of home furnishing materials and packaging will be made from renewable, packaging were renewable, recyclable or ers. We have run training sessions with of conduct (see p. 63). recyclable (in at least one IKEA market recycled.* key suppliers to explain how the Scoreon an industrial scale) or recycled *We define materials as recyclable if they can be recycled on an industrial scale in at least one of our major card works. materials by FY15. retail markets. We keep the Scorecard under review and update it regularly, making sure it reBy FY20*, 90% of total sales value will 39% of sales value came from products come from home furnishing products identified as more sustainable. flects best practices. classified as more sustainable according Our Scorecard is just one of the tools to our Sustainability Product Scorecard. and management processes that support * Revised from FY15. our co-workers to improve product susContent s > Introduc tion > A more sustainable life at home > Resource and energy independence > A bet ter life for people and communities > Governance and ethics > Per formance towards targets 3 3 r esourc e and energ y independenc e O u r S u s tai n a b i l i t y More sustainable materials materials as recyclable if they can be reProduc t Scor ec ar d Durability Materials from more sustainable cycled on an industrial scale in at least one We want our products to be functional and sources of our major retail markets. We design our 1 . More from less (using fewer well made and give long-term enjoyment. materials in the product) We encourage product developers to seproducts to be long-lasting and we anticiThis is better for the environment and for 2 . Renewable materials lect materials from more sustainable pate that by the end of their life, recycling our customers. We know there is always 3 . Reused and Recycled materials sources. These include timber certified by facilities already available in one country 4 . Material from more sustainable more we can do to ensure our products the Forest Stewardship Council (see p. 22), will have spread to others. We’re also besources have the durability that suits their purBetter Cotton (see p. 27), segregated cerginning to set up a number of projects to 5 . Recyclability at end of life pose, especially as new techniques are tified RSPO palm oil (see p. 29), recycled increase recycling of our products (see p. 6 . Quality discovered. All IKEA products are tested wood and lyocell, an alternative to cotton 44). “Main materials” are defined as all 7. Transport efficient (number of for durability before they go on sale and products per container) made from wood fibres. materials except additives, lacquering or are regularly tested once they become 8 . Energy use in production Business areas identify new materials other extra substances that would finish, part of our range. This includes mechani9. Renewable energy in production with improved environmental credentials. glue or surface-treat a product. 10 . Raw-material utilisation cal tests for products like sofas and chairs, These are reviewed by our Materials Risk We aim for 50% of all non-renewable 11 . Sustainable life at home and wear and colour-fastness tests for Council and if they meet our standards are materials, including plastic, used in our (products that enable our textiles. We also assess quality as part of classified as a material from a more susproducts to be from recycled sources by customers to reduce energy and the Sustainability Score Card by monitorwater use, or reduce waste in tainable source. the end of FY17. This will include a signifitheir homes) ing the number of customer product recant increase in the use of recycled plastic turns. We’re confident about the quality Renewable, recyclable and recycled that currently accounts for just 5%* of the of our products and that’s why we offer materials plastic we use in our products and packthat include renewable materials and we extended guarantees (up to 25 years) on a Our goal is that all the main materials in aging. Products that are now made from have introduced new requirements for the number of items, including kitchens, some our home furnishing products will be re100% recycled plastic include our SKARPÖ use of foam that mean product developers of our mattresses, taps, knives and pans. newable, recyclable or recycled by FY15 armchair and RUNNEN floor decking. must remove or reduce foam where possi— we reached 98% in FY13. We define These goals encourage innovation when ble, and select foam containing renewable Efficiency looking for new materials, such as replacematerial where available. However, reducMaking more from less has always been ments for polyurethane foam. ing the overall amount of foam used repart of the way we work at IKEA. We’re There are three significant materials mains a challenge, especially as our sales always looking for ways to use fewer reRenewable, rec yclable in our ranges that are not renewable nor volumes increase. sources by improving our processes and and r e c yc le d mat e rial s* in home furnishing widely recycled. These are polyurethane We’re reducing and replacing silicone creating brilliant designs that require less products foam (mainly used in our mattresses and where possible, and also sourcing recycled material. sofas), silicone (used in food storage prodsilicone where available. Silicone must For example, together with IKEA prod2011 > 88% ucts) and melamine (used in plastic tablebe separable from other materials in our uct developers, IKEA Industry Group has 2012 > 91% ware and food storage products). Melaproducts to enable future recycling. been exploring ways to save resources 2013 > 98% mine will be phased out from all products and reduce transportation costs, CO2 * In the FY12 report we stated a figure of 10% for the reGOAL 2015 > 100% by FY15. cycled plastic we use. That figure excluded packaging and emissions and waste by developing solusome products containing plastics such as carpets. The We use polyurethane foam because it is comparable figure for FY13 is 11% recycled materials. tions that provide the best customer value * These are main materials, defined as all materiflexible, comfortable, low cost and durawhile using the most sustainable raw maals except additives, lacquering or other finishing substances. ble. We have developed new types of foam terials, designs and processes. Content s > Introduc tion > A more sustainable life at home > Resource and energy independence > A bet ter life for people and communities > Governance and ethics > Per formance towards targets 3 4 r esourc e and energ y independenc e We’re now using dual-density particle board in products like kitchen doors. It Meeting the challenge to concentrates the particles where strength shrink our environmental is needed most, such as for hinges and footprint handles. This means approximately 20% By setting our own goals for susless material is used without compromistainability, we can have a positive ing quality and the products are lighter, influence on our suppliers too. reducing transport impacts and enabling Until recently we used thousands lower prices. of tonnes of plastic shrink film In FY13 we introduced dual density parwhich was difficult to recycle. We ticle board in France and Germany and inchallenged our shrink film suppliers to find a solution — and with creased its use in Sweden. This prevented our support, they did. New types some 15,000 tonnes of new wood from of film now in use are not only stronger but also use less plastic being harvested, transported and manuand can be recycled to be used factured. again as a raw material. New sources of materials Greening the textile By collecting and recycling materials we can create a new source of quality raw dyeing process materials for use in our products, while well as improving the efficiency of collectreducing costs and avoiding waste. This ing and transporting the wrapping. Further is known as closing the loop. We have pilot recycling projects are underway with Sometimes a new technology has which is recycled in the process. great potential but needs investment Together with partner investors launched Resource Chain, a two-year proother materials, including polypropylene to get off the ground. That’s why we NIKE Inc., we’re helping to speed ject to develop a framework for how IKEA and corrugated cardboard packaging. set up IKEA GreenTech. It supports development and availability of the should work with recycled materials. Some of our product development start-up technologies that can help technology for dyeing polyester and During FY13 we ran projects to underteams and category leaders are now exmake our business more sustainable. cotton. This will mean textiles that are In FY13, IKEA GreenTech invested better for the environment and the stand more about how closed loop reploring how we can integrate the use of in DyeCoo Textile Systems, a Dutch communities where we work, creating source chains should be set up and manmaterials that have already been used company that has developed the first a more sustainable everyday life for once in our development process. We’re aged. One effort focused on polyethylene commercially available waterless dyeeveryone. ing technology. IKEA GreenTech is an investment plastic wrapping which was collected from also working with suppliers to explore The textile industry uses large company, fully owned by the IKEA stores, recycled and used as a raw matenew opportunities and technologies which amounts of water and chemicals to Group with 500 million SEK (approxirial to make PRÖJS, a desk pad. could improve recycling. Some key chaldye fabrics, which can lead to pollumately €60 million) of capital. It has tion and contribute to water scarcity. already committed €12 million as inWe discovered the recycled wrapping lenges remain and we’re just at the beDyeCoo’s technology avoids using the vestments in companies working with is a viable raw material that costs less ginning of finding out how to involve cuslarge amounts of water and chemiclean technology, energy management than buying virgin or recycled material tomers and incentivise them to bring back cals needed for traditional dyeing, by and vegetarian food, and a clean techfrom other sources. We also learned about old products for recycling, as well as how instead using carbon dioxide (CO2), nology venture capital fund. practicalities, such as keeping the mateto create closed loop resource chains for rial clean in store and at our supplier, as materials such as wood, foam and textiles. Content s > Introduc tion > A more sustainable life at home > Resource and energy independence > A bet ter life for people and communities > Governance and ethics > Per formance towards targets 3 5 r esourc e and energ y independenc e Product safety • Seasonal lighting for outdoor use in effects of the plastic additive Bisphenol A We have a rigorous product safety proJapan and China, because they were sup(BPA). Although no health impacts have cess based on national and international plied with a transformer for indoor use been proven, we do not use BPA in any legislation and safety standards. Products only, creating a risk of electric shock if exproducts that come into contact with food, are safety tested during development and posed to water. including our children’s plates, bowls and production, and once they’re on sale. We issued additional information for cutlery. Co-workers have a duty to report safethe following products, which were not reHere are some additional examples of ty-related incidents or concerns through called: actions we’ve taken to phase out chemiour global safety alarm system. We train • HENSVIK cots in Japan were found to cals that could potentially be harmful to co-workers in our stores on our product be unstable when assembled according to people and the environment: safety and compliance alarm process, instructions. Additional information was • Lead in components phased out in while our Product Safety and Compliance provided for customers in-store and on 2009 School enables different functions across our website. • Polycarbonates in food contact artiIKEA to identify, investigate and prevent • A warning label with additional safecles and children´s products phased out in safety issues. A central team monitors and ty information was added to SMILA wall 2009 investigates all reports and can stop sales mounted lamps to help customers prevent • Brominated flame retardants phased of a product immediately if needed. We strangulation risks from the lamp’s cord. out in 1998 set the threshold for reporting very low so • Azocolours in textiles phased out in that we do not miss any potential risks. Chemicals 1995 If a decision is made to recall a prodWe aim to avoid using chemicals that could • Polyvinyl chloride (PVC) phased out in uct for safety or compliance reasons, we potentially be harmful to people and the 1991 (exception: electrical cords) communicate the recall widely through our environment, and we always try to select stores, internet sites, press releases, our materials, surface treatments and producinternal newsletter, social media sites and tion techniques with the lowest possible our IKEA FAMILY network. We work closely emissions. We comply with the strictest with suppliers to investigate why the issue laws and regulations in all our markets, has occurred and to prevent a similar situand when one country tightens its rules, ation from happening again. we introduce these new regulations in all We have 9,500 products in our range. IKEA markets if applicable. In FY13, the following products were reWe launched a new Chemical Strategy called: in FY13 which will be implemented across • KRITTER and SNIGLAR children’s all IKEA markets. It will enable us to take a beds, due to cases where the metal rod lead on identifying and phasing out chemiconnecting the guardrail to the bed frame cals and delivering products that minimise broke, creating a laceration hazard. effects on health and the environment. • LYDA cups, following reports of hot liqWe take a precautionary approach uids causing the cups to break, creating a where possible. For example, some people burn hazard. are concerned about the potential health Content s > Introduc tion > A more sustainable life at home > Resource and energy independence > A bet ter life for people and communities > Governance and ethics > Per formance towards targets 3 6 r esourc e and energ y independenc e PEOPLE & PL A NET PERFORM A NCE i n FY1 3 POS I T I VE TA RGETS More sustainable buildings and transport By the end of FY15, we will produced renewable energy equivalent to at least Produced renewable energy equivalent to 37% of our total energy consumption 70% of our energy consumption, and by (34% in FY12). the end of FY20 we, on Group level, will Our goal is to become energy independthat consume energy) contribute most produce as much renewable energy as all the energy we consume. ent by investing in renewable energy and to our total carbon footprint. That’s why improving energy efficiency at all our locawe’re: Become 20% more energy efficient in Energy efficiency increased by 8% in tions. We’re also working hard to reduce, • Increasing our share of materials from our own operations by the end of FY15, stores, 9% in distribution centres and reuse and recycle waste and reduce water more sustainable sources (p. 33). compared to FY10. 14% in the IKEA Industry Group Solid use. Using fewer resources is better for • Working with suppliers to improve their Wood & Flatline Division and 10% in the IKEA Industry Group Board Division, the environment and helps us lower costs environmental performance (p. 46). compared with FY10. for our customers. • Designing more sustainable products (p. 32). By the end of FY15, reduce carbon Carbon emissions (relative to sales) Carbon footprint • Offering products and services that emissions from our own operations reduced by 19.3% compared with FY10. In FY13 we developed a new model for enable customers to save or generate enby 50% compared to FY10 (in relative terms). calculating our total carbon footprint, from ergy at home (p. 14). raw material to product end-of-life, which IKEA buildings and co-worker commutBy the end of FY16, reduce transportReduced CO2 emissions from transport showed our total footprint was 28 million ing contribute a smaller share to our carrelated carbon emissions by 20%, by 10.5% per m3 of products shipped tonnes of CO2. The model will help us to bon footprint, but this is where we have compared with FY11. compared with FY11. better identify materials with a high cardirect control and we work hard to make bon impact and to target reduction efforts. our operations more carbon efficient. Strive for zero waste to landfill wherever 11% of waste was sent to landfill and Raw material production, product manIn FY13, our carbon efficiency stayed possible, with a minimum of 90% of the we recycled 87% of the waste from our waste from our stores and other IKEA operations. ufacturing and product use (of products roughly stable at 27.6 kg CO2 per m3 of operations sorted for recycling by the end products sold, 19.3% below our FY10 of FY15. baseline. Carbon efficiency improved in our stores by 3% compared with FY12 due to improved energy efficiency and infacilities, of electricity with lower shares of boiler, and due to the very low gas prices creased production of renewable energy renewable sources. in Russia, conversion to biomass is ecofrom PV installations. However, carbon efAbsolute carbon emissions increased nomically prohibitive under normal investficiency decreased in our Industry Group by 7.7% compared with FY12 to 769,427 ment criteria. However, given that the site compared with FY12 due to increased protonnes. The increase was mainly due to represents a significant share of our enduction of HDF (high density fibreboard), increased energy consumption as a result ergy use, we are now looking to find other which requires more energy to produce of expanding our business. We opened five financing solutions to make the conversion than standard particle board; the acquisinew stores and also acquired one Industry possible. tion of a facility in Russia with a gas boiler; Group facility in Novgorod, Russia, which Read about efforts to reduce the carbon increased in-house production of compocontributed significantly to the increase. footprint of customers travelling to and nents; and the purchase, at some of our The Novgorod facility is powered by a gas from our stores on p. 42. Content s > Introduc tion > A more sustainable life at home > Resource and energy independence > A bet ter life for people and communities > Governance and ethics > Per formance towards targets 3 7 r esourc e and energ y independenc e IKEA carbon footprint FY13 – from raw materials to product end-of-life (tonnes CO2) Raw materials 13,404,000 Production and distribution 3,802,000 Suppliers 2,753,000 Home furnishing, catalogue and food suppliers Goods transport 997,000 IKEA carbon footprint (tonnes CO2) Excludes customer delivery suppliers Business travel 52,000 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions FY13 IKEA 878,000 Scope 1 (IKEA owned energy 132,200 C A RBON EFF I C I ENCY: generation from gas, biomass and oil c arbon footpr int Buildings 769,000 boilers and diesel generators) per produc t sol d Co-worker commuting 109,000 ( k g / CO 2 /m 3 ) Scope 2 (purchased electricity and 637,200 Customers 9,481,000 district heat) Transportation to stores 2,309,000 Total of scope 1 and 2 769,400 Product use 7,172,000 Scope 3 (raw materials production, 27,503,600 FY12 figure used as we’re in the emissions from suppliers, goods FY13 27.6 process of developing a new transport, business travel, employee model to estimate this figure FY12 27.0 commuting, customer transportation, Products’ end-of-life 708,000 product use and product end of life FY11 34.4 Total 28,273,000 Total of scope 1,2 and 3 28,273,000 FY10 34.3 Carbon efficiency FY11 FY12 FY13 GOAL (% improvement against FY10 baseline) Scope 1 and 2 emissions – IKEA FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 buildings (tonnes of CO2) Stores 9.5 26.9 29.1 50.0 Stores 435,344 428,997 353,809 359,990 Distribution centres 10.7 38.4 32.0 50.0 Distribution centres 47,999 45,151 31,451 35,113 IKEA Industry Group Solid Wood -9.4 8.9 2.7 50.0 & Flatline Division IKEA Industry Group Solid Wood & 246,277 287,907 245,688 272,875 Flatline Division IKEA Industry Group Board 25.0 15.0 50.0 Division IKEA Industry Group Board Division 83,835 92,770 78,537 96,865 The base year for Board Division is FY11 IKEA Components 819* IKEA Components 50.0 The base year for IKEA Components is 2012 Offices 4,730 4,791 4,641 3,766 Total -0.4 21.3 19.3 Total 818,185 859,616 714,126 769,427 * IKEA Components data is reported for the calendar year 2012. Content s > Introduc tion > A more sustainable life at home > Resource and energy independence > A bet ter life for people and communities > Governance and ethics > Per formance towards targets 3 8 r esourc e and energ y independenc e “Climate change is one of the greatest challenges facing society and IKEA wants to be part of the solution. We have always looked for ways to do things differently and innovation is a key component to achieve our ambitious goals to become energy and resource independent and to help our customers to live a more sustainable life at home. Today we are transforming the way we generate and use energy, the way we make our products and the materials we use. Using innovation, we are accelerating development of af“Climate change is a global chalfordable products that help peolenge that requires every indiple to save and generate energy, vidual consumer’s participation. save water and turn waste into a IKEA is strongly positioned to resource in the home. The scale mobilise its customers’ efforts of the challenge is great, but by and aspirations to help fight this innovating and working together global challenge. With its broad with our partners, I am certain and deep reach to consumers’ IKEA can make a difference.” lives and work, IKEA and its products carry a clear message that a Håkan Nordkvist, clean revolution is the only future Head of Sustainability Innovation, we want and such a future is posIKEA Group sible with renewable energy and resources that can be recycled and reused. IKEA’s aim to have a positive impact by improving people’s quality of life and supporting a world that prospers within the limits of one planet is unique and well-established. This approach demonstrates the depth and breadth of IKEA’s understanding and knowledge of sustainability and it is clearly a core part of its corporate strategy. As a leadership company, IKEA will continue to aim high with its efforts. To achieve its goals, innovation has to become a critical part of the strategy.” Changhua Wu, Greater China Director, The Climate Group Content s > Introduc tion > A more sustainable life at home > Resource and energy independence > A bet ter life for people and communities > Governance and ethics > Per formance towards targets 3 9 r esourc e and energ y independenc e Energy efficient buildings reduce our capital costs and energy conEnergy efficiency was improved by 8% in sumption. Reducing our energy consumpstores, 9% in distribution centres and 14% tion is about the big investments, but also in the IKEA Industry Group Solid Wood & the changes we make to how we run our Flatline Division and 10% in the IKEA Inbusiness every day. dustry Group Board Division, compared We’re rolling out energy efficient lightwith FY10. Since FY10 we have saved €40 ing, including LED lighting, to around 200 million through energy efficiency efforts in of our stores and other facilities. So far our stores and distribution centres alone. we‘ve invested €17 million to change the Each store has its own energy goal and lighting in 50 stores, creating an energy we review progress towards this every two saving of around 10%. Learning from the months. In many countries energy confirst stage of the roll out, we’ve now idensumption is one of the measures used in tified a more cost and energy efficient assessing overall store performance. Anlighting solution. Using this solution, we’ll nual energy goals are set for our distribuinvest €83 million, or around €700,000 per tion centres too. store, to change the lighting in the remainThe IKEA Energy Model enables our ing stores. This will deliver a €120,000 cost store designers to understand the impact and 15% energy saving per store. When of different heating, cooling, lighting and complete, we expect the €100 million inenergy systems and to integrate energy vestment to deliver an annual cost savings Testing the efficiency and renewable energy into store of €15 million. design and upgrades. The model has been We’re also installing more energy ef“sustainable store” used for around 60 projects globally and ficient ventilation systems in 63 of our is integrated into the design process. By in-store kitchens which will save enough We have set ourselves the challenge tainable building materials, reducing using the tool, our store designers have electricity to cover the annual consumpthat every new IKEA store will be waste and CO2 emissions, offering more sustainable than the last one healthy and inspiring places for our identified technical solutions which help us tion of two stores. built. And because our long-term co-workers to work in and bringing strategic direction — “Growing IKEA positive benefits to local communities – Together 2020” — means we’ll have by establishing long-term partnerEnergy efficiency FY11 FY12 FY13 GOAL many new IKEA stores by 2020, we ships with suppliers, entrepreneurs (% decrease against FY10 baseline*) FY15 have put our innovative thinking to and NGOs. Factors relating to store Stores 4.4 7.9 8 20 work on our “Sustainable Store” prolocation, accessibility and operations ject. will be addressed to provide a shopDistribution centres 19 18.4 9 20 In FY13, co-workers who specialise ping experience with sustainability at IKEA Industry Group Solid Wood & -7.6 14.2 14.1 20 in sustainable buildings, materials and its core. Flatline Division architecture, urban living and mobility, Following our “Sustainable Store” met with other sustainability specialproject directive, we will build two test IKEA Industry Group Board Division 15 10 20 The base year for Board Division is FY11 ists for creative workshops. stores — one in Germany and one in They established 12 principles for Japan — due to open in 2016. What we IKEA Components 20 what a sustainable store should be learn there will help us do better as we The base year for IKEA Components is 2012 like, including using the most susgrow globally. * Data shown shows the change against a FY10 baseline (rather than a FY05 baseline for our previous target), in line with our new target in this area. Content s > Introduc tion > A more sustainable life at home > Resource and energy independence > A bet ter life for people and communities > Governance and ethics > Per formance towards targets 4 0 r esourc e and energ y independenc e Investing in renewable energy sumption (34% in FY12). In addition, IKEA We want to be a leader in using renewIndustry Group Solid Wood & Flatline Diviable energy and we’re investing €1.5 bilsion made 691,536 MWh worth of waste lion in renewable energy projects by 2015. wood pellets and briquettes that we sold We have already installed around 550,000 to others. We also purchased 1,087 GWh photovoltaic (PV) panels on more than 100 of renewable electricity from the grid. stores and other buildings in nine counRenewable energy accounts for 61% of tries, and we have 96 wind turbines in opthe total energy (electricity and heat) used eration in seven countries. We have comby the IKEA Industry Group. Eighty-two mitted to own and operate an additional per cent of IKEA Industry Group’s heat 41 wind turbines, which will bring the total energy comes from renewable sources. to 137 turbines. We use some of the elecThe heat is mainly used to dry wood flakes New renewable tricity we generate from our PV installaused to make particle board. We installed tions and wind turbines and sell some to a new biomass boiler at a wood board proenergy projects the grid. duction site in Sweden and are working In FY13, we produced renewable energy towards converting all our boilers to bioOn-site projects in FY13 Off-site projects in FY13 equivalent to 37% of our total energy conmass. • Installed thin-film solar panels • Invested in a new wind farm in on the roofs of five IKEA stores Rämsberget, Sweden with seven in China where they will provide turbines that will produce 72 GWh Renewable energy produced by type FY12 FY13 10-15% of the buildings’ elecper year, enough to run about Wind (GWh) 290 298 tricity needs. The IKEA Beijing 16,000 homes a year. Having store’s panels will generate about invested in three wind farms in Solar PV (GWh) 29 68 452,000 kWh a year, meeting 5% Sweden with a total of 46 turBiomass (GWh) 899 1,059 of the store’s electricity needs and bines, as of 2015 the IKEA Group reducing CO2 emissions by around will produce enough electricity to Total (GWh) 1,218 1,425 386 tonnes per year. power all IKEA stores and facilities Percentage of total energy consumption (%) 34% 37% in Sweden. • Doubled the number of PV panels on the roof of our Denver, Colo• Opened a 26-megawatt wind farm Renewable energy (purchased electricity FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 rado store in the USA, boosting in Rymanów, south-east Poland — and on site generation) as % of total its generating capacity to 961,000 13 turbines will produce up to 61 consumption* kWh per year, 12% of the store’s GWh a year. Stores 35 41 48 50 electricity needs. At our Charlotte store in North Carolina, 11,334 m2 • Invested in a new wind farm in Distribution centres 34 39 51 54 of PV panels generate 1,330,000 Ireland with expected annual IKEA Industry Group Solid Wood & Flatline 58 61 60 55 kWh of clean electricity annually production of 25GWh — enough to Division (that’s 28% of the store’s elecpower 5,500 homes a year. IKEA Industry Group Board Division 62 62 67 66 tricity needs). The installation reduces CO2 emissions by 938 IKEA Components 49 tonnes each year — equivalent to Total 47 51 56 56 taking 195 cars off the road. * Historical data revised for some years due to consolidation of data. Content s > Introduc tion > A more sustainable life at home > Resource and energy independence > A bet ter life for people and communities > Governance and ethics > Per formance towards targets 4 1 r esourc e and energ y independenc e In FY13 we opened a quilt and pilTransport efficient vehicles, and to explore the use achieve 70% by FY14 for inbound translow filling station at our distribution Around 3.5% of our total carbon footprint of more sustainable fuels, with a focus on port (suppliers to distribution centres). centre in Valls, Spain. Filling matecomes from the energy used to transport road transport and customer home deliv• Overall we reduced CO2 per cubic merial and textile covers are delivered to the station where they’re made our products and 8.5% from customer and eries in big cities. tre of products transported by 3.5%, cominto finished products. Transportco-worker travel. • Working with partners like BSR, a suspared with FY12. ing raw materials separately and tainable business membership organisaWe’re exploring new ways to cut carbon finishing the quilts and pillows closer to where they’re sold in this way Product transport tion, Green Freight Europe and Green emissions from shunting trucks used to is more efficient than transporting Our products are moved from suppliers to Freight Asia, to develop a common methmove shipping containers and trailers, and finished products from the supplier, distribution centres and direct to stores by odology for measuring CO2 and other forklift trucks that move products around saving 2,000 tonnes of CO2 per year and enabling us to reduce the price our service providers using road, rail and transport emissions. We work together to our warehouses. These account for around of the pillows and quilts by 9%. sea. Our home delivery service is planned formulate common approaches to public 10% of all CO2 emissions from our distriand operated by service providers. Efpolicy, fuel consumption, CO2 reduction bution centres. Our warehouse in Lyon, ficient packing and packaging design is strategies and use of alternative fuels. France, is one of the first in Europe to inimportant because the more products we • In FY13, we increased volumes per troduce forklift trucks powered by hydroload into each container, the fewer trucks shipment by 1.7% compared with FY12 gen fuel cells. The hydrogen is produced and ships we need, reducing CO2 emisdue to the use of larger equipment, imwith zero CO2 emissions, either by using sions. proved packaging and loading solutions. renewable energy or by capturing the We design our product range and trans• A higher filling rate means less space CO2 during production. In California, USA, port network to minimise the shipments is wasted in each shipment. Our filling rate we’re testing the viability of an electric needed and reduce transport distances. remained flat at 62% and our goal is to shunting vehicle. Smart and efficient transport is an essential component of the IKEA business idea and prioritized at every stage. We’re on Transport of products FY12 FY13 goal track to meet our ambitious CO2 reduction 2016 targets for transport, such as reducing Increase in cubic metres of products per shipment 2.5% 1.7% CO2 per cubic metre of products transport(m3/shipment) compared with the previous year ed by 20% by FY16, compared with FY11. Reduction in CO2 per cubic metre of products 7.3% 10.5% 20% transported (CO2 grams/m3) compared with FY11 We focus on: % of products delivered directly from supplier to stores 56% 60% • Optimising our ordering process, equipment, products, packaging and filling rates so more products can fit into each Fi l l i n g r at e f o r t r a n s p o r t o f p r o d u c t s (%) * load and fewer shipments are needed. • Increasing the use of rail and sea transport, a lower CO2 emissions alternaFY13 62 tive to road transport. FY12 62* • Co-operating with transport suppliFY11 64 * In FY13 we changed our method ers to increase the use of modern, fuelof calculating filling rates and have FY10 63 recalculated the data for FY12. Content s > Introduc tion > A more sustainable life at home > Resource and energy independence > A bet ter life for people and communities > Governance and ethics > Per formance towards targets 4 2 r esourc e and energ y independenc e business travel FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 Number of web and phone meetings * 82,434 104,920 146,015 189,416 Number of hours of video meetings 760 2,800 6,900 12,407 Business travel expenditure index (travel 67 66 72 63 costs in relation to sales: FY07 = 100) IKEA sites with video conference facilities 70 110 130 * In 2011 we incorrectly reported the number of web and phone meetings as the number of web and video meetings. Co-worker meetings and travel meet our environmental standards. We encourage co-workers to reduce travel, for example by using web, phone or Customer travel video for meetings. We now have 130 vidMillions of customers visit our stores every eo meeting facilities installed at IKEA sites year, often travelling by car. This increases worldwide, but we know there’s more to do traffic, affecting local communities and to create a culture of using video meetings increasing CO2 emissions. Furthermore, Promoting the use of to replace travel. We’ve seen a 30% inthe trend towards rising fuel prices and crease in virtual meetings since FY12. This decreasing car ownership in urban areas electric vehicles has enabled us to reduce business travel will reduce our customers’ ability to visit costs relative to sales by 37% compared our stores. Electric vehicles (EV) may not be the electric vehicle charging stations in to our FY07 baseline. This contributed to That’s why we want to offer our customright solution for everyone, but we partnership with ECOtality. travel costs being €5 million less in FY13 ers a range of more sustainable travel to believe they’re a great way to travel In France, Europe’s leading marto and from IKEA and we want to ket for electric cars, we’ve installed than in FY07, despite significant growth in and from our stores. encourage more visitors to travel to free-to-use fast-charge stations where our business since then. As well as helpNearly all our stores are accessible by our stores this way. This is why we’re most electric cars will charge within 30 ing to reduce costs and environmental impublic transport, and this is always a criteinstalling charging points at many of minutes, enabling customers to charge pacts, using web, phone or video for meetrion when we select sites for new stores. our stores, and as we increase the while they shop and to travel longer share of energy that we use from distances at no cost. Conventional ings can help improve work-life-balance Around two thirds of our stores display lorenewable sources, the electricity we charging takes eight hours. for co-workers by avoiding travel time. cal public transport information, such as use to charge our customers’ cars will Around 60% of Parisians neither When travel is unavoidable, our online timetables, and many publicise an affordbecome greener too. own nor have easy access to a car. Around a quarter of IKEA stores We’re exploring how we can make it booking tools and green meeting guideable home delivery service. have installed EV charge points for convenient to hire a car when they lines assist co-workers to select more susApproximately 15% of our stores offer customers, with around 15% of IKEA visit our stores. We’re partnering with tainable transport and meeting options. IKEA shuttles and promote car sharing/car stores having fast EV charge points on Hertz On Demand 24/7 and Nissan to site for customers, a figure we expect provide 24/7 self-service electric vehiWe’ve updated the information on IKEA clubs for customers, and a quarter provide to rise as we continue to invest in EV cle hire at six stores in Île-de-France. Inside (our co-worker intranet) to encourcharging stations for electric vehicles (see infrastructure. We have been testing By the end of FY20, our goal is to age the use of public transport whenever Promoting the use of electric vehicles, charging posts at stores in France, make 50% of home deliveries in ten of possible. Sustainability is a key criterion in left). Use of more sustainable travel opGermany, Italy, Sweden, the UK and the biggest cities with vehicles using the USA. At our stores and head ofnon fossil fuels. selecting meeting and travel suppliers. tions is much higher in some countries and fice in the USA, we have installed 55 The “green leaf” symbol in our hotel we share this information with our store guide helps co-workers choose hotels that designers and managers worldwide. Content s > Introduc tion > A more sustainable life at home > Resource and energy independence > A bet ter life for people and communities > Governance and ethics > Per formance towards targets 4 3 r esourc e and energ y independenc e Principles of Water in our operations than conventional cotton on p. 27. Read Waste water positive Many parts of the world are suffering waabout how we’re working with our direct Most of our waste is generated from packter stress and scarcity. We aim to use wasuppliers to reduce their water use on p. We have committed to being “water aging and other materials used at our ter as efficiently as possible at our sites. 48 and about our solutions to enable cuspositive” by the end of FY20. We stores. We have high waste recycling and define water positive as helping to In FY13, we mapped local water availabiltomers to use less water at home on p. 15. increase the availability of clean recovery rates but we want to go further ity in our supply chain and risks using the In FY13, total water use in IKEA buildwater where we operate. and send no waste to landfill. We have Aqueduct tool from the World Resources ings decreased by 12.8%, compared with set the goal of at least 90% of the waste We focus on those areas where we Institute (WRI). This identified a number FY12. We believe this decrease is due to can have the greatest impact in our from our stores and other operations to be of our own stores and distribution centres incomplete data for our stores rather than value chain by: sorted for recycling and energy recovery in areas of high or very high water scarcity progress in reducing water consumption. by FY15. • Ensuring we use water and we will use the findings to target water We’re working to improve the data collecefficiently in our own operations Thirteen out of 44 of our IKEA Industry efficiency projects. tion process to improve data quality. and in our supply chain. Group factories have exceeded this target • Improving water quality directly In FY13 we developed a model to calcuWater used for solid wood and board by sorting all their waste for recycling or and in our supply chain to late our total footprint which will enable us material-based furniture production at ensure the water we discharge energy recovery. They’re sharing their exto better identify the materials and locaIKEA Industry Group decreased by 10% is at least as clean as when it pertise with others to support waste rewas extracted. tions with the greatest impact. The model compared with FY12. For board production • Helping our customers to duction worldwide. showed that across our extended supply we achieved a 9% decrease, compared reduce their use of water by All stores sort materials such as cardchain we use 770 million m3 of water. The with FY12. developing and promoting board, glass, metal, paper, plastic and innovative and affordable largest share of water in our extended We’re studying ways to reduce our waproducts. wood for recycling. We’re conducting trisupply chain is used for the production ter footprint in our distribution centres. We • Collaborating with others to als to assess whether some waste streams of raw materials, particularly cotton. You missed our FY13 goal to reduce water use create the conditions that can be recycled into new sources of mateprovide sustainable clean can read about our efforts to increase our by 15% (on a 2010 baseline), achieving a water supplies for people and rial for our products. share of cotton from more sustainable 12% reduction. communities. In the majority of the countries where sources which is grown using less water we have stores, food waste from customer restaurants and co-worker canteens is sorted for composting or sent to a third party that turns it into biogas that can be Water use by IKEA FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 units (m3) used to fuel cars and buses, or as animal feed. The majority of countries met the Stores1 3,927,551 4,438,075 4,608,175 3,853,637 goal of no food waste to landfill or incinerDistribution centres 265,524 228,772 223,292 224,430 ation. However, in the USA and Russia we IKEA Industry Group Solid 483,096 510,742 542,595 505,220 Wood & Flatline Division did not find suitable alternatives to landfill for our food waste and we’re working to IKEA Industry Group 283,277 503,8612 773,226 775,130 Board Division address this. In FY13 we launched a set of IKEA Components 4,830 guidelines on food waste for stores. Total 4,959,448 5,681,450 6,147,288 5,363,247 Whenever possible, we avoid products 1 Data excludes stores in Belgium and the USA. going to waste in our stores. Products re2 Data for water use at Board Division in FY11 has been restated due to a mistake in reporting. turned by customers or damaged before Content s > Introduc tion > A more sustainable life at home > Resource and energy independence > A bet ter life for people and communities > Governance and ethics > Per formance towards targets 4 4 r esourc e and energ y independenc e being sold are repaired and sold for disin furniture-production units (measured Wa s t e p r o d u c e d H o w wa s t e i s i n FY 1 3 (%) d i s p o s e d o f (%) counted prices in our As-is department in kg of waste/m2 product produced) and in store. In more than half our stores, we 2% less in board-production units (meashave also installed repackaging machines ured in kg of waste/m3 boards produced). to make it easier to repack and sell perfect We’re working to improve the quality of products with damaged packaging, rather the waste data collected from our stores. than selling at a discount or discarding. We In some of our stores we provide pubplan to install repackaging machines at all lic recycling points, enabling customers to Stores 79% Share of total waste 87% our larger stores and will include the sysreturn batteries, light bulbs and appliances recycled and energy tem in every new store. In FY13, through when they visit the store. These are recyDistribution centres 9% recovered IKEA Industry Group 6% As-is and by using repackaging machines, cled or disposed of by specialists. Share of total waste 11% Solid Wood & Flatto landfill we gave a second life to almost 70% of line Division Share of total waste 2% products that were returned by customExamples of how we’re tackling waste at IKEA Industry Group 6% Board Division incinerated without ers, damaged before being sold, or had our stores include: energy generation damaged packaging (measured by sales • The “Second life for furniture” camIKEA Components 0,3% value). As well as being better for the enpaign in France, which encourages cusWaste recycling rate (% total amount FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 vironment, this generated more than €320 tomers to bring back used and no longwaste recycled or energy recovered)1 million in revenue. er wanted IKEA furniture to be resold in Stores 84 86 88 89 In FY13, 87% of our waste was sorted store. The two-month pilot has been very Distribution centres 91 90 94 95 for recycling or energy recovery, comsuccessful and 24 of the 28 stores have pared with 86% in FY12. In FY14 we’ll chosen to continue offering the service. IKEA Industry Group Solid Wood & Flatline 58 80 90 92 Division2 begin reporting separate data for waste • Our stores in Scotland participate in IKEA Industry Group Board Division 86 64 40 36 sorted for recycling and waste sorted for Zero Waste Scotland, a government proIKEA Components 98 energy recovery. We generated 1.8% gramme which gives customers who remore waste than in FY12. The changes in cycle glass, plastic or aluminium drinks Total 82 85 86 87 our total waste and recycling rate are due containers through one of our “reverse 1 Excludes waste wood used for energy recovery or reused in products. 2 In 2012 we restated previous reported data to exclude waste wood. to uncertainties in data from our stores vending” machines a voucher to redeem and a new board manufacturing unit in in store, or the opportunity to make a doWaste produced, tonnes* FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 our Industry Group beginning production nation to one of the store’s selected chariStores 279,778 307,877 335,167 338,463 during FY13. The manufacturing site has ties. Distribution centres 34,369 41,758 41,933 39,428 a gas, rather than biomass boiler, which means some of their wood waste is sent Putting waste wood to good use at IKEA Industry Group Solid Wood & 31,176 26,177 25,285 24,798 Flatline Division to landfill. Conversion of the boiler to biIKEA Industry Group IKEA Industry Group Board Division 10,015 24,621 21,996 23,946 omass is not economically viable under Manufacturing furniture can create a lot IKEA Components 1,391 normal investment criteria, but we are of waste wood. In FY13, IKEA Industry looking at alternative financing options to Group produced 952,357 tonnes of waste Total 355,338 400,433 424,381 428,026 make the conversion possible. Overall, our wood. Where possible, this is either re* Excludes waste wood used for energy recovery or reused in products. Industry Group generated 5% less waste used to produce new wood boards or Content s > Introduc tion > A more sustainable life at home > Resource and energy independence > A bet ter life for people and communities > Governance and ethics > Per formance towards targets 4 5 r esourc e and energ y independenc e sold to other companies as a raw mateat IKEA Industry, COLIGHT, will be prorial. If the waste is not suitable for reuse, duced in FY14. it’s burned in biomass boilers to generate Air emissions of formaldehyde from our heat or made into pellets and briquettes board factories are strictly monitored and that can be used as a renewable fuel by must be within our limit (max. 10mg/m3, other companies. Around 1% of the wood or 50% German TA Luft air limit of 20mg/ waste goes to landfill. In FY13, 99% of the m3). All existing Group factories comply. waste wood was reused or incinerated for At the recently acquired Russian plant, energy generation. 82% of heat needed we’re upgrading the emission controls by Industry Group sites was generated by and installing a new Wet Electrostatic Filbiomass boilers. ter (WESP) to further decrease emissions of dust, formaldehyde and other organics IKEA Industry Group chemical from the drying process. The WESP will be management operational in FY14. The IKEA Industry Group makes products In FY13 we reduced the use of all chemand product parts for IKEA. The Group icals in wood board production by 3% takes great care to manage, or find alter(compared with FY12). This avoids the use natives for, the potentially harmful chemiof around 5,000 tonnes of chemicals ancals it uses. nually. Making wood-based panels involves binding together layers of wood with glue that contains formaldehyde, which is controlled by law as it can cause health problems if people are exposed to it above safe levels. We have strict standards governing the use of formaldehyde. The IKEA Industry Group is taking the lead in this area by working to a limit of one third of the emission limits permitted by the EU and we set a requirement for our home furnishing suppliers of one half of the emissions limits permitted by the EU. We’re working to bring our newly-acquired factory in Russia within our standards. Our researchers are continuously looking for effective glues that do not use formaldehyde. The first successfully developed formaldehyde-free new product Content s > Introduc tion > A more sustainable life at home > Resource and energy independence > A bet ter life for people and communities > Governance and ethics > Per formance towards targets 4 6 r esourc e and energ y independenc e PEOPLE & PL A NET PERFORM A NCE i n FY1 3 POS I T I VE TA RGETS Energy and water in our supply chain Improve Supplier Sustainability Index score by 20% each year. Supplier Sustainability Index score increased by 30.8% compared with FY12. By the end of FY17 — 20% improvement Energy efficiency of direct suppliers Reducing energy and water use in our bine them to create an overall index score. in supplier energy efficiency from FY12 improved by 10% compared with FY12. own buildings is important, but we can Our goal is to improve the index score levels. make an even bigger difference by workby 20% every year from FY13 to FY15. We ing with suppliers to do the same. Reducexceeded this goal for FY12 with a 30.8% By the end of FY20 — home furnishing Suppliers 1.5% less water efficient ing water and fossil fuel use in the supply improvement compared with FY11. This suppliers will be 30% more water efficient compared with FY12. than in FY12. chain is good for the planet and can rereflects the work of our purchasing and duce costs for IKEA, our suppliers and our business teams who support suppliers By the end of FY15 — home furnishing Suppliers were 0.1% more carbon customers. We focus on: to develop and implement improvement suppliers will be 20% more carbon efficient than in FY12. Measuring suppliers’ sustainability perplans. efficient than in FY12. formance through the Supplier SustainWe use the Index results as part of our ability Index and using that data in our Product Sustainability Scorecard, which product development. helps us improve our product developEncouraging and enabling suppliers to ment (see p. 33). improve energy efficiency, use alternaIn FY13 the overall weighted Index intive fuels and generate renewable energy creased to 51 out of 100 compared with 51 49 49 through our Suppliers Go Renewable pro39 in FY12. Suppliers scored highest for 47 45 SUPPL I ER gramme. energy efficiency (see p. 47) and they im42 SUSTA I N A B I L I TY Supporting better water management proved by two points for both raw materi39 I NDE X ( i n d e x to reduce consumption, improve quality als and renewable energy. score, weighted by 34 produc tion volumes and increase recycling, focussing on the 32 32 32 33 o u t o f 10 0) water-intensive textiles sector. Supply chain — energy and carbon Supplier Sustainability Index Most of our value chain carbon emissions We use our Supplier Sustainability Index come from raw material extraction, proto measure and improve the environmenduction and distribution. Raw material FY13 FY12 FY11 tal performance of home furnishing supextraction by sub-suppliers is the most pliers. carbon-intensive part of our supply chain. Currently 95% of our suppliers parAmong our direct suppliers, the most carticipate in the Index. Each supplier is asbon intensive sectors are glass and textile Energy Renewable Raw Overall supplier sessed on energy-efficient production, production. use in energy materials sustainability production utilisation in renewable energy and raw material use. We collected carbon emissions data production We weight the results to reflect production from 95% of home furnishings suppliers in volumes for each supplier, and then com2012, and estimated the remainder. Content s > Introduc tion > A more sustainable life at home > Resource and energy independence > A bet ter life for people and communities > Governance and ethics > Per formance towards targets 4 7 r esourc e and energ y independenc e Suppliers go renewable are developed as part of each assessIKEA aims to take a lead in increasing enment, and are specific to the supplier and ergy efficiency while generating and usthe task. We support suppliers by covering ing renewable energy. We encourage our half of the cost of the initial assessment suppliers to do the same. Our Suppliers and by giving them access to energy speGo Renewable project supports supplicialists in each region. We will share what ers in improving their energy efficiency we have learned from the first 50 projects and boosting their use of renewable enwith our other suppliers. ergy. The project builds on what we learnt from our Supplier Energy Efficiency ProPerformance in FY13 ject, which involved 100 suppliers in joint During FY13, direct home furnishings projects. Suppliers Go Renewable includes suppliers improved energy efficiency by Working with suppliers on energy our work with all suppliers on energy man10.9%, reflecting our focus on improving agement through the Supplier Sustainabilsupplier energy management. — what we’ve learned ity Index. We also focus on suppliers with The proportion of renewable energy relatively high energy use who are considused by our suppliers increased slightly Improving energy efficiency isn’t alfinancing options, supported by ered priority suppliers and long-term partfrom 24.8% to 25.3%. This probably reways straightforward. During FY13 we IKEA, could help. ners of IKEA. flects changes in the mix of energy sourcran pilot projects with five suppliers in China, to understand what we can do Similar pilot projects are underWe’re running 50 collaborative projects es in national grids, rather than significant to support suppliers and discover the way in other countries. For example, with suppliers during FY14, and planning supplier investments in renewable energy. best ways for them to improve energy already during FY13, the learnings a further 50 for the following year. The Carbon efficiency of suppliers stayed efficiency and install renewable energy from these projects has highly influgeneration. The results from these enced the way we have developed projects include an initial energy audit and stable, despite improvements in energy projects have shown us that: Suppliers Go Renewable. We ran pilots assessment to identify opportunities for efficiency and renewable energy use. This with seven suppliers in Lithuania and improved energy management. Targets was due to more complete reporting of • Suppliers can improve their enerPoland helping them to identify reducgy efficiency by at least 10-20%. tion opportunities, understand cost • Suppliers need mainly technical savings and government subsidies, support — partnering with expert share efficient energy practices and Tier 1 Home Furnishing (HF) FY12 FY13 Result energy consultants and local enknowledge about renewable energy, supplier energy and water ergy conservation and supervision and to engage their co-workers in savconsumption and carbon centres is essential. ing energy. emissions • Pay-back periods can be long Across all our Suppliers Go Rebecause many suppliers need to newable projects, we’ve found our Tier 1 HF supplier energy consumption invest in more efficient machincollaborative approach with suppliers Energy consumed (kWh) 7,852,932,552 7,132,304,481 -9.2% ery, production improvements, or is effective and they appreciate our make structural improvements to recommendations on how to improve. Energy efficiency (kWh/m product 3 308 274 -10.9% enable installation of photovoltaic We’ve found that implementing purchased) (PV) panels. IKEA can help supplirenewable energy generation is more Renewable share 24.8% 25.3% 2.0% ers identify low-cost changes. challenging for suppliers than improvTier 1 HF supplier carbon emissions • Government subsidies are esing energy efficiency. Using the expersential to help suppliers benefit tise of external consultants is particuCO2 eq (kg) 2,024,195 2,061,925 1.9% from renewable energy. Flexible larly valuable in supporting suppliers. CO2 efficiency (kg CO2/m3) 79 79 -0.1% Content s > Introduc tion > A more sustainable life at home > Resource and energy independence > A bet ter life for people and communities > Governance and ethics > Per formance towards targets 4 8 r esourc e and energ y independenc e greenhouse gas emissions in FY13. tive to use less. In addition, our water efWe measure energy use at suppliers ficiency projects are just beginning, and through our Supplier Sustainability Index. have not been extended to many of our The volume and quality of data improved suppliers yet. We have been working on a this year, and as a result we have restated new, IKEA-wide water efficiency strategy our energy consumption data for FY12. which will also include suppliers. This will be launched in FY14 and we’re expecting Water in our supply chain quick progress. In FY13, our home furnishings suppliers Our regional network of water experts used 35.5 million m3 of water, equivalent supports suppliers to reduce water use to filling more than 14,200 Olympic swimand increase water recycling, focussing ming pools. on suppliers in water-stressed regions like Textile production is our most waterBangladesh, China, India and Pakistan. intensive manufacturing process and supOur pilot projects in Bangladesh and pliers in Bangladesh, China, India, Turkey China during FY13 (see p. 49) showed us and Pakistan use most of the water used suppliers can reduce water use by up to in our value chain. Metal production and 20% through better water management growing the plants that we sell in-store and recycling. However, incentivising waalso use significant amounts of water. In ter efficiency can be challenging, since our sub-supply chain, our most significant even in countries with water scarcity the Improving water treatment water footprint is cotton cultivation (see p. 27). price of water is still low compared with other resources such as energy. Projects in Bangladesh that tackle energy and water use together Improving water efficiency and quality can be more effective because the two isOur target is for home furnishing supplisues are closely connected. Access to clean, safe water is someoperators and managers who work at thing many of us take for granted. our supplier sites. ers to improve water efficiency by 30% Water stress varies according to reBut in Bangladesh, the management The course, developed in conjuncby 2020 from FY12 levels. Direct suppligion and country, and within countries. In of wastewater and effluents is often tion with local universities, covers ers’ water use increased by 3.5% and FY13, we mapped local water availability ineffective. Municipal water treatment basic first aid and fire fighting, occufacilities — where they exist — strugpational health and safety, a range of water efficiency decreased by 1.5%. This and risks using the Aqueduct tool from gle to keep up with the pace of urbanipractical exercises, and standard opis because water is still relatively cheap the World Resources Institute (WRI). This sation and population growth. This erating and maintenance procedures in many places and there is little incenidentified that a number of our suppliers can harm health and the environment, for wastewater treatment facilities. especially during frequent flooding in The course has been designed to enthe rainy season. able IKEA suppliers to meet our IWAY In partnership with GIZ (German supplier code of conduct requirements Tier 1 Home Furnishing FY12 FY13 RESULT International Zusammenarbeit, a by managing their waste water better. supplier water use* sustainable development consultancy), Five suppliers participated in the we’ve created a 60-hour certificated pilot in FY13 and 15 people have been Water (m3) 34,340,809 35,548,668 3.5% training course for wastewater plant certified. Water efficiency (litres/m ) 3 1,346 1,367 1.5% Content s > Introduc tion > A more sustainable life at home > Resource and energy independence > A bet ter life for people and communities > Governance and ethics > Per formance towards targets 4 9 r esourc e and energ y independenc e Helping textile suppliers in Bangladeshi textile supplier China save water and energy cuts water use YuYue Home Textile Company in China, dyes is now automated, and the input Reusing wastewater is one of the that significantly reduces water use, an IKEA supplier, has already made of water and chemicals is now monimany production changes that has and reusing waste water for printing. many environmental improvements tored digitally, enabling more efficient helped an important textile supplier Zaber and Zubair expects to save to its factory. Now we’re working use of resources. reduce its water use. around 292,000 m3 of water per together to reduce water consumpThrough the project YuYue will Our orders account for up to 40% year, equivalent to the annual water tion and energy use by up to 15% by save 114,000 m3 of freshwater each of the production of Zaber and Zubair consumption of around 10,256 people August 2014. year, equivalent to the annual water Fabrics in Bangladesh, where water is in Bangladesh*. The changes they’ve The project includes repairs to consumption of around 2,296 people often scarce and of poor quality. made will make it easier to comply leaking water and steam pipes, and in China*. Every year, the factory will We worked with Zaber and Zubair with tougher laws on water use in improved insulation on equipment save 13,969 MWh of energy, reducFabrics to identify opportunities to reBangladesh. used for scouring (when impurities are ing CO2 emissions by 4,299 tonnes duce water consumption, and achieved We’re working with other textile removed from fabric using very hot (equivalent to the impact of one a 9% reduction. suppliers and we will use what we water and chemicals). Together these person flying from New York to London Improvements included a new aerlearned during this project to save changes help YuYue reduce the loss of and back more than 4,000 times). ated system for cleaning print screens water elsewhere. steam and water. The preparation of * Based on average of 78 litres per person per day in Rajshahi, Bangladesh. Source: Water and Sanitation Program–South Asia (WSP-SA) Survey, 2008. * Based on average of 136 litres per person per day in Harbin, China. Source: Domestic water consumption — A field study in Harbin, China, 2008. Content s > Introduc tion > A more sustainable life at home > Resource and energy independence > A bet ter life for people and communities > Governance and ethics > Per formance towards targets 5 0 r esourc e and energ y independenc e are located in areas of high or very high We have challenging goals to improve water scarcity. We will use the findings and the overall sustainability performance of the results of our pilot projects to inform the IKEA catalogue by 2016. We aim to the development of further water projects reduce energy use by 10% and CO2 emiswith suppliers during FY14. Where approsions by 20% for the 2016 catalogue, compriate, we will take a combined approach pared with 2012. Our target is that 60% of to energy and water. the energy used should come from renewOur IWAY supplier code of conduct reable sources and all the paper fibre used 68% quires suppliers to have fully functioning should be recycled stock or Forest Steweffluent treatment plants to protect water ardship Council (FSC) certified. quality. We have started to collect water In FY13, we tripled the amount of FSCquality data from suppliers and will use certified wood used in paper production to this to develop standards. We rolled out 68% (compared with FY12), exceeding our guidelines for textile suppliers on how to goal of 60%. We made progress on reducof the paper in improve water recycling, which affects ing the total volume of water and energy the 2014 IKEA both water consumption and wastewater used, increasing renewable energy. The quality. percentage of recycled fibre remained catalogue is stable at around 2%. Despite this, total FSC certified Working with the IKEA CO2 emissions increased, mainly because Catalogue supplier of better data from suppliers. During FY14 In FY13, we printed 212 million copies of we will increase efforts to reduce CO2 the IKEA catalogue in 29 languages, usemissions and work with suppliers to iming 21 paper and print suppliers. We also prove data quality and ensure that reportpublish the catalogue online and via a ing is aligned to international standards. requirements for paper suppliers and will mobile app, and are mapping our digital We request information on catalogue rollout industry-specific requirements dursupply chain. This will lead to a better unsupplier sustainability performance before ing FY14. Assessing the environmental derstanding of how to measure the envinegotiating contracts and use this inforperformance of digital suppliers is particuronmental impact of our digital products. mation to select suppliers that support our larly complex and we’re requesting more To date the IKEA catalogue app has been ambitious goals. In FY13, we introduced information from suppliers. downloaded more than 8.5 million times the new IKEA supplier code of conduct, and we’ve received 65 million visits to the IWAY, to all catalogue suppliers (see p. 66). online catalogue. We organised workshops with co-workWe measure the environmental impact ers, suppliers, WWF, and paper, print and of producing the printed catalogue and digital consultants to explore the best work with suppliers to reduce energy and ways to improve the sustainability requirewater use, cut waste and CO2 emissions, ments for the suppliers of the IKEA cataincrease the contribution of renewables, logue in FY14. and to source more sustainable paper. We worked with WWF to review our Content s > Introduc tion > A more sustainable life at home > Resource and energy independence > A bet ter life for people and communities > Governance and ethics > Per formance towards targets 5 1 r esourc e and energ y independenc e I K E A Cata l o g u e e n v i r o n m e n ta l d ata FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY16 target Printed number of 197 208 212 211 catalogues (millions) Catalogue paper 102,476 108,450 107,373 107,083 (tonnes) ISO 14001 certified 89 100 94 100 paper suppliers (%) FSC-certified Chain of 21 30 23 68 100 Custody fibre (% of virgin fibre content) Recycled fibre content 11 4 2 2.3 (%) Share of renewable 50 48 42 51 60 energy (%) Total carbon emissions 95,905 88,916 90,744 92,308 -20% from production of from FY12 catalogue (tonnes CO2) Total energy used from 584 569 570 587 -10% catalogue suppliers from FY12 (MWh) Total water use from 2,815,209 2,832,017 2,833,300 2,870,188 catalogue suppliers (m3) e n v i r o n m e n ta l d ata p e r Cata l o g u e c o p y FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 Water consumption 14.26 13.55 13.39 13.62 (litres/copy) Energy consumption 2.96 2.72 2.69 2.79 (kWh/copy) Fossil carbon dioxide 0.49 0.43 0.43 0.44 (kg CO2/copy) Emissions to air (gr 1.12 1.15 1.12 1.01 VOC/copy, Volatile Organic Compound) Emissions to 3.49 3.47 4.29 3.94 wastewater (gr COD/ copy, Chemical Oxygen Demand) Content s > Introduc tion > A more sustainable life at home > Resource and energy independence > A bet ter life for people and communities > Governance and ethics > Per formance towards targets 5 0 2 0 A better life for people and communities We want to take a lead in creating a better everyday life for all the people and communities touched by our business. We focus on making IKEA a great place to work, and through IWAY, our supplier code of conduct, we can have a positive influence on the working conditions of the 600,000 people in our direct supply chain too. Respect for human rights is part of how we work at IKEA, and we pay particular attention to protecting children’s rights. Projects funded by the IKEA Foundation improve life for vulnerable children and their families around the world. Content s > Introduc tion > A more sustainable life at home > Resource and energy independence > A bet ter life for people and communities > Governance and ethics > Per formance towards targets 5 3 A be t ter l ife for people and communi t ies Co-workers 135,000 IKEA GROUP CO-WORKERS responsible for the People & Planet Positive strategy SUPPLIERS OPERATIONS IN 47% 40 of managers are women communities ENABLING countries 110,000 more than 100 million Cotton farmers to improve their incomes children will benefit 100% Ma from current IKEA s foundation-FUNDED ny programmes m of home furnishing suppliers al . lc es are approved to our IWAY code of li v ha ng s conduct or phased out es e’ ad o pl d up pe o to dt ma an ke a et b i g di f p lan fer ence for the €9.3 million RAISED THROUGH the soft toys for education campaign in 2012 Content s > Introduc tion > A more sustainable life at home > Resource and energy independence > A bet ter life for people and communities > Governance and ethics > Per formance towards targets 5 4 A be t ter l ife for people and communi t ies PEOPLE & PL A NET PERFORM A NCE i n FY1 3 POS I T I VE TA RGETS A great place Ensure the requirements we place Launched IKEA Group People Strategy to work on our own operations, with regards to environmental, social and working 2020 and a global IKEA Diversity and Inclusion approach. conditions, meet or exceed those we require of our suppliers using our people strategy. In FY13, there were 135,000 IKEA co-workers in 43 countries around the world. OUR P e o p l e S t r at e g y Culture and values The values are Building competence We see learnthe foundation of our work. By living ing as the process of developing comthem, we form the unique IKEA culture petence. We learn from our customers where team spirit and enthusiasm are and our suppliers. We learn from our key. experiences, and we learn from each other. By sharing our knowledge and Talent management Every person experience we can create a better Our co-workers make IKEA a unique ryday life for ourselves and our customers. is seen as a talent and every individual IKEA. company and we value them greatly. We We encourage a team spirit at IKEA and contributes to the growth of the busigrow IKEA by giving all our co-workers the are always looking for people who share ness. We believe in people and invest in Workplace In an increasingly virtual opportunity to develop, learn and take on our humanistic values. their development so they feel recogwork environment, we will use modern nised and appreciated. ways of working to inform, connect, challenging tasks. Our culture is built on our values, renetwork and collaborate. Modern techWe want IKEA to be appreciated and inforced through leadership-by-example Leadership and diversity Our nology helps us to encourage a diarecommended as a great place to work. In and our Code of Conduct “Good Busihigh-performing leaders are passionlogue in an open, honest and trustful ate about leading the business through climate. FY13 we launched our new People Strateness with Common Sense”, launched in people. Diverse co-workers mirroring gy that builds on our culture and values. It FY12. In FY13, we trained 120,000 out of society improve the business results, outlines our approach to, and relationship 135,000 co-workers on our code of constrengthen our competitiveness and make IKEA a great place to work. with, people (including co-workers), and duct (see p. 78). describes how we can create a better eveContent s > Introduc tion > A more sustainable life at home > Resource and energy independence > A bet ter life for people and communities > Governance and ethics > Per formance towards targets 5 5 A be t ter l ife for people and communi t ies Diversity and inclusion women from each company will meet to In FY13, the share of all co-workers who explore opportunities to improve career People Strategy 2020 PERFORMANCE in FY13 and other targets are women increased to 54%, from 52% opportunities for women and to share best Ensure every co-worker has an agreed, 88% of co-workers had an individual in FY12. The share of managers who are practices within the group and beyond. individual development plan development plan* women remained stable at 47% and we By 2020 50% of managers will be 47% of managers are women did not progress further towards our goal Learning and development women of 50% by 2020. We consider every co-worker a talent, By 2020 achieve a Leadership Index The Leadership Index result was 74 In FY13, we launched the new global and we aim to offer exceptional learning result of 75 in our VOICE survey IKEA Diversity and Inclusion Approach, and career possibilities at both a local and By FY20 achieve a VOICE index of 725 The VOICE index was 711 which gives each IKEA unit responsibility global level. in our VOICE survey for setting diversity goals and KPIs. Its Co-workers meet regularly with their * Data relates to 70,000 out of the 82,488 participants of our VOICE survey who had completed a development talk in the past 12 months. aim is to create an inclusive work environmanagers to review their career aspirament where co-workers are recognised for tions and to create an individual developCo-worker turnover (%) FY10 FY11 FY12* FY13 their unique contributions. The approach ment plan. This encourages and enables covers diversity in all its forms, from genthem to develop their skills and advance Part-time 20.5 22.3 18.0 15.4 der, ethnicity, sexual orientation, physical their career with IKEA. In FY13, 88%* of Full-time 10.6 11.5 10.7 11.5 ability, and age to nationality, educational co-workers had an individual development All 14.8 16.1 16.1 12.8 background, parental status, and work explan. * Numbers restated due to administrative errors in FY12. perience. Co-workers are encouraged to chalCo-worker networks can help foster an lenge accepted solutions, test new ideas inclusive work environment. In FY13, we and see mistakes as opportunities to grow launched the IKEA Women’s Open Netand develop. Alongside on-the-job training C o w o r k e r s p e r r e g i o n FY 1 3 work (IWON), which aims to inspire, conand courses, co-workers can also comnect, empower and enable women in leadplete e-learning courses relevant to their ership positions at IKEA and to contribute function. In FY14 we’ll launch a training Europe 95,000 to a more inclusive work climate and betcourse on sustainability to help co-workNorth America 18,000 ter gender balance. One hundred and fifty ers understand how they can contribute in Asia, Australia 11,000 leaders attended the first meeting and their day-to-day work. Russia 11,000 a further three regional meetings will be * Data relates to 70,000 out of the 82,488 participants of held in FY14. our VOICE survey who had completed a development talk in the past 12 months. Women account for only a small proportion of senior executives in Swedish Gender diversity FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 2020 listed companies. We’ve partnered with Health and safety (% of women)* goal nine major Swedish companies as part of Providing a healthy and safe environment All co-workers 52 55 52 54 the “Battle of the Numbers” project, which for our co-workers is an absolute priority All managers 39 40 47 47 50 aims to achieve better gender balance at and we never compromise in this area. * Data representing 80% of IKEA Group headcount. senior levels, boosting both the profitabilWe launched a new health and safety ity and competitiveness of companies. Ten standard in FY13 that will help us improve Content s > Introduc tion > A more sustainable life at home > Resource and energy independence > A bet ter life for people and communities > Governance and ethics > Per formance towards targets 5 6 A be t ter l ife for people and communi t ies consistency across our markets. It states includes: tractor, a forklift truck driver, who lost her eo screens, closed-circuit radio and notice our commitment that all co-workers shall • Mandatory safety training for all colife while working at one of our distribuboards to keep co-workers updated. Our experience a healthy and safe workplace workers. tion centres in Germany. The contractor quarterly co-worker magazine, ReadMe, at IKEA; physically, mentally and socially. • Safety committees, made up of cowas moving a pallet of products at the with articles on company and product Managing health and safety issues is inworker representatives and managers. time of the accident. A full investigation news is translated into 19 languages and tegrated into our daily work, and we take • Safety co-ordinators who conduct risk was carried out by IKEA Group, the con55,000 copies are distributed worldwide, a proactive and preventative approach. assessments and review safety risks. tractor’s employer and local authorities. It as well as made available on IKEA Inside. For example, every day, the duty manager • Tracking near-miss incidents and other was found that standard procedures were We’re committed to open dialogue with walks through the store before opening to leading indicators to create a safety culnot followed at the time of the accident. co-workers and their representatives. The check compliance with our internal safety ture and prevent future accidents. No wrong doing by IKEA or the person’s more our co-workers feel their workplace standards. Our approach at all IKEA units We deeply regret the death of a conemployer was identified. All drivers at the is safe, that their concerns are heard, and distribution centre attended extra safety that they’re well treated, the more motiretraining and awareness sessions followvated we’ll all be. That’s why we expect ing the incident. managers to be proactively involved in In FY13, the reported number of occo-worker relations and to make commuOccupational accidents (number of accidents FY12 FY13 requiring 3 days or more absenteeism) cupational accidents for all IKEA organinication with co-workers a priority in their sations increased slightly compared with daily work. Stores 1,448 1,277 FY12 due to more complete data. We respect the rights of co-workers to Supply 136 124 In the IKEA Industry Group the occujoin, form or not to join a co-worker asIndustry Group * 1,436 1,664 pational accident rate improved at both sociation of their choice without fear of * Accidents requiring one day or more absenteeism. the Solid Wood & Flatline Division and the reprisal, interference, intimidation or harGroup Board Division, with a 37% imassment. Dialogue between co-workers Industry Group Occupational FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 provement at the Solid Wood & Flatline and their manager is the most important accident rate (accidents requiring one Division compared with FY12. element for creating an open culture and day or more absenteeism per million hours worked) there are different forums in place in the IKEA Industry Group Solid Wood & Flatline 16.45 15.07 9.62 6.07 Communication and countries where we work to further faciliDivision engagement tate this dialogue. IKEA Industry Group Board Division 16.61 12.71 12.53 Good internal communication is an imporOur co-worker survey, VOICE, enables tant part of creating the right culture and us to better understand co-worker views, motivating and engaging co-workers in assess how engaged they feel with their every part of the business. Managers must work, and identify areas where we can do VOICE results FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 GOAL make sure their teams are kept up to date better. It’s conducted by an independent and receive the information they need to organisation to ensure confidentiality and VOICE index 659 716 712 711 725 by FY20* do their jobs. We provide communications each part of the business participates at Leadership index result 73 74 74 74 75 by FY15 training and tools to support them. least once every two years. In FY13, over * Goal revised from 700 by FY15 as we’ve already met that goal. As well as our intranet site, IKEA Inside, 82,000 out of a total of 135,000 co-workaccessible to two thirds of all co-workers, ers participated in the survey. The survey we use internal magazines, meetings, vidshowed that 70% of co-workers agree Content s > Introduc tion > A more sustainable life at home > Resource and energy independence > A bet ter life for people and communities > Governance and ethics > Per formance towards targets 5 7 A be t ter l ife for people and communi t ies with the statement, “Within my department sustainability is a natural part in the everyday work” (FY12: 70%), and 82% agree with the statement, “I am proud of the way that IKEA works with sustainability (FY12: 83%). The results of VOICE are not directly comparable between years as different parts of IKEA, and different numbers of people, participate in different years. In FY14 we will launch new training materials and projects to emphasise the relevance of sustainability to people’s roles and to inspire them to take action. We use the results of the VOICE survey to create an overall VOICE index and a Leadership Index, which enables us to identify opportunities to develop and improve our business. In FY13, VOICE index was 711 out of 1000 (712 in FY12), and the leadership index was 74 out of 100 (74 in FY12). The company that conducts the survey classifies a result of 700 or above as “excellent, suggesting the organisation is well equipped to generate business value”. In FY13, we launched a trust line that co-workers can use to report any concerns they don’t feel able to raise through their manager or human resources. Content s > Introduc tion > A more sustainable life at home > Resource and energy independence > A bet ter life for people and communities > Governance and ethics > Per formance towards targets 5 8 A be t ter l ife for people and communi t ies Human rights at IKEA At IKEA, we want to have a positive impact on people’s daily lives, from our co-workers and customers to the people working in our supply chain and in the communities connected to our business. Respect for fundamental human rights is an essential part of our vision: to create a better everyday life for the many people. We’re guided by the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, 2011 that set out the responsibility of businesses to respect human rights and the Children’s Rights and Business PrinciChildren and human rights ples launched by UNICEF, Save the Children and the UN Global Compact in 2012. Children are the most important people conditions that support their developteachers and inadequate healthcare We want to support positive economic, in the world. All our actions should alment and do not put them at risk. systems. ways have the best interests of the child The IKEA Way on Preventing Child We supported the launch in 2012 environmental and social development, in mind. We take a holistic approach to Labour outlines our strict policies that of the Children’s Rights and Busiand we need to take special care to prochildren’s rights. prohibit child labour in our supply chain ness Principles, by UNICEF, Save the tect vulnerable groups — those who may We design our stores and products and explains how we will act in the best Children and the UN Global Compact. to be good for children and we create interests of the children involved if any During FY13 we helped UNICEF to be at a higher risk of experiencing human our Children’s IKEA range specifically to cases of child labour are found. Having pilot a checklist, workbook, reporting rights violations. Simple questions guide inspire them and support their develimplemented policies preventing child guidelines and policies that will help us to constantly improve. We strive to alopment. We make sure children feel labour in high risk places like India for businesses implement the Principles. ways ask: “What’s in the best interest of welcome and can play when they visit many years, we launched the standard These were released in autumn 2013, IKEA. We’re especially careful when dein 2000 and regularly update it. As part and we’ll use them to help us promote the child; IKEA co-worker; worker in our veloping products designed for children of IWAY, these requirements are being the rights and wellbeing of children supply chain; environment?” — promoting safety, education, play extended to our sub-suppliers too. throughout our business. We supported Respect for human rights is part of how and development. Since 1994 IKEA Group and the IKEA launch events for the Principles at local In many countries, young workers, Foundation have been working with UNICEF and Save the Children offices in we work and is integrated into important particularly those between the ages of organisations like UNICEF and Save the Belgium, Brazil, the Netherlands, Spain, policies, codes and standards like: 15 and 18, don’t have the opportunity Children to fight the root causes of child Sweden and the UK. We presented our • The IKEA Way on Preventing Child Lato continue their schooling. We support labour and promote a better quality of approach to children’s rights at these the legal employment of young workers life for communities in our wider supply events to encourage other companies to bour by providing entry-level jobs and enachain. The projects supported by the implement the Principles. • IWAY, the IKEA Way on Purchasing bling their career development. All our IKEA Foundation tackle issues such as Products and Services (our Supplier Code younger workers are employed under poverty, lack of schools and trained of Conduct) Content s > Introduc tion > A more sustainable life at home > Resource and energy independence > A bet ter life for people and communities > Governance and ethics > Per formance towards targets 5 9 A be t ter l ife for people and communi t ies • IKEA Code of Conduct ers. In FY14 we will continue to work with “Through their innovative our partners to promote and protect the sustainability strategy People • IKEA Group policies and standards & Planet Positive, IKEA is now While we do our best to reduce the risk human rights of these vulnerable groups. taking the lead in connecting of human rights abuse, it is not possible We’ll focus in particular on improving children’s rights and sustainability throughout the supply to eradicate the risks altogether. That’s working conditions by reducing the risk of chain and is one of the first why we keep working to promote respect child, forced and bonded labour, promotglobal corporations to actively for human rights, to improve our due diliing safe working environments and ensurwork on the implementation of the Children´s Rights and Busigence processes and, when necessary, ing fair wages. ness Principles. We welcome to provide “access to remedy”. Access to We launched the IKEA trust line, a the increased focus by IKEA on remedy refers to the steps an organisation confidential telephone and email service children’s rights — it´s essential to explore how sustainability takes if it finds it has caused or contributed through which co-workers can report viocan be more clearly connected to human rights violations. lations of IKEA policies and unethical beto children and how children can We regularly review and update our haviour (see A great place to work p. 54). be involved at all levels. IKEA as a pioneer set a new standard systems, aiming to make consideration of There is also a telephone and email serfor how we furnish our homes. “Children are the most imporhuman rights central to the way we think vice through which suppliers in Asia PacifThis is a golden opportunity to tant people in the world and about our work and make decisions. ic, Russia, Ukraine and Belarus can report set a new standard for corporawe believe that all our actions tions on how the world treats should always have the best violations of IKEA policies and unethical children.” interests of the child in mind. Progress in FY13 behaviour. The IKEA Supplier Ombudsman We want our products to be fun Elisabeth Dahlin, for children and support their In FY13, we focussed on understanding is a neutral mediator that helps IKEA and Secretary General, Save the development and our stores and addressing the specific human rights suppliers resolve disputes that could not Children Sweden and Chairperson, to be safe and welcoming. issues and risks in each area of our busibe solved through normal business chanGlobal Lead Agency for the IKEA Throughout our supply chain we Foundation Collaboration will promote working practices ness, including starting a continual review nels. that allow a good quality of life of our programmes and processes to make Throughout our business we continually for families. We are working to sure they reflect the UN Guiding Principles look to improve how we work, to respect ensure the implementation of on Business and Human Rights and the human rights and to protect vulnerable the Children´s Rights and Business Principles throughout our Children’s Rights and Business Principles groups. You can read more about what business, and together with our (see Children and human rights p. 58). we’re doing on the following pages: partners, we will strengthen our We set up a working group of co-workefforts to create lasting change and continue to be a strong aders from different parts of IKEA to lead our Wood p. 22 vocate for children’s rights.” efforts on human rights. The group works Cotton p. 27 to strengthen the processes we have in Co-workers p. 54 Greg Priest, Head of Sustainability Policy and place, and to help us continually improve. Suppliers p. 60 Compliance, IKEA Group Some people and communities are at IKEA Foundation p. 70 a higher risk of human rights abuse and Governance and ethics p. 73 we’ve identified potentially vulnerable groups connected to our business. These include: children, young workers, women, home-based workers and migrant workContent s > Introduc tion > A more sustainable life at home > Resource and energy independence > A bet ter life for people and communities > Governance and ethics > Per formance towards targets 6 0 A be t ter l ife for people and communi t ies The best place to work “Oxfam believes that IKEA takes sustainability seriously, and has — suppliers a strong appetite to improve its social impact. We applaud IKEA for their ambition to develop long-term relationships with supMore than 600,000 people work for our IWAY auditors and developers supporting pliers and their code of conduct, home furnishing suppliers in over 50 counthe implementation process, as well as IWAY. However, their current strategy is further developed on tries. We support and encourage suppliers contracted third-party auditors who verify environmental sustainability and to create good places to work and we’re the IWAY results. needs strengthening on social determined to have a positive influence on IWAY has helped us develop long-term sustainability. Oxfam strongly recommends they strengthen it more people’s lives across our wider suppartnerships with suppliers. More than to address a number of social isply chain. 65% of our home furnishing suppliers sues in their supply chain including worker and community rights IWAY — the IKEA Way on Purchashave worked with us for more than five and how to empower women. ing Products, Materials and Services — is years and the average length of a supOxfam encourages IKEA to take our supplier code of conduct launched in plier relationship is around nine years. a systemic approach, developing a clear sustainable business vi“We want to have a positive the year 2000. By systematically applySince the start of IWAY, we’ve expanded impact on people’s daily lives, sion for how IKEA can positively ing IWAY and supporting our suppliers, the scope of its implementation from our impact workers and communities from our co-workers and cusfirst tier home furnishing suppliers to aracross their whole business and tomers, to the people workwe’ve been able to initiate thousands of supply chain; identifying gaps in ing in our supply chain and in improvements in social and working coneas such as transportation, warehousing, their policies and practices and the communities connected ditions globally. food, retail operations and our non home working to address them with to our business. We are worksupport from partners.” ing to strengthen the way we IWAY is integrated into the way we furnishing purchases that support IKEA frame our approach to social work with suppliers. Our purchasers, who operations globally. We have also begun Penny Lawrence, sustainability in our People & are IWAY trained, are frequently at supto go further back in our supply chain foInternational Director, Oxfam GB Planet Positive strategy so it adequately reflects our level of plier sites and we have around 80 full time cusing on critical regions and industries ambition and current activities in this area. With input from key stakeholders, we’ll articulate a clearer vision for how we can PEOPLE & PL A NET PERFORM A NCE i n FY 1 3 have a positive impact on people POS I T I VE TA RGETS across our value chain and we’ll look at all our policies and procedures to address any potential By the end of FY15 all IKEA suppliers 68% of suppliers within the scope of the gaps.” (within the IWAY scope defined in FY12) target are IWAY approved or are being will comply with our supplier code of conphased out. IWAY approval has not been Steve Howard, duct, IWAY. assessed at 22% of suppliers within the Chief Sustainability Officer, scope as they have not yet been audited. IKEA Group Suppliers within the scope of the target are: all home furnishing suppliers, global 100% of home furnishing, land and ocean transport suppliers, global and national transport, global food and IKEA Compofood suppliers, selected retail and Indinents suppliers maintained IWAY complirect Materials Services (IMS) suppliers ance, were being phased out, or were and IKEA Components suppliers. pending a scheduled audit (applies to 1% of the total). Content s > Introduc tion > A more sustainable life at home > Resource and energy independence > A bet ter life for people and communities > Governance and ethics > Per formance towards targets 6 1 A be t ter l ife for people and communi t ies where we see higher risks. Overall progress While continuing to work to maintain We have expanded the scope of IWAY be100% approval among our home furnishyond home furnishing suppliers to include ing suppliers, we’ve set clear targets for suppliers of other non-product relate the other focus areas to achieve full IWAY goods and services. compliance. We’re making good progress Our goal is for all IKEA suppliers (within and on the following pages we report on the IWAY scope defined in FY12) to comply iway audit data FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 levels of IWAY approval at different catwith IWAY by FY15. Suppliers within the Number of IWAY audits/of which were unannounced egories of suppliers. scope of the target are: all home furnishEurope 365/29 341/144 348/198 337/55 In addition to our systematic work with ing suppliers, global transport suppliers, Americas 29/1 26/12 31/15 31/5 IWAY, we also run focused programmes global and national food suppliers, selectAsia 645/501 626/55 607/517 594/434 to reduce water and energy use and CO2 ed retail and Indirect Materials Services Total 1039/531 993/711 986/730 917/434 emissions at high impact suppliers (see p. (IMS) suppliers and IKEA Components Terminated relationship, number of suppliers 46), and to support social and economic suppliers. Due to IWAY noncompliance 10 8 47 26 development in the communities in our At the end of FY13, 68% of suppliers wider supply chain. within the scope of the target were IWAY Due to IWAY noncompliance 17 11 25 10 and other reasons approved or were being phased out. IWAY Number of third party child labour audits IWAY governance approval has not been assessed at around Total 365 370 365 416 The IWAY requirements are set by our 22% of the suppliers within the scope as IWAY Council, and are based on UN and they have not yet been audited. Number of IKEA Compliance and monitoring group calibration audits International Labour Organisation (ILO) Since we set the above target we’ve Europe 21 24 19 19 conventions, legal requirements and brought additional categories of suppliAmericas 2 3 2 2 IKEA-specific requirements such as eners into the IWAY scope, for example IKEA Asia 32 25 29 19 vironmental reporting. Communicating Industry Group suppliers, and we’ll define Total 55 52 50 40 our requirements to suppliers, supporta timetable for securing IWAY approval at Number of third-party audits (unannounced) ing them to meet IWAY and following up these suppliers in FY14. Europe 12 12 9 23 to ensure compliance with audits involves At the end of FY13, 100% of all home Americas 0 0 2 2 several different functions within and outfurnishing, land and ocean transport, globAsia 35 32 45 66 side IKEA. al food and IKEA Components suppliers Total 47 47 56 91 maintained IWAY compliance, were being phased out, or were pending a scheduled audit (applies to 1% of the total). We continued to expand the supplier categories covered by IWAY to include our national food suppliers. On the following pages we provide information about IWAY approval at different supplier types. Content s > Introduc tion > A more sustainable life at home > Resource and energy independence > A bet ter life for people and communities > Governance and ethics > Per formance towards targets 6 2 A be t ter l ife for people and communi t ies “IKEA’s commitment to N u m b e r o f s u p p l i e r s b y c at e g o r y respecting international human rights standards based on FY13 the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights Home furnishing 1,046* is welcome. The IWAY code Retail cleaning, security, waste management and customer delivery 539 of conduct for suppliers service providers clearly sets out expectations for compliance with these IKEA Food (global suppliers) 120 standards. It is encouraging IKEA Food (national suppliers) 555 to see IKEA recognising that the conventional compliance IKEA catalogue 21 auditing model is not sufficient Indirect Material Services 320 to embed lasting improvements in complex supply chains Transport service providers – land and ocean 284 where management capacity Transport service providers – customer delivery (centrally contracted) 56 is often weak and proper worker consultation is lacking. IKEA Components 226 Greater emphasis on driving “We recognise that the best way IKEA Industry Group suppliers 1,300 human rights respect through to bring lasting improvements in IKEA’s wider value chain would conditions for workers is for our * 1,046 suppliers includes IKEA Group’s own production operations which stands for 12% of the total signal the company’s intention suppliers to integrate sustainproduction with 44 production units in 11 countries. to place human rights at the ability into their management. centre of the business alongside During FY13 we strengthened its impressive leadership in our IWAY standard and the Top 5 home f ur nishing purcha sing coun t r ies environmental sustainability.” updated standard is designed to help suppliers integrate IWAY Frances House, into their own routines and proChina 22.0% Director of Programmes, Institute cedures. We are also working to Poland 18.0% for Human Rights and Business better understand and address the specific human rights issues Italy 7.4% and risks in each area of our Sweden 5.8% business, including a review of our programmes and processes Lithuania 4.5% to make sure they reflect the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and the Children’s Rights and Business Principles.” Jeanette Skjelmose, L e n g t h o f s u p p l i e r r e l at i o n s h i p s FY 1 3 Sustainability Manager, Range and (% o f a l l h o m e f u r n i s h i n g s u p p l i e r s) Supply, IKEA Group <1 1-3 3-5 5-10 10-20 > 20 Average year years years years years years years 5% 20% 11% 26% 27% 11% 9 Content s > Introduc tion > A more sustainable life at home > Resource and energy independence > A bet ter life for people and communities > Governance and ethics > Per formance towards targets 6 3 A be t ter l ife for people and communi t ies Function ROLE I WAY — T h e I K E A Wa y o n p u r c h a s i n g IWAY Council > Overall ownership of IWAY pr oduc t s, materials and ser vices > Discuss and decide actions on high-risk supply chain issues > Final approval of IWAY documents • Includes strict requirements on labour rights, working conditions, safety and environmental protection. > Members include the IKEA President and CEO and two other members of Group Management (Chief Sustainability Officer and • Applies to suppliers within the IWAY scope: all home furnishing supCorporate Communications Manager) pliers, global transport suppliers, Industry Group suppliers, global IWAY Council > Develop the IWAY Code of Conduct and supporting materials and national food suppliers, selected retail and Indirect Materials Working Services (IMS) suppliers and IKEA Components suppliers. > Review audit results Committee • Requires suppliers to comply with local laws and regulations including > Provide clarity on interpreting IWAY standards and resolve disagreements on audit results those relating to working hours and pay. > Overall responsibility for training IWAY auditors • Applies to the whole factory or site, not just the area supplying IKEA. > Approve changes to IWAY Working Methods • Includes IWAY Musts, a set of basic requirements any new supplier > Report to the IWAY Council must meet before we sign a purchase agreement with them. This includes requirements to prevent child and forced labour, prevent IKEA auditors > Conduct announced and unannounced IWAY audits at suppliers severe environmental pollution and safety hazards, keep records of > Review action plans submitted by suppliers in cases of working hours and wages and have social insurance. noncompliance • Applies to IKEA Components and all its suppliers. These companies > Conduct follow-up audits and give final IWAY approval provide components and materials to IKEA suppliers and sub-sup> Support IKEA business teams with IWAY questions pliers that are used in IKEA home furnishing products. In this way we have extended the scope of IWAY to include a greater number of Regional IKEA > Co-workers in regional business units have regular contact with sub-suppliers. business units suppliers in their region and are regularly on-site at factories > Support suppliers with understanding and meeting requirements • Is communicated to sub-suppliers and audited against by direct suppliers and IKEA Components. > Responsible for ensuring IWAY is fully implemented at suppliers under their responsibility • Contains further specific requirements relevant to different types of suppliers including catalogue, food, transport and wood suppliers. Compliance > Independent from IKEA auditors and business units and Monitoring > Ensure IKEA co-workers follow IWAY standards • Requires that workers do not work more than 60 hours per week, Group (CMG) including overtime, or comply with the legal limit in their country, if > Perform audits to ensure that judgements by IKEA auditors are that is lower. In China, where long hours are common, IKEA requires consistent globally and results are accurate a maximum of 60 hours per week, including overtime, as an interim > Support training and development of IKEA auditors step towards full compliance with a maximum monthly average of a > Report compliance results to IWAY Council 49-hour working week, including overtime. We’re also unable to fully apply the IWAY requirement for freedom of association in China and Third-party > Independent from IKEA Vietnam because of legal restrictions in these countries. auditors > Verify IKEA audit results • Forbids subcontracting without explicit approval. > Conduct unannounced audits and calibration audits > Report results to Compliance and Monitoring Group (CMG) Read the full IWAY standard Content s > Introduc tion > A more sustainable life at home > Resource and energy independence > A bet ter life for people and communities > Governance and ethics > Per formance towards targets 6 4 A be t ter l ife for people and communi t ies Home furnishing suppliers problem and discuss different ways to apThe home furnishing suppl ier journe y wi th IKE A We work with suppliers to ensure comproach the issue of working hours. The STEP 1 pliance with IWAY through a number of importance of compliance with IWAY was A potential new supplier is identified. steps. reiterated to suppliers through a range of An initial assessment indicates whether the supplier will be able to meet the full communication channels, including onerequirements of IWAY within 12 months and verifies compliance with IWAY Musts, Progress in FY13 on-one meetings. such as working conditions and environmental protection, before we start business with them. At the end of FY13, all home furnishing Also during the year, new legislation suppliers maintained IWAY compliance, in Vietnam reduced overtime limits from New supplier joins IKEA supply chain. were being phased out, or were pending 48 to 30 hours per month. We’ve started STEP 2 a scheduled audit (applies to 1% of the working with selected suppliers and our All IWAY requirements to be fully implemented by the supplier within 12 months of total). We phased out 26 home furnishing buyers to develop our order process so signing a purchasing agreement. suppliers who chose not to meet IWAY reit supports suppliers in planning producIWAY compliance is verified through an on-site audit covering the whole site including quirements. Working hours was the main tion efficiently and hiring enough workers all production areas. issue of noncompliance identified through to meet production requirements without Supplier is approved when all requirements are met. If approval is not reached within IWAY audits. excessive overtime. 12 months the supplier is phased out. Our work to implement IWAY with supSuppliers in China currently comply with STEP 3 pliers over the last ten years means we IWAY’s 60-hour work week but we aim for Follow-up audits are conducted at least once every two years. These can be now have a supply base that is willing all Chinese suppliers to reach a maximum announced or unannounced. and able to work to our standards. Now monthly average of a 49-hour week, inAudits are conducted by experienced auditors who are full time IKEA co-workers. we must continue to support suppliers efcluding overtime, by the end of FY15. Pilots Suppliers based in some higher-risk locations including China, South and South fectively to help them continually live up are underway with 14 suppliers in China to East Asia are audited once every year, and typically, two auditors spend two days to our standards. For example, in FY13, help us understand how best to support completing the audit. 34% of IWAY noncompliances in South suppliers in this transition. The pilots inAnonymous interviews with workers take place on-site and auditors meet with Asia related to wages, benefits and workclude work with our logistics and planning sufficient numbers of people to ensure they obtain representative views — the ing hours. To tackle this we organised a teams to make sure we don’t place orders feedback cannot be linked back to a particular individual. The findings are used to help our auditors identify potential areas of concern. workshop for IKEA business leaders in the with suppliers that can’t be delivered within Additional verification audits and activities are performed by the Compliance region to explore the root causes of the the limits of a 49-hour working week. The Monitoring Group and third-party auditors to ensure all IWAY standards have been followed and that IWAY is implemented consistently worldwide. Iway approved home FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 STEP 4 furnishing suppliers1, % 1 Data for home furnishing If areas of noncompliance are identified in follow-up audits at an IWAY-approved Europe 89 90 100 100 suppliers includes IKEA Industry Group Solid Wood supplier, an action plan is agreed with the supplier. Americas 85 94 100 100 & Flatline Division factories. 2 Approved with maximum If a supplier does not comply with IWAY Musts at any time, deliveries are immediately Asia total 26 41 92 97.8 60-hour work week. stopped and corrective actions put in place. 3 Excludes 79 new suppliers China 7 302 902 99.2 that have up to 12 If a supplier does not comply with any other IWAY requirements during the followmonths to be approved. South Asia 62 65 93 92.2 Includes suppliers where up audit, they have 90 days to correct any issues. If a supplier fails to correct all a noncompliance has been deviations within given time frames, the supplier is phased out. South East Asia 68 65 97 96.7 identified and are within the 90-day period allowed to All regions 57 672 963 993 correct the noncompliance. Content s > Introduc tion > A more sustainable life at home > Resource and energy independence > A bet ter life for people and communities > Governance and ethics > Per formance towards targets 6 5 A be t ter l ife for people and communi t ies i way a p p r o va l o f pilot also supports suppliers in improving Transport suppliers food suppl iers Indirect materials and services how they manage the flow of orders. The We have a total of 340 (350 in FY12) trans(% I WAY a p p r o v e d ) (IMS) suppliers first results are expected in FY14. port suppliers. Around 230 of them transEstablished in 2004, IKEA IMS purchases Workers in home-based environments port our products by land and ocean, and National food suppliers the non-home furnishing products and can be at a higher risk of poor employin FY13, we maintained 100% IWAY apGlobal food supplier services needed in the IKEA business. It ment practices. Although workers in home proval for these suppliers. One of the bigaims to source high quality, low cost prodbased environments are not common in gest challenges is ensuring transport supucts and services while integrating susour direct supply chain, they’re somepliers use fuel-efficient trucks with lower 100 100 100 100 tainability into purchasing decisions. We times used by sub-suppliers, especially for emissions. We’re implementing a maxifocus IKEA IMS IWAY audits on suppliers handmade products. In FY13 we started mum emissions standard for trucks to furthat pose a higher risk for IWAY noncom67 to work with three suppliers within the ther reduce emissions (see More sustainpliance, such as providers of store lighting textiles and natural fibre industries — one able buildings and transport p. 41). equipment, cleaning, and waste managein Indonesia and two in Vietnam — to set The IWAY approval rate for customer ment services. In FY13 we changed the up local weaving centres. By supporting delivery service suppliers increased to 27 IWAY scope for IMS to include only supworkers to begin using these weaving cen93% in FY13. This applies to customer depliers where IMS owns the contract with 7 tres we can improve working conditions livery companies contracted centrally by 0 0 the company. This meant the responsibiland it’s easier to implement and monitor IKEA (around half the total). FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 Goal ity for ensuring IWAY compliance at some FY15 IWAY standards. During FY13 we also addsuppliers was taken on by our retail ored new IWAY working methods that relate Food suppliers ganisation and the number of suppliers specifically to home based work, and we’ll We maintained 100% IWAY approval at within the scope for IMS dropped to 320 implement those in FY14. suppliers that provide the ingredients for al food suppliers). (compared with 769 in FY12). This change the Swedish menu options in our restauIn FY10, we extended our IWAY food means we’re only reporting data for FY13 rants and the food range available in the standards to national suppliers — those as comparison with previous years is not Swedish Food Market shops in-store (globproviding the local food choices in our possible. In FY13 we conducted 62 IWAY restaurants. In FY13 we provided more training and support to enable our national food purchasers to extend audits to more 100 100 national food suppliers, which led to more I WAY A PPROVA L 96 95 OF I ND I RECT 93 i way a p p r o va l o f 91 suppliers achieving IWAY approval. 83 M ATER I A LS A ND tr ansport suppl iers 82 In FY13, 127 of our national food suppliSERV I CE ( I MS ) (% I WAY a p p r o v e d ) SUPPL I ERS (% ers were IWAY audited and 40% of them I WAY a p p r o v e d ) Customer delivery suppliers, 53 were IWAY approved. This means 27% of centrally contracted the total number of national food suppliers Ocean transport providers were IWAY approved. Land transport providers 21 Read about how we are taking steps to FY13 53% strengthen traceability in our food supply FY15 goal 100% FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 chain following the discovery of horsemeat in three batches of meatballs on p. 30. Content s > Introduc tion > A more sustainable life at home > Resource and energy independence > A bet ter life for people and communities > Governance and ethics > Per formance towards targets 6 6 A be t ter l ife for people and communi t ies audits at IMS suppliers, and 53% of the are used by our purchasers in the supplier total were IWAY approved. In FY14 we’ll selection process. In FY13, we began to focus our efforts on improving compliance audit suppliers against the requirements in China. and we aim to audit all catalogue suppliers by FY16. IKEA catalogue suppliers For information on the environmental The IKEA Catalogue is produced by performance of catalogue suppliers see Inter IKEA Systems, the owner of the the tables below. IKEA Concept and worldwide IKEA franchisor. In autumn 2012 they rolled out Retail suppliers requirements equivalent to the updated In our Retail organisation we’re focusing IWAY 5.1 standard (see p. 69) at all on securing IWAY approval in higher risk paper, print and digital suppliers. These categories: cleaning, security, waste manrequirements replaced the IKEA Catalogue agement and customer delivery service Sustainability Requirements previously in providers. In FY13 we conducted 136 auAuditors help improve working conditions effect. All suppliers then conducted a selfdits and 19% of the 539 suppliers in this assessment of their compliance against category were IWAY approved. We’ll conSupported by auditors like Kelly “At the start, some suppliers can Deng, IKEA suppliers are improving feel that IWAY compliance will be too the new requirements and our industrytinue to conduct audits and aim to achieve working conditions. expensive. It’s our job to show them specific requirements for paper, print and 100% IWAY approval for suppliers in this that the benefits can outweigh the digital. The results of these assessments category by FY15. “It feels good that we care about the costs. Our audits and the way we environment, health and safety, and build close relationships with supplipeople. Seeing the improvements ers over many years mean we can suppliers make to working condichange their mindsets. IWAY approval at catalogue suppliers FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 tions, hours and pay makes my job feel very worthwhile”, says Kelly. “Many factories in China in general Share of catalogue paper and print suppliers 86% 90% 89% 82% have a very high turnover of staff, that are approved according to the IKEA Kelly has visited hundreds of IKEA often due to poor working conditions Catalogue Sustainability Requirements, based suppliers in China, talking to workand treatment. Our suppliers are on self-assessments ers and managers to find out how seeing that the improvements they they’re implementing IWAY and what make through IWAY enable them to Share of catalogue paper and print suppliers 65% 72% 70% 66% challenges they’re facing. retain their staff. This means they that are approved according to the industry can save money on training new specific requirements, based on selfAround half of IWAY audits and hires and are able to meet their assessments follow-ups are unannounced to delivery obligations. As they become minimise the risk a factory and its more reliable, they get more orders IWAY audits of retail cleaning, security, waste management FY13 paperwork are cleaned up before from IKEA.” and customer delivery service suppliers auditors arrive. Over the years, Kelly has seen a big improvement in the Total number of Retail cleaning, security, waste management and cus539 way suppliers respond to IWAY. tomer delivery service providers Total number of IWAY audits conducted at Retail suppliers 136 Share of IWAY approved Retail cleaning, security, waste management 19% and customer delivery service providers Content s > Introduc tion > A more sustainable life at home > Resource and energy independence > A bet ter life for people and communities > Governance and ethics > Per formance towards targets 6 7 A be t ter l ife for people and communi t ies IKEA Components suppliers tion plans. Three companies missed the training to assist them in this. We also In FY13, all our IKEA Components units deadline for implementing corrective acconduct audits to verify compliance in high and their suppliers achieved 100% IWAY tions following their audit and will no longrisk locations. approval. er supply IKEA Industry Group. As a supTo improve our understanding and plier to IKEA, IKEA Industry Group itself oversight of our sub-supply chain, in FY13 IKEA Industry Group suppliers must also comply with IWAY and all sites we completed the process of mapping our In FY13, Swedwood and Swedspan were are IWAY approved. first-tier sub-supply chain for home furfully integrated with IKEA and became the nishings. We identified around 2,200 critiIKEA Industry Group Solid Wood & FlatWorking with sub-suppliers cal sub-suppliers. Where necessary, we line Division and the IKEA Industry Group Many of the challenges in our supply chain have mapped the sub-supply chain right Board Division respectively. IKEA Industry are among sub-suppliers. down to the raw-material production level. Group supplies wooden boards and board Our direct suppliers are responsible for We have consolidated our data on submaterial based furniture to IKEA and comcommunicating the IWAY code of conduct suppliers through a new database, and copanies in the IKEA supply chain. In FY13, to sub-suppliers and ensuring critical subworkers and supplier representatives are IKEA Industry Group conducted 30 audits suppliers — those involved in higher-risk visiting sub-suppliers to help them develat suppliers for its Solid Wood & Flatline Diprocesses or who are based in higher risk op a better understanding of IWAY Musts. vision, and approved 8% of the total numlocations — achieve full and verified comIn FY13, 20% of critical home furnishing ber of suppliers to the Division. In FY15 pliance with our IWAY Musts. Compliance sub-suppliers were approved to IWAY we’ll begin auditing IKEA Industry Group with IWAY Musts is assessed through an Musts. This approval rate is based on the board suppliers. An additional five suppliaudit by the direct supplier or a third-party audits completed so far and auditing will ers are now working on improvement acaudit company. We provide guidance and continue to cover the 2,200 sub-suppliers we’ve identified as “critical”. Implementing IWAY with sub-suppliers is challenging and we have more work to do. IWAY approval at IKEA Components and suppliers FY13 For suppliers involved in critical mateShare of IWAY approved IKEA Components units 100% rials and processes, our goal is to secure Total number of IKEA Components suppliers 226 compliance to IWAY Musts at all first tier Total number of IWAY audits conducted at IKEA Components suppliers 146 sub suppliers by the end of FY14 and along Share of IWAY approved suppliers IKEA Components suppliers 100% entire value chain by the end of FY17. In addition, the full IWAY code of conduct applies to IKEA Components and all Tier 2 home furnishing suppliers FY13 its suppliers. These companies provide Total number of tier 2 home furnishing suppliers 14,000 components and materials to IKEA supTotal number of tier 2 home furnishing suppliers with identified critical 2,200 pliers and sub-suppliers that are used in materials and processes IKEA home furnishing products. In this Share of tier 2 home furnishing suppliers identified as providing 20% way we have extended the scope of IWAY critical materials and processes approved to IWAY Musts to include a greater number of sub-suppliers. Content s > Introduc tion > A more sustainable life at home > Resource and energy independence > A bet ter life for people and communities > Governance and ethics > Per formance towards targets 6 8 A be t ter l ife for people and communi t ies Before IWAY Musts After IWAY Musts “IKEA suppliers now consider working conditions, as well as price, when selecting their sub-suppliers. This is a big step forward.” Van Huynh Ba Bich, Sustainability Developer, IKEA Trading, Vietnam Working with suppliers in Vietnam How do you get owners of a rural saw“We don’t just leave suppliers to do it “Suppliers started by focusing on majority saw the benefits and gradumill to change their traditional way of on their own. Convincing sub-suppliers their most important sub-suppliers. ally we have seen them embrace the doing things? of the benefits of implementing the They highlighted the risks associated changes we are asking them to make. Through collaboration, understandIWAY Musts is something we do togethwith existing working practices, such Workers are happy with the changes, ing and persuasion — these are the er with our suppliers,” says Van. She’s as health and safety, to persuade subsuch as safety covers and earplugs skills Van Huynh Ba Bich, Sustainability been working with suppliers to support suppliers that implementing IWAY Musts provided for operating machinery, and Developer for IKEA Trading in Vietnam, them in engaging their sub-suppliers to were in their own long-term interests. they know that if they are injured in an has been using, together with her netimprove working conditions. “We reminded them that while IKEA accident, they will be compensated by work of suppliers and enthusiastic IKEA “Initially, sub-suppliers, such as the requirements might be more demanding their employers. business teams. sawmills that deliver wood components than the law now, it’s likely that regula“Another really encouraging change is The companies that supply prodto our direct suppliers, were resistant. tions will catch up eventually. By changthat IKEA suppliers now consider workucts to IKEA are already IWAY code of They saw little need to change their ing now, they will be in a better position ing conditions, as well as price, when conduct approved. And now they are processes and they felt that it would to supply to other companies, not just selecting their sub-suppliers. This is a required to ensure their suppliers (subdisrupt productivity. They had years of to IKEA suppliers, in the future. big step forward — it’s great to see how suppliers) also comply with minimum experience in their field — why should “There were some sub-suppliers IWAY is starting to transform business standards for working conditions, called anyone come in and tell them to do that decided not to make the changes practices for even the smallest compathe IWAY Musts. things differently?” said Van. and they left our supply chain. But the nies, like rural saw mills in Vietnam.” Content s > Introduc tion > A more sustainable life at home > Resource and energy independence > A bet ter life for people and communities > Governance and ethics > Per formance towards targets 6 9 A be t ter l ife for people and communi t ies Strengthening our standards ther economic, environmental and social We updated and strengthened our IWAY development among communities in our standard during FY13. The new version, supply chain. known as IWAY 5.1, has already been For example, we’re working with supplirolled out to a number of suppliers and ers in South Asia to increase the number will be fully launched with new and existof workers paid through bank accounts. ing suppliers in FY14. We’ll begin auditing This improves transparency concerning compliance with the new standards in April wages and enables workers to keep their FY14. This is the fifth update since IWAY money safe, manage family finances, and was launched in 2000. build up savings. Our research shows that suppliers who are able to integrate IWAY into their own routines and procedures are more likely to have a positive and stable IWAY performance. The updated standard is designed to help suppliers do this through a focus on management systems and risk assessments. IWAY 5.1 formally incorporates our work on engaging sub-suppliers. It also inSafety standards for cludes new or strengthened requirements buildings in Bangladesh in areas such as business ethics, freedom of association, grievance mechanisms, ergonomics and recruitment practices for On 24 April 2013 the Rana Plaza, a We’ve now introduced additional onmigrant workers. Our requirements on garment factory in Bangladesh, colsite checks using specialist construclapsed and more than 1,000 factory tion engineers. minimum wages are now included as IWAY workers died. None of the companies All seven of our direct suppliers in Musts. operating at Rana Plaza were suppliers Bangladesh are IWAY approved and A programme of workshops, seminars to IKEA, and we don’t source any of our 35 sub-suppliers are approved to and presentations has been introduced for our products from similar multi-storey IWAY Musts. Independent trained aufactories in Bangladesh. But followditors and structural stability experts IKEA teams on the new standard to help ing the shocking events at Rana Plaza have carried out the additional IWAY them communicate the requirements to we’ve acted to further strengthen our Must compliance, fire safety, health suppliers. safeguards. and safety and environmental assessIWAY already includes requirements ments. This includes physical checks on emergency preparedness which and tests to assess building safety as Going beyond compliance are designed to protect workers in our well as a document review. The work Our work doesn’t stop once a supplier supply chain. Suppliers who choose was completed in September 2013. No not to comply with these or other structural safety and stability issues achieves IWAY approval. We keep workIWAY requirements are phased out. were found. ing together to maintain compliance and we look for opportunities to support furContent s > Introduc tion > A more sustainable life at home > Resource and energy independence > A bet ter life for people and communities > Governance and ethics > Per formance towards targets 7 0 A be t ter l ife for people and communi t ies f y 1 3 at a g l a n c e Strong communities The IKEA Foundation’s Focus €101 million donated by the IKEA Foundation, a 21% increase from 2012* Protect children from child labour by supporting projects that tackle root Co-workers and customers raised causes. For example, partnering with €9.3 million through the Soft Toys for UNICEF and Save the Children to supEducation campaign in 2012 port children and families in cottonPartnered with 32 organisations growing communities (see p. 27). helping children and families in more than 30 countries Provide a better life for refugee children by committing support and long* Foundation data is calculated by calendar year. term funding to the UN High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) and other leading charities, and by donating IKEA products to help refugee families and Foundation funds projects that create subthe millions of children left homeless by stantial and lasting change for millions of natural disasters and conflicts. children in some of the world’s poorest Empower girls and women by funding communities. It works with global partners programmes that support and educate such as the UN High Commissioner for women, improving the opportuniRefugees (UNHCR) and the Clinton Founties for them and their families. The dation, as well as smaller charities running programmes funded cover a variety of innovative projects. By 2015, over 100 areas, including skills training, healthcare, and access to small business million children will benefit from current loans. IKEA Foundation-funded programmes. The IKEA Foundation also makes donations of IKEA products, and enables IKEA co-workers to share their skills and knowlWe want to take a lead in creating a betstore supports around 10 local commuprofits. The Foundation’s giving comes in edge to improve the effectiveness of our ter life for communities around the world, nity activities every year and donates, on three forms: cash grants, IKEA products, charity partners. supporting children and their families afaverage, €15,000 worth of products to loand sharing IKEA co-worker time and fected by poverty, war and natural disascal children’s programmes, refugee and knowledge with the Foundation’s partners. Progress in 2013 ters. At a global level, we do this through homeless centres, and community events Many of the projects we support help imIn 2013, the IKEA Foundation donated the IKEA Foundation and its work in develsuch as clean-up and tree planting days. prove life for communities in our extended €101 million, a 21% increase from 2012. oping countries. In addition, most IKEA country organisasupply chain. This was used to support 32 programme Nationally and locally, IKEA stores, tions have partnerships with national envipartners globally. It includes €2.07 million distribution centres, factories and tradronmental or social NGOs. The IKEA Foundation worth of product donations (such as baby ing offices work with charities and comThe IKEA Foundation is a charity regisEvery child deserves a place to call home, blankets, mattresses, quilts and quilt covmunity groups, and engage co-workers tered in the Netherlands. In 2013 it donata healthy start in life, a quality education, ers). and customers in campaigns. Each IKEA ed €101 million through funds from IKEA and a sustainable family income. The IKEA Content s > Introduc tion > A more sustainable life at home > Resource and energy independence > A bet ter life for people and communities > Governance and ethics > Per formance towards targets 7 1 A be t ter l ife for people and communi t ies A NNU A L DON AT I ON BY I K E A FOUND AT I ON (inc luding sof t toy Education after d o n a t i o n s) a disaster Children fleeing conflict and disaster can be traumatised by the experi2013 €101 million ence. A child-friendly learning en2012 €82 million vironment helps them recover. The IKEA Foundation donates IKEA toys 2011 €65 million and children’s products for inclusion 2010 €45 million in UNICEF’s Early Childhood Development (ECD) kits (the donation is equivalent in value to about $2 million USD). The kits help children learn, play and develop even under Partnering for innovation extreme conditions. The IKEA Foundation encourages innovaEight IKEA products, including buildtion, supporting projects that use new aping blocks, finger puppets, and chilproaches and techniques to benefit more dren’s scissors, have been selected people. It works with partners to improve by UNICEF’s experts to help stimulate and develop children’s thinking. efficiency, helping to make the most of organisations around the world by 2015. nering with Kickstart, an NGO based in AfOver two years, 24,000 kits will be every investment, including: This is expected to benefit nearly 75,000 rica, to support women farmers in Zambia distributed to 1.2 million children. young people. purchase low-cost water pumps that help 1. Using incentives to improve health, nuboost crop yields and family incomes. This trition, education and livelihoods. 2. Introducing new technologies. is expected to lift 280,000 people from For example, the IKEA Foundation supFor example, in partnership with the Refupoverty and improve food security for at ports Fight for Peace which helps young gee Housing Unit and the UNHCR, we’re least 3.8 million more. people in the world’s most violent comhelping develop a new type of shelter for munities, including the biggest group of refugees. The modular design is easy to favelas in Rio de Janeiro, escape crime transport and construct, and lasts up to and violence and reach their true potenthree years, compared with six months tial. Fight for Peace engages young peofor a canvas tent. A fabric cover reflects ple, including groups that are often difthe sun during the day while insulating ficult to reach, such as adolescent boys, the shelter at night. A solar panel provides by offering professional boxing and sports electricity. Around 50 shelters are being training in a safe environment. In this way, tested in UNHCR camps during 2013/2014. young people are encouraged to take up education and personal development op3. Helping families in developing countries portunities. The IKEA Foundation is giving get products and services. over €1.5 million to train staff from 120 For example, the IKEA Foundation is partContent s > Introduc tion > A more sustainable life at home > Resource and energy independence > A bet ter life for people and communities > Governance and ethics > Per formance towards targets 7 2 A be t ter l ife for people and communi t ies Customer and co-worker Foundation and UNICEF enabled 8,000 campaigns teachers to be trained in providing psyThe IKEA Foundation involves customchological support to children affected by ers and co-workers in campaigns at IKEA violence. stores. To increase co-worker awareness and engagement, the IKEA Foundation IWitSoft Toys for Education ness Global Citizens programme enables During November and December each small groups of co-workers to visit proyear, the IKEA Foundation donates €1 for jects funded by the Soft Toys for Education every soft toy sold in IKEA stores worldcampaign and see first-hand what a difwide. The money goes to UNICEF and Save ference their support makes. They share the Children projects to improve education their experiences with other co-workers for children in Africa, Asia and Central and via blogs and events. Eastern Europe. Co-workers and customers raised €9.3 million through the Soft Toys for Education campaign in 2012, down from €12.4 million in 2011. Thanks to the efforts of Supporting social our co-workers and customers, since the entrepreneurs programme began in 2003 the IKEA Foundation has donated €57 million to support over 10 million children in 46 countries. Through social entrepreneurial parttheir own textile business. The co-opFor example: nerships we support organisations eration with Swaayam Kala is the out• In Bangladesh, funding has supported dedicated to improving their communicome of a unique partnership between Save the Children in improving the qualties and can offer unique products to UNDP India and the IKEA Foundation. our customers. The women now sell cushion covers to ity of education and providing preschool In India, Sweden and Thailand IKEA, which provides them with a new education, benefiting 25,198 children and we’re working with social enterprises source of income and enables them to 14,509 adults. to design and develop limited edition contribute even more to their com“Nothing in my working life will • In Niger, money from the campaign has IKEA products now on sale in stores in munities. ever be better than my visits to the Austria, Sweden and Switzerland. Our In Thailand, we’re working with the helped UNICEF increase primary school projects funded by IKEA Foundasupport brings small-scale businesses Doi Tung Development Project that enrolment by 20% since 2010. 9,700 chiltion. I spend much of my time into our supply chain, which benefits employs 300 people making handicommunicating about the impresdren (including 4,000 girls) went to school local communities. crafts. By providing business training sive work that we do together with In India, for example, we have a and a market for their products, we in 283 new and renovated classrooms. UNICEF and Save the Children, but partnership with the social enterprise support local livelihoods as well as Doi • In Mali, more than 344,000 people, into be able to experience it with my Swaayam Kala. The co-operative Tung’s work to restore local forests own eyes was a real life changer.” cluding 25,000 school-aged children, had started when a group of women trainand improve healthcare and education ing in a United Nations Development in the community. to flee from their homes to escape armed Yngvill Ofstad, Programme (UNDP) wanted to develop conflict, food shortages, flooding and cholSustainability Responsible, IKEA Norway era outbreaks. The support of the IKEA Content s > Introduc tion > A more sustainable life at home > Resource and energy independence > A bet ter life for people and communities > Governance and ethics > Per formance towards targets 7 0 3 0 Governance and ethics Our culture is the inner strength of IKEA, the foundation of our success. We recruit people who share our values. We expect our managers to lead by example and to bring the IKEA values to life. Our strong culture and clear vision enable us to work in a decentralised way, giving our co-workers big responsibilities. Wherever they are in the world, our co-workers must live up to our ethical standards explained in our code of conduct. Sustainability — reflected in our values and a source of innovation and inspiration — is a cornerstone of our business strategy and we’re integrating it into how we work at every level. By working together, sharing ideas and enthusiasm, we will create a more sustainable IKEA. T H E I K E A VA L U E S dif f er en t Da r i n g t o b e A c c e p t a n d d e l e g at e r e s p o n s i b i l i t y Si m p l i c i t y C o n s ta n t ly b e i n g “ o n t h e w ay ” T o g e t h e r n e s s a n d e n t h u s ia s m Humbleness and willpower L e a d e r s h i p b y e xa m p l e C o n s ta n t d e s i r e f o r r e n e w a l COST CONSC I OUSNESS Contents > Introduc tion > A more sustainable life at home > Resource and energy independence > A bet ter life for people and communities > Governance and ethic s > Per formance towards targets 7 4 Gover nanc e and e t hic s How we work Charity Stichting IKEA Foundation Stichting INGKA Foundation The IKEA Group of companies (INGKA Holding B.V. and its controlled entities) has an Owner of the IKEA Group Management of financial assets Stichting IMAS Foundation ownership structure that ensures independence and a long-term approach. Stichting INGKA Foundation, in the Netherlands, is our owner, and its funds can only be used in two ways: reinvested in the IKEA Group or donated for charitable purposes through the Stichting IKEA Foundation. The IKEA Group (INGKA Holding B.V. and its controlled entities) The Supervisory Board of INGKA Holding B.V., located in Leiden, Netherlands, the parChairman of the supervisory board, Göran Grosskopf ent company of the IKEA Group, consists of: President and CEO, Peter Agnefjäll Göran Grosskopf (Chairman), Stina Honkamaa Bergfors, Luisa Delgado, Lars-Johan Jarnheimer, Jonas Kamprad, Göran Lindahl, Peter Production Range & Retail & Business Navigation Lund and Carl Wilhelm Ros. Ingvar Kamprad, Corporate Communications Supply Expansion Group Functions the founder of IKEA, is senior advisor to the Finance Supervisory board. 44 9,500 303 HR Production Units Products IKEA Group Stores IT The IKEA Group is led by its President and Legal CEO, Peter Agnefjäll, together with the man18,400 28 101,500 Property agement group: Jesper Brodin, Alistair DavidCo-workers Trading Service Co-workers Risk Management Offices son, Helen Duphorn, Martin Hansson, Petra Strategic Development Hesser, Steve Howard and Leif Hultman. 11 Sustainability Customer Distribution The IKEA Group operates throughout the Centres whole value chain from range strategy and 32 Asset Management product development to production, distribuDistribution Centres tion and retail. This includes our own manuFinancial assets facturing units, trading offices, customer 15,100 distribution centres and 303 stores in 26 Co-workers Shopping centres countries. Core related assets The IKEA Group franchises the IKEA retail system from Inter IKEA Systems B.V. in the Netherlands. Inter IKEA Systems B.V. is the owner of the IKEA Concept and the worldwide IKEA franchisor. Contents > Introduc tion > A more sustainable life at home > Resource and energy independence > A bet ter life for people and communities > Governance and ethic s > Per formance towards targets 7 5 Gover nanc e and e t hic s various areas (such as forestry specialists other companies to help lead the practical Sustainability governance and supplier code of conduct auditors). transition towards a circular economy. • Inclusive business — we joined the UN and management Working with others Development Programme’s “Business Call The expertise and opinions of customers, to Action” (BCtA), a global initiative that co-workers, NGOs, governments, trade aims to support efforts to fight poverty unions and industry organisations can through business. help us develop and strengthen our work We will launch other strategic partneron sustainability. In some cases, by workships throughout FY14. ing together in the right way, we can acIn FY13, we formed the People & Planet complish more than we might on our own. Advisory Group which will meet annually We partner with a range of organisato challenge and inspire us on our sustions on key issues connected to our sustainability agenda. The Advisory Group is tainability strategy. We do this to overmade up of senior representatives from come barriers outside our direct control, NGOs such as The Climate Group, the Into help create wider change in industry, or stitute for Human Rights and Business, simply to learn from others. We’ve develOxfam GB, Save the Children, UNICEF and oped long term partnerships to increase the World Resources Institute. Our CEO the supply of wood from responsibly manand President, Vice President and Deputy aged forests, to raise standards in cotton CEO, Chief Sustainability Officer, Corpofarming and to create opportunities for rate Communications Manager and Supply children living in the developing world. Chain Manager attended the first Advisory Our key partners include FSC, WWF, BetGroup meeting. The group gave feedback ter Cotton Initiative, UNICEF, UNHCR and on our People & Planet Positive strategy Save the Children. In FY13 we celebrated and discussed sustainability-related opthe 10th anniversary of our partnership portunities and challenges to IKEA (see Sustainability is one of the cornerstones sustainability managers in each of our with WWF (see p. 28). next page). of Growing IKEA Together (our long-term three IKEA Group divisions — range and In FY13, we reviewed our People & Planbusiness direction) and is included in the supply, industry, and retail — are also et Positive strategy to identify where we annual business plans of every part of members of their division’s management need to partner and collaborate to achieve the business. Group Management and the team. our goals. This led to new partnerships: Board of Directors receive regular reports It’s our co-workers in every depart• Climate change and energy — we on progress towards our key sustainability ment, country and function who enable us launched a new collaboration with The Cliobjectives. to achieve our sustainability goals. Their mate Group. We’re lead partners on the Our Chief Sustainability Officer, Steve efforts are supported by sustainability Clean Revolution Campaign. Howard, is a member of Group Manageprofessionals working across the business • Resource efficiency — we joined forcment and reports directly to the Group — in food, retail, product development and es with the Ellen MacArthur Foundation President and CEO, Peter Agnefjäll. The the Industry Group — and by experts in Circular Economy 100 and will work with Contents > Introduc tion > A more sustainable life at home > Resource and energy independence > A bet ter life for people and communities > Governance and ethic s > Per formance towards targets 7 6 Gover nanc e and e t hic s F e e db ac k f ro m t he P e o p l e & P l a ne t A dv is o ry G ro u p O u r P e o p l e & P l a n e t A d v i s o r y G r o u p m e t f o r t h e f i r s t t i m e i n FY 1 3 . M e m b e r s r e v i e w e d o u r s t r a t e g y a n d g a v e u s t h i s f e e d b a c k o n o u r p r o g r e s s s o f a r. IKEA and people Feedback What we’re working on IKEA has a strong set of values governing how Our supplier code of conduct, IWAY, sets out requirements for how suppliers should treat their co-workers. We it treats co-workers. It should make sure these aim to select suppliers that share our values, and to work with them to improve standards where necessary. values are shared by suppliers across the value With IWAY 5.1, our updated code, we will further encourage suppliers to integrate the principles that underpin chain. the IWAY standard in their own systems and processes (see The best places to work — suppliers p. 60). Inequality Feedback What we’re working on In emerging economies, the gap between the We aim to help communities escape poverty, through projects funded by the IKEA Foundation, and through middle class and the poorest of the poor continues our work to include small-scale businesses and social enterprises in our supply chain (see Strong communities to widen. IKEA has an opportunity to support the p. 70). We are working to strengthen the way we frame our approach to social sustainability in our People disadvantaged. & Planet Positive strategy. With input from key stakeholders, we’ll articulate a clearer vision for how we can have a positive impact on people across our value chain. Moral leadership Feedback What we’re working on People & Planet Positive gives IKEA the opportunity As a global company and well-known brand, we have an opportunity to create change beyond our immediate to stimulate wider change by becoming an advocate business. With our People & Planet Positive strategy, we want to take a lead on responsible sourcing, and thought leader, taking a strong stance on the renewable energy, enabling a more sustainable life at home and creating a better life for people and issues that matter most to its business. communities. As part of this, we’re engaging more in public policy and advocacy on social and environmental issues (see Public policy p. 79). Green growth Feedback What we’re working on Taking account of the environment can stimulate We have an ambitious growth strategy to double our sales by 2020. Our People & Planet Positive strategy rather than hinder growth and can be a force supports this objective, enabling us to grow in a sustainable way and providing a source of innovation. We will for innovation. IKEA needs to communicate this continue to emphasise among our co-workers that sustainability can stimulate growth. We’re also increasingly opportunity more clearly internally and externally. emphasising this externally. For example, through direct advocacy as well as the Clean Revolution Campaign, initiated by The Climate Group, we’re emphasising how investment in renewable energy is good for business as well as the planet (see Public policy p. 79). Customer communications Feedback What we’re working on IKEA can play an important role in influencing and With over 680 million visitors to our stores and one billion visitors to IKEA.com per year, we recognise the educating customers on sustainability. huge opportunity to communicate with our customers about sustainability. As well as developing products that enable people to save energy, water and waste at home, we’re integrating sustainability into all our communications, focusing on the benefits for customers. In FY13, we began to integrate sustainability information into product labels, store displays, restaurant areas, IKEA.com and our catalogue (see Engaging customers p. 17). Contents > Introduc tion > A more sustainable life at home > Resource and energy independence > A bet ter life for people and communities > Governance and ethic s > Per formance towards targets 7 7 Gover nanc e and e t hic s Engaging customers and heard of the strategy and 66% thought co-workers the strategy was great and what they It will take the commitment of all our coexpect from IKEA. Seventeen percent workers to make IKEA a more sustainable thought the strategy was good, but not business, and we need our customers to ambitious enough. Only a very small perget involved too. We want everybody at IKEA to undercentage thought that the strategy was not relevant, or did not respond. LET’S TURN bRIgHT stand and share our commitment to susWe update customers on sustainability tainability. We keep co-workers updated at IKEA through information in our stores, on People & Planet Positive, we involve the catalogue, our website and other comthem in meeting our goals, and we encourage them to share their feedback and munications (see p. 17). To collect structured feedback from cusIDEAS INTO NEW ideas. tomers, IKEA conducts market research We run regular campaigns on sustainthrough the Brand Capital survey, a tool ability for our co-workers, giving them into monitor and improve the implementaformation and inspiration so they can talk to customers about our work. In FY13, this included an LED lighting campaign, tion of the IKEA concept and to measure customer satisfaction in each market. The survey is conducted once a year. In addiDESIgN! through which almost 135,000 co-worktion, we monitor how satisfied customers ers received a free LED light bulb, (see are with their local IKEA store through the Promoting LED lighting around the world annual Customer Satisfaction Index (CSI) p. 18). We keep in touch with employee survey. This survey provides an internaviews and opinions through our regular tional benchmark for our stores, and enVOICE survey (see Communication and sures customer satisfaction is monitored. engagement p. 56). In FY13 we updated IKEA Inside — our Real cha nge intranet for co-workers — to feature tools why we’re g sta rts ivin g y at h and guidance on sustainability at IKEA, as Replace an ou om well as recent reports, information and old o n a e films about People & Planet Positive. We the turn th f e w e an re encourage co-workers to give us feedback orl d t’s Challenge your d b ha . through our dedicated People & Planet colleagues on Yammer! Change m ulb Positive feed on Yammer, an internal social your bulb in the most playful way and o . T D b t of e LE par take a photo. Upload it to our Yammer e site “LED Launch FY13”. Vote on a photo networking platform. a t. en by likeing it. Most voted picture wins a set Following the launch of our People & of LED bulbs for the entire home! You can m ve also participate by e-mailing your picture to Planet Positive strategy in 2012, we surturntheworldmovement@ikea.com. For more info visit IKEA Leadership through LED on the veyed co-workers to understand their Lighting Hub on IKEA Inside. views. Of the 552 respondents, 82% had / IKEA Turn the world movement Contents > Introduc tion > A more sustainable life at home > Resource and energy independence > A bet ter life for people and communities > Governance and ethic s > Per formance towards targets 7 8 Gover nanc e and e t hic s Business ethics Our culture is built on our values, remanagement or representatives from our inforced through leadership-by-example human resources or risk teams. If a cosuch as our Code of Conduct, “Good Busiworker doesn’t feel able to raise concerns ness with Common Sense”, launched in through these channels they can use the FY12. We’ve always had a zero-tolerance IKEA trust line. policy for corruption, the use of illegal The trust line was launched in FY13 drugs at work, harassment of co-workers across 37 countries. It gives co-workers and any actions that are against our vala channel to raise concerns confidentially. ues. Co-workers can contact the trust line in In FY13, we trained 120,000 out of their local language 24 hours a day, seven 135,000 co-workers on our code of condays a week throughout the year either duct. We aim to reach the remaining coonline or by telephone. All concerns are workers during FY14. Training includes initially evaluated by the trust line manworkshops where co-workers can explore agers and those requiring further action Co-workers can contact potential ethical dilemmas and discuss are referred to the appropriate HR or risk the trust line in their lowith their colleagues how we should bemanager. cal language 24 hours a have every day and apply the code in our day, seven days a week work. The code is also available to all coAnti-corruption throughout the year either workers online, in 26 languages. IKEA does not tolerate corruption in any online or by telephone. Together, our values, Code of Conduct, form, whether direct or indirect, and we clear policies, training and workshops help work to prevent it. encourage good behaviour throughout Our anti-corruption policy and our code IKEA. We make regular risk assessments of conduct describe how to act if fraud, in countries around the world and ensure corruption, theft or other misconduct is any breaches of our policies are investisuspected. All suppliers must agree to gated and dealt with promptly. Risk ascomply with this policy. sessments are carried out by country or In addition to our code of conduct trainregional risk managers. ing, we provide additional anti-corruption We promote an open culture of trust training for co-workers with procurement and honest communication at IKEA, built responsibilities and those working in counon a foundation of respect and fairness. All tries where there is a higher risk of corco-workers are encouraged to come forruption. ward, in good faith, and raise any concern they may have with those involved, where appropriate, or with their manager, senior Contents > Introduc tion > A more sustainable life at home > Resource and energy independence > A bet ter life for people and communities > Governance and ethic s > Per formance towards targets 7 9 Gover nanc e and e t hic s Public policy Examples of memberships in trade association We engage with government officials mission’s campaign to promote a lowsustainabilit y working forums and policy makers internationally, nationcarbon economy, “World you like with a ally and locally, seeking to contribute to climate you like”. We also contributed to • Retail Environmental Action Programme (REAP) — we presented at legislation in areas relevant to our busia consultation on the 2030 framework for the annual meeting on the green economy which explored how retailers can work with suppliers and customers to bring better products ness and our customers. We can use our climate and energy policy in Europe. IKEA to the market. expertise and experience to make a posisupports a clear and stable policy frame• EuroCommerce (represents the retail, wholesale and international tive contribution to the debate on many work that favours long-term investments trade sectors in Europe) — we’re active in several working groups (including the transport & environment and food committees) and sustainability issues. This advocacy is an in renewable energy and promotes energy in FY13 supported the preparation of a transport manifesto that increasingly important part of the way we efficiency solutions. addresses congestion and road pricing, and contributed to a retail work. • Resource efficiency — we met with sector position on sustainable food. • Green Freight Europe and Green Freight Asia — we’re supporting a Our approach to public policy is in line members of the European Resource Effistandardised approach to monitor and report carbon emissions from with the general principle of honesty as esciency Platform, a group of experts tasked transport (see p. 41). tablished in our code of conduct. We also by the European Commission to make • European Retail Round Table (represents Europe’s largest retailers and works on sustainable consumption, health and nutrition, and adhere to rules and guidelines established recommendations on resource efficiency, consumer information). by national and regional authorities includto discuss issues related to the circular • Timber Retail Coalition — we’re part of this group which supports measures to curb illegal logging and advocates for consistent and full ing the European Transparency Registry. economy and to share our experience of implementation of the EU Timber Regulations (see p. 24). We do not make political donations. closed loop projects (see New sources of We participate in the work of trade asmaterials p. 34). We called for the removal sociations who represent their members of administrative barriers that hinder plasin negotiations with legislators and regulatic recycling in some EU Member States. tors in different countries (see box, right). • Waste policy — we contributed to conDuring FY13, our public policy activity in sultations on plastic waste policy and EU the EU relating to sustainability included: waste targets. IKEA calls for improved • EU Emissions Trading Scheme (EU take-back schemes and incentives for portunities to restrict their use. ETS) — we supported proposals for reform consumers. We support increased recyOur other public policy activities in the of the EU ETS designed to ensure it can cling targets where there is sufficient reEU included participating in a study of the achieve its purpose of stimulating investcycling infrastructure. We also assisted in Payments Systems package (governing ment in low carbon technology. the development of a guidance document customer credit card transactions and oth• Climate policy — We represented the on the WEEE Directive, providing input reer payments), advocating for fair market private sector in the Petersberg Climate lating to products containing solar panels. access (particularly with regards to rules Dialogue, hosted by the German Chan• Chemicals — we wrote to the Europegoverning new store builds), and contribcellor Angela Merkel, which involved repan Commission and the Swedish Ministry uting to consultations on product safety. resentatives from 35 countries covering of Environment on Endocrine Disruptor Read about how we’re engaging with 85% of global greenhouse gas emissions. Chemicals (EDC) to encourage them to set governments to promote responsible forWe were a partner in the European Comclear definitions of EDCs and explore opest management on p. 24. Contents > Introduc tion > A more sustainable life at home > Resource and energy independence > A bet ter life for people and communities > Governance and ethic s > Per formance towards targets 8 0 Gover nanc e and e t hic s UN G l o b a l C o m p a c t r e f e r e n c e ta b l e About our reporting Location in IKEA Sustainability Report FY13 Human rights Our report is an important document dustry Group began operations. Data inPrinciple 1 Businesses should support and Human rights at IKEA p. 58 which we use to update customers, cocluded in this report is from when the units respect the protection of interworkers and partners on our progress in began operation. nationally proclaimed human rights; and creating a more sustainable IKEA. This year we’re able to report progress towards Gri and global compact Principle 2 make sure that they are not Human rights at IKEA p. 58 complicit in human rights The best places to work — many of the commitments in our People & Our reporting focuses on the social, enviabuses. suppliers p. 60 Planet Positive strategy launched in FY12 ronmental and economic sustainability isLabour (see Performance towards targets p. 81). sues we have identified as most relevant Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the A great place to work p. 54 We’re honest about setbacks and areas for IKEA. We used the Global Reporting freedom of association and the Human rights at IKEA p. 58 where we hoped to make more progress. Initiative (GRI) guidelines on sustainability effective recognition of the right The best places to work — to collective bargaining; suppliers p. 60 The data in this report is for the finanreporting as a guide when compiling this cial year 2013 (FY13), which ran from 1 report. We welcome the GRI’s G4 focus Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of Human rights at IKEA p. 58 forced and compulsory labour; The best places to work — September 2012 to 31 August 2013, exon materiality and reporting of impacts suppliers p. 60 cept where stated. across the value chain, and we follow Principle 5 the effective abolition of child Responsible sourcing p. 22 The information and data in this report these principles in our reporting. labour; and Human rights at IKEA p. 58 cover all wholly-owned companies in the We are signatories to the United NaThe best places to work — suppliers p. 60 IKEA Group, except for our Russian shoptions Global Compact, a set of 10 princiStrong communities p. 70 ping centre organisation which is excluded ples in the areas of human rights, labour, Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination A great place to work p. 54 due to lack of internal reporting systems environment and anti-corruption. The UN in respect of employment and Human rights at IKEA p. 58 to gather this information. We’re taking Global Compact Reference Table (right) occupation. The best places to work — suppliers p. 60 action to be able to include data from the shows where we report our progress reEnvironment Russian shopping centre organisation in garding the 10 principles. our future reporting. Any other exclusions Principle 7 Businesses should support Resource and energy independa precautionary approach to ence p. 20 are stated in the text. In some cases, data environmental challenges; has been estimated and this has been inPrinciple 8 undertake initiatives to A more sustainable life at home dicated in the text. Data for IKEA stores promote greater environmental p. 11 operated by franchisees outside the IKEA responsibility; and Resource and energy independence p. 20 Group is not reported. Principle 9 encourage the development and A more sustainable life at home The IKEA Industry Group (previously diffusion of environmentally p. 11 Swedwood and Swedspan) is a whollyfriendly technologies. Resource and energy independowned business and its environmental and ence p. 20 health and safety data is included in IKEA Anti-Corruption Group data. Principle 10 Businesses should work against Business ethics p. 78 During FY13, we opened five new stores corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. and one board factory acquired in our InContents > Introduc tion > A more sustainable life at home > Resource and energy independence > A bet ter life for people and communities > Governance and ethic s > Per formance towards targets 8 1 Performance towards targets Our commitments goal FY12 FY13 Ensure sustainability is part of our everyday work By FY15, 95% of co-workers agree with the statement, “Within my department 70% 70% sustainability is a natural part of the everyday work” A More Sustainable Life at Home Our commitments goal FY12 FY13 Take the lead in developing and promoting products By the end of FY20, achieve more than a fourfold increase (from FY13 levels) N/A €641 million and solutions that enable customers to live a more in sales from products and solutions, inspiring and enabling customers to live a (Baseline set in FY13) sustainable life at home more sustainable life at home By FY15, improve efficiency of energy-consuming products by 50%, from 2008 N/A 41% levels By FY16, all our electric hobs will be energy efficient induction hobs* 36% 43% By FY16, our entire lighting range will switch to LED offered at the lowest prices 51% of all lighting products sold were LED or compatible with LED bulbs (e.g. lamps customers can use with an LED bulb) By FY17, offer the most energy-efficient home appliances at the lowest price A to A++ offered in (offer A+++ appliance in all categories of appliance by FY17) all categories Engage and involve people and communities around By FY15, at least 95% of co-workers view IKEA as a company that takes social 83% 82% our stores, our suppliers and co-workers through and environmental responsibility impactful, relevant and unique communication By FY15, at least 95% of suppliers view IKEA as a company that takes social and 87% 89% environmental responsibility By FY15, at least 70% of customers view IKEA as a company that takes social 42% 41% and environmental responsibility * Exceptions may occur due to local conditions. Content s > Introduc tion > A more sustainable life at home > Resource and energy independence > A bet ter life for people and communities > Governance and ethics > Per formance towards target s 8 2 P e r f o r m a n c e t o wa r d s ta r g e t s Resource and Energy Independence Our commitments goal FY12 FY13 Strive for resource independence by using resources By FY17, 50% of total projected wood volume to come from more sustainable 22.6% 32.4% within the limits of the planet and by encouraging all sources1 waste to be turned into resources By FY15, all cotton to be from more sustainable sources2 34% 72% By FY17, all leather to be fully traceable and produced to standards that help protect forests and respect animal welfare All main home furnishing materials and packaging will be made from renewable, 91% 98% recyclable (in at least one IKEA market on an industrial scale) or recycled materials by FY15 90% of total sales value will come from home furnishing products classified as 35% 39% more sustainable3 by FY20 A minimum of 90% of the waste from our stores and other IKEA operations 86% 87% sorted for recycling by the end of FY15 Develop our business through investing in renewable By FY15, we will produce renewable energy equivalent to at least 70% of our 34% 37% energy sources, energy efficiency, store expansion and energy consumption, and by FY20 we, on Group level, will produce as much refurbishment, low carbon transportation and range renewable energy as we consume development Become 20% more energy efficient in our own operations by the end of FY15, 7.9% in stores 8.0% in stores compared to FY10 By FY15, reduce carbon emissions from our own operations by 50% compared 21.3% 19.3% to FY10 (in relative terms) By FY16, reduce transport-related carbon emissions by 20%, compared to FY11 7.3% 10.5% Work with our suppliers to improve efficiency and By FY15, 20% reduction in supplier carbon emissions from FY12 levels 0.1% reduce energy use and carbon emissions throughout By FY17, 20% improvement in supplier energy efficiency from FY12 levels 10.9% our supply chain By FY20, home furnishing suppliers 30% more water efficient than in FY12 -1.5% 1 More sustainable sources for wood are: Forest Stewardship Council certified or recycled. 2 More sustainable sources for cotton are: Better Cotton, cotton grown to other sustainability standards in the USA, and cotton from farmers working towards the Better Cotton Initiative standards. 3 According to our sustainability product scorecard. Content s > Introduc tion > A more sustainable life at home > Resource and energy independence > A bet ter life for people and communities > Governance and ethics > Per formance towards target s 8 3 P e r f o r m a n c e t o wa r d s ta r g e t s Better life for people and communities Our commitments goal FY12 FY13 Take a lead in contributing to a better life for people By the end of FY15, all IKEA suppliers (within the IWAY scope defined in FY12) 68% and communities impacted by our business will comply with our supplier code of conduct, IWAY. IWAY will be continuously assessed and strengthened. By FY12, all home furnishing suppliers will be IWAY approved, and will maintain 96% 99% approval thereafter By FY14, all tier 1 home furnishing sub-suppliers identified as providing critical N/A1 20% materials and processes are compliant with IWAY Musts By 2020, 50% of managers will be women 47% 47% By FY15, achieve a Leadership Index result of 75 in our VOICE survey 74 74 By FY20, achieve an overall VOICE result of 725 in our VOICE survey 712 711 1 Identification of critical sub-suppliers not complete in FY12. Content s > Introduc tion > A more sustainable life at home > Resource and energy independence > A bet ter life for people and communities > Governance and ethics > Per formance towards target s IKEA Group Yearly Summary FY13 IKEA Group People & Planet IKEA Yearly Summary Positive Foundation Find out what happened at IKEA in FY13 Visit the People & Planet Positive Discover what IKEA Foundation is do— get facts, hear stories and see where section of IKEA.com. ing to help improve the lives of children we’re headed in the future. around the world. © Inter IKEA Systems B.V. 2013
