CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY JOINING THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT In 2013 Kuoni became a member of the UN Global Compact, a strategic initiative for companies committed to aligning their business operations and strategies to ten universally recognised principles in the fields of human rights, labour, environmental protection and anti-corruption. In so doing, the company undertakes to integrate the Initiative's goals in its corporate strategy and daily business and to promote them further through suitable partnerships. The following pages serve to update our stakeholders on our progress in these fields. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY HIGHLIGHTS 2013 HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR * Kuoni supports two NGOs which * 7 Business Units have integrated help prevent the sexual exploitation Corporate Volunteering actions in 2013, of children in tourism. Through our with more to come in 2014. 6 charity support, these organisations have organisations have benefited so far. reached out to 2 890 children in 2013. * Kuoni offers 229 Travellife Sustainability * 184 stakeholders were consulted System awarded hotel in its traditional during the Human Rights Impact tour operating business (up 72% from Assessment in India. This assessment previous year). These hotels have been resulted in 15 commitments for further found to have fair working conditions actions by Kuoni. for their employees, amongst various other sustainability criteria. ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION * Kuoni published its Statement of * Approximately 70% of employees Commitment on the Environment completed an online test on anticorruption. highlighting commitments in the areas of climate change, water management * In the course of a risk assessment, and biodiversity. 2 one-day workshops with management were held. * There are 10 candidates for the Water Champions Award in Kenya. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 01_03_05 ■■■ HUMAN RIGHTS ■■■ ABOUT THIS CHAPTER With this chapter, Kuoni seeks to inform Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of its stakeholders about the approach it internationally proclaimed human rights. takes toward its commitments in the four areas of intervention aligned with the UN Global Compact, specifically Human Rights, In its continued effort to assess the actual and potential impacts Labour, Environment and Anti-corruption. of Kuoni’s operations and its business relationships on the human rights of the people in the destinations, Kuoni has conducted a This is the sixth official communication on human rights impact assessment at its Destination Management CR of the Kuoni Group, the last version of which was published for the 2012 annual Specialist Sita in India in 2013. This process allowed identifying reporting period. All Corporate Responsi­­mitigation measures to be implemented by Sita throughout 2014 and bi­l­ity reporting, key performance indicators 2015 as well as engaging management and stakeholders at a corporate and targets are based on the latest internationally recognised guidelines of the Global level, embedding human rights in Kuoni’s business practice. An Reporting Initiative (GRIG4). The GRI Index accompanying report which transparently explains the assessment is available online (Quick Search: 13127). process and the action plan is available online (Quick Search: 13126). ■■■ STATEMENT FROM THE CEO Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit “Sustainability along the entire value chain in human rights abuses. is a key pillar of Kuoni’s corporate strategy. We aim to keep our stakeholders informed on how we address and improve the Through the human rights impact assessments conducted in 2012 in ­sustainability of our business. Our con­Kenya > and in 2013 in India, following topics were identified where tinued commitment to the UN Global Kuoni can contribute but which require a broader industry approach: Compact as well as the Communication impacts on the communities, children’s rights, distribution of on Progress found herein demonstrates our engagement.” eco­nomic benefits, labour issues at key suppliers and women’s rights. Kuoni wants therefore to launch a sector-wide multi-stakeholder – Peter Meier, CEO of the Kuoni Group collaboration in Kenya on these issues. LABOUR ■■■ >> MITIGATION ACTIONS IN KENYA An overview of actions undertaken in 2013 Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and based on the pilot human rights impact assessment conducted in Kenya can be the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. found on kuoni.com (Quick Search: 13128). Kuoni acknowledges the right to collective bargaining and freedom of association as outlined in its Statement of Commitment on Human Rights and the ILO (International Labour Organisation) Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. 01_MARKET REPORT BUSINESS 103 01_03_05 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY ■■■ CORPORATE VOLUNTEERING For the VFS Global Division, staff have not chosen to associate them­selves with any trade union. Should a need arise, VFS Global is open Not only is Kuoni committed to the four to recognise such registered trade unions and to represent the interest basic principles for fair labour conditions as outlined, it also understands that its of its employees in those countries. colleagues are an invaluable partner in reinforcing its sustainability strategy. EncourPrinciple 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of aging employee engagement is a key focus. forced and compulsory labour. To this end, corporate volunteering was launched throughout the Kuoni Group in Kuoni’s Supplier Code of Conduct forbids all forms of forced labour. 2013. Several units in China, India, the Through its human rights due diligence process, Kuoni regularly Netherlands, UK, UAE, South Africa, and the US implemented corporate volunteerassesses where forced and compulsory labour occurs in tourism and ing actions in order to allow employees to identifies preventive measures for individuals who are particularly engage in a good cause while spending vulnerable to exploitation. Kuoni pays particular attention to protecta work day in a different and unique way. Through these actions Kuoni colleagues ing children from commercial sexual exploitation in tourism, a form supported different charity organisations of child labour which amounts to forced labour and a contemporary by, for example, running a marathon, form of slavery. teaching children with special needs or working in the nature (Quick Search 13129). Principle 5: Business should uphold the effective abolition of child >> SUPPLIER CODE OF CONDUCT labour. Kuoni has defined its minimal requirements towards its suppliers in the Kuoni Supplier Code of Conduct, a policy document which The prohibition of child labour is at the basis of any business requires suppliers to adhere to human relation­ship between Kuoni and its suppliers and specified in the and labour rights, compliance with local law and environmental standards, nonKuoni Supplier Code of Conduct >. discrimination, anti-corruption, work place safety and hygiene and child protection. In collaboration with ITB Berlin, Tui Travel, Accor Group, GIZ and Kuoni works with the Travelife certification The Code > Kuoni launched a project to combat child sex tourism scheme to ensure no form of forced aiming to ensure and inspire action on the issue through testing and and compulsory labour appears in supplier hotels (Quick Search 13130). optimisation of web-based tools put in place in Thailand as a pilot country. In 2013 the new e-learning system has been tested and further optimised and at least 60% of The Code members in Thailand have been trained with the new system. >>THE CODE Kuoni has been an active member of the Child Protection Code since 2006 and is represented on its board. As part of this commitment, Kuoni informs its customers about the issue, contractually obliges its partners to adopt the same ethical 104 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 01_03_05 Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discriminaapproach and shows its partner hotels tion in respect of employment and occupation. and their employees what they should do if they come across any cases of sexual exploitation of children in the course of The Kuoni Code of Conduct outlines the company’s commitment their work (Quick Search 13131). to ensuring, within its multicultural teams and working environment, that nobody is harassed or discriminated against for any reason such as their race, religion, belief, nationality, sex, age, sexual orientation or Kuoni employees donated disability. 10 000 CHF ■■■ ENVIRONMENT to Children’s Rights Goa as part of the annual Christmas Campaign. Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. >> STATEMENT OF COMMITMENT The Statement of Commitment on the Kuoni is fully aware that it is dependent upon the rich natural Environment outlines Kuoni’s engagement re­sources and unique landscapes at the destinations and thus has the in the protection of the environment in key destinations and operations worldwide. responsibility to minimise the negative impacts of its business on Three priority areas which have the greatthe environment, while at the same time enhancing its positive actions est impact on its business and product towards life in general. To this end, Kuoni has published a Statement offer were defined to be climate change, water and biodiversity. The Statement of Commitment on the Environment > based on the Kuoni Code of of Commitment details key interventions in Conduct and the precautionary approach. each of these areas. Download the Statement online (Quick Search 13132). Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Kuoni integrates sustainability issues into its operations and supply chain and aims to implement efficient environmental management VFS Global has achieved systems within key hotel partners. In November Kuoni organised a supplier workshop in Bali, Indonesia to provide hotel partners with ISO 14 001:2004 the necessary tools and business skills to implement cost effective certification in 2013. ISO 14 001 is the environmental management systems. 55 hotel managers and techniworld’s most recognised environmental management standard. cal engineers participated in the two-day workshop. 01_MARKET REPORT BUSINESS 105 01_03_05 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY ■■■ FOSTERING BIODIVERSITY Kuoni has developed the Sustainable Excursion Guidelines for deci­WITH THE IUCN sion making when sourcing or selling excursions to customers in order to guarantee that excursions take environmental, social and Kuoni has continued its engagement with the International Union for Conservation economic impacts into full account. The guidelines align with the of Nature (IUCN) in two pillar initiatives Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild aimed at maintaining biodiversity in key Fauna and Flora (CITES) and ensure that best practice guidelines Kuoni destinations. for tourism businesses are met according to relevant codes of conducts In April Kuoni and IUCN hosted a worksuch as ABTA’s Animal Welfare Minimum Requirements. shop in the Maldives as part of an ongoing collaboration to enhance the resilience Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and of coral reefs against the growing threat of climate change and coral bleaching diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. by improving local management of resort reefs. Over 40 participants were in Kuoni has focused its activities on promoting technical solutions attendance. and operational improvements in hotels, investment in community In October a training seminar for 30 conprojects to minimise the adverse impacts of water competition and servationists from Sri Lanka was held with communication to customers, starting its activities in Kenya. A com­pre­the aim of providing them with the busihensive user manual was the culmination of a pilot study. The aim ness skills necessary to design successful ecotourism products and to support was for the end-user to have the tools necessary to implement a sustain­marketing initiatives. able water management in their own operations step-by-step. Any hotel committing to the process outlined in the manual will be eligible for the Kuoni Water Champion award. 60% of Kuoni hotel suppliers in the Mombasa region participated in two Kuoni Water Champions training seminars held in April 2013. 106 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 01_03_05 ■■■ ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Commitment & Policy: Kuoni is committed to doing business ethically and believes that bribery and corruption are wrong and not acceptable. >> IMPLEMENTATION The Group Regulation was rolled-out within According to the Kuoni Code of Conduct (“CoC”), each employee Outbound & Specialists and Global Travel is obliged to comply with all applicable laws, rules and regulations as Services Divisions and the Group functions. In the communication by the Group CEO well as with internal regulations and guidelines. The CoC also states and the Group Compliance Officer Kuoni’s that gifts and hospitality may not be given, offered or received with commitment to integrity was reiterated the intent or prospect of influencing decision making or other and employees were asked to report any suspicious activity. conduct and refers to Kuoni’s Group Anti-Corruption Regulation (“Group Regulation”) for further guidance. The Group Regulation A customised e-learning module was has been issued by Kuoni’s Board of Directors and is fully endorsed rolled-out through the LMS (Learning by the Group Executive Board. Management System). Approximately 75 percent of employees of the two Divisions The VFS Global Division has issued its own Anti-Corruption Regulaand the Group functions have completed tion (“VFS Regulation”) in line with the Group Regulation. The focus the course. In some units in more exposed in 2013 was on implementation > of the Group Regulation within the jurisdictions classroom trainings have been held. Kuoni Group. Further, a corruption risk assessment was conducted across the Kuoni Group and mitigation actions are being All employees of the VFS Global Division implemented. were encouraged to go through the VFS Regulation in the LMS. HR managers were trained and 54 percent of VFS Global’s emMonitoring: All business units must maintain adequate compliance ployees have passed an online test. Since monitoring programs and Group Internal Audit reviews the effectiveNovember 2013 a revised version of the ness of the Regulation and compliance with it. Findings are reported VFS Regulation is available in the LMS. to the Audit Committee and the Group Compliance Officer. Kuoni urges all employees to report any violation of the Regulation. Reports to the Group Compliance Officer can be made on a confidential basis or anonymously (whistleblowing). 01_MARKET REPORT BUSINESS 107 108
