COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT www.zed.com.tr 2013 PERIOD 1 EVENT MANAGEMENT & CONSULTANCY SERVICES COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2013 PERIOD COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2013 PERIOD CONTENT • General Information........................................................................... 4 • Company Profile.................................................................................5 • ZED References (2010 …)................................................................ 7 • General Director’s Message.............................................................. 8 • ZED Corporate Social Responsibility.............................................. 10 2 • ZED CSR Activities.............................................................................11 3 Global Compact Network Turkey..................................... 11 Human Rights.................................................................... 11 Partnership with NGO’s.................................................... 11 Support to Student........................................................... 13 Lectures.............................................................................. 13 Environment Sensitive Organization.............................. 13 • UN Global Compact Principles......................................................... 14 Human Rights.................................................................... 14 Labour................................................................................ 18 Environment...................................................................... 22 Anti-Corruption................................................................. 26 • Performance Indicator Analysis...................................................... 28 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2013 PERIOD 2013 PERIOD Company Profile Since 1992, ZED (www.zed.com.tr) has been operating in the congress tourism sector in the fields of conference, congress, seminar, symposium, special events, launching, awareness campaign, workshop, exhibition, fair and study tour organizations. ZED is the member of leading international institutions of the travel agencies, professional congress organizations, meetings sector, associations including; General Information UN Global Compact* Professional Congress Company Name ZED Event Management & Consultancy Type of Activity • TÜRSAB (Association of Turkish Travel Agencies) • DPID (Direct Marketing Association of Turkey) Organizer • IAPCO (International Association of Professional • EFAPCO (European Federation of Associations of Mustafa Kemal Mah. 2132. Sk. No:2 Organizers) Professional Congress Organizers) Address Website www.zed.com.tr • CSR Turkey (Corporate Social Responsibility • MPI (Meeting Professional International) 06510 Çankaya/Ankara/TURKEY Association of Turkey) • HCEA (The Healthcare and Medical Convention & Number of • UFTAA (Universal Federation of Travel Agents Exhibitors Association) 4 Telephone +90 312 219 5700 50 5 Employees Association) • SMID (Social Media Communicators Association) • ICVB (Istanbul Convention & Visitors Bureau) • ISO 9001 Quality Management System Certificate Fax +90 312 2195 701 • ICCA (International Congress & Convention • European Sponsorhip Association (ESA) Mr. Cengiz YAZANEL Mr. Volkan Doğan Association) Name of the Name of the Highest Executive General Director / Managing Partner Contact Person volkan@zed.com.tr * First signature in Congress Tourism Sector in Turkey and member of Executive Board of UNGC Local Network since 2009. ZED fulfils its operations through Istanbul and Ankara Offices, which spreads out on totally 4033 square meters. All of the offices are fully furnished and equipped with the latest technology. ZED employs 50 permanent staff and employs 50 to 2000 short-term support staff depending on the scale of the organization. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2013 PERIOD 2013 PERIOD servıces references 2020 •• 19th International Symposium of Adapted Physical Activity Event Projects Designing and Consultancy •• 34th International Geographical Congress, Istanbul, 3.500 (ISAPA 2013), Istanbul, 850 pax pax (expected) •• 1st International Uroanatomy Congress Izmir, 300 pax Project Logistics Solutions 2018 •• 3rd ENSACT Biennial Joint European Conference, Istanbul, Exhibition and Fair •• 24th Congress of the International Association of Disability 1.000 pax Corporate Communication and Oral Health, Istanbul, 1000 pax (expected) 2012 •• 36th Congress of the International Board on Books for •• 23rd International FoodMicro Congress, Istanbul, 900 pax Young People, Istanbul Operational Planning and Application •• 23rd European Corrosion Congress, Istanbul, 850 pax Protocol Planning and Applications 2017 •• 21th World Congress of Aesthetic Medicine, Istanbul, 2.000 •• 15th European Congress on Biotechnology, Istanbul, 850 Communication Consultancy pax (expected) pax Public Relations 2016 •• GAP Action Plan, Communication & Promotion Project 6 •• 7th European Down Syndrome Conference, Istanbul, 750 2011 7 Social Responsibility Consultancy pax (expected) •• 4th United Nations Conference on the Least Developed Countries, 15.000 pax Cost and Finance Analysis 2015 •• 32nd World Veterinary Congress, Istanbul, 5.000 pax •• 22nd World Mining Congress and Expo, Istanbul, 1.500 pax (expected) •• 8th European Clay Congress, Antalya, 800 pax Media Planning Technology and Training Consultancy •• 17 World Congress of the World Federation of the Deaf, th •• Turkish Air Force 100th Year Activities, İzmir Istanbul, 5.000 pax (expected) •• 20th Soroptimist International Convention, Istanbul, 2.000 •• GAP Action Plan, Communication & Promotion Project Brand Consultancy pax (expected) 2010 2014 •• Expo 2010 Shangai, Consultancy Services for Planning, Creative Planning Management and Public Relations of Pavilion of Turkish •• 2nd European Conference of the Earthquake Engineering Republic, Shangai, 15.000 pax Promotion and Awareness and Seismology, Istanbul, 2.000 pax (expected) •• 18th IFOAM World Organic Congress, Istanbul, 2.000 pax •• Southeast European Countries Istanbul Summits, 550 pax (expected) •• Conference on Interaction and Confidence Building Measures in Asia, Istanbul, 445 pax Date of Establishment: 1992 Avarage Financial Turnover: 14.785.958 € (2011-2013) •• EU Communication Project of EU Delegation to Turkey 2013 •• GAP Action Plan, Communication & Promotion Project Employee: 50 Membership: 13 •• 32nd Congress of the International Union of Leather Technologists and Chemists Societies, Istanbul, 1.000 pax COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2013 PERIOD 2013 PERIOD General Director’s Message responsibility as a part of our corporate Besides strictly following the Global Compact culture. We are committed and act appropriate 10 principles, we are happy to declare our to the ten principles of Global Compact on commitment to advance the implementation human rights, labor, environment and antiof Global Compact Principles as taking active corruption and we continuously inform, role in now Board of Directors of Global Compact educate and encourage all our stakeholders Network Turkey together with other board in the implementation of principles. members and all other signatories. ZED proved its commitment to the Global We express our continuous support to promote Compact Network as being one of the 7 and improve the implementation of Global representatives of the Global Compact Turkey Compact 10 principles and share our knowledge 8 Local Network Steering Committee, which and experiences with our stakeholders. We 9 is then formed by the representatives of the are glad to be sharing our Communication institutions (Aksa Acrylic, ARGE Consulting, Koç Progress Report regarding our corporate social Holding, Sabancı Holding, TİSK, TÜSİAD, ZED) responsibility activities for the year of 2013. that have carried out effective work and paid close attention to Global Compact since 2005. The Steering Committee held first meeting on Since 1992, ZED has been operating in the ZED, who works in national and international March 4, 2009. congress tourism sector in the fields of arena with success in view of consciousness of the conference, congress, seminar, symposium, source of the ongoing success, is the all inclusive The Steering Committee aims to represent the event management and consultancy, exhibition and sustainable world economic growth, signed network internationally and to strengthen the and fairs, promotion and public relations. ZED, in Global Compact Agreement in 31 May 2006 Local Network across Turkey, with improved as a “Professional Congress Organizer”, creates to give support and promote “ten universally effectiveness of its signatories. interaction platforms that enable knowledge accepted principles” for a better world for all. and experience sharing in different areas As acting through the requirements of Global during each successfully organized national or Compact Principles, we reflect our corporate Cengiz YAZANEL international conferences and summits and in responsibilities in our business strategies and General Director / Managing Partner this way it contributes to global dynamics. operations and we see the corporate social ZED Event Management & Consultancy COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2013 PERIOD 2013 PERIOD ZED Corporate Social Responsibility ZED CSR Activities ZED has been operating for 20 years in the field of the solidarity and cooperation with civil society Global Compact Network Turkey Congress Tourism and has found a place as the leader organizations, it supports many NGOs’ in their activities. Global Compact Local Network Steering Committee ZED has given special importance to Human Rights and in the sector with its professional services, values, ethics In this regard, ZED is the main supporter of “Corporate in Turkey is formed by the representatives of the all the events that was done after 2008 aimed directly principles and socially responsible activities. As being Social Responsibility Association of Turkey”. Besides, institutions that have carried out effective work and at purpose. All forthcoming events will be done under titled “Professional Congress Organizer”, ZED has the ZED continues to give support to 50 different NGOs paid close attention to Global Compact since 2005 and the respect of this issue. honor of reaching a high point in the sector by bearing who represent different sectors in Turkey. ZED Event Management & Consultancy has taken in mind the responsibilities that this title brings along. active role in the Steering Committee since 2006. Partnership with NGO’s As a part of the Steering Committee, ZED aims to • ZED gives financial and organizational support to ZED accepts corporate social responsibility as a part of Therefore, ZED’s priorities relating to socially support representation of the network internationally the EU Communication Project of EU Delegation to its corporate culture since its inception and it reflects responsible business practices are: and to strengthen the Local Network across Turkey, Turkey. its corporate responsibilities in all business strategies with improved effectiveness of its signatories. The • ZED gave financial support to the one-day meeting 10 and operations. • Organizing learning and experience sharing events Steering Committee comes together few times a “Empowering Women in the Workplace, Marketplace 11 • Mobilizing collective action with NGOs on different year and work on the planning future activities for and Community” co-organized by Republic of Turkey ZED signed in Global Compact Agreement in 31 May priority issues the establishment of facilities and mechanisms to Ministry of Family and Social Policies, BPW, Global 2006 to give support and promote “ten universally • Motivating participating companies and NGOs to support the implementation of the Global Compact Compact Network Iraq, Global Compact Network principles. Turkey, Global Compact Network GCC States. accepted principles” and is committed to the ten develop partnership projects to contribute to the As a member of Steering Committee in Turkey, ZED • ZED, together with Global Compact Network Turkey, principles of Global Compact on human rights, labor, UN and Millennium Development Goals tries to reach to other sectors and companies in the UN CDP, CSR, UNIDO and Köprü Sustainability Consulting environment and anti-corruption. UN Global Compact • Contributing to the sustainable development Global Compact Networking system in Turkey after the oganized Sustainable Business Summit in 2013. Principles are accepted as a minimum standard • Improving the “Green Meetings” conditions for all Steering Committee Meeting that was held in 2013. • ZED gives financial and organizational support to in all operations by ZED and it acts in accordance organizations Deaf Federation of Turkey for the organization of with these principles while trying to improve the Human Rights World Down Syndrome Congress to be held in 2015 Since ZED’s General Director, Mr. Cengiz YAZANEL in İstanbul. implementation of them day by day. ZED is also ZED expressed its gravity and commitment to corporate added his name to the CEO Statement declared on • ZED has partnership agreements with nearly ten committed to disseminate information and create social responsibility and Global Compact Principles as the occasion of the 60th Anniversary of the Universal associations and foundations to bring international awareness about the corporate social responsibility taking active role in the Steering Committee of Global Declaration of the Human Rights at November 2008, and/or European Congresses to Turkey. within its stakeholders specially and in the Turkish Compact National Network in Turkey. ZED continues to ZED expressed its commitment, respect and support to society in general. support to promote and improve the implementation Human Rights. of “ten principles of Global Compact” and share its Since ZED believes that corporate social responsibility knowledge and experiences with its stakeholders implementations could be improved through and the Turkish society. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2013 PERIOD 2013 PERIOD Supports to Students • ZED regularly accepts students from TOBB University to complete their internships. 2 students worked in and completed their internship period successfully. • ZED financially supported 22 secondary school and university students in the year 2013. • ZED gave financial support to Mersin University Ladies Basketball Team in Ankara Tournament. • ZED gave financial support to Ankara Metin Oktay Elementary School, Parent-Teacher Association. Lectures ZED has given financial and organizational Cooperation with Deaf Federation of Turkey • Mr. Cengiz Yazanel, April 2013, “The Practices on Entrepreneurship & Leadership”, TOBB University support to Buğday Association which has brought the “17th World Congress of the brought the “Organic World Congress 2014” World Federation of the Deaf” to İstanbul. • Mr. Cengiz Yazanel, November 2013, “Congress Tourism & Turkey”, Başkent University 12 13 to İstanbul. • Mr. Safa UNAL, May 2013, “Making Business in Congress Tourism”, in TOBB University Environment Sensitive Organizations ZED gives speacial importance and care to the environmental issues and follows recent developments especially in the sector in which it operates. ZED has accelerated its research and development studies to conduct “Green Meetings” concept in the forthcoming organizations. The goal of organizing “green meetings” is to develop and implement green standards that will improve the environmental performance of meetings on a global basis and events and to create a better more sustainable world. ZED will encourage its sub contractors using green tools in their works. Recycled equipments become very Cooperation with Turkish Geographical ZED’s cooperation with Society of important in ZED events. Society brought the “34th International Publications for Children and Young Adults Geographical Congress” to İstanbul. which brought the “IBBY 2018” to İstanbul. ZED will give more importance to carbon food print of the attendees and will try to offset their carbon consumption in its future events. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2013 PERIOD 2013 PERIOD HUMAN RIGHTS • ZED maintains a policy of strong c o m m i t m e n t o n health and safety issues and provides healthy working Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. conditions and health insurance policy for all employees. Principle 2 Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. • ZED ensures non-discrimination in its business practices. ZED’s Policy • ZED provides highest standards in physical working ZED Event Management and Consultancy endorses the UN Universal Declaration on Human Rights and regards environment conditions such as lighting, heating, the declaration as one of the core values and as an essential part of the ethical foundation of the company. ZED ventilation and air-conditioning and in safest work accepts and ensures that every individual has the right to work, right to choose his/ her job, right to work on practices. equal conditions, right to freedom of expression, right to liberty and security, right to health care and right to • ZED ensures that every individual has the right to have equality. ZED maintains that all stakeholders also support the human rights principles. education. The employees are encouraged to develop themselves and the way of business through various 14 trainings. In 2013, 3 employees acquired the International 15 1) Corporate Commitments, policies and procedures to deal with all aspects of human rights Project Management Certificate after a long training period relevant to operations, including monitoring mechanism and results given by IPMA Türkiye. ZED’s support to its employees Indicators ZED Approach & Practices & 2014 targets training will continue in 2014. Indicator 2: • ZED as a growing company makes investments in its sector Indicator 1: • ZED has a human rights policy to endorse the UN and different fields. ZED always takes into consideration Company takes into consideration the • Fulfillment of Human Rights Policies Universal Declaration of Human Rights and ZED t h e human rights while realizing new investments. human rights impacts as part of investment • Organizational structure where the ensures that every individual has the right to work, right procedures. human right policy is implemented to choose his/her job, right to work on equal conditions, • ZED doesn’t prefer t o e s t a b l i s h p a r t n e r s h i p s and risk management map to evaluate right to freedom of expression, right to liberty and and work with the companies or institutions which are the company human rights impacts security, right to health care and right to equality. ZED complicit in human rights abuses. ZED especially takes maintains that all its stakeholders also support the human into consideration the supporters of Global Compact. rights principles. • Each year Human Resources Department develops a risk management map and auditing standards to evaluate the company’s human rights impacts. HR Department has developed a new and more efficient system for 2014. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2013 PERIOD 2013 PERIOD 4) Company involvement in promoting human rights in the local community 2) Company communication to the employees its ethical values and principles Indicator 1: • The philanthropy is one of the core values of the ZED The monetary value of the company’s corporate culture from inception. ZED’s total philanthropy ZED has a standard orientation program implemented to all new recruited personnel. It consists of general philanthropic contributions / voluntary social b u d g e t devoted and realized for the year 2013 was company information, corporate culture, ethical values, organizational structure, employee rights, working investments (cash contributions and/or in-kind 41.000 Euro. ZED plans to increase this contribution as environment and opportunities provided equally to all employees. giving) 10% in the year 2014. Indicator 1: • First information about ethical values of the company is • ZED gives support and provides scholarships to 22 The number of communications sent by provided during orientation process. Besides, all employees students (secondary schools and universities) each year. company to the employees on corporate are reminded of the basic ethical principles and informed ethical values and principles about new accepted developments at regular meeting held in once a year. Indicator 2: • ZED as a sensitive company which observes and knows The company analysis the local needs before very well the needs of the community in which it operates designing its projects for the community and it and it regularly (twice a year) comes together with the 16 Indicator 2: • ZED conducts annual questionnaire to hear, evaluate and carries out educational and/or other campaigns opinion leaders (school directors, mukhtar, religious man, 17 Company’s formal mechanisms to hear, to take suggestions and criticisms of employees. There is an of public interest in the community together representative of associations etc.) In the region to analyze evaluate, and follow up positions, concerns, open-door policy in ZED and managing partners encourage with local organizations. the real needs of the community. suggestions and criticisms by employees on employees to express their views on human rights directly to human rights to improve the internal process themselves. 3) Company policy to evaluate and address human rights performance within the supply chain and contractors Indicator 1: • ZED concerns the standards and international certificates The number of suppliers that are in of its subcontractors. All 16 suppliers have international accordance with international standards of standards and certificates. ZED aims to increase this number total suppliers as 18 in the year 2014. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2013 PERIOD 2013 PERIOD LABOUR 6) Company’s specific policy against forced labour Principle 3 – Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the rights to Indicator 1: • ZED is strictly against forced labour considered as a Forced labour is considered as a potential risk potential risk also in service sector including the event collective bargaining; in the sector. management and organization. ZED also informs its Principle 4 – the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; stakeholders and will continue to create awareness for Principle 5 – the effective abolition of child labour; being against forced labour during 2014. Principle 6 – the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Indicator 2: • ZED has a net and standard guidelines followed and Company has clear guidelines regarding the audited by Human Resources’ Department. ZED’s Policy forced labour. ZED ensures and acts according to the article numbered 23 of Universal Declaration of Human Rights expresses Indicator 3: • ZED has a standard guideline regarding the working hours, Company has clear guidelines on working hours, health and safety issues at work and at wages. that every individual have the right to establish trade union to protect his/her interests and the right to health and safety at work and wages. participate to the unions. Every employee has the right to make collective bargaining. ZED supports and • During the orientation process conducted prior to 18 ensures the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. ZED recruitment, ZED clearly identifies its policy and informs 19 acts in accordance with ILO articles and Turkish law, which states the legal age of employment is 15. ZED is the employee about the working terms and conditions. against forced labour and child labour and never works or makes partnership agreements with the companies ZED’s employee policies are specified within employment or institutions which do not obey these rules. ZED labour policy guarantees that all employees are able contracts. These contracts clearly state the actual to enjoy a work environment free from harassment and free from discrimination including that of race, working conditions, health and safety issues and their colour, national origin, ancestry, religion, marital status, age or gender. Any harassment or discrimination rights. So, all employees are aware of them and agree of employees is unacceptable and will not be tolerated. ZED expects its stakeholders and clients to support upon it before signing. these guidelines. 7) Company has specific policies against forced labour within its supply chain. Indicator 1: • ZED concerns and checks the acts of the companies 5) Company has a freedom of association policy and the effective recognition of collective within its supply chain to understand its policies regarding Company verifies that its supplier’s workforce bargaining. the labour. Almost all of the companies in supply chain of fulfill with a reasonable amount of working Indicator: 1 • ZED supports and ensures the freedom of association and hours. ZED have reasonable working conditions, such as working Company has policies and procedures involving the effective recognition of the right to collective hours. information, consultation and negotiation bargaining. The Human Resources department has with employees over changes in reporting procedures to follow up the new information and deals organization’s operations. with the negotiation process. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2013 PERIOD 2013 PERIOD Indicator 2: • ZED has not yet a formal mechanism to transfer its values • The standard dismissal procedure is also implemented to each employee during the dismissal process. Company has formal mechanisms to enable and principles to the supply chain. However, ZED transfers its values and principles to the companies in supply • In 2013, 3 employees acquired the International Project Management Certificate after a long training transfer its values and principles to the supply chain informally through the meetings, company p eriod given by IPMA Türk iye. chain such as good working conditions, lack of child and slave labour, etc. newsletter and web site stressing that it acts strictly in • The employees who would get the training program were decided according to their needs and job compliance with the Global Compacts Principles. ZED will specification requirements. continue to work on setting a formal mechanism during 2014. 8) Company has a policy prohibiting child labour is defined by the ILO Convention 138. Indicator 1: Company has clear guidelines as • ZED has a clear guidelines and acts in accordance with 10) Company has procedures in place to respond accusations of workplace harassment or to child labour prohibition. ILO Convention 138 and Turkish law, which states the bullying. legal age of employment, is 15. ZED is against juvenile employment and never works or makes partnership ZED seeks to eliminate workplace violence and harassment. ZED ensures that all employees are able to 20 agreements with the companies or institutions which do enjoy a work environment t h a t is free from harassment and free from discrimination including that of race, 21 not obey these rules. colour, national origin, ancestry, religion, marital status, age or gender. Any harassment or discrimination of employees or others at ZED is unacceptable and will not be tolerated. ZED expects also from its stakeholders and clients to support these guidelines. ZED will continue to disseminate information to its stakeholders on workplace violence and harassment during 2014. 9) Company states its equal opportunity policies or programmes as well as monitoring systems to ensure compliance and results of monitoring during its recruiting, promotion, training and dismissal procedures. All ZED employees are accorded equal opportunities during the recruiting, promotion, training and dismissal procedures. Each employee ha s equal opportunities to develop the knowledge, skills and competence that are relevant to their job. ZED conducts training needs analysis each year regularly to analyze the needs for specific roles within the organization. For instance; • Human resources department conducts an orientation programme for each new recruited employee in their first day in the company and they are informed about the rules, organizational structure, promotion and career system and procedures that provide equal opportunities for each employee. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2013 PERIOD 2013 PERIOD ENVIRONMENT Indicator 3: • ZED organizes training and awareness programmes (once Company conducts training a year) for its staff in order to achieve continual progress in Principle 7 – Businesses are asked to support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; programmes to increase awareness and environmental protection performance. Principle 8 – undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and responsibility level and to give information • ZED regularly gives update information and reminds the Principle 9 – encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. on environmental threats to its employees. responsibilities to reduce impact on environment through the memos and newsletters distributed in house. ZED’s Policy • ZED has given its pesonnel a 1-day “Workplace Safety ZED is an environmentally-conscious company and has a strong sense of responsibility for the environment. Training” to inform and help them avoid workplace related ZED is committed to the environment principles declared in the Global Compact Principles and it supports The accidents. Rio Declaration on Environment and Development and Agenda 21. ZED continues its efforts to handle the key • ZED has given its personnel a 1-day “Fire Safety Training” environmental challenges; in particular, tries to develop its activities in the areas such as research, co-operation, to increase their knowledge and sensitivity level to probable training, and self-regulation that can positively affect the significant environmental degradation and damage fire incidents. 22 to the planet’s life support systems, brought by human activity. ZED applies the precautionary principles and Indicator 4: • ZED takes precautionary measures to minimize the 23 seeks to minimize the environmental impact of its activities. Social and environmental impact assessments and Company has policies and initiatives aimed environmental impact of its activities. Social and environmental reviews are performed regularly throughout the project cycles in accordance with the international standards impact assessments and reviews are performed regularly to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, solid and requirements. ZED will promote environmental responsibility continuously in every platform in which they wastes, emissions and discharges, energy throughout project cycles in accordance with international operate. consume, water or increase water reuse or standards and requirements. aimed to improve biodiversity. 11) Company has a corporate environmental policy & has a precautionary environmental approach • ZED uses environmental friendly clean technologies, and or principle. tries to develop voluntary environmental management Indicator 1: • ZED has two staff responsible for corporate social systems and environmental standards and to collaborate and Company has a department/person responsibility issues auditing the implementation of exchange information with local, national and international responsible for environmental issues environmental principles and defining new strategies to organizations to that end. minimize the environmental impact of ZED. • ZED started to implement “Green Meetings” approach in the • All ZED employees are conscious about environmental organizations. The aim of greener meetings is to reduce the issues and are sensitive to their environment. paper, electricity consumption etc. and to hold meetings that don’t cost the earth. Indicator 2: • ZED’s responsible staff defines and sets the Company has quantified environmental environmental targets in January of each new year. • ZED collects the used paper in special containers owned targets that have been defined for the whole by the Municipality. ZED collected and sent 2.450 kg used company. paper for recycling in 2013. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2013 PERIOD 2013 PERIOD • ZED also encourages employees to reduce paper 13) Company has criteria for the selection of suppliers that includes environmental policies or consumption and to correspond and communicate management systems. through the electronic system. Indicator 1: • 9 of ZED suppliers have environmental policies and Number of suppliers with environmental they use environment friendly technologies. ZED always • All ZED personnel are sensitive enough to using recyclable policies or management systems. tries to create awareness on environmental issues and paper and re-use those papers underused for unimportant implementation of environment friendly principles correspondences. between its suppliers. • ZED continuously reminds its staff to reduce water Indicator 2: • The goods and the services of the suppliers who consumption through in house memos. The effect of the environment policies of concerns environment and act through, are always suppliers on the cost of the goods and costs more. For instance; the cost of a brochure which is • The oil consumption of the company vehicles are regularly printed on a recycled paper with biological ink is two-three services checked by the internal audit system. ZED has a standard times expensive than a brochure printed on normal paper system which sets all necessary precautions to reduce with chemical ink. the petrol consumption of the vehicles. ZED used more 24 economic in fuel and carbon less cars in 2013 and aims 25 to further reduce its fuel-oil consumption during 2014. Indicator 5: • ZED has never received any penalty associated with Incidents of and fines for non-compliance environmental issues. with all applicable international declarations/conventions/treaties and national, sub-national, regional and local regulations associated with environmental issues. 12) Company has initiatives to use renewable energy sources and to increase energy efficiency. ZED has an electricity compensation system which collects and turns the waste energy into the reusable energy. The 20% of total electricity consumption of ZED is the recycled electricity provided by the electric compensation system. ZED also has a latest technology, smart air conditioning system which regulates the energy consumption according to the air temperature outside. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2013 PERIOD 2013 PERIOD ANTI-CORRUPTION 15) Are all political contributions transparent and made in accordance with applicable laws? Principle 10 – Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Yes, ZED ensures that the all political contributions provided are transparent and they are always in accordance ZED’s Policy with applicable Turkish laws. ZED Event Management and Consultancy is against any kind of corruption in all its forms, including extortion 16) Are all charitable contributions and sponsorships transparent and made in accordance with and bribery. ZED has its own informally declared code of conduct as a core value of its corporate culture. ZED applicable laws? works on developing a formal mechanism for increased transparency in its operations. ZED takes consider into Yes, ZED is a social responsible company and provides charitable contributions and scholarships each year. All of its suppliers and all stakeholders approach in anti-corruption. them are registered and in accordance with applicable Turkish laws. 14) Company has a policy, procedures/management systems, and compliance mechanisms fo r organizations a n d employees addressing bribery and corruption. 26 Indicator 1: • ZED is against any kind of corruption in all its forms, including 27 Company has a policy, procuders / extortion and bribery. ZED has its own informally declared management systems controls bribery and code of conduct as a core value of its corporate culture. ZED corruption acts and disseminate information regularly disseminates information and promotes employee on anti-corruption. awareness of and compliance with company policy against bribery and corruption. Indicator 2: • ZED’s Financial and Administrative Affairs Department has an Company has a department / staff auditing system which controls the bribery and corruption responsible for controlling bribery and related acts. The department implements disciplinary corruption actions. procedures defined by informal code of conduct. ZED has prepared a draft formal code of conduct and will continue to work on it in the year 2014. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2013 PERIOD WE BELIEVE IN NETWORKING Performance Indicator Analysis 2013 2014(targets)-decrease% Direct Energy Use Total electricity KWh 63.076,7 3% 1.261 (per person) diesel oil(L) 15.198,6 3% 303 (per person) gas (m³) 14,889,6 3% 297,8 (per person) 28 water use (m³) 450,2 29 3% www.zed.com.tr 9 (per person) other material use (paper-pack / kg) 1 pack= 255 pack/ 1 ~ ton 3% 4~ kg paper Indirect Energy Use indirect energy use (such as organizational 659 flights travel) number of flights of the ZED staff 583 domestic flights 10% 76 international flights Recycling recycling and reuse of energy -KWh 16.756 3% increase facebook.com/ZedEvents twitter.com/ZedEvents (25% of total consumption) recycling and reuse of paper kg 2.450 3% increase COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2013 PERIOD 30
