OPEN ENGAGING TRANSPARENT ALIGNED WITH VALUES MOVING FORWARD TAKING KOSMOS TO T LEVEL RESPONSIBILITY COMMITM CREATING POSITIVE BUSINESS PR LEVEL DEVELOPMENT OPEN ENG TRANSPARENT COMMITMENT ALI WITH SUCCESS MOVING FORWAR NSIBILITY O P E N TO THE NEXT LE POSITIVE COMMITMENT CREATIN ALWAYS EXPLORE PURSUIT COMM DEVELOPMENT OPEN ENGAGING TRANSPARENT HONEST ALIGNED MOVING FORWARD TAKING KOSM THE NEXT LEVEL HONEST POSITI RESPONSIBILITY COMMITMENT C POSITIVE DEVELOPMENT OPEN E TRANSPARENT HONEST ALIGNED MOVING FORWARD TAKING KOSM OPEN ENGAGING TRANSPARENT TAKING FORWARD TO THE NEXT CO R POR ATE RES PON S IBIL ITY RESPONSIBILITY COMMITMENT CR REPOR T 201 3 How the Report This year’s report is organized into distinct, but related sections corresponding to our is Organized countries of operation and the exploration and production project lifecycle. 05 The Framework Corporate Practices and Policies This opening section describes corporate-level initiatives adopted in 2013 that provide the foundation for the work we do around the world. 09 Early-Stage Exploration Activities Mauritania, Suriname and Ireland This section explores preliminary work that has been done in three countries where we are exploring for hydrocarbons. These early-stage activities begin the process of building strong relationships with local stakeholders. 14 Investing in a Non-Self-Governing Territory Western Sahara ABOuT ThIS REPORT This year’s report chronicles the progress 15 Preparing to Drill Morocco we have made in implementing our Once a decision to drill an exploratory well is made, Business Principles which we adopted Kosmos embarks on a number of pre-drilling activities to last year, as well as the work we have help ensure both the company and country are ready for increased operations and potential success. completed to strengthen our internal policy framework and enhance governance over our corporate responsibility performance. 19 Exiting Cameroon We believe clear accounting of our Kosmos withdrew from Cameroon in late 2013. This performance builds trust and credibility, section looks at how Kosmos managed its exit, honored its and will ultimately make us a better commitments to stakeholders, and left a positive legacy. company. Selection of information for inclusion in the report was based on internal materiality discussions and consultations with third party experts. 21 Commercial Production and Development Ghana The report is designed to communicate This section looks at Kosmos’ ongoing presence in Ghana, our progress on the Ten Principles of the where the company first discovered the Jubilee field in 2007 and now produces oil as a non-operating co-venturer United Nations Global Compact, which we of the Jubilee Unit. fully endorse and support. Additionally, this report is guided by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), but is not in accordance with GRI guidelines. This 27 Looking Ahead report has not received external assurance from an independent third party. 27 2013 Performance Data 1 PROVEn EXPLORATION STRATEGY 2 Ireland 1 People and First Mover MOROCCO 2 Process Advantage 2 WESTERN SAHARA entification y Id ure Seis tunit apt mic C por and P Mauritania 1 O p De rosp NTRARIA fin CO SPECTIV N i t ec n Suriname 1 Maximized R ES tio Concentrated 3a CAMEROON Returns PE Portfolio GHANA 3b ering rtn EF PE Pa DE FICIENT T ATEG STR C IC High Volume High Value E RSP TIVES Ope VELOPMEN Barrels rational Read iness Commercial Accelerated D Rifle-Shot LO Ex rilli PROJECT LIFECYCLE Commercial Hydrocarbons Found 3b Production and Appraisal W FINDING ec ng ut ion Exploration Development COSTS 1 Early-Stage Exploration Activities 2 Preparing to Drill Exploration Drilling No Commercial Hydrocarbons Found 3a Relinquish License and Exit Follow-on Early Success Discovery Financial Highlights of 2013 TOTAL EMPLOYEES PROVEn EXPLORATION STRATEGY Year ended 2013 249 Finding oil and creating value for stakeholders by opening new petroleum systems is (in thousands, except volume data) 2012 158 about three things. Revenues and other income $ 852,428 First, it takes vision and strong management support, together with a solid financial Income tax expense $ 166,998 248 Net loss attributable to common shareholders $ (91,044) 2013 180 position. Kosmos has a leadership team and board that are focused on delivering exploration success, as well as producing development assets to fund this important work. Net cash provided by operating activities $ 522,404 Total Global Employees U.S. Employees Second, it takes a clear objective. Kosmos targets high value, high volume barrels – and Capital investments $ 437,750 we align our strategy to achieve this goal. We focus on frontier and emerging basins in EMPLOYEE DISTRIBUTION the Atlantic Margin, targeting specific geological concepts. We then build a concentrated Total assets $ 2,345,826 Total long-term debt $ 900,000 portfolio with play diversity and prospect dependency, which is matured over time and Total shareholders’ equity $ 992,335 drilled selectively with a rifle-shot approach. 71% United States Production (thousand barrels of oil per day) 22.5 Third, it takes successful execution. Our explorers are disciplined in their thinking and 21% Ghana Sales volumes (million barrels) 7.8 processes for identifying, maturing and high-grading opportunities. They generate 5% Morocco contrarian ideas that provide firstor early-mover status which Kosmos can turn into Total proved reserves (million barrels of oil equivalent) 47 large acreage positions to manage risks and enable a commensurate reward. This puts 2% Suriname Crude oil (million barrels) 45 Kosmos in a position to make significant, basin-opening discoveries at an industry-leading Natural gas (billion cubic feet) 11 1% Mauritania rate of exploration success. 3 FELLOW STAKEHOLDERS 4 I am pleased to present Kosmos Energy’s second The theme of this year’s report – Open Similarly, Kosmos introduced an internalbringing in international governance and A more thorough explanation of our view – represents our recognition that being ly-branded management system called The economic experts to lead full-day seson hydrocarbon exploration in Western Saannual Corporate Responsibility Report and my first as a great explorer with deep expertise is Standard, which centralizes our HSES polisions on the management of hydrocarbon hara can be found in a position statement not enough to be successful. We aim to cies and procedures. Designed to reaffirm resources, covering topics such as transavailable on our website. Chairman and CEO. At Kosmos, we recognize that we become a partner of choice for our host our commitment to achieving an incident parency, revenue sharing, stakeholder engovernments and the communities where and injury-free workplace, The Standard gagement and consultation, human rights, Honoring Commitments must be as good above ground as we are exploring below we live and work. To achieve this goal, we sets clear expectations and performance grievance mechanisms and social impact must build relationships with stakeholders measures that we use to plan and monitor assessments. Knowing that now is the time Kosmos’ dedication to being a responsible it to earn the respect and trust of host governments, the that are based on openness. For Kosmos, our corporate, country and project-level to prepare for potential success, Kosmos company is perhaps best demonstrated by this means: activities. wants to help Morocco be in a position to our recent experience in Cameroon where communities where we operate, and other stakeholders develop any discovered resources in a reour Sipo-1 exploration well failed to find hywhose lives may be affected by our work. Corporate • We are open to having meaningful To help us assess our progress and improve sponsible and efficient manner. drocarbons in a quantity sufficient to justify dialogues with our stakeholders about our governance, we also created a standing development. responsibility is a core part of our strategy. the challenges inherent in exploring board committee on external affairs and Our work related to the Cap Boujdour for oil and gas in frontier areas. We corporate responsibility. The committee contract area, located offshore the When well results and operational priorities believe listening and engaging in meets regularly to review country-level Non-Self-Governing Territory of Western made it clear that Kosmos would exit Camdebate deepens our understanding of operations and advise management on isSahara, has been particularly intensive. eroon near the end of 2013, an internal team the issues, even when we disagree. sues affecting above-ground risk. A newly Since the start of our met to determine the developed framework now connects the involvement in 2006, path forward regarding • We are open to new ideas about details of local operations to board-level Kosmos has spent planned social investsocial investment in the places where reporting to sharpen understanding and considerable time and ments. The project we we operate, knowing that a one-sizeoversight. resources to develop a had started would not fits-all approach won’t meet the dideep understanding of be ready for implemenverse needs of our host communities. In 2013, Kosmos deepened its commitment the complex geopolittation until after our exit. to protecting human rights by joining the ical and social reality. Having worked with lo•W  e are open about our business dealUnited Nations Global Compact, adopting We have engaged with cal communities near ings with governments because transthe United Nations Guiding Principles on Moroccan authorities the drill site since 2006, parency builds trust and accountabilBusiness and Human Rights as a touchand other stakeholdwe recognized the imity. It provides public assurance that stone for measuring performance, and ers inside and outside portance of keeping hydrocarbon resources are developed beginning the implementation of the Volthe territory to ensure our commitments and Andrew (Andy) G. Inglis responsibly, with the benefits going to untary Principles on Security and Human that everything we do leaving behind a posi Chairman of the Board and the people of our host countries. Rights. Moreover, through on-the-ground is sensitive to the situative legacy. As a result, Chief Executive Officer social impact assessments, we began to tion in Western Sahara. we continue to fund •W  e are open about our successes and develop a process for identifying and adAs a company, we have committed ourour planned social investment projects and shortcomings. We are not perfect. We dressing potential issues associated with selves to operating ethically, transparently support the local and international partners know that we may not reach every our work. and consistently with international standoing the work. goal we set, but we will always give it dards and industry best practice. our best effort. And we will be open Bringing Our Business Principles to Life This thoughtful approach to de-commissionabout our performance because acIn December 2013, Kosmos and the Office ing an otherwise unsuccessful project reveals countability makes us better. While the progress made at the corporate National des Hydrocarbures et des Mines something about Kosmos, our company cullevel has been significant, it’s the work done (ONHYM), a governmental agency of the ture, and our people. When we enter a counAs you will see from the real-life examples in our host countries that often makes the Kingdom of Morocco, signed a Joint Dectry and begin operations, we do so with the in the following pages, Kosmos has made most difference. laration of Principles. This document sets absolute intent to make it a better place. significant progress in integrating corout our joint commitments regarding our porate responsibility into its day-to-day Kosmos continues to be an industry leader exploration activities and the key principles Being a Catalyst for Positive Change business activities, in pursuit of its goal of in promoting transparency by disclosing under which hydrocarbon development becoming a partner of choice. the terms of our various petroleum agreewould proceed, if any commercially viable Although this book is filled with many positive ments and reporting payments made to deposits are discovered; including among stories, our journey is far from complete. our host governments around the world. other things, that such development would We know there is much more we can – and Tracking Our Progress In Ghana, for example, we reported data be undertaken in accordance with internawill – do to be a force for good. In the event In last year’s report, Kosmos set an amto the Ghana Extractive Industries Transtional standards, such as those in the Unitof exploration success, we see oil and gas bitious agenda for 2013. We pledged to parency Initiative (GHEITI) and worked ed Nations Charter, and those referred to in development as an engine for economic strengthen our policy framework, improve through the local Exploration and Prothe 2002 United Nations Legal Opinion on development. It’s my hope that Kosmos our governance of corporate responsibility, duction Forum, an industry association, resource development in Western Sahara. can continue to be a trusted partner, good and manage human rights. I am pleased to to discuss how we could collaborate more neighbor, and catalyst for positive change for report that a lot was achieved. effectively to improve the GHEITI reporting We know that some have reservations many more years. process. about any companies investing in WestAt the corporate level, we strengthened our ern Sahara. Among the questions we have Sincerely, policy framework by adopting and introIn anticipation of spudding our first explofaced from some stakeholders, includducing a set of Business Principles which ration well offshore Morocco in the Foum ing ethical investors, are concerns about guide how we do business and inform our Assaka contract area, we introduced a whether our activities in the region include decision-making. We held training sessions nascent oil industry to best practices in consultation with the people of the terriin each location to educate our people and well integrity design and oil spill response tory and, further, will such activities be for set expectations regarding how Kosmos planning, two critical measures aimed at their benefit? We have been clear about conducts its affairs. The Business Princiboth safeguarding the environment and that: our activities have been, and will alples have been enthusiastically embraced creating a legacy of developing local caways be, conducted in a manner that is Andrew (Andy) G. Inglis by our people around the world. pacity. Similarly, Kosmos sponsored a seboth fully inclusive and for the benefit of Chairman of the Board ries of workshops for key stakeholders, all the local population, without exception. and Chief Executive Officer 5 6 Corporate Practices and Policies The Framework Corporate-level policies and practices provide a strong framework and foundation for the work we do around the world. They enable us to maintain consistently high standards no matter where we do business. They are also critical to our success regardless of where a project might be in the exploration and production lifecycle. Here is a quick look at the progress we made in 2013 in several key areas: The Business Principles Business Principles on above-ground risk issues. To enhance the oversight of this board committee, we have Transparency guide our decision-making. Kosmos’ Board of Directors adopted our developed a framework that connects coun“We have an internal, cross-functional group To supplement our strong internal anti-corruption Business Principles in early 2013. These try-level operations to board-level reporting. dedicated to implementing the Business Principles. compliance program and demonstrate our commitPrinciples guide our decision making as This team is responsible for identifying risks and ment to transparency, we made public all of our employees and as a company. In 2013, we Human Rights petroleum agreements and production sharing opportunities across the organization. They help introduced the Business Principles to all emcontracts when we filed our Form 10-Q with the ployees globally and formed a cross-funcAs part of our Human Rights Policy impleto translate the Business Principles into our U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. To help tional Business Principles “Champions Team” mentation, we began using the United Nadaily work at Kosmos. In addition, we’re working interested parties access these contracts, we proto advance these commitments. Our leadtions Guiding Principles on Business and Huto reinforce the Business Principles through vided links to them on our website. ership regularly reinforced the importance man Rights as a touchstone in measuring our performance. We also joined the United Naperformance reviews and new hire orientation. of the Business Principles, and through the Kosmos is an international supporting company for Champions Team, we opened a dialogue tions Global Compact to further underscore We have also held internal meetings with diverse the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI). with employees on areas for potential imour commitment to this important area. We groups of employees to review Kosmos’ Human Kosmos sits on the EITI Board in Ghana and continprovement. This is an ongoing effort that will included specific expectations in The StanRights Policy and discuss related topics.” ues to play an active role in the national process. Our continue through 2014 and beyond. dard (our Health, Safety, Environment and Country Manager in Mauritania is on the EITI National Security management system) related to soSteering Committee, and we have been advocating for cial impact assessment and implementation Tracey Henderson EITI’s wider adoption in both Suriname and Morocco. Oversight of Corporate Responsibility of the Voluntary Principles on Security and Kosmos created a standing Board committee Human Rights. We also established grievance Vice President Exploration, Geophysics We have published our payments to our host govon external affairs and political risk, which regmechanisms in Ghana and Morocco. In 2014 ernments, disaggregated by type of payment, in ularly evaluates our performance against the we will be working to improve the mechathe Performance Data on page 28 of this report as Business Principles and advises management nisms’ effectiveness and accessibility. well as on our website. 7 Corporate Practices and Policies The Framework 8 Internal Community and Stakeholder Engagement tools to minimize security risks to personnel Assurance during business travel and on Kosmos sites. We reviewed our existing social investInternal Audit is ment projects and refreshed forward-lookKosmos remains dedicated to achieving an currently responsible ing plans to ensure they aligned with our injury-free workplace. As such, we have esfor executing an audit Community Development and Stakeholder tablished new safety targets for 2014 based plan on financial Engagement Policy. We also rolled out a on our previous three-year average Total controls testing detailed Social Investment Manual, outlinRecordable Injury Rate and Lost Time Injury as well as audits ing corporate expectations regarding proFrequency. In addition, we have added new of the Company’s gram design and project selection criteria, metrics to track and measure the frequency HSES program, to help ensure that our efforts are sustainand potential severity of near miss incidents, Well Integrity able and aligned with local development the effectiveness of improvements to the Management System, priorities. HSES management system, and overall HSES Anti-Corruption readiness for our 2014 drilling campaigns. Compliance, and Health, Safety, Environment Supply Chain In 2014, we plan to provide more accessible and Security (HSES) processes, to name Health and Safety training and on-boarding a few. Our Internal Kosmos introduced an internally-branded for the global workforce, as well as enhanced Audit department management system called The Standard, self-assessment tools for measuring perforreports to the Board which centralized our HSES policies and promance within the HSES management system. of Directors’ Audit cedures. The Standard sets clear expectaCommittee. tions and associated performance measures Public Policy Engagement that are used to plan and monitor our corThis year, Internal porate, country and project-level activities. In addition to our processes and policy Audit has provided framework, Kosmos takes an active role in internal assurance Kosmos also achieved high HSES perforthe broader discussions occurring globally on a subset of the mance in 2013. Key performance indicators around corporate responsibility policy. We data in this Corporate for the year (see 2013 Performance Data on have been involved with several global instiResponsibility Report, p. 28) were based on industry benchmarks tutions regarding policy development and as well as conducted reported by the Oil and Gas Producers Asbest practices. We have also engaged with a review and provided sociation, as well as governments in West Africa on emerging polrecommendations internal objectives icy issues such as transparency, good govon the processes by for well integrity and ernance, and human rights. We believe that which statistical data behavioral-based our engagement on these issues is not only are defined, collected training. In 2013 we contributing to more effective public policies and consolidated. improved our infor generations to come, but is also helping ternal systems and position Kosmos as a partner of choice. 9 M A U R I TA N I A 10 EARLY-STAGE MAURITANIA After license acquisition, the first stage in the oil and gas project EXPLORATION SURINAME lifecycle is the acquisition of seisACTIVITIES IRELAND mic data. Kosmos recently completed seismic surveys offshore Ireland, Suriname and Mauritania. The acquisition of seismic data involves employing specially equipped vessels to map the deep Survey Ship Survey Ship Acoustic Acoustic ocean landscape and the rock forEnergy EnergySource Source mations beneath it using sound waves. When the data is collected, our explorers use it to create Hydrophone Hydrophone detailed pictures of the earth’s physical characteristics which then enable us to make more informed decisions about where commercially viable oil and gas deposits may be present. In addition to collecting geological External Affairs Manager Sidi Aly Moulaye Zeine meets with local data for interpretation, our seismic fishermen to discuss and answer questions about an upcoming activities also provide insight into seismic survey offshore Mauritania. the presence and abundance of marine life, including large mammals, birds, fish, corals and others. We use this information to assess Kosmos acquired approximately 6,175 line kilometers of two-dimensional seismic data and 10,300 square kilometers of three-dimensional seismic data offshore Mauritania in 2013. the state of the marine environment and establish a baseline view met with, among others, the local Diawling many families. Kosmos’ involvement enof the offshore habitat. At Kosmos, First Steps in a Country with an Park Authority, fisherman’s associations, sured more than 3,000 people had food to Emerging Oil and Gas Industry we always aim to minimize the poand local religious, economic and governfeed their families and our local employees When we began working in Mauritania ment leaders. Each meeting represented in Nouakchott, the capital, volunteered to tential impact of our operations on in 2013, Kosmos supplemented nationan open invitation to continue dialogue on assist in the distribution. the environment and the wildlife al requirements by developing its own our activities, as well as a commitment to guidelines for seismic surveys based on keep stakeholders informed of our progfound in it. international best practices and specific ress and plans. Next Steps in Mauritania recommendations from the Joint Nature In 2014, we hired a country manager to Conservation Committee, an advisor to the oversee our operations. A local Mauritanian As we deepen our geologic knowlDeveloping a Social Investment Strategy United Kingdom on national and internawith extensive experience in international edge, we also work to deepen tional conservation. This productive collabUpon establishing a country office to oil and gas exploration and a member of engagement. During seismic exoration resulted in heightened measures to oversee our operations, we completed an the National EITI Steering Committee, he protect sea turtles and marine mammals. assessment to identify social investment will play a key role in strengthening our exploration, we begin outreach to opportunities and potential partners from isting stakeholder relationships as we congovernments and communities to Being a Good Neighbor the community. Although we are still in the tinue to gather and interpret seismic data early stages of exploration in Mauritania, in advance of drilling an exploratory well. introduce the company and begin As in each country where we are in the seiswe participated in a few small projects and earning their trust. We also start demic exploration phase, Kosmos engaged committed to supporting at least one main early outreach to fishing communities jor initiative. veloping small scale social investnear our offshore exploration acreage. We ment projects to ensure we bring met with local representatives as part of For instance, Kosmos recently supported a an Environmental Impact Assessment to Mauritanian Red Crescent initiative to probenefits to our host communities. introduce the company, highlight our comvide the needy with food during Ramadan, mitment to doing things the right way, and a period often marked by price increases explain our planned seismic activities. We that can put basic items out of reach for 11 SURINAME 12 “Since joining Kosmos in October 2012, I have been a part of starting a dialogue with different stakeholders on important issues, such as raising awareness of infrastructure needs for oil and gas exploration. My role as External Affairs Manager broadened my view of what it means to be a responsible operator. Kosmos has earned my respect for implementing its Business Principles in my country. From requiring contractors to comply with the law by registering in Suriname, to engaging proactively with the fishing community and other stakeholders in advance of our 2D seismic survey, we try to do the right thing. I am personally looking forward to Kosmos being one of the first companies to drill a deep water exploration well in the history of Suriname!” Mike Resomardono External Affairs Manager, Kosmos Energy Suriname In December 2011, Kosmos secured a position offshore Suriname, marking our first portfolio Early Social Investment expansion beyond Africa. Following extensive acquisition of seismic data in previous years, in To ensure alignment with government priorities and industry needs, our social investment “As a pioneering technical education inprojects in Suriname have been designed in close collaboration with Staatsolie, the national stitute, ITEC is both thrilled and grateful 2013, Kosmos acquired approximately 1,400 kilometers of two-dimensional seismic data. oil company, and guided by a Kosmos-initiated needs assessment. As a result, we targeted to work with Kosmos Energy in elevatthree key areas linked to capacity building: ing the welding profession in Suriname. Before beginning the seismic survey, we Kosmos Energy’s professional and soheld various stakeholder meetings and EITI // Kosmos is committed to cially responsible spirit is reflected in conducted an Environmental Impact As•N  urturing Professionalism in Engineering – To meet local demand for employees with transparency and active promomore advanced engineering skills, Suriname’s Institute for Natural Resources and Enthe scholarship fund that our institute sessment. Personnel in our Suriname office met with government authorities, local tion of the Extractive Industries gineering Studies created a special program in process engineering. Kosmos supporthas received. With this fund, 10 ambicommunities, and civil society organizaTransparency Initiative (EITI) ed the initiative by donating equipment to be used in a hands-on lab setting to help tious students received the opportunity tions before, during and after the seismic students in developing skills required by future employers. project was complete to ensure stakeholdwherever we are working. In to follow our Canadian Welding Bureau ers were kept informed of our progress and Suriname, we have initiated •E  nhancing Business Trades – To support increased industrial activity in Suriname, certified welding training program which plans. From the Environmental Impact Asdiscussions with government Kosmos partnered with the International Technical Education Center of Suriname will be the start of a more professional sessment, we developed specific guidelines (ITEC) to provide ten scholarships for aspiring welders to attend a training certificaand highly skilled construction and weldto address concerns raised about the postakeholders regarding the bention program which meets international standards. All scholarship recipients in 2013 tential impact of the project on tourism and efits of EITI implementation. We ing industry in Suriname.” completed the program successfully. Kosmos is again providing scholarships for Surimarine mammals, such as deploying two plan to continue our efforts to namese students to attend the ITEC welding program in 2014. marine mammal observers and a passive acoustic monitoring operator onboard the raise awareness of transparency Vikash Ramjanam MSc. •D  eveloping the Next Generation of Leaders – To support youth development, seismic vessel. in the extractive industries in SuKosmos is working with Partners of America, an international non-profit focused on General Manager, ITEC riname and offer support based livelihood development and nutrition security, to implement its globally successful Building Local Expertise, Protecting the riname National Oil Spill Contingency Plan A Ganar program, which promotes youth development through sport. The program prior to the industry’s expected increase in on our experience in Ghana. Environment uses local Surinamese NGOs and foundations to provide training and mentorship to activities offshore during 2014 and 2015. In young people ages 16-24. By participating in the program, young people develop the As part of our commitment to build local the coming years, Kosmos will continue to knowledge and skills needed to find work, become an entrepreneur, or return to the expertise and protect the environment, we support Suriname’s national oil company engaged with government stakeholders on education system. and other government organizations as the need to develop and implement a Suthey work on this important initiative. 13 IRELAND W E S TE R N S A H A R A 14 Investing In The Non-Self-Governing Territory Of Western Sahara Kosmos holds a petroleum agreeMuch of our on-the-ground work has been focused on stakeholder engagement and ment over the Cap Boujdour block social investment, in line with how we conoffshore Western Sahara, which is duct our business everywhere we operate. classified by the United Nations In 2013, the Moroccan Economic, Social and as a Non-Self-Governing TerritoEnvironmental Council (CESE) released its recommendations for a new development ry. We are aware that some have model for the territory, using a year-long reservations about any foreign consultative approach. In order to better understand the Council’s engagement investment in Western Sahara methodology and feedback from the local due to the disputed geopolitical population, several senior representatives from Kosmos observed consultations held Kosmos acquired three blocks offshore status of the territory. An authorby the CESE in major cities in Western SahaIreland’s southwest coast in April 2013. Since then, we have established produc“The Porcupine Basin, offshore Ireland, is an area of great biological interest. While much itative UN Legal Opinion in 2002, ra. Further, we organized two workshops for tive working relationships with national however, deems Morocco as the the CESE in order to assist their research on attention has focused on benthic features, especially deep-water coral mounds, relatively and local stakeholders. Our preliminary best practices in natural resource managelittle is known about the marine mammal populations in the area. The recent increase de facto administering power and ment. The workshops, held with our partner stakeholder engagement has centered on explaining the process of acquiring in seismic activity offers a good platform for new observations. In addition to helping established parameters for any ONHYM, included presentations from intermarine seismic data and managing exto minimize potential environmental impacts, Marine Mammal Observers on the 2013 national experts on topics such as natural resource development in the terresource revenue distribution and managepectations regarding the timing of oil and seismic survey offshore Ireland collected data on whales and dolphins that will contribute gas exploration and potential production. ritory. To explain our position, we ment mechanisms, consultation methods to knowledge of their ecology and benefit their conservation.” and transparency. We also organized a published a detailed statement on workshop for ONHYM on good practices Gathering Seismic, Building Relationships our exploration activities offshore in social impact assessment. Mick Baines In 2013, Kosmos engaged Polarcus LimLead Marine Mammal Observer, Western Sahara. The statement is In 2013, we worked with AMIDEAST and the ited to acquire more than 5,000 square Kosmos Energy 2013 seismic survey offshore Ireland kilometers of three dimensional seismic available on our website at http:// High Atlas Foundation to conduct needs assessments in the cities of Dakhla and Boudata off the southwest coast of Ireland www.kosmosenergy.com/pdfs/ jdour, respectively. The assessments highover a period of approximately three months. PositionStatement-WesternSahalighted a number of areas where we could have a potential positive impact, such as with commercial fleets and local fisherra-English.pdf. To ensure operations complied with the the need for business and language skills man on land and at sea to keep these Irish Code of Practice for the Protection among youth and training opportunities for important stakeholders informed about of Marine Mammals and conditions set by fishermen. We are using these studies to the nature and duration of our seismic the Irish Petroleum Affairs Division, Kosdesign several new social investment projactivities, while also demonstrating our mos supplemented the regular seismic ects, including working with AMIDEAST to commitment to being a good neighbor. crew with two marine mammal observers, We have always maintained that we would develop a new training center in Dakhla. We one passive acoustic monitoring equiponly proceed with activities in Western are also conducting an early-stage supply Similarly, we used the marine mammal ment observer, two local fisheries liaison Sahara in line with international law, estabchain analysis to ensure that our operational observers to survey ocean wildlife, as officers, and two field representatives. lished good practices, and our company decisions and social investment programs well as a passive acoustic monitoring sysBusiness Principles. To that end, in Decemmaximize employment and supply chain tem to avoid disturbing the habitat and Notification of Kosmos activities through ber 2013 we concluded a Joint Declaration opportunities generated by oil and gas opwildlife migration patterns during seismic fishing industry bodies and associated Courtesy of Mick Baines and Maren Reichelt of Principles with the Office National des erations. acquisition. During the operations, there publications ensured all fishermen were Hydrocarbures et des Mines (ONHYM), on were more than 365 marine mammal As we continue our work in Ireland, we aware of our seismic surveys ahead of behalf of the Government of Morocco. This Exploration drilling in the Cap Boujdour observations. Wildlife data was reported will deepen our relationships with govmobilization. Offshore, the fisheries liaimade clear that both parties are commitblock could occur as early as the fourth to the relevant agencies within the Irish ernment, regulators, and fishing and local son officers (FLOs) proactively engaged ted to the implementation, inter alia, of the quarter of 2014. Prior to drilling, we will government. representatives. principles of the UN Charter and the terms conduct environmental and social impact of the 2002 UN Legal Opinion. We see this assessments to develop well-informed Declaration as a significant advancement management plans and to engage and Polarcus Limited conducted seismic acquisition for Kosmos in both Ireland and Mauand an example of responsible engagement consult with potentially impacted popuritania. The company uses double-hull, state-of-the-art vessels designed to minimize in what many see as a fragile region and lations. We are also consulting with leading impact on the environment. The vessel used for Kosmos’ seismic survey is equipped disputed territory. experts to ensure that our activities are with sophisticated controls that minimize emissions and discharges from waste hanaligned with the United Nations Guiding We believe that, if exploration is successPrinciples on Business and Human Rights. dling. Polarcus has received the world’s first-ever DNV GL Level 1 Triple-E™ rating. ful, responsible resource development in We firmly believe that our investment in Triple-E™ is a voluntary environmental and energy efficiency rating scheme for ships, Western Sahara has the potential to create the region, if successful, has the potential where Level 1 is the highest. The in-sea equipment attached to the vessel such as a significant long-term social and economto create long-term benefits for all the solid core streamer, energy efficient diverters and guards to avoid entanglement of ic benefits for the people of the territory. people of the territory. sea turtles is also optimized to minimize any environmental impact. 15 16 PREPARING TO DRILL MOROCCO Kosmos embarks on a number of pre-drilling activities to enhance company and country readiness for increased operations and potential success. This phase of the project lifecycle usually involves establishing a larger and more visible presence in the country, evaluating potential supply chain partners, assessing and upgrading critical infrastructure, completing formal environmental and social impact assessments, deepening stakeholder engagement, and refining and implementing a social investment strategy. These activities often occur simultaneously in the lead up to drilling. Kosmos is helping to Over the next few years, Morocco will see industry can contribute to the sustainable and consultation, human rights, grievance drilling program. The result of this process findings to minimize any identified adverse a surge in oil and gas activity as several development of the country. As such, we mechanisms, social impact assessments, is an approved management plan that impacts of our operations and to maxiset the standard for prominent companies take steps toward have spent considerable time working and revenue sharing. We plan to sponsor details Kosmos’ environmental mitigation mize the potential benefits we can provide drilling exploratory wells. Kosmos is drilling with the Office National des Hydrocaradditional workshops in 2014, covering methods and reporting criteria. The docuthrough the supply chain and our social how the industry does the FA-1 well in the Foum Assaka block offbures et des Mines (ONHYM), the govtopics such as managing public expectament exceeds requirements under Morocinvestment projects. business in Morocco. shore Agadir in the first half of 2014. As one ernment entity overseeing hydrocarbon tions and the importance and implications can law and sets new standards in Morocco of the first companies to explore offshore exploration, as well as other government of the United Nations Guiding Principles on that align with international best practices. Protecting People and the Environment Morocco in recent times, Kosmos is helping stakeholders to increase awareness of Business and Human Rights. to set the standard for how the industry international best practices and experiSimilarly, Kosmos went beyond governAfter the Deepwater Horizon incident in does business in the country. ences in other countries. ment requirements in deciding to conduct the Gulf of Mexico in 2010, the oil and gas Addressing Potential Impacts a voluntary Social Impact Assessment industry learned many important lessons For countries like Morocco that are relaIn 2013, we organized a series of workRegulations in Morocco require that com(SIA) for the FA-1 well. Designed in 2013, around drilling safety and emergency pretively new to offshore deepwater oil and shops for ONHYM and other government panies complete an Environmental Impact the assessment will be completed in 2014. paredness. As we begin the first phase of gas development, managing the potenstakeholders in which international experts Assessment before oil or gas projects can This effort is important because it provides our drilling program, in Morocco, this has tial social, environmental and economic came to Morocco to lead full-day sessions proceed. In fulfilling this obligation, for the us with an opportunity to have a two-way meant paying close attention to the engiimpacts of success can be challenging. on best practices in the management of hyFA-1 well, we brought together local and conversation with stakeholders about our neering design of each well, the equipment We are eager to build capacity early, so drocarbon resources, covering topics such international experts to evaluate the potenoperations and manage expectations reto be used, and the training of personnel that in the event of an oil discovery, the as transparency, stakeholder engagement tial environmental impacts of our proposed lated to the industry. We will use the SIA who will be involved. 17 PREPARING TO DRILL MOROCCO 18 In addition to our active leadership and agreement for the supply of special equipBased on insights from our previous drilling participation in industry initiatives, we have ment to be used in the event of a well concampaigns, we have taken these steps in also deployed an in-house Well Integrity Prevention of and Response to Major trol issue. Kosmos also developed a Source Morocco: Management System (WIMS). This is a Control Emergency Response Plan and a Offshore Well Incidents process that ensures the safe condition response organization prepared to respond • D  esignated a professional in our Rabat of a well at all stages in its life cycle. Well to a subsea well control incident. office to improve on-boarding and Integrity is the application of technical, opstreamline human resources Kosmos has been improving our processes, procedures, equipment erational and organizational solutions to Investing in the Port of Agadir reduce risk of uncontrolled release of well capabilities, and personnel training. •  Increased staffing in Morocco to bore fluids throughout the life cycle of a Kosmos has taken a leading role in setting provide oversight of contractors well, to avoid harm to people, environment up an operations shore base at the Port of and assets and ensure the required barriers Agadir to support our exploration activi•  Improved our country-specific travel and assurance tasks are in place to prevent ties. This has required implementing Health, guidelines potential incidents or failures. PREVENTION INTERVENTION OIL SPILL RESPONSE Safety, Environment and Security standards that reflect industry good practices and ex“When we heard through the Ministry Matching Social Investments to Kosmos Energy’s continuing success deceed government-mandated requirements. of Fisheries about the assistance of Community Needs pends on the ability to manage and explore • C apping stack • J  oint industry Prior to the increase in drilling-related port • O  GP & Wells Expert Kosmos Energy for women’s projects, we its reservoirs in the most efficient manner equipment project to improve activities, we conducted a risk assessment Our social investment program in Morocco Committee to sustain production targets, while maincoordination that reviewed waste management, worker increased commensurate with our growing immediately jumped at the opportunity. taining a high level of safety performance. • S ubsea dispersant between key safety, emergency medical response, spill presence in the country. In 2012, we partThe idea of creating a cooperative for the • W  ell Integrity Ensuring the integrity of wells is essential systems stakeholders and response, aviation safety, and security. nered with Amideast, a nongovernmental collection of pelagic fish such as anchovies Engineer to achieve these requirements. The WIMS oil spill response organization, to complete community needs dictates the design and execution of drillAs a result, Kosmos has invested significantassessments in Essaouira and Agadir. Our and sardines emanates from women, as • N  ew Standards: • D ebris removal organizations ing, completions and testing of wells in a ly in safety equipment and training for emfocus in 2013 centered on developing a tarseveral do this work privately at home. WIMS and equipment safe and efficient manner that is consistent • E  stablished ployees and contractors working at the port. geted three-year social investment strateThe cooperative is now composed of 100 Management of with strong well governance procedures principles on We aim to be an injury-free workplace no gy that reflects the needs expressed by the members. The idea is to coordinate on Change Procedures and internationally recommended best dispersant use, matter where in the world we operate and communities and government priorities. The practices, such as our thorough Three Tier recognize that each individual needs to play strategy focuses on education and training fishing and then sell the fish to local buyers. • Levels of Review promote research, Review Process of the well design program. modeling a role in this effort – through safety vigilance, programs that can help to address unemNext, we will add pickling and drying. awareness of surroundings, and focusing on ployment. Eventually, we will even do packaging. Our • P  olicy & Process Just as important is our emergency rethe task at hand. More training and exercises goal is to work and become self-reliant to for Well Design & sponse preparedness and ability to miniare planned at the port throughout 2014 to With that spirit in mind, and in collaboration Construction improve our living conditions and meet the mize environmental impacts in the unlikely reinforce our safety culture. with the Ministry of Agriculture and Marine event of an incident. Kosmos maintains an Fisheries, we provided funding for two needs of our children. Through training, We also increased investment in building women’s fishing cooperatives near Agadir we will learn to bring our ideas to reality.” the infrastructure necessary to support in the towns of Sidi Abed and Sidi Ifni. Benour drilling campaign offshore Morocco. efitting over 200 women, our support will Kosmos and its contractors upgraded cercontinue work started under a Millennium tain facilities at the Port of Agadir, such as Challenge Corporation grant to promote coAmina Darir installing mud plants and other required operative development and management, President, Sidi Ifni Cooperative amenities. Throughout the process, we product quality, hygiene and safety, entresourced as much equipment and labor as preneurship, and leadership development. reasonably possible from local suppliers and contractors, holding them to internaCorps Africa is a new organization that tional standards of safety and service. matches young adults across Africa with communities in their own countries to design collaborative projects that adManaging a Growing Workforce dress poverty at the local level. When we More effective contractor management has learned that Corps Africa had opened its been a focus area for Kosmos globally over first office in Morocco, we were eager to the last two years. Oil and gas exploration get involved and help build the next genprojects across the industry tend to use eration of development practitioners in a large number of contractors providing Africa. Kosmos sponsored a 2013 Corps a wide range of services, many of them Africa fellow who is living and volunteerhighly technical. Today, we are working to ing in a village outside of Essaouira. She ensure our contractors understand and is currently working with the local comcomply with our policies and procedures. munity on a clean water project. 19 20 In frontier oil and gas exploration, a commercial discovery – success – is not guaranteed. Despite deep technical expertise and advanced seismic and drilling technology, the average success rate for the industry of a frontier exploration well is less than 10 percent. When a company fails to find commercial hydrocarbons after drilling one or more exploration wells, it will typically relinquish the license to the host government and exit the country. The manner in which a company decommissions its project and withdraws from a country often reveals something about its corporate culture, Exiting CAMEROON commitment to stakeholders, and business practices. After signing a production sharing conbut carried increased logistical complexity During drilling operations, despite our best Looking After Workers and tract with the Government of Cameroon associated with using a helicopter to transefforts, there was an accidental minor disProtecting Human Rights Commercial Relationships in 2006, acquiring and interpreting seisport the drilling rig and related equipment. charge of cement wash water while cleanmic, and following a thorough pre-drilling Using air access reduced the footprint of ing cementing equipment. Upon discovery, Oil and gas operations in most countries are classified as national assets and thus state milAt Kosmos, we expect our business stakeholder engagement plan, Kosmos the drilling site to approximately four hectthe release was stopped and discharge resitary forces often provide security to ensure the safety of the asset and foreign personnel. partners, agents, suppliers and contracdrilled the Sipo-1 well in 2013. ares, less than one-third of the size typiidue was cleaned at the spill site. Kosmos This was the case in Cameroon, where the Battalion d’Intervention Rapide (BIR), a special tors to behave ethically. We will intercally required for a conventional onshore launched an investigation into the cause of unit of Cameroon’s military, provided security for the Sipo-1 well. vene when necessary to protect people Kosmos’ operations in Cameroon were lodrilling operation. the incident and took appropriate actions and other assets. cated in an environmentally sensitive area to ensure that it would not happen again. Because the Sipo-1 well required BIR to work in close proximity to local villages unfamiliar near communities that lacked basic infraSimilarly, Kosmos chose to clear a tempoWe also met with representatives from lowith a military presence, Kosmos identified potential risks associated with this arrangeNear the end of the Sipo-1 well timeline, structure. We collaborated with several rary three-mile footpath to access the site cal villages to discuss the incident and rement and took action. In keeping with our commitment to the Voluntary Principles on a peaceful protest occurred outside our local and international partners to address by land rather than build a permanent road assure them that there would be no effect Security and Human Rights, we worked with The Fund for Peace, a U.S.-based organization office in Douala, Cameroon because these challenges in a responsible manner. that would scar the landscape. Upon deon their communities. Years of transparent that works to prevent violent conflict and promote sustainable security, to develop and some workers were not being paid by Additionally, we worked closely with the commissioning the project, we removed all and participative engagement made these conduct community relations and human rights training for BIR personnel. one of our contractors. Kosmos met Cameroon national oil company, Société bridges along the footpath to limit continpotentially difficult conversations open with the workers and with the contractor Nationale des Hydrocarbures (SNH) and ued access to the site and promote reforand productive. separately to investigate the issue. The the government ministry in charge of peestation. The footpath has already expericontractor was financially unable to pay troleum, MINMIDT, every step of the way. enced significant regrowth of native flora. Kosmos has worked to restore the natural The Fund for Peace collaborated with BIR to design and implethe workers’ wages. To resolve the situenvironment around the Sipo-1 well site. ment a new type of program that combined a traditional training ation, Kosmos paid the workers directly. As part of our environmental manageBefore withdrawing from Cameroon, Kos Minimizing Environmental Impacts curriculum with a true-to-life comic book series based on firstment plan, Kosmos conducted a baseline mos safely plugged and abandoned the hand experiences and other real-life scenarios faced by the BIR Kosmos has now added potential emTo reduce the potential environmental imsurvey of primates and large mammals in well and returned displaced earth to hasin their day-to-day operations. The “Captain Cameroun” comic ployment issues to our standard grievpact of our operations, Kosmos conductthe Mokoko River Forest Preserve, located ten the process of bringing the land back     books were readily and easily disseminated throughout the batance process so we can address them ed a 15-month Environmental and Social partially in the Ndian River block. We partto its original condition. Other reclamation        talion and helped to bring the more traditional training curricufaster in the unlikely event that someImpact Assessment. During this important nered with the Ministry of Forestry and loand reforestation activities are ongoing. lum to life. Since the BIR was involved in creating the program, thing similar occurs in the future. work, we evaluated several alternatives cal environmental groups on the project. Teams periodically inspect the site and its officers visibly supported the initiative and continue to serve for accessing the drilling location by land, We have provided the report to the Govtake soil samples to check nutrient levels  as advocates for respecting human rights in their operations. Closing Down Operations in Cameroon water and air. We eventually chose to use ernment of Cameroon to support future to determine whether additional steps To read more about this initiative, visit The Fund for Peace’s air access to the site. This approach miniconservation efforts and we are addressing must be taken to promote regrowth. website at http://library.fundforpeace.org/20131018-cameroon. After a careful assessment of our drilling mized the project’s environmental impact, several of the report’s recommendations. results and organizational priorities, we Bringing Sustainable Benefits made the tough decision to discontinue to Host Communities Based on the success of this training program, we plan to take a similar approach in other our exploration operations in Cameroon places where we operate. and close our office. In late 2013, our Honoring Our Commitments In the absence of reliable social data for staff received generous severance benthe region, Kosmos commissioned a local efits. Decisions that impact the lives of NGO to conduct the first comprehensive our people and their families are not takAfter we made the difficult decision to exit Cameroon before the end baseline study of water, sanitation and en lightly at Kosmos. We remain gratehealth needs in the Bamusso subdivision. ful for our Cameroon colleagues’ many of 2013, an internal team met to determine the path forward regarding Based on the results of the study, we escontributions to Kosmos, and for the social investments. The project we had started would not be ready for tablished a project to improve water and consistent support of SNH and the Govsanitation practices at the high school in ernment of Cameroon. We developed a implementation until January 2014, after Kosmos had exited the counMbongo Balondo through construction deep respect for Cameroon and its peo“We enjoyed working with Kosmos during the company’s exploration campaign in Cameroon, try. We recognized the importance of keeping our commitments to the of a solar-powered water well and a stuple during our seven-year exploration dent-led outreach program on hygiene. and I look forward to any future opportunities of working with Kosmos again.” program there. local communities near the drill site and continue to fund our work with local and international partners on the project. Simon F. Tamfu Exploration Manager, Société National des Hydrocarbures, Cameroon 21 22 Commercial Production and Development GHANA After a discovery is made during the exploration phase of the project lifecycle, oil and gas companies typically drill additional wells to determine whether hydrocarbons are present in sufficient quantity to justify a major investment in development. If the appraisal wells prove that the hydrocarbon reservoir is commercial, then companies will begin making substantial investments in long-term infrastructure to support a production operation that might last 25 years or more. Depending on the promise of neighboring geology, companies may continue to drill more wells to enhance development and increase production over time from new or adjacent reservoirs. During the production phase, companies aim to become a part of the social fabric of the countries where they operate. Stakeholder engagement typically deepens and social investment spending grows and becomes more targeted based on a richer understanding of community needs. Ghana by the numbers* In 2013, the Jubilee Ghana is the only country where Kosmos We are proud of the role that Kosmos has Being a Responsible and reporting associated with how the field is is in the production phase. Kosmos discovplayed in Ghana’s economic growth through Active Non-Operator managed and produced. As a non-operator, field produced ered the Jubilee field in 2007 and spent 42 2013 the discovery of the Jubilee field. We beKosmos provides technical expertise to months drilling appraisal and development lieve that the development of hydrocarbon within the Jubilee Unit ensure the field is operated to the highest approximately wells and building necessary infrastructure resources should contribute to national depossible standards. For example, we review Taxes Paid to Government $56,195,000 Today, the Jubilee Unit is comprised of 100,000 barrels before production began in late 2010. AlRoyalties (barrels of oil) 431,716 velopment and economic growth, providing Kosmos Energy, Tullow Oil, Anadarko and monitor the progress of the operations though Kosmos does not oversee day-toshared value for all Ghanaians. on safety and environmental standards. of oil per day. day operations of the Jubilee field – that is Employees 50 Petroleum, PetroSA and Ghana National the responsibility of the field operator – we Petroleum Company (GNPC). We also make significant contributions Social Investment Spend $5,142,786 take an active role in stakeholder engagethrough our social investment projects. The ment, social investments and other activities In addition to working together on technical majority of our social investment spending in to increase assurance that Jubilee oil proand operational aspects of field production Ghana for 2013, nearly $4.74 million dollars, duction benefits the country. and development, the co-venturers have is our contribution to Jubilee Unit’s social established several social investment investment projects. These projects are In 2013, the Jubilee field produced approx*For more information, please see 2013 Performance programs to support local communities in overseen by a team of representatives from imately 100,000 barrels of oil per day. The Data on pages 27-28 of this report. the six coastal areas nearest the Jubilee field. all Jubilee companies, including Kosmos. operational focus in Ghana remains cenAdditionally, we invested over $400,000 in tered on gradually increasing the producThe Difference Between social programs independent of the Jubilee tion rate to the maximum capacity of the tion contributes to the growth of Ghana’s an Operator and NonUnit, some of which are described in this floating, production, storage and offloadeconomy and this positive impact can be Operator report. ing (FPSO) facility, while also protecting the seen in increased activity across many secreservoir for the long-term and maintaining tors, including airlines, telecommunications, Tullow Oil is the operator of the Jubilee field We take a long term view in Ghana and the highest possible safety and environmentransportation, infrastructure development, and thus oversees the day-to-day operations remain committed to being a force for tal performance. and real estate. Ghana’s real GDP growth related to oil production. It is responsible sustainable development within the country. improved from nearly 8 percent in 2010 to for much of the decision-making and data Prospects for the petroleum sector in Ghana approximately 14 percent in 2011, due in part remain strong with new discoveries made to the oil and gas production that began in following the Jubilee field. Crude oil producthe last quarter of 2010. 23 Commercial Production and Development GHANA 24 Building Local Capacity: Zeal Waste Management Safely handling the transportation, recycling, treatment and disposal of industrial waste is Establishing an Open Dialogue one of the most important services in the oil industry. Kosmos has spent years building the capability of a young Ghanaian waste management company in developing its business to support the growing oil industry in Ghana. The Business Principles were developed through internal and external consultations, both in the United States Kosmos arranged for Zeal Waste Management to travel to Louisiana for training on vessel and in several of the countries where we operate. Kosmos held two public launches of the Business Principles in and tank cleaning. As a result, Zeal invested in new equipment and has since provided Ghana, one in Accra and one in Takoradi. Below, Philip Liverpool, Commercial Director of Kosmos Energy Ghana, tank cleaning services to all the operators in Ghana’s Western Region. The company has constructed a new integrated waste management facility outside of Takoradi to expand its discusses our standards and values related to the workplace. used oil recycling and groundwater monitoring capabilities. With additional Kosmos support, Zeal recently expanded its services to include oil spill assistance and emergency response. Today, Zeal employs approximately 180 Ghanaians and conducts social investment projects in the local community. The company has become a premier environmental management company managing oil and gas industrial waste from eight countries. Kosmos aims to bring Sharing Our Success with Local Suppliers lasting benefits to the At Kosmos, we aim to maximize the use of local suppliers wherever we do business so communities where that our host countries benefit from our operations. This is an important way we can we operate... we are contribute to economic and social proginvesting in Ghana’s ress. We recognize that in some instances this may require a proactive approach to future. building the skills of local people to help suppliers become more competitive. Investing in People: Training and Leadership Development Supporting Local Content Initiatives In keeping with our support of local conIn November 2013, Ghana passed signifitent, Kosmos provides professional traincant local content and local participation ing to all employees in Ghana. The Ghalegislation. The legislation focused on delivna-based human resources department ering two key outcomes: the development suggests courses and practical training of Ghanaians to fill skilled jobs, and the use programs that develop our Ghanaian emof local goods and services. ployees’ leadership potential and positively impact their careers. Last year, Kosmos Kosmos strongly supports local content sponsored Accra-based employee George in Ghana, as well as in the other countries Acheampong’s pursuit of a master’s degree where we do business. All of our employin Petroleum Engineering at Heriot-Watt ees in the Ghana office are Ghanaians, University in Edinburgh, Scotland. except for our expatriate country manager. We recognize the strengths of the Kosmos also established a merit-based proposed regulations and the challenges scholarship at the Yale School of Manthey will present to our industry. We are agement to support students from Africa “Kosmos Energy’s public launch of the Business Principles in Accra was well attended and the various working with the national Petroleum Comentering the school’s Master of Advanced presenters from Kosmos elaborated on issues of interest. This event helped to disabuse people of mission to address these challenges and Management program, with a preference ensure successful local content programs. given to students from Ghana. Yvonne the notion that international oil companies are closed institutions that are not open to the general We have an ongoing and open dialogue Paintsil, class of 2014, was named the first public, except for certain classes of people.” with authorities in Ghana about our local Kosmos Energy Scholar. With investments content practices and ways we can safely in scholarships and other programs, Kosimprove local content at Kosmos in Ghana. mos aims to bring lasting benefits to the Azara Salifu As an active non-operator, we support the communities where we operate. By helping Programmes Officer, Africa Centre for Energy Policy Yvonne Paintsil operator’s efforts to maximize local conto foster Ms. Paintsil’s continued education Yale School of Management tent application in the Jubilee field and the and entrepreneurship, we are investing in Kosmos Energy Scholar TEN project. Ghana’s future. 25 Commercial Production and Development GHANA 26 Kosmos’ commitment Promoting Transparency Deepening Relationships with Stakeholders and Communities to Ghana is deep and Kosmos believes resource revenues are more likely to be managed in the best Kosmos has been active in Ghana for nearlong-lasting. interests of a country if payments and ly a decade. During that time, we have receipts are made transparently, and if developed many productive relationships accountability measures are in place for the with key stakeholders. The 30 year term use of these revenues. Ideally, this process is of our petroleum agreement with the Govunderpinned by a national dialogue in which ernment of Ghana enables us to take the industry plays its part as a partner with long view and we are constantly seeking government and civil society. Kosmos is new ways to be more engaged. committed to advocating for transparency in our dealings with host governments. Reflecting our commitment to our local community stakeholders, we now have In 2013, our commitment to transparency two local community offices in Takoradi, took two forms: we reported data to the the capital of Ghana’s Western Region, Ghana Extractive Industries Transparency where Kosmos community liaison officers Initiative (GHEITI) and our team served on engage local stakeholders and seek their the country’s EITI multi-stakeholder steering feedback. Our community liaison officers committee. In July, Kosmos worked through have also received internal and external The Ghana Exploration and Production training on community development to Forum, an industry association, to discuss better understand how they and Kosmos how we could collaborate more effectively can better contribute to the local area. to improve the GHEITI reporting process. During this productive session, the group In 2012, we established a formal grievance discussed and resolved several issues from mechanism – the company’s first – to the most recent reporting cycle. accept and address concerns and complaints from the community. We did not Commenting on the meeting, GHEITI receive any grievances through this formal coordinator Franklin Ashiadey said: channel in 2013, which we attribute to a general decrease in operational activity “The GHEITI steering committee greatly in the area, as well as the ongoing and appreciated the efforts and commitment frequent engagement channels that our Taking a Long-Term Approach acumen. This initiative has helped the women The first phase of this important project was made by Kosmos Energy Ghana in community liaison officers have already to Social Investment sustain their income year-round, preventing completed in April 2013 and provides clean facilitating engagement between the established. Nevertheless, we continue to post-harvest losses during the peak fishing drinking water to approximately 6,000 people oil companies and GHEITI. Certainly examine ways to increase the awareness Kosmos’ commitment to Ghana is deep and season. in the four communities of Beyin, Ngelekaze, the demonstrated collaborative work and effectiveness of the grievance mechlong-lasting. In 2012, we refined our social Ekebaku, and Atuabo. The main water treathas created the enabling environment anism. investment strategy to reflect our desire to Kosmos’ partnership with Safe Water Netment facility in Beyin, which uses capillary for us all to progress towards a more create sustainable benefits for the country. work in a three-phased project to bring clean ultrafiltration technology, has the capacity to productive 2014 reporting year.” Outside of the formal mechanism, there Our projects are carefully designed in collabdrinking water to more than 20,000 people produce more than 100,000 liters of potable are other channels through which we can oration with our key community-level stakein Ghana’s Western Region grew out of the drinking water each day. listen and respond to potential issues. For holders to ensure the long-term sustainability same spirit of collaboration. Refocusing Our Operations instance, concerns regarding the potenof our initiatives in Ghana’s The recently completed second phase of the After a careful assessment of our business tial environmental impacts of the TwenWestern Region. project expanded the existing infrastructure needs and status as a non-operator in the eboa-Enyenra-Ntomme (TEN) project, in by building two overhead tanks, a distribution Jubilee field, we made the decision in June which we are a non-operator, were raised In two local communities, network with five remote kiosks, and fifteen 2013 to close our operations base in Takoraby stakeholders from the Western Region women fishmongers have standpipes in seven additional communities. di. This difficult decision affected approxiduring a forum conducted as part of the participated with us in the mately 20 employees. Because it is never project’s Environmental Impact Assessdevelopment of improved In addition to making much-needed infrastruceasy to take steps that impact the lives of ment. They sought information regarding fish smoking ovens, which ture investments, the partnership has begun employees and their families, we provided fishing restrictions near offshore operaenable them to improve implementing health and hygiene education generous severance benefits to help our tions, as well as the potential for drilling the quality of their prodprograms to improve health outcomes and colleagues move to the next phase of their and production to impact marine mamuct and limit spoilage. ensure program sustainability. Further, the waOpening a New Office Building in Accra careers. Although the closing of our opermal populations. These concerns were Kosmos also invested in ter filtration plants belong to the communities, We inaugurated our new office buildations base means we now have a smaller adequately addressed by the Operator training these women in provide work for local villagers, and generate ing in Accra in March 2013 as part footprint in Ghana, we continue to have an and Kosmos, as well as regulators who basic bookkeeping and revenue for facility maintenance. This project of our continued investment in Ghaoffice in Accra and the nation remains a vital attended the forum. business management demonstrates how community participation na and its oil and gas industry. part of Kosmos’ future. to sharpen their business can lead to self-sustaining social investment. 27 2013 PERFORMANCE DATA 28 huMAN RESOuRCES6 SOCIAL Kosmos remains committed to becoming a leader in corporate responsibility performance. As we continue to strive for this aspirational goal, we will emphasize the following areas: 2012 2013 2012 2013 Employees and Hiring Social Investment Spending9 (USD) Total Employees 249 248 Ghana $ 373,418 $ 404,114 1 // Implementation of Our Business sustainable hydrocarbon industry. This New Hires 76 43 Jubilee Unit10 2,699,280 4,738,672 Principles: We will continue to look for ways important work will build on the social impact to fully integrate the Business Principles into Turnover7 4% 8% Cameroon 34,178 185,000 assessments and community engagement our day-to-day business operations. that has already taken place. Morocco 79,994 143,830 Employees Totals by Country Suriname 45,940 94,801 2 // Proactive Engagement in Ghana: As 4 // Ethical and Transparent Operations Mauritania N/A 20,211 United States 158 180 the country where Kosmos has its largest Offshore Cap Boujdour: We will continue our presence outside the U.S., Ghana will Ghana 74 50 ToTAL $ 3,232,810 $ 5,586,628 work with the Government of Morocco and remain an area of focus. We will continue to other stakeholders to ensure our activities Cameroon 7 0 proactively engage with our stakeholders, are conducted in a manner that is consistent Morocco 8 13 Grievances Logged / Grievances Resolved (Ghana) assist the government in addressing with the UN Guiding Principles on Business Suriname 2 4 Ghana11 N/A 0/0 important public policy issues such as and Human Rights, as well as fully inclusive Mauritania N/A 1 transparency and local content, and make and for the benefit of all the local population, social investments in the Western Region. without exception. Whistleblower Program Reports12 Local Employment N/R 4 3 // Capacity Building in Morocco: In 5 // Continuous Improvement: As we Local 91% 91% anticipation of a discovery by Kosmos or expand our exploration portfolio and mature Expatriates8 9% 9% another company, we will do our part to Locally Sourced Goods And Services13 new prospects in other geographies, we ensure that Morocco is in the best possible will apply the lessons learned elsewhere to Workforce Gender Distribution Cameroon $ 16,000,000 position to develop a world-class and continuously improve our performance. Female Male Female Male United States 38% 62% 39% 61% Ghana 52% 48% 31% 69% Morocco N/R 47% 53% 2013 PERFORMANCE DATA Environment1 Safety5 2013 PAYMENTS TO GOvERNMENTS (USD) 2012 2013 2013 2012 2013 Cameroon Ghana Ireland Mauritania Morocco Suriname Ghana Ghana Cameroon Total Man Hours 1,621,526 1,741,005 Surface Rentals 25,000 123,000 53,000 Waste (tons) Fatalities 0 0 Training14 45,000 60,000 900,000 Lost-time Injury Frequency 1.23 0 Taxes15 4,650,000 1,190,000 136,000 134,000 227,000 Hazardous 125.3 65.02 0.95 Income Taxes16 55,005,000 Total Recordable Injury Rate 2.47 1.15 Non-Hazardous 156.52 34.78 47.72 other17 245,000 4,000 204,000  Recycled/reused/treated 55% 21% 25% Total 281.82 99.80 48.67 ToTAL $4,965,000 $56,255,000 $123,000 $1,093,000 $338,000 $227,000 Air Emissions (tons) Royalties (in barrels of oil) 431,716(18) Carbon Dioxide (CO2) 40607.9 2384.04 219.58 Mono-Nitrogen Oxides (NOx) 1088.4 2.28 5.90 Sulfur Oxides (SOx) 172.8 .18 0.62 1 D  ata are for Kosmos operated assets only. 8 Expatriates refers to employees in our local country offices who are living and working on a long term assignment in a country not of Methane (CH4) 2.86 15.02 0.013 2 Metric tons of CO2 equivalent. their origin. Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs) 30.7 1.71 0.47 3 N/R indicates metrics not reported in  9 Numbers are reflective of payments that will directly impact the constituents of the social investment project. Not reflected in the numbers Greenhouse Gases (GHGs)2 N/R3 2699.46 219.85 2012. We are reporting on several new above are indirect costs related to social investment, such as needs assessments and reimbursable expenses incurred by our in-country metrics for 2013 as a result of materialsocial investment personnel. Other ity discussions, benchmarking and im10 Includes Kosmos Energy’s participating interest in social projects of the non-Kosmos operated Jubilee Unit. proved reporting processes. 11 Although we have since implemented grievance mechanisms in other countries of operation, grievance data is only represented from GhaFines and penalties None None None 4 Cement wash discharge. Please see page na because the mechanism was in place at the start of the 2013 calendar year. Freshwater consumption N/R 0 0 19 for further information. 12 Includes calls to the Whistleblower Hotline and reports made into the whistleblower system. Hydrocarbon or Non-Aqueous 5 Safety data is global and includes em13 Represents the approximate amount of US dollars spent with local vendors in Cameroon in 2013. We aim to measure locally sourced goods Drilling Fluid Spills4 0 0 1 ployees and contractors. The definitions for other countries of operation in future years. of the safety data reported are consis14 Represents payments made directly to government for satisfaction of training obligations per the Petroleum Sharing Contracts (PSCs). tent with the Oil and Gas Producers AsIn addition to the numbers above, we made payments to third party training providers and/or seconded national oil company employees sociation (OGP). to Kosmos Energy projects for satisfaction of training obligations per the PSCs, totaling $26,000 in Cameroon and $108,000 in Morocco. 6 Human Resources point in time data as 15 Primarily local payroll-related taxes as well as a special income tax in Cameroon consistent with Cameroon EITI reporting requirements of December 31, 2013. 16 In addition to this, Kosmos Energy paid the US government $13,331,000 in income tax payments during 2013. 7  Represents voluntary turnover for US 17 Includes cash payments in lieu of completion of minimum work obligations associated with exploration program in Cameroon and a tax employees only. filing penalty in Morocco and Mauritania. 18 Based on the annual average of daily Brent prices in 2013, this is worth approximately $46.9 million. OPEN ENGAGING TRANSPARENT HONEST FOCUSED VALUE COMMITMENT TRUST FORWARD FUTURE LEVEL RESPONSIBILITY COMMITMENT EXPLORATION POSITIVE GROWTH BUSINESS PRODUCTION PRACTICES LEVEL DEVELOPMENT CULTURE OPEN ENGAGING TRANSPARENT LOYALTY SUCCESS LEA DERSHIP F O C U S E D ADVANCED TEAM CONSISTENCY IMPACT kosmosenergy.com kOSMOSENERGY.COM EXP ERIENCE CATALYST CREDIBILITY DIFFERENTIATING DRIVEN TARGETED SUSTAINING ASSETS DEDICATION
