Pulmuone Sustainability Report 2013 About this Report Pulmuone Sustainability Report 2013 2013 Overview Contents INTRO 02 About this Report PERFORMANCE 62 Economic Performance 04 CEO Message 66 Social Performance The 2013 sustainability report is the 8th of its kind since Pulmuone first released its sustainability report in 2006. The 2012 Pulmuone 06 Company Overviews 82 Environment Performance sustainability report represents a comprehensive group-wide 10 Crisis & Opportunity for Pulmuone perspective capturing performances of all of its subsidiaries. Since 2008, Pulmuone has taken a holistic approach to show its efforts 2012 Improvements from 2012 Report for sustainability management and the resulting group-level performances as a LOHAS (Lifestyles of Health and Sustainability) ISSUE 2013 APPENDIX company that deeply cares for both humans and nature. 18 Ethical & Transparent Management 86 Independent Assurance Report by material topics 21 Creating Shared Value Statement REPORTING PRINCIPLES Material topics in economy/society/environment have been 26 Authentic Wholesome Food Prepared in compliance with the G4 Guidelines of GRI (Global identified and introduced in the initial part of this report to offer 31 Product Safety & Quality Control Reporting Initiatives) and the BEST Sustainability Reporting a comprehensive view toward issues Guidelines. 34 Consumer Satisfaction 36 Talent Development & Growth REPORTING SCOPE Reinforced CSV initiatives In response to the rise of social responsibility, 38 Human Rights & Diversity Pulmuone Holdings, subsidiaries (Pulmuone Foods, Foodmerce, ECMD, Pulmuone Health & Living, Pulmuone Waters, Exofresh CSV initiatives linked with products have been reinforced. 40 Fair Transaction & Win-Win Growth Logistics, Pulmuone Duskin), and affiliates (ORGA Whole Foods) 47 Community Contribution REPORTING PERIOD For further information, 51 Environmental Efforts January 1 – December 31, 2013 contact the followings 57 Response to Climate Change For time series analysis, the past 3-year data (2011 to 2013) has Tel. 82-2-2040-4417 Fax 82-2-6499-0137 also been included in this report, but the time horizon is extended 280 Gwangpyeong-ro, Gangnam-gu, Seoul Holdings Strategy to 5 years for some of the environmental performances. Office, Pulmuone Holdings REPORTING FREQUENCY Pulmuone website www.pulmuone.co.kr Annually REPORT VERIFICATION Design & Illustration by cd's associates Pulmuone holds the copyright for the photos contained Reviewed by the Pulmuone management and verified by an in this report, while cd's associates has the copyright for the illustrations. Any copying or independent 3rd party, IPS (Institute for Industrial Policy Studies). ‘Pulmuone’ in this report refers to Pulmuone Holdings, reproduction of the photos or illustrations contained in this report is strictly prohibited unless the and all of its business subsidiaries and affiliates. approval of the officer of Pulmuone Sustainability Report is obtained in advance. CEO Message 4 5 CEO Message Pulmuone SR 2013 Dear valued stakeholders, Pulmuone continued its profitable growth last year, overcoming various challenges in both domestic and Since last year, Pulmuone has also been proactively practicing CSV(Corporate Shared Value) to create values overseas economic environments. With meaningful financial performances such as KRW 1.52 trillion in sales for communities through its business activities while at the same time continuing its CSR(Corporate Social and KRW 46 billion in operating profit, Pulmuone has laid the foundation to grow into a global ‘small giant’ Responsibility) activities by committing itself to ‘love for neighbors’ and ‘respect for life’. company. As part of its traditional CSR programs, LOHAS Designer, an employee club for community service, formed 51 volunteering teams to reach out to the underprivileged and social welfare centers in communities. Marking its 30th anniversary in coming May, Pulmuone has established itself as the most representative food company of Korea by faithfully practicing sustainability management since its inception and growing its Pulmuone has also consistently pushed ahead with Authentic Wholesome Foods Campaign, the most products into the most trusted and loved brands of Korea. representative CSV initiatives of the company. In 2013, a total of 9,113 people received the authentic wholesome Now Pulmuone readies itself for another great leap forward to become a true global company that spreads the foods education through 387 sessions. The educational training, which once covered preschoolers and primary value of authentic wholesome foods and LOHAS principles, building on its remarkable achievements for the school students only, has now been extended to nursery school teachers and parents. The authentic wholesome past 30 years and placing itself firmly not just in Korea but also on the global stage. foods campaign is changing dietary habits of Koreans by raising awareness about the importance of food Being the 1st food company in Korea that joined the UN Global Compact in 2007, Pulmuone has also ingredient labels, nutritional balance and taste education, and teaching how to practice a healthier lifestyle upheld and championed the values and goals expressed in the UNGC’s 10 principles for human rights, labor, including the low-sodium and low-sugar diet to lower carbohydrate and sugar intake that can easily turn into environment and anti-corruption. glucose in our bodies. Above all, the company is deeply committed to fair and transparent management for sustainability. Thankfully, our efforts for sustainability management are being recognized and highly commended by others. TISO(Trust, Integrity, Solidarity, Openness) management principles have been in place to create an For instance, Pulmuone has become the 1st food company to rank No. 1 on the KSI(Korea Sustainability Index). environment that firmly supports fair and transparent business practices. Every year, employees across the The KSI has been developed by the Korea Standards Association to evaluate social responsibility performance company receive TISO trainings to learn more about corporate core values and write a pledge to practice TISO. and sustainability of 180 companies of Korea in 45 industries based on ISO 26000, the official standards for And last year, Pulmuone opened an interactive communication channel named ‘Talk to CEO’ at the corporate social responsibility businesses across the world should aspire to. Pulmuone was also included in the allgroupware system as a window to relay employee opinions to the management and share Pulmuone’s mission star group of ‘The most respected companies in Korea’ for 8 years in a row, and named as one of the top 100 and core values across the company. GWP(great work places) of Korea for 4 consecutive years. Pulmuone introduced eco-friendly packaging film last year that minimizes residual chemicals for all types of its tofu. In addition, the Eumseong tofu plant installed wood pallet boilers burning renewable energy only, significantly reducing its carbon emissions. Respectable shareholders, consumers, Meanwhile, the Chuncheon plant was designated as Green Company by the Ministry of Environment, our partners and stakeholders of communities! highly recognized for its notable achievement in improving water quality, saving water and energy used in its Marking the 30th anniversary of its existence, Pulmuone people will commit themselves with passion to production process. The plant invested 13% of its facility investment expenditure to enhance the environment. developing Pulmuone further into a global ‘small giant’ which successfully carves out its place in the global It plans to increase its green spending to 15% by next year. market without making the mistake of falling into complacency. Please join us with your encouragement and Pulmuone completed the construction of its 1st passive house(a house with the minimum carbon energy usage support in our journey toward a truly global LOHAS company. Thank you. per 3.3㎡) in Korea to be used as a training venue by the LOHAS Academy located in Goisan, Chungcheongbukdo. The new eco-friendly building has adopted the latest energy-saving engineering technology developed by Germany to minimize carbon emissions as it is designed not to use any fossil fuels. Going forward, the passive March 2014 Nam, Seung-Woo, house will play a pivotal role in spreading Pulmuone’s mission and vision while bringing the LOHAS spirit to Chairman & CEO of Pulmuone Holdings life. Company Overviews 6 7 Company Overviews Pulmuone SR 2013 Mission Pulmuone History LOHAS(Lifestyles Of Health And Sustainability) Food biz-driven growth with Growth driven by Growth into a global player by Healthy food-centered growth represents a lifestyle that strives for health advancement in distribution business diversification expanding overseas business and sustainability of society and environment. Th ion It is the reason for being and the ultimate KRW 1.52 trillion (’13) long-term aspiration. e KRW 1.46 trillion (’12) hu LOH KRW 100 billion (’92) KRW 500 billion (’03) KRW 900 billion (’08) KRW 1.27 trillion (’10) KRW 1.36 trillion (’11) ma KRW 700 billion(’06) A ns S co an d n mpa atu ny re car Vis e ing P5 re ion for lD Va ’81 ’82 ’84 ’86 ’91 ’95 ’00 ’03 ’04 ’08 ’10 ’11 ’12 ’13 ss Glo bo O lu Pulmuone Pulmuone Green Juice Foodmerce Restructured Shifted to Entered Mi ba th CoTIS Organic Health & Living Launched Pulmuone Established into an Acquired the pure Acquired the Diversified tofu Pulmuone ECMD ECMD operating Wildwood holding MGF of business through grocery Waters Chinese Pulmuone business USA acquired CM holding of the US company the US market JVs Vision Enzyme Foods Exofresh Logistics Development company structure Global · Attain KRW ~1.5 trillion in overseas sales by 2017 in the Pan Pacific area that Company name Pulmuone Holdings Holding company-based governance structure encompasses the US, China, Southeast Asia, India, Oceania and even South America. Pulmuone has a governance structure centered around Pulmuone Holdings, the operating holding company, · Grow into a ‘knowledge company’ to have a secure footing on the global market by HQ address which can be best described as follows: building qualified R&D workforce/capability and reinforcing quality management 730-27 Samyang-ro, Daeso-myun, capacity that measures up to the level of global leading companies Eumseong-gun,Choongbuk Worksite address Pulmuone Holdings Co., Ltd. DP5 280 Gwangpyeong-ro, Gangnam-gu, Seoul · Increase its revenue to KRW ~5 trillion to establish itself as global small giant company by innovating products/services/process and expanding captive geographies/categories CEO Nam, Seung Woo Pulmuone Foods Co., Pulmuone Duskin Pulmuone Health & ECMD Co., Ltd. Foodmerce Co., Ltd · Contribute to the communities through business activities and fulfill its responsibility for Ltd. Co., Ltd. Living Co., Ltd environment/health/safety to lead as a true LOHAS company Sales KRW 1.52 trillion (consolidated sales) Pulmuone food Date of establishment Exofresh Logistics Pulmuone Beijing Pulmuone Shanghai Pulmuone Pumeiduo Health production subsidiary Core Values May 12, 1984 group1) Co., Ltd. U.S.A., Inc.2) Green Foods Co., Ltd. Foods Co., Ltd. and Living Trust for abiding by promises and rules Integrity for professional honesty for the proper performance of one's duty 1) The food production subsidiary group includes PPEC Chuncheon, PPEC Eumseong Sprout, Solidarity for alignment of one's goal with the goal of the company PPEC Uiryeong, PPEC Eumseong Fresh Noodle, Myungga Food and Shinsunatto. 2) Pulmuone USA, Inc. has Pulmuone Foods USA, Inc. as its subsidiary. Openness for cooperation with an open mind 8 Company Overviews Pulmuone SR 2013 9 Major businesses & brands The history of Pulmuone has been a journey to provide organic, functional and fresh foods to consumers. It also strives to expand its business presence in the US and make inroads into Chinese market to emerge as one of global players. NFB Natural Foods & Beverage DTC Direct To Consumer Pulmuone Produce and distribute fresh foods (Tofu, Vegetables, Chilled Noodles, etc), Pulmuone Produce and sell health functional foods, functional drinks, and formulas for infants Foods Provide cold chain logistics service Health & Living or Designed Meals Foodmerce Offer food ingredients to diverse channels(Meal Service, Restaurants, etc) as a distributor Pumeiduo Produce and sell health functional foods in China specialized in food ingredients Health & Living2) Pumeiduo Produce and sell fresh foods(Fresh Noodles, Soy Products, etc) in China Pulmuone Offer dust particle cleaning service in partnership with Japanese company, Duskin Foods1) Duskin Pulmuone Produce and sell drinking spring water in partnership with Nestle Waters Waters Danone Pulmuone Produce and sell fermented milk products in partnership with Danone USA Produce and sell fresh foods (Tofu, Meat alternative, Chilled pasta sauce, etc) in the US ECMD Operate contract Meal service, concession and restaurants at resting stops along highways as specialized food service provider 1) Pumeiduo Foods Beijing Pulmuone Green Foods Co., Ltd./Shanghai Pulmuone Foods Co., Ltd. 2) Pumeiduo Health & Living Pulmuone China Co., Ltd Crisis & Opportunity 10 11 Sustainability Management Sustainability Management Pulmuone SR 2013 for Pulmuone Strategy & Organization Risk Management Sustainability Management Mission & Vision Risks: Definition & categories Mission LOHAS company that cares about both humans and nature Pulmuone defines ‘risk’ as an unpredictable incident that can threaten health and safety of consumers or employees and LOHAS(Lifestyle Of Health And Sustainability) represents a lifestyle that strives for by extension, Pulmuone brands, image and values. The risks have potential to cause serious damage to the organization health and sustainability of society and environment. It is the reason for being and the and companies. Pulmuone classifies risks into product risk, field risk and other risks. ultimate long-term aspiration, and also signifies the determination of the company to care for both human and nature, the concept which encompasses not only consumers but also employees, communities and the environment. 1) Product risks Defects in products or their packaging that can undermine consumer safety and result in product recall, etc 2) Field risks Field accidents that can cause severe loss and serious injury of workers, and other accidents concerning Vision Global DP(Defining Pulmuone) 5 food sanitation, etc Pulmuone aims to reap KRW 5 trillion in sales from its domestic and overseas 3) Other risks Natural disasters, investigation or new measures taken by the government, consumer groups businesses by redefining its LOHAS business. It aspires to develop into a true LOHAS and other groups/entities, and other incidents that may happen when undertaking business including rumors, employee misdeeds, labor and management problem, lawsuits/complaints filed by stakeholders, etc company recognized worldwide after firmly establishing itself as the no. 1 company in Korea whose brands receive full trust from consumers. Risk Management Committee Organization Pulmuone holds monthly Risk Management Committee Meeting on the group or business unit level with an aim to identify, prevent and manage potential risks. In case certain risk materializes, initially business unit level Risk General CEO Management Committees are responsible for addressing the risk. When the situation deteriorates, the group level Risk Management Committee is convened. These mechanisms help develop timely and effective solutions to risks and minimize the negative impact on businesses and the society. The two-layer response mechanism has been designed to Head Corporate Strategy Officer develop timely and effective solutions to risks, while minimizing any negative impact on business and society at the same Manager time. Financial Management Division Advisory & Validation IPS Risks: Stepwise approach introduce Compliance Financial Social Performance Environmental Performance Pulmuone takes a 3-step approach to risks and takes actions accordingly by classifying them into three groups: Management Performance ▲controllable risks (Step 1), ▲potential risks (Step 2) and ▲brand and media risks (Step 3). · Financial Management Division Consumers Employees Partners Communities · Environment & Safety · Compliance Management Division · CS Center · Human · Strategic · Public Division · Corporate Technology Office · Corporate Resource Purchasing Relation Pulmuone · Internal Audit & Consulting Team Technology Management Division Division Holdings · Risk Management Committee Office Team · Brand Management Committe · ER Team Step 1 : Preventive risk assessment Step 2 : Response to issues Step 3 : Response to materialized risks Pulmuone Foods The headquarters and frontline offices To be prepared against any possible risk An actual risk has been materialized that Management Support Division /Foodmerce identify predictable and expected risk factors events, each business unit convenes Risk can severely undermine the corporate brand per business unit, take preemptive actions, Management Committee Meetings to share image. Risk Management Committee is ECMD Business Support Division and report on group level Risk Management issues and decide whether to escalate convened on the group level to swiftly respond Committee. the issues to Step 3(Risk Management to the situation and deal with the risk. Health Business Support Division & Living Committee convened on the group level). ORGA Management Support Division Waters HR&GA, Marketing/Purchase Team Stakeholder Engagement 12 13 Materiality Assessment Sustainability Management Pulmuone SR 2013 & Major Issues Categories & Communication 1) A model developed by the IPS(Institute for Industrial Material issue identification process Stakeholders Categories & Communication Policy Studies) in 2006 for Pulmuone has identified relevant issues based on the issues reported during the previous Pulmuone stakeholders are grouped into shareholders, employees, consumers, sustainability management year, the GRI G4 Guidelines, internal policies, stakeholder survey, benchmarking and media strategy and sustainability search results. The identified issues then went through IPS Materiality Test™1) by utilizing partner companies, and local communities. Stakeholders are partners throughout report preparation. It offers the journey embarked by Pulmuone to achieve sustainability management. Pulmuone corporate policies, stakeholder survey, industry benchmarking and media search results. a phased test model to seeks their inputs and insights, and share results with them. identify issues relevant for Gather Select sustainability Issues the company’s business relevant issues management issues characteristics and status. · 2012 Sustainability Report review · Materiality assessment · Materiality & impact · GRI G4 Guidelines review (IPS Materiality Test) assessment by issue Shareholders Consumers Employees · Corporate policies · Screening of 32 issues · Material issues above the threshold · Stakeholder survey results · Benchmarking · Media search * According to the GRI G4 Pulmuone material issues for 2013 sustainability management Guidelines, organizations Those who purchase and own All consumers who use products 5,175 internal partners working should define thresholds for Pulmuone first set the reporting threshold** at (5, 5) after prioritizing the 32 issues screened Pulmuone stocks as a means to and service offerings of Pulmuone together to accomplish Pulmuone Significance of Economic, through a materiality assessment test. A total of 14 issues located above the threshold have been share Pulmuone values subsidiaries and affiliates mission and vision Environmental and Social designated as material issues. Each subsidiary also conducted its own materiality test and tracked — — — Impacts, and Influence on down issues relevant to sustainability management in order to identify their own material issues. Open shareholders’ meeting, CS Center, E-fresh monitoring, Knowledge Worker Platform, Stakeholder Assessment Open IR(Investor Relations), Housewives monitoring, Customer Labor-management council and Decisions based on Category Issue Board of Directors, satisfaction survey, ‘One Big Bowl meetings, Informal gatherings the materiality test results Community 1 Activities to contribute to communities Sustainability reports Full of Nature’ (company PR with CEO, Company newsletters, to define those above the TISO management 2 Ethical and transparent management magazine), Sustainability reports Grievance redress mechanism, General sustainability management 3 Stakeholder communication threshold as material Environment 4 Efforts to lower environmental impact HR communication, Employee issues to be included in the Consumer 5 Consumer satisfaction Assistance Program, C-cubic, sustainability report. Employee 6 Respect for human rights and diversity Sustainability reports Authentic wholesome foods 7 Authentic wholesome foods * Pulmuone has defined the General sustainability management 8 CEO leadership thresholds in consideration Partner companies 9 Fair transaction & win-win growth Environment 10 Response to climate change of stakeholder opinions and CSV 11 Creating shared value Partner Companies Communities corporate strategy. Consumer 12 Product safety & quality control Employee 13 Talent development & growth General sustainability management 14 Sustainability management strategy & performance management Economy 15 Entry into new markets Employee 16 Workplace safety & employee health Employee 17 Differentiated organizational culture Employee 18 Welfare & employee satisfaction 10 1 Influence on Stakeholder Assessment & Decision 3 2 Community 19 Social contribution strategy 9 4 5 Economy 20 New product/technology development Partners involved in procurement, Public entities including the 9 6 8 7 8 Employee 21 Fair and objective job placement/rewards production, sales, delivery and government, local communities, 7 12 10 11 Employee 22 Family-friendly management practice 13 facilities required to produce goods volunteer groups, etc 6 30 14 Employee 23 Win-win industrial relation 20 Environment General sustainability 24 Eco-friendly business strategy and offer services of Pulmuone — 5 19 16 24 General sustainability management 25 Corporate governance — Periodic meetings with social 4 27 Economy 26 Reinforce competitiveness 28 25 Meetings with partner companies, volunteer groups, Sustainability Pulmuone website 3 31 General sustainability management 27 Risk management 29 Economy 28 Value creation and distribution Sustainability Reports Reports www.pulmuone.co.kr 2 18 Innovation & creation 29 Innovative/creative management 1 23 15 32 26 22 21 17 Partner companies 30 Fair selection of partners 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Employee 31 Talent recruitment Significance of Economic, Environmental & Social Impacts Economy 32 Investment expansion DMA 14 15 Sustainability Management Pulmuone SR 2013 Material Issue Issue Significance Management Method Major Performance Material Issue Issue Significance Management Method Major Performance 01 05 Since its announcement of TISO Pulmuone has established TISO Management 1. No holiday gift : 31 gifts worth Pulmuone has highly valued consumer Pulmuone makes its CS Center always 1. 83 score points in customer satisfaction management in 2005, Pulmuone has Office to oversee TISO implementation and antiKRW 1,194,000 were returned satisfaction, striving for consumer happiness accessible by displaying its toll-free hotline 2. 94 score points in call monitoring committed itself to ethical & transparent corruption policies. The endeavor is supported 2. Company-wide TISO management education : since its inception. Pulmuone CS Center is number on all of its products, stores and 3. Foodmerce becoming the 1st food service company management by upholding and championing by TISO champions at each division. Also, audit 485 employees received 100 hours of training also known as Consumer Happiness Center distribution vehicles, and operating the voice to receive the CCM accreditation the UNGC’s 10 principles including antiofficers have been placed to ensure voluntary sessions as it goes beyond satisfaction to working of customers bulletin board where it responds Ethical & Consumer corruption, compliance with labor principles implementation of fair and transparent business 3. Implementation of anti-corruption policies and for happiness of all consumers. Pulmuone, to all customer inquiries and feedbacks Transparent Satisfaction and etc. Pulmuone firmly believes its practices dictated by the Fair Transaction Act. the integrity contract signing going further, will spare no efforts to bring less than 24 hours. Pulmuone makes sure Management c o m p e t i t i v e n e s s c o m e s f ro m T I S O They work to prevent any possible breaches and 4. The integrity contract policies have been pleasure, satisfaction and happiness to services at the CS Center continue to improve management, authentic wholesome foods create a corporate culture where every member incorporated into the annual salary-signing paper consumers. by conducting the customer satisfaction and fair transaction practice. abides by competition rules. which is updated annually by employees themselves. survey at the end of every year. 02 06 Pulmuone is driving CSV initiatives which Pulmuone is operating a council called 1. New authentic wholesome products launched : Pulmuone empowers its employees through Pulmuone plans to further unlock leadership 1. 32 employees finished the training course at PBS can make both businesses and communities ‘Session D’ where it seeks value creation ‘Nature is Delicious’, ‘Half&Half’, ‘Folate-rich, its triple-track talent development system capability of its employees through 2. 432 employees finished the knowledge worker healthy and sound in the long term. It opportunities through CSV initiatives, 100% grass-fed chicken egg’ (i.e. company-initiated, field-oriented and PBS(Pulmuone Business School) to grow the course for production and food service aspires to innovate its business while at the reexamines existing initiatives, and reviews 2. Carbon reduction initiatives : ‘Pulmuone Waters’ earned self-initiated). In 2013, the company provided next-generation leaders. Plus, the company3. 145 new entrants received Creating same time creating the future growth engine strategic direction on the group level. Results the low-carbon accreditation & label, and eco-friendly on-boarding, core capability, leadership wide program to develop core capability of the POP(Pride of Pulmuone) course Talent Shared through CSV, which is deemed one step from the session are shared across the packaging materials are adopted for 43 tofu product types. capability trainings based on its improved knowledge workers, which had been in place forward from the strategic CSR initiatives. group to encourage synergy effects. 3. Win-win growth model for communities : Eco-friendly Development talent growth & capability scheme. since 2011, was extended to cover frontline Value & Growth Pulmuone works to design its products to be bean sprout products were released with their workers in 2013. Its on-boarding process and more beneficial to society and ensure wider sales increasing mentoring program help new entrants adapt communities to benefit from its products and 4. Zero Zero Metabolic Syndrome Campaign rolled out : themselves in the new work environment. services. Pulmuone organizes ‘Health Festival’ and ‘Health Class Coming to Meet You’, and distributes awareness-raising video clips on metabolic syndrome. 5. More ORGA Mom brands to offer authentic wholesome foods for infants & kids 03 07 As a leading LOHAS company, Pulmuone Pulmuone communicated its Good Foods 1. Higher brand awareness & affection : Respecting human rights and diversity Pulmuone continues to root out any gender1. A female-friendly work environment – Support strives to offer authentic wholesome foods to Song through mass media, schools, online Brand affection increased against competitors, of employees is crucial in internally or rank-based discrimination and conducts for child care, counseling on child education, consumers based on its ‘Love for Neighbors’ and retail stores to make its message on ranking No. 1 at ‘I will buy this brand next time’ i m p l em e n t i n g T I S O m a n a g e m e n t . ongoing monitoring. It works to create a resting places for female employees, a monthly and ‘Respect for Life’. It will exert its best authentic wholesome foods succinct and 2. Higher awareness of Authentic Wholesome Foods Pulmuone is working to create a good female-friendly work environment, not leave for fetus checkup, flexible work hours for child Authentic to provide only the authentic wholesome effective. It has also defined standards for campaign/song : Online contents hit more Human Rights work environment facilitated by laborintervening with the labor union to respect care, a corporate nursery center scheduled to open foods in consideration of health, nutrition authentic wholesome foods, applied to food than 1 million views management communication respecting freedom of association, and operates in the company building Wholesome & Diversity and the environment, free from additives and products and packages to concretize what human rights. constant monitoring system to prevent any 2. Monitoring against child/forced labor conducted Food harmful ingredients for health and happiness authentic wholesome foods mean. Pulmuone types or forms of child or forced labor. for 23 times – 6 workshops for HR managers, of families. is also spreading the value of authentic inspection by labor experts for 17 times wholesome foods through its Authentic 3. Certified as good industrial relations company Wholesome Foods Campaign designed to by the Ministry of Employment and Labor help people choose a healthy dietary habit. 04 08 Pulmuone is committed to offering ‘authentic Pulmuone monitors food safety information 1. Standard revision on food additives : Classified into Pulmuone values to have an equitable Pulmuone periodically offers education on 1. Offered a training for farmers to cultivate wholesome foods I can be reassured to buy on an ongoing basis for food safety and 6 stages where the CODEX Alimentariusand and relationship with partner companies for fair the Fair Transaction Act to promote voluntary high-quality soybeans in Munkyung and cook for my loved ones’. To this end, quality control and examines its management the GRAS standards are applied. transaction as much as it values consumer compliance by employees. It also reinforces 2. Created jobs for the physically challenged at Pulmuone has developed safety standards, direction at the monthly meeting. It has also 2. Food safety information management : trust. It wishes to realize sustainability communication with partners through the Uri village, Ganghwa through the indirect Product stricter than the government standards, defined internal standards in consideration Daily monitoring and semi-weekly sharing. Fair management through win-win growth with various channels, sustaining win-win employment model Safety & which have been applied throughout its of relevant home/abroad standards bolstered 3. Global lab module established : Lab standards partner companies. collaboration aligned with its TISO charter. 3. Held Best Partners Day, meetings at organic Transaction distribution cycle while improving the by periodic monitoring to ensure product and research test methods standardized. food growing sites, QA(Quality Assurance) meetings Quality & Win-Win standards every year based on the latest safety. It has also studied an analysis method 4. Impurities management system advanced 4. Independent inspection on partner companies Control Growth research results. for new harmful substances to preempt any 5. The food safety management method sophisticated by introducing VAP(Vendor Approval Process) possibility of food poisoning. by applying DNA analysis results at Pulmuone Waters 6. Nutrient management standards streamlined for 5. Examined the status on purchasing contracts management efficiency : Introduction of and transaction system ‘new complete labeling of food ingredients’ disclosed information on all food ingredients and 14 major nutrient components of products . 16 Sustainability Management Pulmuone SR 2013 17 Material Issue Issue Significance Management Method Major Performance 09 Businesses nowadays want to pursue both Pulmuone PR office develops mid-to long1. No. 1 company in the sustainability index social contribution and profits at the same term business plan for social contribution of Korea in 2013 time, one step forward from pursuing profit program in charge of cultural impact and 2. No. 8 in the ‘best social contribution alone. Pulmuone is one of the companies etc. In addition, social contribution officers companies’ selected by consumers Community spearheading such shift in focus. It has across the enterprise organize public service 3. Named top 30 social responsibility company sustained social contribution programs to projects or fund-raising events in areas such in East Asia Development spread sharing and love for neighbors. It is as authentic wholesome foods, environment, 4. KRW 6 million raised at internal charity events determined to promote inclusive growth as a contribution to local cmmunities and donated to Good Neighbors leading global LOHAS company. Mecenat. 5. KRW 13.4 million donated to help flood victims 10 ISSUE 2013 The company-wide environment safety 1. The energy basic unit reduced 35% against 2007 committee monitors environment strategy/ 2. The basic unit of water consumption reduced major policies/issues/action plans and 52% against 2007 assigns necessary work at the work council 3. The basic unit of waste reduced 71% against 2007 Environment Pulmuone’s mission for environment safety attended by working-level officers from 4. The water pollutant discharge lowered 46% Impact is to ‘become a LOHAS company which puts workplaces. against 2007 the 1st priority on the environment safety 5. Pulmuone Waters has been certified for Reduction in every aspect of the entire business ’ . its green packaging Pulmuone is working hard to achieve its 11 missions for environment safety with the aim of minimizing its environmental impact. Each workplace generates a report 1. The Eumseong tofu plant installed wood Especially, it has reduced consumption specifying greenhouse gas emissions by pallet boilers, which helped the facility reduce of water, the ‘ blue gold ’ resource, and basic unit, and workplaces selected for greenhouse gas emissions by 31% from responded proactively to climate change to validation should submit their reports the 2012 level. Response mitigate impact, seeking opportunities for to a 3rd-party audit entity for validation. 2. Recovering and reusing wastewater and waste to Climate new value creation in the process. When greenhouse gas reduction efforts of heat helped reduce LNG consumption. workplaces are recognized for its feasibility The company submitted the KVER monitoring Change and effectiveness, they can be registered report and the certified reductions were purchased as KVER (Korea Voluntary Emission by the government. Reduction) business to join the greenhouse 3. Deploying geothermal heat pump and solar gas reduction initiative by KEMCO (Korea energy system reduced the primary energy Energy Management Corporation). Each consumption of the passive house at the workplace measures its greenhouse gas LOHAS Academy to 113kwh/㎡, which is 5.6% lower basic unit and have the greenhouse gas than the accreditation standard (120kwh/㎡) reduction be monitored against the target 4. Pulmuone Waters products have been certified by the company-wide environment safety as low-carbon products with preform committee and the working-level council. and lighter caps 01 Ethical & Transparent 18 ISSUE 2013 Pulmuone SR 2013 19 Management TISO Management Pulmuone seeks to expand TISO implementation through a wide range of efforts in 2013 1) A groupware section Every year, Pulmuone people write a pledge that states they understand what TISO Management aspires to and will do such as opening a gadget1) named ‘Talk to CEO’ where the TISO contest is held to share for communication with their best to faithfully abide by company provisions for TISO values. As a constant reminder of TISO values, executives Pulmuone CEO the best TISO practices between employees as part of the efforts to create a positive working in corner offices hang the framed TISO charter and TISO pledge on the wall, and employees carry a business corporate culture through active communication. Its Code of Conduct has been amended card-sized printout of the TISO charter with them all the time. The TISO pledge is written and signed around March 7 to keep up with the changes of trend, which is all to improve the company framework for every year, and upon signing a new pledge for the coming year, employees are advised to look back on the past year TISO implementation. In 2014, Pulmuone plans to offer education on its revised Code of for any breaches. Online submission of the pledge was made available in 2007. Conduct across the enterprise in order to spread the TISO practices. Pulmuone will never cease its efforts to firmly establish TISO Management throughout the company by paying Values shared to create a positive corporate culture and meaningful outcomes close attention to its core values, mission, and overall value scheme. The gadget named ‘Talk to CEO’ was opened at the groupware starting from 2013 to enable two-way communication between the top management and employees which encourages employee engagement. The gadget has served TISO, Pulmuone core values, leveraged as platform for sustainability management as a channel to share internal/external business activities based on the value scheme which includes Pulmuone TISO(Trust, Integrity, Solidarity, Openness) represents Pulmuone’s core values: Trust mission, vision and core values. Implementation practices of TISO Management have been also shared to encourage for abiding by promises and rules, Integrity for professional honesty for the proper employees to take the initiative in implementing TISO practices. All of these efforts certainly help Pulmuone build a performance of one's duty, Solidarity for alignment of one's goal with the goal of the positive corporate culture and create meaningful outcomes. company, and Openness for cooperation with an open mind. Pulmuone people pledge to realize TISO Management based on the core values described above. TISO Management, Pulmuone’s core value TISO Management Office oversees policies and management to prevent bribery and corruption. The office focuses on preemption through periodic education and a range of initiatives. TISO Management Provisions, TISO Employee Initiatives & Outcomes Conduct Guideline, and Guideline on Report and Reward for TISO Management have been developed for effective The best TISO practices promoted to encourage its implementation consistently TISO implementation, and relevant issues are shared at the internal groupware bulletin board. Pulmuone has opened Cyber Audit Team at its official website to monitor and audit internal/external wrongdoing, misconduct and corruption Pulmuone has held TISO contests for all employees starting from 2011 with the year committed by subsidiaries, affiliates and overseas offices. 2013 saw its 3rd opening. The contest has given an opportunity for employees to build the consensus about what TISO means in their everyday business, not just an abstract concept existing only in paper or theory. The best TISO practices not only serve as good Severing collusion between politics and business examples but can be leveraged as contents for internal TISO education, a valuable tool to TISO Employee Conduct Guideline has a provision that states Pulmuone pursues transparent management within create the desired corporate culture. In 2013, a total of 87 best practices were submitted, the bounds of the law and rules. Pulmuone abides by the guideline to prevent any collusive relationship with the raising the participation rate 18% compared to the previous year. Among them, 12 government in accordance with Article 31, Chapter 6 of the Political Fund Act (Limits on Fund Contribution) and didn ’t practices were selected as ‘good practices’ to be compiled in a book and shared via a make any financial contribution to political parties or their supporters in 2013. Pulmuone, to prevent any collusion with range of media(interview, vide clip, etc) with employees. the politics, makes it a principle not to contribute fund to any political parties or their sponsors in compliance with its TISO Employee Conduct Guideline. TISO communication & education Pulmuone provides TISO education to its employees on a regular basis to reinforce their Lawsuit status commitment to TISO. New entrants have to receive the POP(Pride of Pulmuone) training Pulmuone was prosecuted by the Supreme Prosecutors’ Office for its alleged violation of the Customs Act concerning for value sharing. Pulmuone also pays attention to frontline workers who tend to have its purchase of organic beans from China and was found not guilty by the Seoul Central District Court on December less education opportunity relatively by offering tailored education so that they can also 10, 2013. After the decision, the prosecutor appealed and the ruling is being reviewed at the appeals court. Pulmuone internalize TISO Pulmuone aspires to. In addition to this, the TISO charter is distributed sourced the Chinese organic beans through a legitimate route in the domestic market sold by an authorized importer, across the enterprise as a reminder for the corporate core values. and therefore, will faithfully go through the legal process to ultimately prove its innocence also at the higher court. TISO Pledge submission Creating Shared Value 02 20 ISSUE 2013 Pulmuone SR 2013 21 Anti-corruption & integrity contract policy CSV Initiatives ‘TISO Employee Conduct Guideline’ has been developed to strictly ban employees from Pulmuone introduced responsive and strategic CSR for its sustainability management receiving, promoting or condoning inappropriate favors including gifts, entertainment, as a means to build LOHAS society rooted in ‘Love for Neighbors’ and ‘Respect for Life’. treats or conveniences offered by other stakeholders directly or indirectly. Employees In 2013, Pulmuone built upon the concept of strategic CSR to introduce CSV(Creating who turn out to be involved in such indecent behavior are subjected to disciplinary Shared Value) initiatives which create both social values and economic profits at the actions in accordance with relevant regulations. Furthermore, to encourage employees to same time to become the LOHAS company which deeply cares about both humans and implement TISO principles more proactively, procurement managers in charge of goods, nature. Focusing on campaigns that bring positive impacts to society and individuals service, and construction agreements have been required to include ‘Integrity Contract’ (e.g. Good Foods Campaign, Zero Zero Metabolic Syndrome Campaign, etc), Pulmuone provisions in their contracts before signing a purchase contract since March 2005, and spearheads efforts for safe foods, better lifestyle and community development, working in the event it is not possible to include such provisions in contracts, they are required to create values for employees, consumers, partner companies and local communities to prepare additional ‘Pledge for Integrity Contract’ before signing a deal. In 2013, there altogether. Going forward, Pulmuone plans to incorporate CSV with its work process and was not a single workplace accused of committing corruption or carrying material risks, resource plans while implementing responsive CSR initiatives in a sustained manner and thus, no disciplinary measures were taken. There was no penalty or non-monetary to establish a CSV model of its own. The model will be continuously enhanced further restrictions imposed as a consequence of breaches of law or regulation. down the road. Holiday gift return Authentic wholesome food products With the determination to eradicate the gift-giving practice between stakeholders before Money raised by ‘Authentic wholesome foods for health and happiness of my family’ is what Pulmuone big holidays, Pulmuone has communicated an official notice stating the gift banning policy the public auction and donated strives for. It has launched a series of nutritionally balanced products such as ‘Nature is since 2004. Gifts delivered against the notice are all returned and those that cannot be to ‘Love Neighbor Fund’ Delicious’, ‘Half&Half’, ‘Folate-Rich, 100% Grass-Fed Chicken Egg’ and others. ‘Nature returned are put on an auction at less than 50% of their market price whose proceeds go to the ‘Love Neighbor Fund’. A total of 31 unreturned gifts were donated to the fund, KRW 1,194,000 is Delicious’ is a non-fried fresh noodle product which has 90% less oil and 100kcal less intake compared to the conventional fried noodles with virtually 0% saturated fat. raising KRW 1,194,000 in 2013. ‘Half&Half’ is made of vegetables with rich dietary fiber and vitamin, tofu and chicken breast for quality protein instead of high-calorie and high-fat beef or pork to help consumers maintain low-fat, low-calorie diet. ‘Folate-Rich, 100% Grass-Fed Chicken Egg’ is a product which provides vitamin that other eggs usually lack. It is from chicken fed only with folate rich grass to have 42µg folate per egg(50g). Pulmuone also held folate egg recipe contest ‘Mother & Child Health with Folate’ jointly with a Japanese Interview corporation to raise awareness about the importance of folate intake. TISO Management Head of Pulmuone TISO Management Division Yoo Weon-Mu Carbon reduction by launching more eco-friendly products Pulmuone Waters has received low-carbon accreditation for two of its products: 0.5L “From the very start, Pulmuone has aspired to Trust, Integrity, Solidarity and Openness. The keywords and 2.0L. Pulmuone Foods uses chemical-free green packaging materials developed that drive TISO Management is fair & transparent management. Fair management is about guaranteeing jointly with the Ministry of Environment for all of its 43 tofu products, reduces the equitable opportunities based on CP(Compliance Program) and transparent management, and container weight by 9% and produces less waste using less food materials to lower CO2 especially transparency in accounting has been internalized by employees to take a deep root within the organization. emissions. In 2013, we amended ‘Code of Conduct’ while improving employee communication about TISO. This year, we will reexamine the TISO management scheme from a refreshed perspective to raise awareness, improve the system, and offer a differentiated training course to have TISO Management as the foundation for sound and healthy corporate culture. With the top management strongly committed to TISO Management, people across the company will continue to implement TISO Management to further spread the LOHAS values.” 22 ISSUE 2013 Pulmuone SR 2013 23 ORGA Mom brand extended to cover more products to offer Zero Zero Metabolic Syndrome Campaign safe healthy foods to toddlers and children Pulmuone Health & Living has rolled out ‘Zero Zero Metabolic Syndrome Campaign’ in Nowadays, more kids suffer from lifestyle diseases such as early-onset type 2 diabetes partnership with the Korea Women’s Environmental Network to prevent the onset of or childhood obesity due to food additives, trans fat and fast foods. Aware of this metabolism syndrome since 2011. Metabolic syndrome is a disorder of energy utilization growing health problem, ORGA Whole Foods has offered authentic wholesome foods and storage, diagnosed by the high risk of co-occurrence of several chronic diseases with nutritional balance for children and adolescents to reduce anxieties of parents such as diabetes, hyperlipidemia, high blood pressure and others, boosting the risk and health burden of society. It uses only the highest-quality organic food materials of cardiovascular diseases. Metabolic syndrome is closely co-related with dietary and produced in Korea, without using any synthetic preservatives, coloring, flavoring, other lifestyle habits. Due to the social changes such as the spread of Western diet and sweeteners or L-monosodium glutamate, in order to guarantee the right taste, balance, increased workload, metabolic syndrome has been on the rise across society. Pulmuone safety and weight to consumers. Its foods have the optimum nutritional balance with Health & Living has organized a large-scale health festival for Seoul citizens in the the principle of 3Up(protein, calcium, dietary fiber) and 7Down(calorie, fat, saturated fat, Cheonggye plaza on the Day of Obesity to raise awareness about metabolic syndrome trans fat, sodium, cholesterol, sugars). Such concept and belief of ORGA Mom brand and distributed a video clip explaining metabolic syndrome on YouTube in parallel with which thoughtfully considers health of our children has been incorporated into snacks, the health festival. It also opened a campaign website to provide information and operate ‘Health Class Coming to Meet You’ for groups with 10 people or more who apply for and meal substitution foods highly preferred by children or juveniles. Pulmuone health classes. Zero Zero Metabolic Syndrome focuses on going beyond the bounds of the existing social contribution programs to create win-win growth between Win-win growth model for local communities businesses and communities. It also seeks to find the optimum social contribution Pulmuone is creating shared values by proactively implementing varied initiatives that model that can be sustained for the longer term and give benefits to wider communities can bring about sustainable win-win growth for communities. In 2012, it launched an and people. eco-friendly bean sprout product produced by around 60 intellectually challenged people living in Our Village, a non-profit job rehabilitation center in the Ganghwa island, which Fishery product safety assurance is selling 1,000 bags of bean sprouts per day. Pulmuone has successfully increased bean sprouts sales of Our Village, creating more jobs for the physically and intellectually ORGA Whole Foods has reinforced food safety through its product traceability system Certified eco-friendly bean for dried yellow corvine and radioactivity safety management. The traceability system is challenged in communities. Pulmuone Culinary Culture Research Institute pays a sprouts products produced in monthly visit to Our Village of Ganghwa for technical support and quality control. about recording and managing information of fishery products so that consumers can Our Village, Ganghwa find out where the products have come from and which route they have been distributed to help them make an informed decision. With the fishery product traceability system Zero defection in place, the company is enabled to minimize the damage when there is a food safety Selling certified eco-friendly bean sprouts incident related to fishery products by promptly identifying why and where the incident has happened and taking an appropriate measure such as product recall. It has also Economic Impact Social Impact deployed a 3-stage radiation measuring system for food safety which uses a radiation Around 1,000 bags sold per day Job creation for the physically measuring device to measure and record the radiation level daily at 6 directly operated / intellectually challenged Increased the product weight franchise stores to address consumer anxieties over food safety. ORGA has also Technical support (270g > 360g) since April ‘13 & quality control Authentic wholesome food for commissioned out the radiation test to a specialized agency, SGS Korea, and is actively Stable purchasing of products consumers managing the places of origin with radiation risk. Productivity boosted 24 ISSUE 2013 Pulmuone SR 2013 25 Duskin Wholesome Cleaning Class Support for Korean traditional music performance In 2013, Pulmuone Duskin and Lotte Mart Culture Center jointly opened Wholesome Pulmuone hosts the national traditional music performance every year to revive cultural Cleaning Class. The cleaning class has been designed targeting children aged 5~7 heritage of Korea jointly with other companies who agree to the proliferate since 2004 and their parents to encourage lifestyle change. It teaches children about invisible fine and invite employees’ families to the concert. In 2013, 4 food companies hosted the particles and dust in the atmosphere and helps them understand how removing dust performance together such as Samyang, Dongwon, Sempio, etc. by cleaning can be conducive to health. The program has been designed to encourage ultimate behavioral change through varied curricula such as a creative story (e.g. Pulmuone Kimchi Pulmuone Kimchi Museum Garbage sorting game at the DongDongYi, the Small Dust), field work (e.g. Catch the Mischievous) or garbage Museum website Wholesome Cleaning Class www.kimchimuseum.co.kr With the commitment to the country’s rich culinary legacy, Pulmuone has run Kimchi separation games. Such activities and tools make the message interesting so that Museum since 1986 to conduct research on the most representative Korean food and children can willingly clean their environment, boost their confidence in doing so, and promote the food outside Korea. The museum exhibits traditional cooking tools and communicate with their parents while cleaning. utensils to make Kimchi, and displays records and paintings about Kimchi to give a comprehensive glance to the history of Kimchi. It also offers a range of educational programs not just for the public and foreigners but also for multi-cultural families and CSR Initiatives grandparents-children families, serving as the life-long education center for society. Various programs have been designed and offered to promote understanding on the LOHAS Designer & volunteering activities traditional culinary culture through Kimchi, targeting kids(‘Exciting V’, ‘Kimchi Kids’, ‘Quiz In July 2009, Pulmuone established ‘LOHAS Designer’, an enterprise-wide social Quiz for Special Unit Kimchi’), multi-cultural families(‘Do’) and adults(‘Come to Make contribution club to wage social service campaigns in a more structured way. Under Kimchi’) along with creative theaters(‘Here Comes Kimchi, the Health Fighter’). the vision of ‘people committed to sustainable health for society and neighbors’, 51 volunteering teams were formed across the enterprise to undertake volunteering activities in communities or social welfare centers for the underprivileged. A total of 2,518 employees participated in 294 volunteering activities, which amounted to 14,213 hours in total. At Exofresh Logistics, the facility maintenance team members donated their Pulmuone volunteers (Unit : persons) talent, repairing dilapidated facilities with their expertise in electricity, fire prevention 2011 2,149 and automation. In parallel with this, other volunteering groups have been formed by 2012 3,126 employees themselves to plant trees, help farmhouses, protect the environment and 2013 2,518 provide lunch to the underprivileged children and others on a regular basis. Pulmuone people are reaching out to others to spread warmth and love across society. ‘Love Neighbor Fund’ raised by employees Pulmuone executives and employees donate certain portion of their salary to neighbors Donation to Love Neighbor Fund (Unit : KRW) in need every month. The fund raised from their donation is transferred to Pulmuone Interview Foundation to be spent for the underprivileged youth and African children. 2011 93,239,000 Creating Shared Value 2012 91,540,000 Head of Pulmuone TISO Management Division Yoo Weon-Mu 2013 103,246,000 Project WET extended Pulmuone has offered WET(Water Education for Teachers) to enhance understanding “Pulmuone is undertaking CSV initiatives to realize its LOHAS mission and create economic impact, on the environment and the importance of water. Project WET has been supported by building further on its strategic CSR initiatives. In 2014, our CEO will give a lecture titled ‘innovative thinking of CSR and CSV’ to spread the concept Pulmuone Foundation as one of its priority environment projects starting from 2013 and of CSV throughout the enterprise, strengthening employee perception and commitment by showing provided 51 educational sessions to 1,147 primary students and teachers at primary strong will and dedication of the top management. Going forward, we will exert our best to design and schools, local child centers and the climate change center. implement more upgraded CSV initiatives to spread LOHAS values across society.” 03 Authentic Wholesome Food 26 ISSUE 2013 Pulmuone SR 2013 27 Authentic Wholesome Food Healthier udon, less sodium In 2012, Pulmuone focused on raising awareness about authentic wholesome foods in Liquid dishes tend to be highly seasoned for taste. Since Koreans favor hot liquid dishes, a more exciting and easy way, and in 2013, it took one step further to encourage actual they naturally take more sodium. To address this health risk, Pulmuone released udon changes in people’s dietary habit with the message of ‘it’s always better to start early’ with much less sodium. ‘Pulmuone Katsuo Udon with 6 Korean Ingredients’ adds 6 and carried out ‘Good Foods Campaign felt through 5 senses’. The existing campaign kinds of vegetables, and kelp and wild yeast extracts for a deeper and richer taste, framework was maintained but its scope was extended to facilitate actual changes as tapping into its ingredients-mixing knowhow to find the most optimized balance of the eating habit shaped in childhood would remain for the rest of the person’s life. Under tastes, reducing sodium in udon by as much as 15%. the theme, the campaign introduced various activities for children to utilize 5 senses when they form their eating habit. Pulmuone is utilizing various channels to spread the ‘Crunch Salad’ with fresh taste campaign message by undertaking it jointly with the Ministry of Education, Science and ‘The Crunch Salad Series – Lettuce’ launched by Pulmuone has its root not torn away Technology, EBS, SBS, Tooniverse, and other external agencies, and producing melody before packaging to present more refreshing taste to consumers. Consumers are dolls and Chinese/English versions of the Good Foods Song. advised to cut the root and wash the lettuce in flowing water right before serving to enjoy Good Foods Campaign the fresh lettuce taste brought right from the field. Along with this, Pulmuone has also felt through 5 senses launched ‘Salad Garden’, salad vegetables grown hydroponically with clean and safe Good Foods Song ♪ culturing methods to give vegetables more crunchy taste and fresh colors. The taste of nature, hear them, yum yum The taste for my body, smell them, yum yum It’s so fun to learn the tastes Authentic wholesome foods, hooray! Like’em all, round soybeans and silky tofu Cuzzy eggs, crispy and munchy bean sprouts Good Foods Campaign See, hear and feel them all. So tasty Chew and eat’em, yum yum yum We get taller and healthier, yay! Authentic wholesome foods ~♬ Authentic Wholesome Foods Caring About Health & Nutrition of Consumers AMIO, organic foods for pet dogs Nowadays, dogs are not just pets; they’ve become another family member for so many people. For beloved pet dogs, Pulmuone has developed an innovative product, 70% of which is made of organic ingredients certified by USDA(United States Department of Agriculture) and ECO-CERT(an international organic certification organization based in Europe). It has well-balanced nutrition structure, satisfying nutritional standards set by AAFCO(Association of American Feed Control Officials). With raw meat as its primary Pulmuone has waged the Good Foods Campaign since 2010 as part of its CSV initiative. 1) Foods or cream turning ingredient, allergen is minimized and products are packaged in smaller amount with sour, discolored with bad smell The campaign is about educating both children and adults on how to taste foods and aluminum materials to minimize acidification1) in distribution and usage. The ‘food’ after being exposed to air for a check labels on food ingredients to tell authentic wholesome foods based on the product is totally safe and poses no risk even when it is consumed by human. long time information by whom, where and how the foods they eat have been grown. The campaign audience has been extended to cover pre-schoolers, primary students, parents, teachers at nursery or primary schools with tailored curriculum based on the target age. 28 ISSUE 2013 Pulmuone SR 2013 29 5 For kindergarten kids, the program focuses on fun with exciting activities and games. YOY performance ℃ Fresh Food Storage at 5℃ They listen to fairytales with pop-up books that teach nutritional balance and food label, (2013 vs. 2012) Maintaining the right food storage temperature is the most effective way to prevent bacterial watch animated films(‘Rescue Kong-Kong Man’) and sing Good Foods Song together. 9,113 propagation which spoils foods. Keenly aware of this, Pulmuone puts the biggest priority There is another program that enables kids to taste in-season food ingredients through 5 68% 5,436 on maintaining the storage temperature under 5℃ throughout the supply chain from senses to understand what authentic wholesome food is. For primary school students, the 3,677 production to distribution of chilled food products. Accordingly, Pulmuone applies a cold program centers around checking food labels, utilizing food additives test kit and cooking chain system designed to maintain the optimum temperature from production to logistics to learn the importance of nutritional balance. Trainees and product placement. To communicate the importance of temperature management and boost compliance with the temperature rule, Pulmuone has launched ‘Fresh Food at 5℃ As for adults, the program mainly teaches harmful effects of sodium and sugar, and how Campaign’ and developed internal standards for storage temperature in distribution that to achieve healthy diet at every stage of food consumption starting from purchasing to 387 are applied to the supply chain of Pulmuone Foods and Foodmerce. Pulmuone is upgrading cooking, eating and storing foods in the right way. Parents also can obtain information on how to shape the palate of their children at home. 52% 254 its cold chain facilities installed in delivery vehicles while monitoring any violation. It also 133 produced a promotional video that shows the importance of storage temperature and Training uploaded it at its website, Facebook and Youtube. It also uploaded a mystery web novel on During 2013, ‘Good Foods Campaign’ extended its range to include food labeling, sessions maintaining 5℃ at the company blog along with quiz shows at Facebook and Twitter. healthful palate and balanced nutrition, and offered educational programs to other companies including Homeplus and Yeowon Media. A total of 387 training sessions have been offered attended by a total of 9,113 people including children, parents and teachers in Greater Seoul, Daejeon and Gangwon, which is 52% and 68% YoY increase in terms of Sodium Reduction Initiative sessions(133 times) and recipients(3,677 people) respectively. As part of offering authentic wholesome foods, Pulmuone signed a pact with the National Child Care Information Center Council to jointly wage an initiative to reduce Pulmuone, in partnership with the Ministry of Education, is waging ‘Healthy Diet, sodium intake of Korean people. Under the initiative, Pulmuone will take the lead to Healthy Character Campaign’ to promote ‘how to eat right’ throughout the nation. It help children accustomed to the low-sodium diet. The sodium intake reduction initiative designed an experiential learning program with the Ministry that shows family members will be undertaken with the aim of raising awareness of nursery school teachers and how to purchase authentic wholesome food materials, cook, set the tables and enjoy the parents, shaping the healthful palate of children and helping them grow healthy. meal together, targeting primary school students in Seoul and the metropolitan area. I’m Real, Good Container Ministry of Food For Homeplue Culture Yeowon Education(Gov’t) Change(NGO) Center(Corporation) Media(Corporation) Pulmuone offers not only authentic wholesome foods but also good food containers that can preserve the quality of healthy foods. The container has been named ‘Good Joint operation of Joint planning and Integration of the Good Educational contents ‘How to Eat’ education operation of Good Foods education into provision to kindergartens Container’ as 30% of its materials come from sugar cane to be ‘good’ for consumer program targeting Foods Campaign the regular curriculum (picture books) health, embodying the ‘good’ courage of I’m Real, taking up the new challenge for primary schools in the of Homeplus Lifelong consumers and nature. Donation of children greater Seoul Education Center books related to foods – Kindergarten: 1. 100% natural fruit juice in Good Container. 1 book per child 30% of the container material has been extracted from sugar cane. – Primary school: 12 books per school 2. I’m Real getting courageous to protect the earth. CO₂ emissions from the production of Good Container is 20% less than other PET bottles 3. Good for health, good for nature I’m Real, I’m Real Good Container is an eco-friendly container but sturdy like PET bottles. Good Container project Product Safety 04 30 ISSUE 2013 Pulmuone SR 2013 31 & Quality Control Communicating Good Container Consumer food safety standards Pulmuone’s underlying principle for food safety management is to provide ‘authentic 1. In-store communication wholesome foods for health and happiness of my own family’. It has defined safety A ‘Good Container’ shelf is placed in I’m Real refrigerator with a sticker on it to communicate principles throughout its business process from materials sourcing to production and its benefits at the consumer contact point. distribution. Pulmuone standards are deemed more rigorous than the government 2. PR with photos standards and are improved on an ongoing basis, incorporating the latest research Good Container Project has been introduced through 28 major media including daily results. newspapers of Korea. 3. SNS activities Promotional events have been waged at Facebook to facilitate word of mouth online. A shelf for I’m Real, Good Container Improvement in food additives standards To widespread and reinforce its eco-friendly brand image and increase support Pulmuone has revised its food additives standards to complement existing standards from consumers, the hydroponics event using Pulmuone Good Container has been commenced. and to have more objective management principles in place while pursuing business expansion. Pulmuone brands have been classified into 6 groups based on product hierarchy and target consumers, applying the organic and synthetic product standards of CODEX(Codex Alimentarius Commission) and GRAS(Generally Recognized As Safe Green Packaging Substance). Pulmuone standards on food additives are aligned with international Stickers for bottle labels have been changed from 2 layers to a single layer, reducing standards to ensure reliability and objectivity, serving as an overarching principle to the bottle weight. Without changing a bottle design, Pulmuone reduced the amount of be applied to new products that will come along with business expansion. The existing packaging materials to save resources and reduce CO2 emissions. Thanks to the effort, standards which manage food additives contained in individual products will remain it has received the GP(Green Packaging) Mark for the product. in parallel with the new ones. Pulmuone is proud of having the highest food additives standards in Korea. B2C B2B Impurities management system upgrade Pulmuone works to assess in a more scientific, accurate and prompt manner on how impurities get into the products at production sites, analyzing physicochemical changes of the alien substances that may vary depending on production process, utilizing its database on impurities detected in its production sites. Pulmuone is well aware that physical and chemical properties of impurities can change depending on CCP(Critical Control Point) of each production plant, and reflect the changes into its analysis process for more accurate outcomes. 32 ISSUE 2013 Pulmuone SR 2013 33 DNA analysis advancing food safety management Global lab module Pulmuone has been proactive in conducting DNA analysis for protozoa and in 1) A method for electrophoresis With its overseas business expansion and diversification, Pulmuone has established defining the official analysis method to tell real Korean beef. It has also built the that enables more accurate a global lab module to assure the same quality and integrity level from the analyses framework to analyze microbiota by product and production process, introducing the analysis of amplified DNA conducted by labs in China or the US. It has divided the module into microbial and DGGE(Denaturing Gradient Gel Electrophoresis1)) test method into its studies on foods physicochemical analyses, and defined criteria on each lab to standardize their and food production process. methodology per test item. Each module includes a test manual based on the Korean food codex, BAM(Bacteriological Analytical Manual) and AOAC(Association Official 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Analytical Chemists) methods recognized by the US FDA(Food and Drug Administration), and China’s official food test methods in order to ensure Pulmuone labs across the globe to produce results that can meet the standards of the countries where they GM N lys is fo r fo r be r) O orov ir na lys is s a na Te st Te st to nte operate. an ys ea ta ro v iru be s ng ce ki s or ysi al M no ic ro m e m e e is lfi sh ls s f m fa nt o or or (w al es Sh el d ie on fin ed ti o is n a us to g fic is in ti r a fo d ys l al cia vir ab ys le en al tab id tl an ffi in g Food safety information An ge ock es s o ve st lt ia O ie as on tic fic M of G ec d po is Ge ne as and sp te a ed s at iru ce n od gn v Ri sig fo si oro De n al ys is de ie s With regard to food safety, there is no shortage of information with so many sources ec fo r an us sp available including National Food Safety Information Service, Ministry of Food & Drug Safety, Foodnara, and the press. Therefore, it is crucial to screen only the quality information to be accurate and objective about food safety of its own products. Pulmuone had so far taken preventive measures based on the information collected individually by safety managers and shared every month, but in 2013, Pulmuone streamlined the information collection process to have an integrated channel, restructuring it into biDNA analysis for Analysis for more meat DGGE introduction Monitoring of false weekly sharing complemented by daily monitoring through a centralized channel. The protozoa types ingredients gathered food safety information is classified into 3 levels based on urgency, relevancy Enhanced food safety Better response to Quality monitoring Introduction of an official Korean beef assessment and etc. Information categorized as Level 2 or higher is confirmed internally and of pre-washed bagged complaints reporting through microbiota salad vegetables by impurities in products analysis method (positive promptly communicated to employees in relevant departments for an immediate or a monitoring to detect any Monitoring of Halal communication) phased response. Monitoring on more protozoa or parasites food ingredients false ingredients Allowed error range Integrated management of nutrition standards ±20% After adopting the new complete labeling system, Pulmuone has displayed on the product label 14 major nutrients and all food ingredients. There can be a room for error in some of the 14 nutrients depending on the amount or properties of ingredients, and thus, the relevant laws also allow ±20% error range. Pulmuone conducts an inspection on the target product groups every 2 years after their launch to make the nutrient labeling more accurate. 05 Consumer Satisfaction 34 ISSUE 2013 Pulmuone SR 2013 35 Consumer Communication Test results on water quality, radiation level and bottles disclosed at the website Pulmuone CSI Pulmuone Waters shares its water quality result with consumers to guarantee consumers’ right to know and discloses the analysis report on all of its production The CSI(Customer Satisfaction Index) score for 2013 recorded 83.1 points, 1.4 points CSI score by year plants at its website. Consumers have access to not only the water quality report but lower than 84.5 points in 2012. The overall satisfaction level remains very similar to the 2011 83.9 also the radiation test and environmental hormone test of bottles at its website. previous year, but a bit lower score in ‘Consumer Compensation’ contributed to the 2012 84.5 slight decline. Since this conveys the message that nowadays consumers have higher 2013 83.1 Consumer feedback for short cap expectation for compensation in the event of product defects or complaints, Pulmuone is keenly aware that both tangible and intangible remedies for consumers need to Pulmuone has introduced a short cap, aptly named as Eco-Cap, for its product bottle Monitoring score by year which reduces carbon emissions in production process. Its weight has been reduced be explored while abiding by relevant rules and standards. The call monitoring score for 2013 also went down by 2.3 from 96.3 of the previous year to 94.0, but Pulmuone’ 2011 95.2 by 0.7g from 2.1g to 1.4g, lowering both emissions and cost. Pulmuone has actively s frontline response was still recognized highly for its superb performance. Since 2012 96.3 collected consumer feedbacks about inconveniences created by this shorter cap the call monitoring score is an index to show how service employees are responding 2013 94.0 through its website and the CS department, and taken various measures to correct to consumers, the areas consumers put much weight on at the survey should be misunderstanding of some consumers believing Pulmuone had adopted the short cap reflected into the frontline evaluation to focus more on the qualities especially valued by for the sake of cost saving only. It leveraged various channels including 1:1 call with consumers. consumers, announcement at the website, and press release to tell consumers that adopting the short cap is for the environment. It actively communicated to consumers VOC channel that Eco-Cap was awarded with Grand Prize at the eco-friendly design competition sponsored by the Ministry of Environment, informing consumers that Pulmuone is a ECMD operates 9 VOC(Voice of Customers) channels to gather consumer feedback sustainable business that cares about the environment. It named the short cap as Ecoreal-time, overcoming the constraints of time and space and enhancing the follow-up Cap so that consumers intuitively know its eco-friendly property and designed an icon service by making a ‘Happy Call’ in less than 72 hours of receiving a complaint in order for Eco-Cap to be printed on its package. to maximize consumer satisfaction. SCS(Strategic Customer Satisfaction), the online consumer satisfaction system, enables real-time management of consumer satisfaction and service indexes of all of its sales stores. Personal Information Protection & Compliance CCM re-accreditation Personal information protection for consumers Being recognized as CCM(Consumer Centered Management) company by the Free CCM monitoring Pulmuone deems consumer information protection highly important, and strictly Trade Commission after going through evaluation and deliberation by the CCM for prevention & follow-up abides by the standard guideline on personal information protection offered by the accreditation committee led by the Korea Consumer Agency in January 2012, Pulmuone 2011 91.1 Ministry of Security and Public Administration and the personal information protection won re-accreditation as good CCM company in December 2013. It was all thanks to the 2012 97.4 provision under the Act on Promotion of Information and Communications Network company’s sustained commitment reinforced by improvement in system and process 2013 99.3 Utilization and Information Protection. In accordance with its personal information that resulted in close monitoring of indexes on both preemptive and follow-up measures. protocol, Pulmuone informs customers about the purpose and method of the personal The company also increased awareness about CCM by offering CCM education on a information utilization and the measures the company takes to protect such personal periodic basis and publishing monthly newsletter while eagerly implementing consumer information. centered management initiatives. 06 Talent Development & Growth 36 ISSUE 2013 Pulmuone SR 2013 37 Capability Growth System On-boarding reinforced for new employees Category G2 G3 G4 G5 G6 Executives To help new hires adjust within the organization and learn their tasks promptly, New employee course Pulmuone offers a 1-day job training on the day an employee joins the company followed OnPOP(Pride of Pulmuone) by 3-day trainings at the LOHAS Academy in less than 6 months where the employee Boarding learns Pulmuone vision, values and core capabilities. Mentoring is also provided at the Mentoring field through 1:1 coaching to boost work capability of a new employee. LOHAS Academy Core Innovation and entrepreneurship for knowledge workers Capability Mentoring HOPE: HOPE for knowledge workers1) Leadership Leadership Advanced Executive As part of the on-boarding endeavor for new hires, Pulmuone holds a quarterly basics improvement leadership leadership mentoring session. It is an open scheme where mentees can get to choose their own CompanyLeadership Leadership exellence mentors. In order to release the burden on new employees when they have their direct Initiated Capability SERI CEO superiors as their mentors and facilitate effective communication, Pulmuone makes it Pulmuone Business School Open mentoring system a rule for mentees to choose only those at different departments as their mentors. For External MBA schools ongoing interaction, Mentoring Day is held semi-monthly with monthly activity grants Foreign language course paid to mentees. The year 2013 saw 38 employees actively participating in mentoring Marketing expert activities up until the 4th quarter. Thanks to the mentoring program, new hires were able to comfortably settle themselves into the organization by taking part in various club Six sigma training Job Capability activities and learning programs. 4 essential shared capabilities Planning / Communication / Presentation / Self-leadership Field OJT Knowledge worker program extended Field-Based Support for employee study groups to all business units to boost core capabilities Support for team-initiated capability training Pulmuone people completing In 2013, the knowledge worker training program which had been offered only to office Cyber training + online reading club the knowledge worker course workers up until 2012 was extended to include field workers as well. Workers at 414 Self-Initiated Support for employees taking external language or IT classes production sites and food service or catering sites received the training in 2013 with 16 Support for employees taking work-related classes at external institutes sessions held for 234 production workers and 6 sessions for food service or catering 1) HOPE for knowledge workers H: Honesty and Integrity O: One Firm Sprit P: Professionalism E: Enthusiasm workers. In all, 180 workers received the training improving their understanding on Pulmuone and strengthening their commitment to work. In 2014 and onwards, the knowledge worker training will be further expanded to cover those who have not been targeted yet by leveraging both online/offline channels. Pulmuone Business School to train the next-generation leaders PBS(Pulmuone Business School) offers intensive training on essential knowledge and practices for business management, producing the next-generation leaders with strategic thinking and problem-solving capability to lead sustained growth of an organization. PBS offers educational curriculum and methodologies tailored to Pulmuone, and classes are opened inside the company building to minimize the commuting time and cost. PBS invites proven and renowned professors in 6 major subjects of business administration(i.e. business strategy, HR, marketing, financial accounting, creative innovation, negotiation) for more effective learning, and focuses on field and task-oriented learning by assigning real tasks based on action learning. PBS was opened in January 2013 and produced its 1st graduates: all of the 32 students successfully completed the whole course. At present, 29 employees are taking courses at PBS which started off last October. Pulmuone Knowledge worker program 07 Human Rights & Diversity 38 ISSUE 2013 Pulmuone SR 2013 39 Female-friendly work environment & female leadership Freedom of association Female-friendly corporate culture is essential to help female workers continue their careers after marriage while taking In accordance with the Constitution, and the Trade Union and Labor Relations care of their children, the future of our country. Pulmuone recognizes the high value of female talents and strives to create Adjustment Act, Pulmuone fully guarantees its employees the right to establish a labor the institutional and cultural environment where women can maintain balance between their work and family. Pulmuone is union or another form of body to represent employees. This means every employee is seen to have successfully established a female-friendly culture thanks to its impartial and performance-based evaluation entitled to joining a labor union based on the aforementioned act and the collective labor system. It goes beyond just offering some benefits to female employees to empowering women, which results in stronger agreement of the company. Pulmuone has shown stellar performance in this area as it competitiveness of the company. Thanks to such endeavor, the ratio of female employees at Pulmuone is higher than other has recorded not a single violation of the freedom of assembly and association nor was companies, and the ratio of female managers or executives is steadily increasing every year. In the 1st half of 2013, a special accused of having unfair labor practices which run counter to the freedom of association lecture on work-life balance for career women was held for female workers. Pulmuone plans to increase such special for the past 3 years. In 2011, PPEC Eumseong Noodles which has the largest labor lectures targeting female workers going forward. union among Pulmuone affiliates and subsidiaries (upwards of 120 union members and 100% participation among qualified employees) received the ‘Win-Win Cooperation’ Female-friendly work environment certificate from the Ministry of Employment and Labor, spreading a more advanced Objective Description labor-management relations across the enterprise. Female worker empowerment Increase female employee engagement in the employee council to develop their leadership qualities Guarantee an equitable treatment (i.e. promotion, compensation, etc) for the same job description No discrimination and hierarchical rank Youth employment No child labor policy & monitoring Child care/ education support Offer 1:1 counseling with an expert (under 18 years old) Pulmuone is in full compliance with the Labor Standards Act and no child or forced Lounge for female workers Pregnancy checkup leave Provide a cozy resting place for women with the heating floor and a lactation room Provide 1-day paid leave to examine the fetal health 0% labor policy by ILO(International Labor Organization). The periodic labor inspection conducted late 2013 found no child or juvenile workers aged 18 or younger. Strongly encourage taking a half-day off for child care and offer reduced work hours when employees Invigorate break have to take care of their babies Flexible work regime Allow employees to come to or leave work at different times to support their childcare No forced labor policy & monitoring No forced labor is one of the crucial elements in the Labor Standards Act. Pulmuone doesn’t permit or condone any types of forced labor. During its annual labor inspection, the company also goes out to detect any violation of this firm principle, especially No discrimination: prevention & monitoring forced labor of the vulnerable (e.g. women, underage, migrant workers, etc). Regarding Pulmuone holds a workshop attended by HR managers, business support team leaders, production managers and plant maternity protection, for example, the company always seeks consent for overtime managers across the enterprise every 2 months where they examine any discriminatory treatments or work practices work from a female worker when it has been less than a year since she gave birth to toward employees. For monitoring, it carries out periodic or ad-hoc labor inspection more than once a year (17 times in her child in accordance with the Labor Standards Act, prohibits pregnant workers from 2013) across its workplaces. Pulmuone expressly states in its corporate policy (refer to Article 5. Rules for Employment) working overtime, at late night or holidays and lowers their workload during pregnancy. to prohibit discriminatory treatment based on race, gender, age, religion, nationality and disability, and look at only Its employment policy and collective agreement stipulate the company should allow the objective and impartial criteria (i.e. employee track records and performance evaluation) for all of its personnel menstrual leave, pre/post-childbirth leave in the case of miscarriage or stillbirth, management decisions from hiring to training and compensation in accordance with the Labor Standards Act and other paternity leave and less work hours when employees have to raise babies. They also applicable laws. Thanks to the strenuous efforts to eradicate all discriminatory practices, there has not been one single define the criteria for application, grant and period of family care leave. There has not case of violation for the past 3 years. been a single breach of these policies for the past 3 years. Pulmuone willingly goes Lastly, right after the Act on the Protection etc., of Fixed-Term and Part-Time Employees and the Act on the Protection beyond just abiding by its ‘no forced labor policy’ to granting up to 6-month leave every etc., of Dispatched Workers were revised by the government to extend the area of non-discrimination from ‘wage and 2 years for unspecified but justifiable personal reasons in addition to the conditions other working conditions’ to ‘wage, incentives, welfare benefits and other working conditions’ for temporary workers, defined by the relevant law. As long as the reason for taking out a leave is justifiable, Pulmuone established a TFT to abolish any discriminatory practices to re-examine the issue and focused its efforts on employees can take their time off from work whenever and however long (up to 6 filling the loopholes in institution or operation that can lead to any type of discrimination. months) they want, and return to their work as guaranteed by the company policy. 08 Fair Transaction 40 ISSUE 2013 Pulmuone SR 2013 41 & Win-Win Growth Pulmuone Foods/Foodmerce foods to consumers. Pulmuone Food Safety Center conducts pre-inspection to select only the good food materials. The quality of food materials is maintained high through sustained and varied food safety management activities and initiatives. Pulmuone bases Pulmuone Foods and Foodmerce source materials and finished products from a total of Number of partners in 2013 the materials sourcing decision on its strict standards tailored to fit each brand to ensure consumer health and safety. 506 partner companies. Both of them signed a sourcing contract with a total of 49 new Brand Agricultural, fishery, partners in 2013 through a fair and transparent partner selection process. livestock products 54 Manufactured Packaging materials products 82 Only the vendors who have passed Pulmuone’s sanitation and safety inspection can provide packaging materials designed Agricultural produce to fit product properties, and they are mandated by Pulmuone to develop various ways to minimize their impact on the Pulmuone sources high-quality agricultural produce for its product materials at Non-brand Agricultural, fishery, livestock product 114 environment and conserve resources by, for instance, using less packaging materials and adopting eco-friendly materials. competitive price through a direct transaction with trusted and qualified partners such as APC(Agricultural products Processing Center), farming associations or wholesale Manufactured food products 121 Industrial food product market corporations who are believed to be most fit for a specific product category. Furthermore, it cuts through the long distribution process by distributing through Foodmerce, committed to providing all products consumers want, supplies and distributes upwards of 10,000 food Materials Raw materials 99 C&D(Collection & Delivery) centers and facilitates direct transaction with producing Packaging materials by sourcing them from specialized agencies and producers of each brand. districts for materials supply at competitive cost. materials 36 Partner management Fishery products Total 506 Even after selecting supply chain partners, Pulmuone conducts periodic partner assessment by examining various aspects In the metropolitan area, Pulmuone directly operates fishery processing centers and such as financial soundness, delivery deadline observance, quality/price competitiveness and management capability, and strictly applies the HACCP(Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point) standards from based on the result, the company classifies partners into 3 categories (i.e. strategic partner, long-term partner and temporary materials sourcing to production and shipment in order to comply with sanitary standards partner) to adjust its sourcing strategy depending on situations. In March 2013, Pulmuone Foods and Foodmerce examined designed by Foodmerce Food Safety Center. In local districts other than the greater Seoul, trade performance, price competitiveness, deadline observance, quality, and social/environmental performance of 60 partner only the food materials produced or prepared by vendors who have received the HACCP companies. Strategic importance of the category a partner belongs to and its supply performance were also taken into account accreditation and comply with the sanitary standards of Foodmerce Food Safety Center to produce the ‘overall evaluation score’. The overall evaluation score puts 60% weight to overall quality, higher than 10% to can be supplied to Pulmuone. Only the companies accredited by HACCP are allowed to shipment response, 70% to shipment performance, 20% to sourcing amount, more than 10% to sourcing risk, and 30% to operate a materials processing plant, and food materials where the HACCP standards strategic relevance. Among them, the overall quality score is calculated by assigning 60% weight to the audit result, 20% to cannot be applied (e.g. seafood, dried fish) are subjected to the standards of Food Safety improvement in VOC, 5% to complaints in VOC the partner company should be held accountable for, 10% to 4 major bad VOC Center, which means only the companies who strictly abide by the Pulmuone sanitary feedbacks, 5% to VOE grade with subtraction of 2 points per voluntary recall. standards can be qualified for supply chain partners of Pulmuone. Combining the overall evaluation score with the evaluation score in each relevant sector 50:50, Pulmuone selected its partner companies and named them as ‘good partners in 8 sectors(contribution to new products, technology innovation, production process Livestock products innovation, VOC improvement, good audit result, quality innovation, cost-saving innovation, social partnership). Pulmuone has its own livestock products processing center (fresh meat) where it applies the HACCP standards from the stage of receiving raw meat. The plant is Sector Partner Number of Partners managed in accordance with the sanitary standards of Food Safety Center. In local Contribution to New Products HW(Hyangwon Spice), Dongrim Foods, BNG Foods, Hanil Foods Service 4 districts where Pulmuone doesn’t have its own processing center, only those accredited Technology Innovation Taejin GNS, Hanmi Foods 2 with HACCP and satisfying the sanitary standards of Food Safety Center can be qualified to become Pulmuone’s supply chain partners to supply food materials. All livestock Production Process Innovation Woocheon Fried Tofu, Jinsung FM, Dongsung Foods 3 suppliers of Pulmuone are accredited with HACCP, and those who don ’t have the VOC Improvement Mangu Fisheries, Fresh Egg, Kimchi Nara, Purunchon 4 HACCP accreditation are not allowed to enter into a contract with Pulmuone. Good Audit Result Haengnam Foods, Dami Food Tech 2 Quality Innovation Moa, Nambu Foods, Samyoung Fresh, Living Life 4 Food materials Cost-Saving Innovation Seoshin Foods, GMF 2 Pulmuone has developed and introduced internal food safety management standards, even Social Partnership Ganghwa Our Village 1 stricter than domestic legal standards with the aim of providing only the authentic wholesome 42 ISSUE 2013 Pulmuone SR 2013 43 Exofresh Logistics Number of partners in 2013 provide consumers with safe and clean products produced and processed in compliance Vegetable 33 with high sanitation standards. It maintains win-win relationship with its partners, Major partners who support logistics services include freight transport corporations, Number of partners in 2013 Fruit 26 upholding the principle stipulated in the TISO charter. contractors, and vendors in charge of system and facility maintenance. Transport service 19 Meat 23 Contracted service 2 Grain 20 Agricultural produce Transport service System & facility maintenance 5 Fishery 18 ORGA Whole Foods trades only with the vendors that fulfill all the requirements of the Partners that transport/deliver products safely to distribution hubs or retail stores Stockfish 17 company on eco-friendly accreditation, producer traceability, none residual pesticides, across the country, and manage workers in transport/delivery Processed foods 133 no color fixation, no fruit-setting accelerator or preservatives, non GMO(Genetically Chilled foods 44 Modified Organism), and are capable of providing materials with good quality and taste. Contracted service Frozen foods 30 Partners that distribute products transported to distribution hubs from production Health functional 36 Raw meat sites and handle product shipments by managing workers at distribution centers more Lifestyle goods 112 Home meal / bakery 49 The criteria for raw meat suppliers include 1) providing products free from antibiotics, efficiently growth hormone, and chemicals (no residual antibiotics), 2) providing meats prepared Total 541 and processed by HACCP companies, 3) having a microbe management process in System & facility maintenance place, 4) offering organic livestock, 5) handling certified antibiotics-free meat first, 6) Maintain and manage logistics system(ERP, TMS), supervise facility automation, prenot handling meat of disturbing or protected animals, 7) satisfying all requirements to inspect facilities to preempt possible downtime. receive the ORGA animal welfare accreditation. Fishery product Pulmuone Health & Living The criteria to be qualified as fishery product partner include 1) preservation of fishery Pulmuone Health & Living sources finished or processed goods, products for market Number of partners in 2013 resources(ban on fishing threatened species, GMO, fishing during the closed season entry from 22 partner companies in total. They are selected in compliance with a fair Finished goods period), 2) provision of fishery products that can be traced back to their place of origin, 3) and transparent process aligned with the criteria set by the company’s partner company Fermented milk 2 no antibiotics or growth hormones, 4) compliance with the standards on residual heavy deliberation committee. In 2013, Pulmuone Health & Living signed a contract with 3 new Health functional 8 metal and implementation of stricter criteria on heavy metal detection (e.g. criteria partners. To be even qualified for deliberation, vendors have to pass a strict inspection Skin care 4 extended to cover Pb, Hg, As, Cd), 5) no fishery product using bleach or coloring agents. based on the sanitation guideline by QTM(Quality & Technology Management) office Subtotal 14 and QC(Quality Control) team. Only those who have passed the preliminary screening Processed product can go through the deliberation process which looks at their financial health, price Toll Processing Only the companies that follow the principles of eco-friendly materials, minimum competitiveness, quality competitiveness, deadline observance, and CEO evaluation Health functional 3 processing, non-GMO materials, no radiated materials, and materials free from residual (i.e. management capability and mindset, etc). The partner selection process has been Skin care 2 toxins can be selected as partners. designed rigorously to minimize the risk they may pose to the Pulmuone supply chain. Subtotal 5 Regular sanitation monitoring is also carried out in partnership with QTM office, and QA manager is in charge of quality control and preventive measures of partner companies. Goods for market entry Health functional 1 Pulmuone Waters Skin care 2 Pulmuone Waters sources materials from a total of 15 partner companies. The ORGA Whole Foods Subtotal 3 company selects, evaluates, and inspects materials vendors every year, measuring their performances in product quality and deadline observance. And starting from 2012, ORGA Whole Foods purchased products and raw materials from a total of 541 partner Total 22 excellent performances in safety, responsible sourcing and labor were added into the companies in 2013. It found 63 new partners and ended partnership with 41 vendors. partner assessment criteria, and those with outstanding evaluation result are selected ORGA Whole Foods selects its partners based on its fair procurement procedure and as ‘good partners’. More information on its partners is as follows: policies, and applies rigorous standards to organic product and additives in order to 44 ISSUE 2013 Pulmuone SR 2013 45 Preform Number of partners in 2013 Win-win growth support for partner companies Preform 2 It refers to a bottle material in the intermediary stage before being made into a bottle for In 2013, the QTM office has carried out various measures to help partner companies PET resin 1 fresh water. Pulmuone Waters personally selects and provides good quality resin, a raw achieve a consistent level of quality, reviewing their process, supervising improvement, PC bottles 2 material of preform to vendors, which is then processed into preform by vendors to be offering a tool to implement initiatives to reduce VOC, offering guidance on lab quality Film/label 5 supplied to Pulmuone Waters. control and lab management, providing trainings at QS(Quality System) meetings, Cap 3 supporting a full implementation of C-TPM(Compact-Total Productive Maintenance), Others 5 PET resin helping them develop a training program in partnership with external trainers, and PET resin is preform plastic material for PET bottles of Pulmuone Waters. Pulmuone supporting a full implementation of quality assurance scheme as part of the initiatives Waters purchases PET resin and provides the material to preform suppliers. Pulmuone for win-win growth with partner companies. Pulmuone made both periodic and nonWaters accepts only Nestlé-certified resin with contents. periodic visits to partner companies to examine their production environment and encourage reduction of risk factors. As encouragement, it offered methodologies and templates for VOC reduction in parallel with field improvement initiatives based on PC bottle TPM. In addition to this, Pulmuone also examined and supervised lab quality control PC(Poly Caronate) bottle refers to a large-size water bottle placed upside down on the and management standards to stabilize their lab operation while providing training top of a water dispenser. As it is made of PC material, it is differentiated from a PET programs it has developed jointly with external training agencies free of charge to boost bottle, and can typically be used for about 36 times before disposal. capability of partner companies. Milestones and progresses regarding such activities are shared with partner companies at ‘QC meetings’ where Pulmuone and partners get Film/label together to define a new shared goal. Film material is used for packaging a bundle of PET bottles to bind them together and labels are placed onto PET bottles to display brand and ingredient information. Farming training for soybean farmers Cap More than 90% of the soybeans for bean sprouts are grown on Jeju island. Growing A cap refers to the lid of a PET or PC bottle. As it comes into direct contact with water in them in areas other than Jeju can be challenging as farmers in those areas lack the bottle, only the resin with ingredients certified by Nestlé can be used for a cap. The experience, soybeans have more risk of having residual pesticide, and it is difficult to process for a social or an environmental audit at Pulmuone Waters is as follows: develop a new sales route. However, to develop other farming communities as soybean producers, Pulmuone joined forces with the Ministry of Agriculture, Food, and Rural 1) Supplier Ethical Data Exchange An association to Affairs, Munkyung city, and the Agricultural Technology and Extension Center in order 1) Each partner company fills out the questionnaire in advance. manage and share sourcing to open and support a pilot soybean farming complex in the Munkyung area. It held a 2) Based on the information of the filled-out questionnaire, each partner company is registered to the global Sedex1) platform which calculates a pre-evaluation score of each reports and data of vendors meeting on the effective farming method of bean sprouts and the domestic soybean across the globe industry development policy led by food business officers at the Ministry for 270 soybean partner company (Evaluation consists of various aspects such as labor, health and safety, environment, and business integrity) farmers in the area. As a result, 330,000㎡ of land plot in Munkyung has been developed 2) A system to select, evaluate 3) The audit agency certified by Nestlé assesses each of the production plants operated by and manage good vendors as a bean sprouts farming complex and Pulmuone purchased 100 tons of bean sprouts vendors based on the information registered to Sedex. The assessment period differs based on the global Nestlé grown there in 2013, contributing to income generation of Munkyung farming families. depending on the size (i.e. the headcount) of a partner company. standards and to share the Pulmuone will continue to establish such relationship with local farming communities 4) The audit agency uploads an assessment report on Sedex, and then Nestlé registers the information with other relevant on a sustained basis, reserving no efforts to support their capability development and vendor reports at VAP(Vendor Approval Process)2) for evaluation. businesses maintain long-term partnership. 5) Vendors can pass the audit if Nestlé finds no issues in each aspect. In the event of finding major issues in any of the evaluation aspects, they have to be re-assessed 6 months later. Community Contribution 09 46 ISSUE 2013 Pulmuone SR 2013 47 Voluntary monitoring on fair trade 1) CSR manager CSR manager at the PR office Mission & strategy To reduce the risk to violate fair transaction legislations such as the Fair Subcontract plans, prepares, executes, ‘Social contribution aligned with corporate business’, ‘growth of local communities’ and Transactions Act and the Franchise Business Act, Pulmuone proactively and voluntarily evaluates and budgets for ‘community outreach campaigns integrated into the corporate culture’ are objectives inspects and examines its franchisor-franchisee agreements, sourcing contracts and public interest projects to defined by Pulmuone when it makes efforts to contribute to communities. With these return corporate profit to transaction schemes. If there is any risk or actual case of violation, Pulmuone conducts 3 aims in mind, Pulmuone works to identify new opportunities and plans community communities. a root cause analysis to prevent the same risk factors from emerging again and takes services to be aligned with its business scope. For effective communication with relevant corrective measures or improves work processes, imposing disciplinary measures and organizations, personnel and communities, a CSR manager has been appointed to lead mandatory training for those who violated laws in accordance with the CP(Compliance the social contribution department Program) guideline. It also visits partner companies and franchisee stores to gather feedbacks for better management and communication. Community contribution process First and foremost, demands and needs of communities are studied to be incorporated into the public interest projects relevant for Pulmuone business. In this stage, Fair trade training Pulmuone selects an NGO group as its partner to define a detailed project plan. After Following the CP training guideline, Pulmuone offers its people a semi-annual training executing the project, an assessment is undertaken to find any room for improvement. session that lasts more than 2 hours, annual special training, relevant department Findings and lessons are reflected to complement and upgrade a plan for the next year. trainings on a needs basis, cyber education on the Competition Act and fair transaction, Pulmuone appoints a social contribution manager for each subsidiary and establishes and fair transaction education for new hires. a collaborative regime where they can effectively meet the demands of communities. It Employees at Strategic Purchasing Division or Marketing team receive regular trainings also organizes Session D, a corporate council for CSV and CSR, where subsidiaries and and cyber lectures on amendments of the Fair Subcontract Transactions Act and affiliates can share their own progress and plans for their CSV and CSR initiatives. violations in order to learn more accurately about their obligations. Pulmuone Foods and Foodmerce are also offering their employees regular cyber training sessions on the same topics. Employees at Management Support Division took a cyber class on the fair transaction program. Lastly, new hires learn about the CP overview and fair trade legislations directly from CP managers themselves to have a comprehensive understanding on CP. Pulmuone, going forward, continues to provide a structured training program on fair transaction to enhance employee awareness and knowledge about risk for violation as higher awareness and alert can ultimately lead to better Interview compliance with fair trade legislations. Interview on community contribution Co-Chair, Korea Women’s Environmental Network Chang Yi, Jeong-Soo Pulmuone is carrying out a range of social service activities centering around Good Foods Campiagn to contribute to local communities, which certainly befits the company’s brand image and core values. Pulmuone has to expand the scope of Good Foods Campaign and build on it to engage people of all ages, creating real impact for the next generations living in the communities, and make the campaign closely aligned with communities to offer more varied and effective benefits to the vulnerable. In addition, it needs to diversify its partnership with non-profit entities with shared interest to study varying needs of different communities and opens an ongoing communication channel. Partnership based on mutual respect and trust will ultimately bring long-term benefits to the company that go beyond mere promotion of a company name. Therefore, Pulmuone should focus on building genuine collaboration with civil society. I hope Pulmuone continues its meaningful journey to bring more benefits to communities in the future. 48 ISSUE 2013 Pulmuone SR 2013 49 2013 milestones & 2014 strategy Public interest project SNS campaign for emergency food relief in partnership Major milestones in 2013 with Korea Food for the Hungry International Launch a new outreach 2013 Extend Food for Change and Authentic Encourage donation Pulmuone is waging a fund raising campaign for emergency food relief via SNS to Boost green projects program for the Priority Task Wholesome Food to nationwide campaigns of employees underprivileged youth mark World Food Day on October 16. The campaign is open at its Facebook page(www. Outcome · Offered 387 sessions of authentic wholesome Drive the global WET Increased donation and · Supported financial facebook.com/pulmuonelove), blog(Pulmuone’s Very Personal Story) and Twitter(@ food education to 9,113 people in 2013. project as one of the raised money for Love independence of the pulmuonelove), and the raised fund is being donated to Korea Food for the Hungry (YoY increase of 133 sessions and 3,677 corporate initiatives Neighbor Fund underprivileged youth at International for emergency food relief projects in Africa. participants) Organized a fund-raising Wildflower Youth Center · Extended the target audience from kindergarten · Offered 51 sessions of event for social service Supported KRW 12 and primary schools to cover parents and WET education to 1,147 with the C-Cubic team million (KRW 1 million Employee event for communities childcare center teachers primary students and per month * 12 months) · Added more aspects such as nutrition teachers in 2013 · 1,424 employees contributed · Offered authentic Every year, Pulmuone people raise money as part of their outreach programs to help education to existing curriculum (food labeling, · Implemented 7 WET 45% of the fund in 2013 / wholesome food cooking out disadvantaged neighbors. In 2011, for instance, Pulmuone employees raised KRW 6 taste education) programs selected by KRW 103,246,000 raised classes (November 6, 16 million, dressed up as Santas to help children suffering from intractable diseases and · Increased authentic wholesome food education Nestlé Waters fund for the year (YoY, 553 youths participated) donated the money to Make a Wish Korea. And in 2012, they raised KRW 4 million, which for other companies (Homeplus, Pulmuone · Implemented the more people donated with Danone, Yeowon Media) initiative jointly with the fund increasing by KRW Fund-raising for typhoon was donated to Compassion Korea. In June 2013, C-Cubic, the organization culture · Established a network with government entities Pulmuone Waters 11,706,000) victims in the Philippines’ team, led the drive to support water resources for African children. Pulmuone sold including the Ministry of Education and Food for Change · Held a fund-raising event authentic wholesome food kits to employees, organized a Jazz concert and a bazaar, · Trained 10 ‘Fuducators(food educator)’ for African children (June 27) specialized in authentic wholesome food · Raised a philanthropic fund all of which help the company raise KRW 6 million to be donated to Good Neighbors. · Opened a campaign to apply for Pulmuone’s to help out typhoon victims In November, KRW 6.7 million was raised to help relief efforts in the Philippines after authentic wholesome food class via SNS in the Philippines (Nov 15~22) the country was devastated by Typhoon Haiyan with Pulmuone Foundation donating the channels (March 25~April 5) same amount of money from its own pocket. So in total, KRW 13.4 million was donated to relief agencies in the Philippines via Korea Food for the Hungry International. Implementation strategy for 2014 Facilitate projects for the Core Boost and extend authentic environment, community Extend network with the government Build a framework for stable Partnership with external networks Initiatives wholesome food and external agencies operation of Pulmuone Foundation contribution, Mecenat As part of the effort to support ‘good spending’, Pulmuone is undertaking joint social Aspects Authentic wholesome foods Environment Community contribution Mecenat contribution projects with retail stores. Homeplus, for example, waged the campaign, Aspiration · Extend further Food for Change · Build on the global · Drive Pulmuone Foundation’s new · Run culinary culture education ‘Shopping Cart of Life’ in 2012 with Pulmuone where 1% of the sales revenue coming for ’14 and Good Foods WET project project to support the independence sessions concurrently with the from some of the Pulmuone products was donated to eBlue Foundation of Homeplus, Campaigns – Train 100,000 · Boost carbon reduction of the underprivileged youth reopening of the Kimchi Museum authentic wholesome food programs engaging · Invite more joint champions for its · Support traditional music and in return, Homeplus also donated a matching amount of money to the foundation guardians by ’20 employees social contribution projects performances for surgery of child cancer patients, which amounted to 2% of its sales revenue in 2012. · Evaluate performance and promote Good Foods Campaign In 2013, Homeplus opened an educational session on authentic wholesome foods for across society, marking its both children and adults at 50 stores of its Lifelong Education School. Pulmuone also 5th anniversary works with Emart by signing an agreement to jointly drive Good Foods Campaign on Major · Education for Good Foods · Project WET trainings · LOHAS Designer, the employee · Educational programs at Kimchi June 1, 2012, and donates 1% of the sales revenue from its promotional events to Food Business Campaign · Carbon reduction with more volunteering corps Museum for Change as part of the efforts to firmly establish good dietary habits by partnering · Evaluation of Good Foods eco-friendly products · More money for Love Neighbor Fund · Support for performances by Campaign for the past 5 years · Social services to preserve · Community contribution activities by ‘Those Who Love Traditional Music’ with local child centers. · Joint projects with government and the environment Pulmuone people external entities · Education at LOHAS Academy · Promotion of authentic wholesome · Support for the underprivileged youth foods · Outreach to the impoverished overseas Environmental Efforts 10 50 ISSUE 2013 Pulmuone SR 2013 51 Support for the underprivileged youth Environment investment and management expense in 2013 Pulmuone strategy for the environment As part of its new community contribution project, Pulmuone started to support financial Pulmuone’s mission is to ‘become a LOHAS company that puts the 1st priority on independence of the disadvantaged youths. It donates KRW 12 million to Wildflower Youth Center to assist financial independence of homeless youths and offered ‘Authentic Up 84% environment safety in all aspects of its business’. To mobilize enterprise-wide efforts to attain the aspiration, Pulmuone comes up with a new mid-term targets such as Wholesome Foods Cooking Class’ which introduces food vocations to students and reducing the basic unit of energy and water by 15% and 30% respectively with zero gives them opportunities to cook themselves. Going forward, the company is planning wastes, and provision of authentic wholesome foods for humans and nature. To reduce to open public-interest cultural activities, connecting them with outreach programs by wastes coming from workplaces into zero at the final stage, Pulmuone has implemented Pulmuone employees. various recycling methods while at the same time operating a sustainability packaging council attended by packaging developers and marketing managers from 2013. It invested in high-efficiency facilities and better efficiency management to cut back on greenhouse gas emissions and energy/water consumption, which resulted in 84% increase in environment investment and management expense in 2013 against 2007. Healthy Goals Energy Water Waste Product Value Value Workplace Protection Creation Zero Energy saving of 30% saving of Provide authentic wholesome Zero waste disaster 15% water foods for both humans and nature Indicators Disaster Basic energy unit Basic waste Development and application of Basic water unit rate Basic CO2 unit unit sustainable packing materials Environment investment & management expense ratios against 2007 *Expense in 2007 as 100% For women, children and seniors 179% 178% 184% 159% Pulmuone Kimchi Museum is leading a range of cultural programs such as ‘Do’ targeting multi110% 118% cultural families to show traditional recipes of Korea and help understand the Korean culture 100% and ‘Open’ which introduces various culinary cultures across the world. Program Intent Target Sessions Description 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Name Traditional theater Social contribution program for Promote traditional dishes of Korea and performance multi-cultural families in so doing, enhance understanding on Multicultural Do 7 Museum exhibitions the Korean culture among multi-cultural families families Hands-on experience Restoring lenoks in the river by making Kimchi Joining forces with the Wonju Environment Office and the fish research center at Thai food culture Introduce and promote understanding Families or Museum exhibitions Kangwon National University, Pulmuone Chuncheon plant, which produces tofu and ice, Open on various cultures by introducing dishes groups interested 4 Hands-on experience launched an initiative to restore the lenok population on the verge of extinction in the and delicacies worldwide in multi-cultures of fermented upper region of the Namhan river near the basin of Songcheon, Pyeongchang county. Thai foods Donation of money to restore The Songcheon river basin once had lenoks living until the mid 1990s but they became the ecosystem for lenoks extinct after ranches, accommodation buildings and alpine growing virtually polluted Pulmuone reaches out to seniors living alone. Pulmuone employees visit those living and destroyed their habitat. As part of the community contribution program, Pulmuone lonely by themselves, keeping them company and making a meal so that seniors Chuncheon plant agreed to support KRW 15 million for the next 3 years to restore the living alone can forget their loneliness. During big holidays, Pulmuone invites them to ecosystem for lenoks. traditional games to make sure they can have a good time. 52 ISSUE 2013 Pulmuone SR 2013 53 Efforts to reduce environmental footprint Water supply source heavily affected by water intake After receiving feedbacks about the plant cooler at Pulmuone Health & Living Doan Pulmuone Waters takes groundwater from the bedrock as it has rigorous quality green juice plant that the cooler emits loud noise to disrupt workers at plant offices, the standards for its drinking water. Therefore, it is strongly committed to preserving the company built a soundproof wall around the cooler whose noise level was measured precious water resources and preempting any negative impacts on the ecosystem to be 75.5dB. As the soundproof wall blocks much of noise from the cooler, noise is no brought by an excessive water intake. Every 5 years, the company conducts an longer an issue at Doan. environment impact study which looks at the groundwater reserve, output status, underground geological survey, appropriate intake for sustainability, scope of A soundproof wall around the cooler environmental impact, damage to the environment, water quality and others. Its Passive house in LOHAS Academy assessment result is reviewed and approved by the Ministry of Environment. Based on the environment impact survey and assessment result, Pulmuone Waters makes it a The building newly constructed within the complex of Pulmuone LOHAS Academy was rule to take less than 1,324 tons of water per day. It always receives an approval from the certified as passive house by the German Passivehouse. The certified main building Gyeonggi provincial government before extracting water to assure sustainability of the has been used as a venue for a large-scale training; it is the one and only certified groundwater resources. passive house in Korea and the East. The term, a passive house, refers to a building very passive in using external energy sources, following rigorous and voluntary standard for energy efficiency to reduce its ecological footprint by minimizing energy waste and blocking heat from leaking out. To be certified as passive house, the building must pass Reduction in water and cleaning agent use all of the strict and rigorous criteria of the German PHI(Passive House Institute). The For a food company like Pulmuone, using much amount of water for production is main passive house of LOHAS Academy has strengthened insulation and installed an unavoidable to assure product sanitation. However, reducing its environmental footprint automatic ventilation system to conserve more energy by facilitating air exchange, and is also highly important for the company. To measure up to its rigorous sanitation maximizes energy efficiency by using renewable energies such as solar energy and standards while reducing water use at the same time, the company has developed geothermal heat. various water-saving initiatives and introduced them to the actual workplaces after reviewing them from multiple angles and analyzing their feasibility. At the Eumseong tofu plant, it upgraded the production process from a bucket type to a belt press type, which can save much washing water compared to the bucket type, which, in turn, can save much energy needed to heat up the washing water. The amount of water that goes into the packaged tofu has also been adjusted to save water use. The Uiryeong tofu plant has also saved water by improving its water supply process when soaking beans in water. Pulmuone Waters is also working to do its share of saving by optimizing a cleaning cycle of its production lines, which would reduce water and chemical agent 1) Air Permeability, use. Aspect Certification Criteria LOHAS Academy Passive House Air Leakage : Hourly frequency Required Heating Energy 15kwh/㎡ 6.9kwh/㎡ Exhibit. Basic water unit for production by year Exhibit. Cleaning agent and washing water use of of the air inside a building is Primary Energy Consumption 120kwh/㎡ 113.3kwh/㎡ changed (Unit: ㎥/Product ton) Pulmuone Waters by year 19.0 100% 100% Air Permeability, Air Leakage1) 0.6 times/h.50pascal 0.15 times/h.50pascal 85% 15.2 79% 78% 14.0 73% 12.5 55% 11.3 26% 9.2 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2010 2011 2012 2013 Water use(%) Cost for cleaning chemicals 54 ISSUE 2013 Pulmuone SR 2013 55 New renewable energy facility deployed More GAP products for a greener land and water at Eumseong Tofu plant Foodmerce, the food materials distributor of Pulmuone, is taking the lead in fulfilling Pulmuone has been proactive in harnessing new renewable energy sources, installing its social responsibility and preserving the environment in order to remain faithful to geothermal heat pumps at its LOHAS Academy and Pulmuone Farm, and replacing ‘Love for Neighbors’ and ‘Respect for Life’ by providing only the fresh and safe GAP(Good an LNG boiler with a wood pallet boiler at the Eumseong tofu plant. The boiler burns Agricultural Practices) certified products to consumers. GAP is a food certification wood pallets, a fuel made by shredding, drying and compressing wood whose carbon scheme to manage risk factors (i.e. pesticides, heavy metal or microorganisms emissions is recognized to be nearing ‘0(zero)’. The wood pallet boiler at the Eumseong in agricultural products) throughout the production cycle starting from materials plant is expected to lower its greenhouse gas emissions by 5,837tCO2e per year, production and harvesting to packaging and selling. To this end, it traces history of A wood pallet boiler at the equivalent to planting trees on the land 37 times as large as the World Cup Stadium in Eumseong tofu plant agricultural produce based on the GAP management standards and offers regular Sangam. Pulmuone Eumseong tofu plant has improved its heating system to reduce training to farming communities. Thanks to its efforts, farmers achieved cost saving greenhouse gas emissions by recovering heat from wastewater and then use it to heat and higher productivity by using less pesticide and fertilizer, and in return, Foodmerce up washing water and has been registered as Green Company. Monitoring between has been able to source GAP food materials grown within 30km radius of the Yangji Septermber 2, 2011 and July 1, 2013 confirmed 1,056tCO2e of greenhouse gas reduction logistics center, reducing its logistics cost. Such change in practice has been translated in total, which was officially recognized by the KEMCO(Korea Energy Management into the reduction of 33,513kg CO2 emissions, less pollution of land and water as the Corporation). use of fertilizer and pesticide was also greatly reduced. In 2013, Pulmuone developed additional criteria to differentiate Foodmerce GAP products from others, taking into account environment preservation and added them to the legal GAP standards. It also Waste transport & handling standards set the target to extend the range of GAP products for 2014 by releasing new GAP agricultural products including 5 pilot products and reorganizing its management Aged transformers which contain PCBs(Polychlorinated Bophenyls) at the Eumseong manual. noodle plant was replaced with new ones in May 2013. The company confirmed the PCB amount of transformers to be 0.5mg/L, which is much less than the legal threshold of Oriental melon traceability management by Foodmerce 2mg/L, and replaced the aged transformers through due process in accordance with the relevant laws. Handling process of persistent organic pollutant wastes Waste disposal Generation of Report to contract reports authorities Between waste PCBs analysis Necessary discharger, Test reports documents transporter and handler Completion Waste treatment of disposal Approval on a & disposal Disposal reports disposal plan Report to the to the competent competent office office Response to Climate Change 11 56 ISSUE 2013 Pulmuone SR 2013 57 Eco-friendly washing detergent Greenhouse gases Consumer health is a non-negotiable value for Pulmuone. As part of the efforts to Keenly aware of climate change and its implications, Pulmuone measures its carbon protect this highly essential value, ECMD has replaced all of its detergent products for emissions, seeks certification on its low-carbon products, registers its greenhouse gas dish washers with eco-friendly ones after it found out some of them containing sodium reduction initiatives and monitors their results. hydroxide that may pose a risk to consumer health. Exhibit . GHG emissions trend in production (vs. 2009) 100% Waste 90% 79% 77% Exofresh Logistics has introduced food waste shredders to reduce the amount of waste discharge. It reduces not only the amount of wastes but also stink from food waste, 64% which greatly enhances the environment surrounding the operation sites. 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Although Pulmuone is not categorized as high energy consuming business to be managed, the company has built a greenhouse gas inventory as the 1st stage to lower its emissions. Ever since the Low Carbon Green Growth Act was enacted, it has published an inventory on its greenhouse gas emissions. The decision to generate an inventory is made by each individual workplace after confirming the result of an environment impact assessment survey. In 2013, the Eumseong tofu plant and the Eumseong noodle plant completed their greenhouse gas inventory reports to receive validation of the Korean Foundation for Quality (The greenhouse gas inventories of the Eumseong tofu plant and the Eumseong noodle Interview Interview on reducing environmental footprint plant were based on statistics from Jan 1, 2010 to Dec 31, 2012.) Engineering professor at Konkuk University Heo, Tak Exhibit . Validated greenhouse gas inventory of Eumseong tofu plant (Unit: tCO2e) Pulmuone is making every effort to reduce its environmental footprint across its business by receiving 6,919 7,003 7,194 the Passive House accreditation for its LOHAS Academy and installing wood pallet boilers at the Eumseong tofu plant. To accomplish its environmental mission to become ‘a LOHAS company that puts 3,961 the 1st priority on the environment safety across its business areas’, I believe Pulmuone has to include improvement plans for other aspects of LOHAS and safety. A food producer needs a comprehensive management system to ensure safety and environment 4,143 3,974 4,004 preservation, starting from materials sourcing to waste disposal. This requires strong commitment 3,744 and support from the top management and development of indexes to closely and accurately monitor performances. I hope Pulmuone can continue its efforts to establish itself as a green company working for the environment by communicating with external stakeholders including the government, consumers, investors and competitors while engaging in various activities on all fronts such as 2010 2011 2012 2013 publishing sustainability reports, attaining accreditations and labels, declaring its green initiatives and targets, and reinforcing its relationship with external stakeholders. *Numbers in 2013 have yet to be validated. Direct emissions Indirect emissions 58 ISSUE 2013 Pulmuone SR 2013 59 Ozone depleting substance control Introduction of DC freezer & cold storage air conditioning vehicles Pulmuone’s cold chain system for its production, warehousing and delivery is to provide Main product categories of Pulmuone Foods are fresh foods including tofu or bean only the fresh products to consumers. Whenever there are new facilities to be deployed, sprouts. In order to maintain freshness of these products and prevent the growth of the company specifies they have to use refrigerants with 0 ODP(Ozone Depletion microorganisms in food that help consumers enjoy only the best quality and taste, Potential) and low GWP(Global Warming Potential). And to manage existing cold Exofresh Logistics is driving the ‘5℃ campaign’ that maintains temperature of logistics chain facilities, the company has deployed the ERP eAM system to control refrigerant vehicles to be 5℃ or lower when delivery vehicles of franchise stores transport products replenishment. to stores. Exofresh Logistics maintains the temperature lower than 5℃ while reducing emissions of pollutants and greenhouse gases at the same time by minimizing engine 145 (Unit : kg) 3,523 idle time. Moreover, it has deployed DC(Direct Current) freezers to save fuel and 976 installed refrigerators and freezers on its logistics vehicles. 302 209 2,686 2,827 Category Number of vehicles Operation 2,396 520 Activated when engine is off during delivery DC freezer 44 Freezer powered by battery DC 1,745 Refrigerator not operated when engine is on Refrigerator vehicle 21 Coldness charged during engine-off time 256 1,400 and released during engine operation 1,083 Freezer not powered when engine is on Freezer vehicle 33 Coldness charged during engine-off time 100 and released during engine operation 100 60 200 120 100 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 C407 R11 R22 R404a Announced as eco-friendly logistics business in 2013 Exofresh Logistics was awarded with the certificate commendation from the Ministry of Environment for its green initiatives after announced by eco-friendly business in 2013 Pulmuone Waters certified as low carbon product by the Metropolitan Air Quality Management Office. The eco-friendly practice award is Pulmuone Waters Idong plant is engaged in persistent efforts to reduce its given to businesses who have made great contribution to eco-friendly business practice environmental footprint and save cost as much as possible by minimizing the weight and air quality improvement. Exofresh Logistics donated the entire amount of prize of preform, the material for a PET bottle. From 2009 to 2013, the plant continued its money amounting to KRW 2 million to Pulmuone Foundation. endeavor to reduce preform weight. Thanks to the effort, it succeeded in reducing weight of a bottle cap from 2g to 1.35g when it started the operation of its Idong plant. Recognized for the progress, Pulmuone Waters received a certification of ‘Low Carbon Emission control of major air pollutants Product’ and ‘Green Packaging’. As Pulmuone uses only clean energy sources(LNG, LPG) for fuel, it is not obligated 0.5L PET preform & cap weight reduction for the past 4 years (Unit: g) to install facilities that prevents or controls air pollutants from conventional boilers. However, for the new renewable energy generator (i.e. wood pallet boiler) introduced in 18.00 2.00 2013, Pulmuone has deployed air pollutant emission and control facilities in compliance 13.45 16.00 with relevant laws. 1.35 0.5L bottle weight(g) 12.10 Cap(g) Preform(g) 2009 2013 60 ISSUE 2013 Pulmuone SR 2013 61 Vehicle monitoring system & eco-driving campaign To reduce fuel use and air pollutant emissions in this era of a perennially high oil price by improving driving practices, Exofresh Logistics has driven its eco-driving campaign on a sustained basis. The company has consistently offered a training to correct driving habits negative for the environment based on the analysis of travel distance, speed, or etc. The data have been gathered through DTG(Digital Tacograph) mounted at its delivery vehicles which analyze driving habits of drivers. GPS satellite DTG Satellite receiver Eco-driving campaign through real-time monitoring and analysis Vehicle Preliminary Driving records monitoring gathering of ecoanalysis information Logistics vehicle monitoring system for safe delivery Eco-driving analysis and improvement plans based on DTG data PERFORMANCE Economic Performance 62 63 Innovation & Creative Economy PERFORMANCE Pulmuone SR 2013 Global DP5 Irumi Expedition mobile page m.irumi.pulmuone.co.kr Bottom-up innovation driven Pulmuone’s vision is to become Global DP5(Defining Pulmuone). It aims to attain a by proactive employee engagement sales revenue of KRW 5 trillion from its domestic and overseas businesses with a Irumi is a corporate channel for innovation through which employees can propose focus on the US and China by redefining its LOHAS business. Pulmuone plans to firmly creative ideas to further develop Pulmuone. The ideas proposed through Irumi are entrench itself as a global LOHAS company and No. 1 food company in Korea with all of collected and reflected in the corporate policies for practice improvement. The system its products deeply trusted by consumers and its brand recognized across the globe as was upgraded in 2013 through benchmarking and renamed as Irumi Expedition with a leading LOHAS brand. user-friendly interface to encourage proactive engagement of employees for better corporate practices. Thanks to the upgraded UI, the process got much simpler: Employees can just log on Major financial performances to the groupware and click the banner of Irumi Expedition to propose an idea. Field Financial performances in 2010-2013 (Unit: KRW 1 million) employees who cannot use PCs in their workplaces are also allowed a wider access to Irumi with mobile Irumi application becoming available now. Year 2010 2011 2012 2013 Revenue 1,265,210 1,363,533 1,457,884 1,521,708 Cost of sales 917,739 991,909 1,060,494 1,097,218 Gross profit 347,472 371,623 397,390 424,490 Operating profit 60,152 47,186 40,949 46,435 Net profit 6,273 17,740 10,071 (12,028) R&D expense Pulmuone supports R&D projects to study consumer needs and trends, and provide true authentic wholesome foods of higher quality by thinking outside the box to develop creative and innovative products. Its R&D expenditure in 2012 reached KRW 13.9 billion, a 17% increase year on year with the share of R&D expense in the sales revenue 1) Initiatives that can generate Innovation initiative management streamlined deliverables relatively fast in increasing 0.09%p against the previous year. 2-3 meeting The ideas collected through Irumi are reviewed against CBI(Critical Business Issues) to be driven as enterprise-wide innovation initiatives such as Green Meeting, Q/W(Quick (Unit: KRW 1,000) Win)1) and CR(Cost Reduction). Feedbacks on progress or outcome are shared across Year 2010 2011 2012 2013 the company through the Irumi Expedition website. Thanks to the upgrade, the site R&D spending 10,248,219 11,908,477 13,949,682 14,735,613 now offers peer review and 360° assessment between departments to decide winning R&D expense/sales revenue 0.81% 0.87% 0.96% 0.97% ideas. Those who have proposed the winning ideas are notified of the results and receive welfare benefit points they can use freely for themselves. Through rigorous review and monitoring, overlapping or simple ideas that don’t hold significant value for the company are screened to ensure objective selection and rewards for contribution. 64 PERFORMANCE Pulmuone SR 2013 65 Green Meeting, an innovative tool Event name: “Family Outing to Pulmuone”Dad, Mom, where are we going? to complete CBI initiatives Irumi Expedition Team Constant needs for family communication program for employees Green Meeting is an innovation program unique in Pulmuone to initiate a process [Proposed Program] where champions of important CBI initiatives are gathered to generate solutions for 1) Develop a program to experience a day at Mom and Dad’s workplace the issues, develop implementation plans, report the outcome to a sponsor, and start 2) Design events that will imbue pride and sense of bonding for families. implementation right away after receiving a necessary approval. Green-Meeting is result oriented with a focus on the 3 following aspects. First, it enables a prompt response to the newest trend by selecting CBI deeply related to the latest social changes. [Introducing outstanding Green Meeting tasks: family communication program for employees] Second, it enhances work efficiency by addressing CBI identified and selected to improve the existing work practice or process. Green-Meeting 1) Program name “Family Outing” Third, it creates synergy by identifying and selecting a wide range of CBIs across Pulmuone. 2) Date Dec.24th, 2013, 14:00~17:00 Team name: 3) Venue 3rd , 8th floor of Suseo HQ Reply 1,2,3,4 4) Hosted by All members of C Cubic 1th~4th CBI Process 5) Invitees 12 families with children aged 6~12 By disclosing CBI(Critical Business Issue) innovation task selection process and utilizing 6) Concept Find time to communicate with parents, comments and bulletin board, the company endeavors to gather as many opinions as understand the working life of parents possible from all employees and in doing so, links such effort for CBI to generate results in their workplace in Green Meeting. 7) Public relation Publish online article about the unique Reinforce execution of Critical Business Issue Adoption as Irumi CBI Operate CBI bulletin board year-end event “Family Outing” by linking it to Green Meeting Ideas can be transferred from proposal list Disclose task selection process and incorporate Direct posting is available various opinions from comments and bulletin boards Task selection Select tasks from CBI list as ‘Green Meeting/QW task’ Pre-Meeting Manage task direction Mobile service Manage R&R Town-Meeting Identify problems and solutions Drive implementation plans Manage meeting minutes in sequence Post-Meeting Upload post-execution results Outstanding Selection Deliberation CBI Upload implications Proposal Generate guidelines for proposal pool follow-up management Completion report Prepare completion report High grade Evaluate proposal management Family event at Pulmuone HQ Social Performance 66 67 PERFORMANCE Pulmuone SR 2013 Consumers Products, Consumer Characteristics channels that reflect the company’s LOHAS value. Pulmuone is dedicated to bringing eco-friendly food ingredients to enhance the lives of & Issues Regarding Sustainability Management its consumers. The company is contributing to consumers’ effort to building healthier and wealthier lives based on their trust and confidence by focusing on health-oriented eco-friendly ingredients with strict hygiene safety management and quality control of Pulmuone Holdings HACCP, and by putting the health of its consumers first and foremost based on the Pulmuone Holdings CS Center has overhauled its E-CS consulting system in 2013, company’s value of ‘right mind, right service’ to consumers. made upgrades and started to provide 1:1 counseling service via ‘Kakaotalk’, in step with the mass use of smartphone and popularity of ‘Kakaotalk’, ‘Kakaotalk’ counseling service is meaningful because it is an expansion of the online VOC channel in addition to its SNS channels such as website’s VOC bulletin board, Twitter, Facebook. Foodmerce Foodmerce offers brands and food ingredients to meal services as well as restaurants. It also offers its service to the food ingredient markets as a distributor specializing in food ingredients. Foodmerce’s major consumers can be categorized into Children (nurseries, Pulmuone Foods kindergarten), Schools (primary, junior, high schools) and Businesses (corporation, ‘Authentic Wholesome Foods’ is a term of endearment for Pulmuone Foods. Pulmuone government offices with canteens for meals) where institutional food services are Foods’ consumers are those who appreciate authentic wholesome foods regardless of available. In case of food markets for infants, toddlers and preschoolers between age and gender. From consumers who have been with Pulmuone since the company the ages of 0~7 years, there are approximately 42,000 nurseries and kindergartens. took its very first step 30 years ago with a vision to provide good and safe tofu, a staple Foodmerce has business with approximately 6,000 sites across the nation and is ranked on our dinner tables, to newly-weds who miss mum’s homemade food and want to at No. 1 in the meal services market for children with a market share of 14.1%. The emulate that taste in their own home, to young mothers who are concerned about demand and expectation for safe and fresh ingredients are high and to meet such the food for their children, to the new generation of youth who care about what they expectation, Foodcommerce is providing a differentiated services with its brand ‘Woori I’, consume, Pulmuone has been working to satisfy such discerning, particular and a specialized ingredients for children. In case of primary/junior/high school meal service demanding consumers every step of the way since its inception. Even among such market for the youth, Foodmerce is providing services to over 10,000 schools across the loyal customers, homemakers in their 30~40s are the biggest supporters of Pulmuone country to provide safer, tastier, healthier and more convenient food ingredients through because they believe in Pulmuone’s philosophy of good ingredients, no additives, its ‘Barunsun’, a special brand of Pulmuone which is dedicated to business-oriented minimum processing to preserve natural flavors, and are willing to pay for valuable ingredients and products. Pulmuone, using its staple commodities such as tofu, herbs products based on their own rationalization and discerning taste. and vegetables as well as tofu processing, noodles, dumplings, processed meat product, In return, Pulmuone endeavors to provide ‘authentic wholesome foods for the health processed fish product, processed agricultural product, has started to add further and happiness of my family’ so that Pulmuone consumers can pursue convenience differentiation in its services with a newly conceptualized product lines for its marine amidst their busy lives by allowing it to become the consumers’ coordinator who products with items such as ‘Lime coating’, ‘Single Frozen’. designs healthful and happy meals for their homes. When it comes to the adult meal service market, Pulmuone is catering to over 1,100 business sites such as enterprises; government offices; military and police; welfare and medical facilities to serve safe and tasty ingredients at a reasonable price range by developing and supplying various products with a wide range of prices, units and EMCD convenient recipes. In addition, Pulmuone recognizes the social trend of aging population EMCD operates contract meal services in various fields such as enterprises, public and plans to further boosts its effort to develop a wide variety of specialized ingredients for offices, schools, hospitals and concessions in airports, restaurants in rest stops on its business meal service market to target consumers of over 65 years of age. highways and leisure facilities. It also manages its special brands such as Bruschetta, The floor under the wind chime, Arancio, N.zle as a specialized food service provider in order to serve general consumers with differentiated food services through multiple 68 PERFORMANCE Pulmuone SR 2013 69 Pulmuone Health& Living emissions, therefore as an eco-friendly company endeavoring to pursue sustainable Consumers of Pulmuone Health & Living vary from products to products. Pulmuone management it is using the lightest bottle in the industry and flat Eco-Cap for its Green Juice is a brand of Pulmuone Health & Living, which brings all natural green packaging and has emerged as a socially responsible company. juice to its customers every morning using fresh vegetables and fruits to serve all the nutrition in their natural state. Its primary target is the busy modern people, who cannot eat all the fresh vegetables and fruits recommended for daily intake. Pulmuone Skin Care targets ladies in their 30s and older concerned about skin aging. Skin care product ORGA Whole Foods lines prioritize safety and effectiveness on the skin, and uses plant-based functional Primary consumers of ORGA Whole Foods are housewives in their 40s from middle ingredients while upholding its ‘no additives’ principle to eliminate harmful elements for class, who are interested in health and environment and tend to have rational spending the skin. habit. Recently newly-weds in their mid-30s to early 40s as well as young couples with Greenche is Pulmuone’s health functional food brand, tailored to meet the needs of young children are also drawn to ORGA. Their main purchase items are eco-friendly the busy modern people who need to reinforce their physical health that are suffering fruit, fresh meat, dairy products and snacks. However, the number of consumers using from functional deterioration due to nutritional imbalance and aging. The brand instant food, confectionary and bakery are on the rise as well. ORGA Whole Foods, as targets consumers in the age group of 45 and older, and the primary consumers of the market leader in Korea’s eco-friendly food specialty store, is dedicated to providing this brand are those who want to use health functional food to prevent diseases and to its consumers with healthful wholesome foods through natural farming to preserve the lead healthier lives. Baby food and Eatslim are designed especially for young children natural nutrients in food. ORGA endeavors to supply right dietary life to its consumers or weight-conscious consumers. These consumers demand their tailored packaged and supplies only foods material through its careful selection process for “healthful food to be delivered directly for specified periods. The primary consumers of baby food foods safe for my family”. and Eatslim are those that require customized diet for specific goals, namely infants In return for consumers continued support and expectation, ORGA Whole Foods have and young children with specific needs to meet special nutrition requirement, or for put Food Safety Team within its organization and is working closely with Pulmuone’s consumers who want to lose weight. Main targets are female consumers between the Culinary Culture Research Center which has years of accumulated know-how founded age of 25~40 that trust Pulmuone brand and have high expectations regarding the safety on Pulmuone corporate philosophy of ‘Love for Neighbors’ and ‘Respect for Life’. And of raw materials and quality of delivery. the QTM office builds ORGA Whole Foods’ particular set of principles. That is why consumers can meet natural foods in their ‘pure’ state with all the flavor and nutrients of the foods well-preserved. In addition, ORGA Whole Foods puts tasty and safe foods through its eco-friendly farming as a ‘LOHAS company which cares for human and Pulmuone Waters nature’ and gives the highest priority to serving the consumers with differentiated Consumers of Pulmuone Waters are working mums in their 30~40s. These consumers high-class services for their health and joy. Not only that, Pulmuone is practicing the have time to enjoy leisure and are interested in their health and well-being. They buy LOHAS value through its business activities because it believes sustainable nature and organic products when they shop for groceries, and are not hesitant to pay more for environment need to be handed down to the next generation. quality foods. So, when buying daily drinking water for their families, these working mums select products that are trustworthy, in other words, brands that satisfy their check list just as they would when shopping for food for their families. Pulmuone Waters produces safe and reliable water, true to the company’s motto of producing ‘honest water for my family’. In order to meet the increasingly high expectation of savvy consumers regarding food safety, Pulmuone Waters is conducting over 550 types of water quality tests, which is10 times more than the usual 51 tests conducted in Korea. The company has introduced International Food Management Standards, and has received FSSC22000 and ISO22000, becoming the 1st company to introduce such rigorous control for drinkable spring water. The company is also very aware of the eco-consumers who are concerned about carbon 70 71 Social Performance PERFORMANCE Pulmuone SR 2013 Executives & Employees Consumer Communication Employment Policy Pulmuone Holdings, VOC management Employment status & policy VOCs of Pulmuone Foods, Pulmuone Health & Living and Pulmuone Waters are all Pulmuone, guided by its fair and equal employment principle, does not discriminate managed at Pulmuone Holdings CS Center. As of end of December 2013, the total against women or physically-challenged in its recruitment, hiring and/or treatment of number of VOCs (Voice of Customers) filed stood at 134,131 cases. Out of the total employees and endeavors to protect human rights for its managers and employees number, 27,681 cases or 21% were product related VOC while distribution related VOCs alike. The company instituted a communication system to create mutual benefits for stood at 75,029 cases or 56%, twice the number of products VOCs. its labor-management relationship while promoting work-life balance for employment The total number of VOCs submitted increased 10.8% compared to the 119,680 cases in stability, and provides systematic support for its employees to lead a LOHAS way of life 2012. The main culprit for such increase was due to complaints related to distribution. by giving them opportunities to directly try out a LOHAS value-oriented program. Distribution complaints grew 41% compared to 2012 while distribution related inquires spiked 18%. The reason behind the mounting VOCs for distribution is due to the heightened demand for daily delivery services for Infant foods in addition to Pulmuone Employment status Health & Living’s Eatslim, both of which saw growth in their distribution processes such * Turnover rate Year 2011 2012 2013 as payment and delivery that ultimately resulted in gradual increase in relevant VOCs. (monthly average turnover ÷ Total number of employees(people) 4,753 4,968 5,175 1) monthly average number of employees) X 100 Management ratio (%) 0.82% 0.70% 0.77% ECMD, CCM re-accreditation for process improvement Employment Number of years in service(years) 5.2 5.3 5.4 through VOC management * Job creation rate (employees for the year – Job creation rate 6.8% 11.6% 16.6% In 2013, EMCD improved employee sensitivity to VOCs by incorporating VOC captured employees for the previous Temporary employment rate 12.2% 11.1% 10.2% opportunities as part of the strategic customer satisfaction theme. ECMD has year) ÷ employees for the introduced VOC traffic light management system in order to build a tool to identify VOC previous year X 100 Turnover Permanent 1.8% 1.5% 1.6% issues and to strengthen management activities, and have shared successful cases of (%) Temporary 6.2% 6.3% 11.3% ‘prevention of same complaints and improvement tasks’. As a result of such initiatives, Total 2.34% 2.02% 2.59% ECMD was able to halt 54% of its VOCs from escalating further. In case of the activity Total distribution (%) 55% 56% 54% theme for Contract Meal Service Division regarding customer response improvement, Female the division was able to reduce repeated complaints of the same topic by 80% yearDistribution of office and research positions (%) 31% 34% 34% Employees on-year through manuals, company-wide announcements and training. In addition, by Above manager levels (%) 14% 18% 21% building information system for consumer-oriented management and VOC management Physically Ratio of physically challenged employees 0.6% 0.5% 0.5% that improves its business process, the company was able to receive CCM(Consumer Challenged Centered Management) Accreditation. Number of employees on maternity leave (people) 77 65 94 The plan for 2014 is to strengthen capacity for preemptive measures and actions Maternity Maternity leave usage rate (%) 100% 100% 100% through service quality standardization at every consumer contact point by forecasting Leave Postmaternity leave return rate (%) 99% 97% 98% VOC in order to enhance overall services, which is the true intent of receiving consumer compliments or complaints. Number of employees on childcare leave (people) 68 88 90 Childcare Childcare leave usage rate (%) 88% 122% 96% Leave Type Number of complaints Number of complaints Post-child care leave return rate (%) 96% 92% 92% Menu 52 cases Insufficient variety of menu and taste. Food sold-out 1) Inclusive of employees of its affiliate, ORGA Whole Foods Services 40 cases Inadequate services Unsatisfactory consumer engagement Hygiene 23 cases Mix of foreign substance 72 PERFORMANCE Pulmuone SR 2013 73 Executive-employees ratio 1) Inclusive of employees for The ratio of average pay Average pay of male-female workers its affiliates, ORGA Whole check for permanent As of end of 2013, the total number of executives and employees stood at 5,1751). Aside Foods female workers The ratio of average pay check for permanent workers was split into 57% male (56.7% from the management control/operational working positions, the general HR structure previous year), 43% female (43.3% previous year), indicating the male-female average is centered-around sales frontline, logistics/production, and sales offices. The number of total employees stands at 5,175 and out of which, 2,380 are male and 2,795 are 43% pay check ratio didn’t change much from the previous year. females. Women make up 54% of the total headcount and 34% of workers at offices and Fluctuation in employees due to short-term hires for seasonal factors research center, evenly spread across all job functions. Special occasions, such as flyer events for groceries (tofu, dumplings, noodles, etc.) sold at discount stores, department stores, supermarkets, summer/winter seasonal Job creation & turnover events, national holidays (New Year’s Day, Chuseok) call for short-term hires to meet Job creation rate for the year 2013 stood at 16.6%, and average monthly turnover rate the special seasonal demand. In 2013, the company hired 2,389 temporary workers for was at 2.6%, indicating a growing trend. Number of years at work is rising every year, less than 7 days. reaching 5.4 years as of end of 2013 while the proportion of top management stood at 0.8 % of the total employees. Employment status of temporary workers Pulmuone’s temporary workers have dropped to 10.2%, which is a 0.9%p decline from New hires by gender (Unit : people) the previous year of 11.1%, indicating the company has reinforced its permanent worker Category 2011 2012 2013 hiring policy. Male 642 494 584 Number of new hires Female 426 484 468 Talent recruitment in principal region for business (permanent) Total 1,068 978 1,052 In China, talent recruitment is carried out online, and applicants are to be Chinese or Chinese-speaking Koreans. Applicants will be invited for interviews based on screening Male 143 89 86 Number of new hires processes, and after 2 months of probation period, may become candidates for Female 510 563 626 (temporary) permanent employment if they receive grades higher than the criteria. Once qualified Total 653 652 712 with the grades, they can be signed on as regular employees. New hires, summary 1,721 1,630 1,764 New hires, rate (%) 36.2% 32.8% 34.1% Work-Life Balance Turnover status by gender (Unit : people) GWP initiatives Category Turnover rate 2011 2012 2013 Since 2008, Pulmuone has been engaging in various activities to make itself a GWP(Great Male 471 400 468 Work Place) company. For the past 4 consecutive years including 2013, the company Number of turnover received ‘Korea’s Great Work Place’ award in the sales and distribution category, for its Female 430 369 415 (permanent) relentless efforts to innovate organizational culture. The year 2013 saw the company taking Total 901 769 883 up various activities to create GWP for its employees. To name a few, the company undertook GWP activities Male 94 72 130 C-cubic activities to proactively engage all of its employees and both the management and Number of turnover employees have actively participated in bringing comprehensive and profound change to the Female 339 366 593 (temporary) organization. Pulmuone has reinforced its ‘Irumi system’ where all ranks and files of the Total 433 438 723 company may bring their opinions forward to transformational change of the organization while creating and nurturing a flat organizational culture through channels such as ‘Talk to CEO’ where CEO and employees can communicate easily. 74 PERFORMANCE Pulmuone SR 2013 75 Welfare benefits Win-Win Labor-Management Relationship Pulmuone offers a range of employee benefits to imbue employees with a sense of pride Labor union structure for the company and to cultivate a good working environment. Since 2012, Pulmuone There are 7 labor unions in Pulmuone as of end of December 2013. A total of 65.2% has instituted congratulatory gifts for employees with more than 2 childbirths; childcare of the employees have joined the union. There may be some minor differences in support for employees who have children with disabilities; support for 70th birthday organizational structure of the labor union but in general, labor organizations are celebration expense in addition to the existing support for major life events (expenses structured as described in the following chart. for weddings and funerals); health check-up for employees aged 40 and over. To top it off, the company has added new support system for riders on group insurance. Labor Union Organization Chart Furthermore, the company is planning to build Pulmuone daycare center to lessen the Members (Representatives) burden of the employees caring for their infants and young children and to offer better working environments for female employees. The company will continue to enhance and Chairperson expand its employee benefits further, and develop and provide unique welfare system of Deputy Chairperson LOHAS lifestyle for all its employees. Accounting/Audit Primary welfare programs System Description Head of Head of General Head of Dispute Head of Welfare Head of Education Cafeteria benefit plan The company is providing selective welfare system so employees can choose from various welfare options according Organization Affairs to their own needs. The system offers fixed amount of welfare points per year to allow employees to use the points for options of their choices such as books, performances, travels, theme parks, health check-ups within the given limit. In addition, as a leading LOHAS company, it provides LOHAS points to its employees to promote the healthy lifestyle, and Members(Representatives) allow better access to purchase various health supplements, cosmetics, ORGA whole foods products inexpensively. Support for purchasing When employees purchase fresh foods, green juice, spring water, health supplements, the company contributes set Union member status Pulmuone products amount (30~40% of the price) to let employees and their families enjoy an array of Pulmuone products inexpensively. The company guarantees its workers the right of assembly. Each labor union defines Support for club activities When employees form clubs in pursuit of sports, hobbies, culture and volunteer work, they are supported with expenses its own qualifications and conditions for membership according to its own provisions, to establish and operate a club. As of end of 2013, there are 45 clubs and about 1,000 employees who are active and those entitled to labor unions are free to join any unions of their choosing to carry members of the clubs. out activities as members. In addition, in accordance with the Labor Union and Labor Group insurance policy When there are injuries or deaths of employees while on the job or outside of the job, KRW 100 million is paid. In Relations Adjustment Act, those who are recognized as the company’s employees, are (life/accidents insurance) addition, depending on individual contract or insurance riders, medical bills for cancer diagnosis and 2 major diseases allowed to establish a labor union themselves. (stroke, heart attack) may be supported or subsidized. ※As of end of 2013 Access to resort facilities By opening up around 20 recreational facilities across the country, the company is funding holidays for its employees and their Doan health Eumseong Pulmuone Eumseong Site Doan green juice Chuncheon tofu Uiryeong tofu Total and LOHAS academy families. The company also allows employees access to LOHAS academy in Goesan, Chungbuk to try out LOHAS lifestyle. functional food fresh noodle Waters sprouts Company-level/ Industry-level/ Nutrition consultation for all Professional consultation for lifestyle and diet plans is available from nutrition specialist to all employees, similar to the CompanyCompanyCompanyFKCWU(Federation of Korean CTIU(Chemical and IndustryCompanyUnion type level/ level/ level/ executives &employees services provided by hospitals and some private companies that aim to manage health of their executives and employees. /Head union Chemical Worker’s Union) of FKCWU of FKCWU of Textile Industry Union) of level/ level/ FKCWU of FKTU(Federation of Korean KCTU(Korean Confederation CTIU of KCTU FKTU FKTU FKTU FKTU Others The company provides financial aid for EAP(Employee Assistance Program : professional counseling program), major life Trade Unions) of Trade Unions) events and school tuitions. It also awards long-serving employees, supports infant and young children care allowances, Total(people) 96 78 120 91 97 119 54 655 extends loan system through mutual cooperatives, supports self-development and health check-ups, assists in housing lease for employees assigned to the workplace far away from their own hometown. Qualified(people) 85 78 120 86 74 83 44 570 Union members 84 76 120 26 22 28 12 368 Integrated internal sales mall, Pulmuone; Daewoong Pharm ; Won&Won; Bullsone; Kooksoondang brewery; Sempio Foods products are on offering through a (people) Zero Shop(Oshop mall) new concept known as ‘welfare mall’ where products are available at 15~50% discounts for internal sales to employees. Membership 98.8% 97.4% 100.0% 30.2% 29.7% 33.7% 27.3% 64.6% rate (%) 76 PERFORMANCE Pulmuone SR 2013 77 Policy and process to communicate with employees Workplace Safety & Employees Health regarding operational changes Labor-management agreement and occupational safety & health Common understanding and cooperation from employees are crucial in order for Providing authentic wholesome foods to consumers is the ultimate goal of Pulmuone. important policies and structural changes to succeed within an organization. Whenever Internally, the company aims to make a safe and sound workplace for its employees, there is a major change in Pulmuone’s operation, the company engages its union and makes double assurance when it comes to issues related to occupational safety and representatives to share information through the Labor Management Council and takes health. To this end, the company has installed a working group to oversee environmental appropriate consultation processes. Likewise, for sites where there are established safety, and occupational safety and health issues, along with the ES (Environment & unions, the company consults with the labor unions to set basic direction for personnel Safety) Management office. policies according to the collective agreement. When it comes to any material changes In addition, the company actively confers with the 7 labor unions on issues of in the company’s operation such as outsourcing work, or split, merger and acquisition, occupational safety and health as agreed upon during the collective agreement. For Pulmuone consults with its labor unions as part of the ongoing effort for employment example, in case of a health functional food plant, located in Jeungpyeong, Chungbuk, its stability. In addition, Pulmuone’s labor-management engages in collective negotiations labor and management have agreed on whopping 5 articles out of 84 articles -including every year to agree on wage and working conditions by holding periodic meetings. additional clausesfrom the collective agreement, to be about occupational safety and Furthermore, the company uses its internal communication channels to share health. The 5 articles including the additional clauses are as follows: the plant stipulates information with employees. Announcing daily sales, holding regular labor-management that ‘the company shall take necessary steps to prevent disaster and to promote health council and round-table meetings with the CEO, providing weekly updates of internal/ and safety for its employees(Article 54)’, ‘creation and operation of Occupational Safety external information via Intranet, publishing company magazines(monthly), conducting and Health Committee shall comply with Safety and Health Committee’s regulations, Occupational Safety & Health Committee(quarterly), institutionalizing the grievance and items agreed upon in this committee must be duly complied with(Article 55)’, ‘the redress system, publishing sustainability report(yearly) and communicating with company shall provide safety and health equipment to its employees when the nature employees are all part of Pulmuone ’s endeavor to provide comprehensive information of job calls for such equipment (Article 56)’, ‘the company must allow employees to about management across the organization. By sharing visions and aspirations of the have another medical check-up when employees object to the medical examination company with employees, Pulmuone encourages and enhances sense of ownership and 1) ‘Knowledge Worker result conducted based on the company’s regulation (Article 57), ‘when employees are engagement of its employees as stakeholders. Platform’, Pulmuone’s Intranet physically injured while on duty, the company shall try to provide compensation through labor-management agreement in addition to the compensation payments accorded by Communication Channel Cycle Details Occupational Health and Safety Act (Article 58). Every year : Changes in major working condition such as wage Collective bargaining Yearly, Ongoing Ongoing : Items that require labor-management discussion Labor Management Share management status, discuss important issues between labor-management, Environmental safety management system fulfillment rate Quarterly (employees) Council handle grievances for employees Since 2008, Pulmuone has been sharing contents in relation to environment safety CEO round-table Bimonthly Conversation with the CEO through Environmental Safety Committee (odd months), Environmental Safety Working Communication with employees Bimonthly Provide material information for all employees Group (even months) to confer about environmental safety. Moreover, in an effort to Environmental Safety Commission Bimonthly Discuss all topics related to occupational safety strengthen internal audit for environmental safety, the company has amended its Sustainability Report Yearly Report major policies, performance, plans Environmental Safety Audit Checklist which consists of 54 sections and 527 questions Handle employee grievance redress and proposal processing through internal CBI system Irumi proposal system Ongoing to better remedy grievances and improve system with evaluation of assignees to the job (System: 18 sections/94 questions, Safety: 23 sections/310 questions, Environment: 13 Performance management Interview Jan~Feb: Goal-setting / Jul~Aug: Progress check section/123 questions). Inspection result shows that Environment and Safety section, Semiannually (Communication for Success) Following Jan: Performance evaluation pursuant to legal requirements, highly satisfies the set standards, whereas System’ Grievance redress Ongoing Handle grievances of employees s control level score was 68%, quite low from internal standards perspective. This was ER(Employee Relations) face-to-face talk Ongoing Handle grievances of employees also witnessed in Research Centers where Environmental Safety System scores were Intranet system (KWP ) 1) Daily, Ongoing Deliver daily sales report, important external/ internal information relatively low compared to the manufacturing sector. Thus, Pulmuone plans to create Publish internal newsletter Monthly Publish Pulmuone’s e-company magazine ‘Pulstory’ to Introduce company-related and distribute Standard Environmental Safety Control Guidelines by the 1st quarter of information and activities SNS(Facebook, Twitter), blog Ongoing Inform trends, Voice of Customers, Voice of Employees, other information, etc. 2014 to improve system management. 78 PERFORMANCE Pulmuone SR 2013 79 Injuries, illness & absence rate Absence rate from Pulmuone environment Environment safety assessment occupational injuries safety management level Pulmuone puts in a great deal of effort when it comes to the occupational safety and Pulmuone has conducted Environment Safety Assessment. This was done in order to health of the company but unfortunately, injuries from accidents by employees while on the job are inevitable at times. So, in 2013, a total of 20 employees were hit by big and 0.00275% Immature establish and manage environment safety strategy for the company, based on unbiased evaluation of Pulmuone’s management level. The assessment result brought forth Transition small mishap which resulted in various degrees of injuries. Using 250 working days Pulmuone’s current position and pointed to the fact that Pulmuone’s current standing as the annual average, and taking into account the average number of days injured Progress is at ‘progress’ level from the range of ‘immature/ transition/ progress/ mature/ perfect’ employees took off from work for treatment (30 days), absence rate from occupational stages. Among Pulmuone’s target for comparison, the benchmarked Korean company injuries is 0.00275%. Mature was placed somewhere in the ‘progress to mature’ phase, while benchmarked overseas company was in ‘mature to perfect’ stage. Based on the evaluation, Pulmuone has Perfect Efforts to improve working environment determined 7 core tasks as a midterm project and identified 47 sub-tasks to be carried Pulmuone spares no effort to make the company into a GWP (Great Work Place), and out along with the core tasks. Timeframe for completion of the project is 2016. in a bid to create a GWP across all of its business sites, it is actively pursuing programs to improve the working environment for its employees. Pulmuone is operating various Zero accident in 8 production sites programs to enhance employee satisfaction including C-cubic activities while regularly With the goal of creating business sites without industrial accidents, Pulmuone has campaigning for ‘leave work on-time’ to promote work-life balance. In addition, declared its target of Zero Accident and is taking proactive actions to bring awareness Pulmuone is conducting regular and random inspection to take preventive measures to its employees about ‘Zero Accident’ campaign. The company is providing welfare and to proactively improve employees’ working condition. points to all of its employees as well as to contract workers to promote ‘no injuries’ in workplaces. In addition, Pulmuone has created internal standards to manage not only Unfair labor practice alert process and status industrial accidents but also manufacturing and service related accidents. For instance, Pulmuone stipulates and complies with the Rules of Employment for the establishment in manufacturing sector burns, slips, falls, cuts are considered accidents to be managed and management of Internal Disciplinary Committee to address unjust disciplinary while the services sector defines burns, falls and muscular skeletal symptoms as action and unfair labor practice. Furthermore, Pulmuone has posted human resources injuries to be managed. As such, the company has put in intense efforts for onsite director, and labor and management director in each of the business sites to examine inspection and compliance with safety regulation to prevent accidents. Out of the 10 unjust disciplinary actions and unfair labor practices. Also, employees are encouraged manufacturing sites, a total of 8 sites have achieved no accidents in 2013, and especially to report individual grievances to the Grievance Redress Committee. The company the three sites – Doan Health Functional Food, Eumseong Sprouts, Saengguk farm – conducts internal inspection to preempt unjust disciplinary action and unfair labor which have all held proclamation for Zero Accident on March 1, 2010, have achieved practice during the course of regular labor inspections and issues handling. For the 1401 days of zero accidents (zero accident in 3 multiples) as of December 31, 2013. Not past 3 years, the company operated without incidences of unjust disciplinary action and only manufacturing sites but also service sectors are included in the scope for zero unfair labor practice. accident management and as a result, 4 sales promotion sites (Gwangju, Daejeon, FC (Franchise Channel)/Nonghyup, EP(Event promoter)/exclusive) have also achieved the target days of zero accident. Labor dispute status Labor-management negotiations were carried out regarding wage and amendment of collective agreement at 7 of Pulmuone’s business sites in 2013. Thanks to the increased mutual understanding between the two sides, all negotiations were settled without a single incident of dispute. Such outcome comes from the constant effort to maintain communication channel between labor and management through systems such as Labor-Management Council and Grievance Redress in addition to efforts to promote further consensus. Pulmuone does not plan to stop its effort here but plans to continuously strengthen cooperative labor management relations going forward. 80 81 Social Performance PERFORMANCE Pulmuone SR 2013 Partner Companies Reinforced safety control in service sector Partner company selection process Due to the recent shake-up in the industrial structure, industrial accidents have Prior to doing business with new partner companies, Pulmuone checks for minimum been rising in service industry, resulting in heightened interest in accident prevention legal requirements (air, water, waste, etc.) for environment related matters, permits and program for service sectors as well as other sectors prone to industrial accidents. compliance with the law. It also inspects and verifies whether candidate partners meet Therefore, Pulmuone has focused on carrying out programs to reduce accidents for the principle and standards of Pulmuone’s authentic wholesome foods through site its services part. Special attention was paid to reducing accidents and injuries for visits and due-diligence. If any legal breach is found, any potential business with such sales promotion employees. To this end, various sales promotional equipment that are partners is terminated. However, when correctible inconsistencies are found, then such provided to promoters in the fields and cause over 50% of accidents and injuries, have issues are shared with the partner companies to allow them to take appropriate actions. been fully analyzed while various voices and opinions from sales promotion staff have Once improvements are made based on the action plans provided, candidate companies been collected to improve tools. The 1st step of improvement was to provide coated are re-inspected based on fairness and objectiveness for the selection of right partners. gloves to workers on site adding safety measures to rolltainers, dolly handgrips, dolly covers on field worksites. Moreover, all free-food sampling stands shall be replaced in Producer roundtable at Pulmuone Health & Living 2014 into safer ones. The 2nd step of the improvement is to bring in new plastic boxes Reinforced safety control in service sector Pulmuone Health & Living started to hold its own producers roundtable for the 1st and plastic dollies, starting from August 2014, and gradually the company plans to fully time in May 2010. The roundtable helped producers understand Pulmuone philosophy replace all the existing equipment to new ones in 3-year timeframe. while solidifying the strategically collaborative relationship with the producers. Business direction and quality innovation strategies were shared at the roundtable Safety calendar distribution and all participants were able to receive information regarding e-commerce contract To bring safety awareness to all employees in their everyday life and to make the for transparent transaction, The company principle and plans for quality control for workplace safer, the company produced and distributed Safety Calendars. The goal is to partnering companies. In June 2013, It held another roundtable in order to maintain remind employees of health and safety on a daily basis via the safety calendars on their mutually beneficial and strategically collaborative relation with organic producers. The desks. The calendar contains information and introductions to Pulmuone’s environment party visited the Rural Development Office in Suwon for a tour and took in a lecture safety management, monthly safety messages and safety matters to be observed, themed ‘using green manure crop’ to share useful information with partner producers accident cases, Pulmuone’s major events and descriptions of its business sites. on farming method to increase soil fertility while reducing the use of fertilizers. Environment Performance 82 83 PERFORMANCE Pulmuone SR 2013 Environment index Eco-Expo Korea 2013 Category Sub-category Unit 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 ORGA Whole Foods participated in the Eco-Expo Korea 2013, hosted by the Ministry of Soy usage efficiency % 3.676 3.733 3.802 3.609 4.013 4.143 Environment and Korea Environmental Industry and Technology Institute, where the Raw materials company was able to showcase its diverse eco-friendly business activities as well as the Noodle product usage efficiency % 3.76 3.78 3.78 3.49 2.77 3.09 usage efficiency 7 principles of product handling which reflect the brand value of ‘Love for Neighbors’ Green juice usage efficiency % 1.298 1.274 1.413 2.357 2.630 3.260 and ‘Respect for Life’. The company created a space where attendees could experience Direct energy consumption kgOE/ product ton 43.6 39.2 34.9 30.6 29.4 27.7 a variety of eco-friendly products and emulated the company-managed ORGA Whole Energy 1) Indirect energy consumption kgOE/ product ton 60.2 54.3 49.4 43.8 42.8 39.7 Foods stores to make it audience-friendly. A total of 1,200 students and visitors responded to the survey and sampled ORGA non-antibiotic hotdogs, Pulmuone Water’s ecofriendly Water Water consumption ㎥/product ton 19.0 15.2 14.1 14.5 11.3 9.2 product, etc. first hand which helped build trust by being able to understand ORGA Total volume of CO2 emitted Thousand tCO2/ yr 57.5 61.5 66.2 78.0 81.7 82.1 Whole Foods better. The event has enhanced the company’s eco-friendly brand image. CO2 volume emitted during Thousand tCO2/ yr 34.1 36.1 37.5 38.5 38.3 35.0 the course of manufacturing CO2 volume emitted during Thousand tCO2/ yr 22.7 23.9 26.7 31.4 35.0 34.8 the course of logistics Greenhouse gas 2) CO2 volume emitted during Thousand tCO2/ yr 0.7 1.5 2.1 8.2 8.4 12.2 the course of service Manufacturing CO2 basic unit tCO2/product ton 0.232 0.203 0.183 0.161 0.156 0.130 Logistics CO2 basic unit tCO2/1million won 0.058 0.052 0.056 0.065 0.067 0.073 Service CO2 basic unit tCO2/1million won 0.036 0.026 0.032 0.045 0.100 0.129 Water Quality Emitted volume to water system ㎥/product ton 7.2 7.4 8.7 5.4 5.1 3.9 Management 3) Generated volume Ton/product ton 0.108 0.089 0.067 0.062 0.049 0.031 Disposal method – recycle % 99 99 98 98 98 96 Waste 4) Landfill % 1 1 2 2 2 3 Incineration % 0 0 0 0 1 1 Chuncheon plant designated as Green Company Environmental investment and 100million won 57.19 56.86 35.18 50.78 37.73 58.94 In September 2, 2013, Pulmuone Chuncheon plant was nominated by the Ministry of maintenance cost Environment as Green Company, the 1st nomination for Pulmuone business sites. Environment Friendly Company Designation System by the Ministry of Environment 1) Manufacturing sectors performance(Pulmuone Health & Living, Pulmuone Foods, Pulmuone Waters, Pulmuone Farm, Shinsun Natto) is unlike any other green company designation system by the general associations 2) Logistics(Exofresh, Foodmerce Yangji Center), Service(LOHAS Academy, ECMD, ORGA Whole Foods) because the Minister of the Environment designates only the excellent corporations with Manufacturing(Pulmuone Health & Living, Pulmuone Foods, Pulmuone Waters, Pulmuone Farm, Shinsunnatto) exceptional green management sites which have successfully instituted environmental 3) Manufacturing sectors performance(Pulmuone Foods, Pulmuone Health & Living, Shinsunnatto, Pulmuone Waters, Pulmuone Farm) 4) Manufacturing sectors performance (Pulmuone Foods, Pulmuone Health & Living, Shinsunnatto, Pulmuone Waters, Pulmuone Farm) management system, reduced use of resources and energy, and lowered emission of pollutants. 84 PERFORMANCE Awarded company in 2013 in eco-friendly distribution division for producing eco-friendly consumption and cultivating environmental industry APPENDIX In October 29, 2013, ORGA Whole Foods received Commendation from the Minister of Environment in recognition of the company’s part in eco-friendly production and vitalization of eco-friendly consumption as a designee corporate of ‘merit for ecofriendly consumption and cultivation of environmental industry’. ORGA Whole Foods strictly trades products that meet the safety standards qualification by Pulmuone’s inhouse Culinary Culture Research Center in addition to the Korea’s Official Certification Pulmuone Sustainability 2013 Institutions. The company trades eco-friendly agricultural products that have passed Commendation from the safety test by the aforementioned organizations and animal products which observe the Ministry of Environment animal welfare standards, and handles organically produced and processed foods completely free of chemical additives. Furthermore, the company operates Green Zone which sells certified eco-friendly products to contribute to the invigoration of Green stores and shares values through its eco-friendly producer experiences. In parallel with this, ORGA Whole Foods also drives the Good Foods campaign while offering LOHAS lectures to consumers to educate and spread eco-friendly consumption culture. In recognition of the company ’s various endeavors for such social contribution, it was accorded the highest honor of receiving commendation in ‘Eco-friendly Consumption ·Production’ division from the Ministry of Environment. Nature is Delicious, I’m Real, ORGA Whole Foods Bangi Store awarded ‘Consumers’ Choice for Best Green Product of the Year’ in 2013 Nature is Delicious, I’m Real, ORGA Whole Foods at Bangi Store were selected as honorable awardees of Consumers Choice for 2013 Best Green Products. ‘Green Product of the Year’ is awarded to products chosen by consumers in consultation with I’m Real experts, and voted directly by consumer panels and voters. In 2012, Pulmuone’s organic tofu (soft tofu for stew) was selected as the year’s Best Green Product. ORGA Whole Foods Bangi Store Nature is Delicious 86 APPENDIX Pulmuone SR 2013 87 Independent Assurance Statemen To the Management of Pulmuone Work Undertaken and Scope The Auditor confirmed 1) the inclusivity, materiality, and responsiveness of the reported content; The Institute for Industrial Policy Studies (hereafter “Auditor”) was engaged by 2) the reliability of the reported performance data; 3) the Report’s level of compliance against Pulmuone to review information specified in its 2013 Sustainability Report (hereafter the GRI G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines; and 4) the level of compliance relative to the “Report”) to provide an independent third-party assurance on the reported content. B.E.S.T Reporting Guidelines through the process outlined below. On the basis of the above, the Auditor presents the following independent statement of Interviews with persons responsible for different dimensions of sustainability management assurance. and individuals in charge of collecting performance data to determine the adequacy of the reported content Review of the Company’s materiality assessment processes and findings Responsibility and Objective Review of available stakeholder engagement processes On-site review of the system and processes in place for the collection and reporting of raw Pulmuone is responsible for all information and claims contained in the Report regarding the performance data establishment of its sustainability management goals, performance management etc. The Review of the underlying references for economic, social, and environmental performance data responsibility of the Auditor is to deliver the findings from its assurance undertaking to the Sample test to ascertain the completeness and accuracy for the material issues contained in the Report management of Pulmuone. The key objective of the assurance is to check whether there are any material bias or errors present in the Report; assess whether the underlying data collection system is in proper working order; while undertaking in an overall review of the Company’s process for identifying issues of material importance to sustainability management as well as Limitations the produced results so that the Auditor may deliver recommendations that can help improve The scope of this undertaking was limited to: the quality of future reporting. Interviews with persons responsible for the different dimensions of sustainability management and individuals in charge of collecting performance data; review of the adequacy of the reported data Assurance Criteria and Standards On-site review of the Pulmuone HQ office The review was carried out against the following criteria and guidelines: Assurance based on disclosed data and information available for the relevant reporting period Review of the reliability of reported performance data (1) AA1000 Assurance Standards (2008)1); (2) Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines2); and (3) Local BSR Guidelines (B.E.S.T Sustainability Reporting Guidelines)3) 1) Principles-based standards developed by AccountAbility, a think tank and advisory services firm located in the Assurance Scope Contents contained in the “2013 Sustainability Report” UK, to help organizations become more accountable, responsible and sustainable by enhancing the quality of Assurance Type & Level Type II, Moderate their reporting in accounting, audit, social and ethical performances. The revised version of 2008 was applied to reports starting from 2010. “IPS Performance Indicators Assurance Criteria” to assess compliance to the three core principles of the AA1000AS (2008) standards 2) GRI, a non-profit organization established by CERES(Coalition for Environmentally Responsible Economies) and Assurance Criteria GRI Guideline’s “in accordance” options UNEP(UN Environment Programme) in 1997, developed the GRI Guidelines which serve as the most prevalent BEST Guideline’s “reporting level” global standards for sustainability reporting in 2000. In May 2013, it announced the GRI G4 Guidelines with revisions to Supply Chain, Governance, Ethics & Integrity, Anti-Corruption, and GHG Emissions & Energy. 3) The sustainability reporting guidelines for Korean companies to expand ethical management and corporate culture in Korea. It was developed in 2006 by BEST Forum(Business Ethics and Sustainability management for Top performance) jointly with the Ministry of Knowledge Economy, the IPS(Institute for Industrial Policy Studies) and the Korean Chamber of Commerce to help Korean businesses implement the GRI Guidelines by adjusting them to fit the situation in Korea. 88 APPENDIX Pulmuone SR 2013 89 Assurance Findings Notably, the Company adopted a new “reference point” concept, to better center its reporting around the most important core issues, while also working to ensure balanced and full The Auditor did not find any material misstatements or bias contained in the Report. representation of all relevant issues across the economic, social, and environmental dimensions in line with the principle of materiality. [Inclusivity] Detailed recommendations on materiality reporting such as expanding the scope of engaged Is the Company’s stakeholder engagement strategy-setting and related processes stakeholders in materiality assessments, ways to better manage and report on issues of adequate? material interest and concern given the strengthened materiality reporting requirements, etc., have been provided separately to the management of Pulmuone. The Auditor confirmed efforts by the Company to define and implement an adequate stakeholder engagement strategy to assure that stakeholder feedback is reflected in its [Responsiveness] sustainability management practices. The Auditor noted efforts by Pulmuone to engage Does the Report provide an adequate response to stakeholder demands and interests? different stakeholder groups through its participation channels including its shareholders, employees and executives, customers, suppliers, and the local community. The Auditor found Pulmuone to be responding adequately to issues of concern and interest to The Auditor took particular note of the Company’s work not only to better communicate with its stakeholders. It has established diverse stakeholder engagement channels, while working to its stakeholders but also to ensure that its engagement findings are actually reflected in present a better account of the Company’s response to stakeholder feedback in its sustainability Pulmuone’s business management activities by establishing a diverse number of engagement reporting. channels (ex. Open General Shareholder’s Meeting, in-house system, C-Cubic, monitoring Notably, the Auditor found the Company to be in compliance with the principle of responsiveness channel, roundtables with suppliers etc.). Moreover, in line with the principle inclusivity, the as it provided a breakdown of the respective issues separately, accompanied by Company plans Company was observed making on-going efforts to improve upon its existing channels and on addressing certain areas where performance was deemed to be lacking. processes to better access not only the expectations of each stakeholder group but also the Detailed recommendations on providing a more engaged response to issues of stakeholder views of experts as well. interest and concern such as engagement channels that are more tailored to the characteristics Further detailed recommendations on strategy setting and processes for stakeholder of each stakeholder group etc., have been provided separately to Pulmuone. engagement such as raising awareness of the importance of stakeholders and translating engagement outcomes into management practice etc. have been provided separately to Pulmuone. [ GRI “In Accordance” Criteria] The Auditor confirmed that the Report is “in accordance” to GRI G4 guidelines under the [Materiality] “Comprehensive option”, as it reports on General Standard Disclosures and Additional Does the Report contain information of the highest material importance to Pulmuone Disclosures (materiality aspects, DMA, performance indicators) as indicated in the G4 stakeholders across the economic, social, and environmental dimensions? Guidelines. It is the Auditor’s view that the Report does not omit or exclude issues of importance to the sustainability management activities of Pulmuone. The Auditor confirmed efforts by the Company to identify and report on issues deemed to be of material importance to its stakeholders via a three-step process (collecting relevant data, identifying issues relevant to sustainability management, identifying materiality issues) as well as other matters of stakeholder concern or interest. 90 APPENDIX Pulmuone SR 2013 91 [Reliability of Performance Indicators] For future reports, the Auditor recommends considering the following. After reviewing the performance data stated in the Report, the Auditor found the underlying Define its corporate value chain and reflect into sustainability management activities data collection system to be adequate and failed to find any material errors that can either bias Develop stakeholder engagement case studies and find ways to improve reporting the Company’s judgment or compromise the reliability of its data. The following performance to broaden accessibility indicators were reviewed for the purpose of this assurance. Improve data collection and management Material Issues Performance Indicator Strengthen reporting on quantitative performance outcomes Stakeholder communication Stakeholder interviews (P.20,24,44,52) General CEO leadership “Dialogue with the CEO” Gadget Program outcomes New business and new market Independence Economic “Lohas Academy” main building passive house accreditation development Apart from this independent assurance undertaking, the Auditor was not involved in the Contributions to the local community “Love for our Neighbors” fund-raising drive: KRW 103,246,000 preparation of any part of the Report, and has no commercial affiliation with Pulmuone that Social Business ethics and transparency Returning gifts received during the holiday period might compromise our independence. Respect for human rights and diversity “TFT on Correcting Discriminatory Treatment” outcomes Eum-sung Tofu Plant registered into the GHG reduction Environment Response to climate change program (Sept.2, 2011Jul.1, 2013) Qualifications of the Auditor Commissioned by Pulmuone as the Auditor for this assurance undertaking, the Institute for Industrial Policy Studies (IPS) was established in 1993 and has since developed into [Level of B.E.S.T Guideline Application] a specialized institution with broad expertise in the areas of business ethics, CSR, and In view of the coverage and reliability of the information provided, the Auditor finds the Report to sustainability management since 2002. The Auditor is composed of experts in business fulfill 99.8% of the reporting requirements necessary to qualify for a Level 5 Report (on a scale management, accounting, and environmental science including professors at Korea’s top of Level 1 to 5) relative to the B.E.S.T Guidelines, which is indicative of sustainability reporting universities and practitioners with professional accreditation and extensive experience in achieving a “mature” phase. sustainability management. As reference, the level of B.E.S.T Guideline application for Pulmuone’s Sustainability Reports in the last three years were as follows. March 4, 2014 201199.6% of Level 5 (6th report); 2012 99.8% of Level 5 (7th); 2013 99.8% of Level 5 (8th) Chairman, The Institute for Industrial Policy Studies Lee, Yoon-Cheol Recommendations The Auditor found the “2013 Sustainability Report” by Pulmuone commendable in the following respects. The Report (1) reflects efforts to preemptively respond to the latest developments in sustainability reporting by applying the most recently released guidelines; (2) is structured around the most important issues of material concern to stakeholders so that it is easier to read and understand; and (3) provides a higher level of DMA disclosure, providing background information on various sustainability-related issues as well its planned response and outcomes.
