Integrated Annual Report Scope of this report Scope of this report This Integrated Annual Report presents the legal, economic and Caja Canarias Vida y Pensiones. For any incomplete information, financial information of the Company, combined with social, footnotes are provided where applicable. environmental and corporate governance issues, with the aim of providing a more comprehensive view of VidaCaixa’s ability to create All the data and actions contained in this report refer to VidaCaixa. The value for its stakeholders. economic and financial information is based on the 2013 consolidated financial statements of VidaCaixa. These financial statements and the This report corresponds to VidaCaixa, which includes AgenCaixa in its consolidated management report, together with the audit report dated consolidation, as well as the following companies that were absorbed 31st March 2014, which provides a favourable opinion, are available on by VidaCaixa: Banca Cívica Vida y Pensiones, CajaSol Vida y Pensiones, the VidaCaixa corporate website: www.vidacaixa.es 2 For more information on the cover and scope, dialogue with stakeholders and the nature of this report, click here To consult the contents and GRI indicators and the Global Compact, click here 1. Letter from the Chairman 5 Index 2. VidaCaixa in 2013 7 Financial highlights What VidaCaixa is Main achievements in 2013 CaixaBank 3. Corporate Governance: transparency and integrity 23 Governing and managing bodies Commitment to responsible management 4. Risk and solvency management: rigour and prudence 29 3 Risk control Solvency 5. Responsible investment management: profitability and sustainability 33 The integration of sustainable management in investments Active promotion of ESG criteria among stakeholders Awards for investment management 6. Adapting to a complex environment 42 Economic environment Legal environment Evolution of the insurance and pensions sector in Spain Demographic change 7. Strategy: present and future 50 The strategic map: people, processes, customers and results 8. A professional team aligned with the project: talent 54 Index Our project: alignment with our values and strategy Maximum organisational capabilities Excellent place to work Results: with talented, motivated and committed professionals 9. Operational excellence: efficiency 68 Innovation Reduction of the environmental impact 10. Loyal customers: quality and proximity 79 Solutions for the future Multi-channel and accessibility 4 Transparent and protected Information Excellent quality of service to customers and channels Adaption to new communication channels Contribution to a culture of saving and welfare Payment of services 11. Creating value: maximising value and recurring profits 106 Excellent results Leadership and increase in market share 3.6 million customers trust VidaCaixa Excellent evolution of ordinary business, profitable and sustainable growth 12. Commitments and future challenges 118 Letter from the Letter from the Chairman Chairman 2013 was characterised, once again, by the good results VidaCaixa achieved. The fact that over 3.6 million customers placed their trust in VidaCaixa was key to the growth experienced by the company, both in the volume of funds managed, 50,000 million euros, 14% more than in the previous year, and in the contributions made to pension plans and life insurance premiums, 6,116 million euros, up 9.9%. Also noteworthy was the significant contribution by VidaCaixa to the welfare of the people, paying out almost 27% of private pensions in our country, which in 2013 amounted to 1,600 million euros, corresponding to 688,500 pensions paid out as income. Additionally, 55,063 pensions were paid out as capital, which amounted to 1,051 million euros. 5 The good behaviour of the business was achieved through the accomplishment of the strategic objectives, which continue to prioritise the advice given to our clients to meet their needs for long-term revenue as well as their needs in the event of a contingency. Within the framework of initiatives in this programme is fu[tu]ro, whose aim is to accompany customers in planning for retirement. This orientation towards the needs of our customers is also shown by a vision focused on innovation in products and services as well as providing agile and proximate services, with the highest standards of quality, by a dynamic and competent team of professionals, all of whom are aligned with the company strategy. In VidaCaixa we are fully aware of our leadership as a result of our responsible management and our desire to provide solutions for the needs we detect among our stakeholders: customers, shareholder, employees, the environment and society. All of this is based upon our Juan María Nin Génova, , Chairman VidaCaixa values of trust, quality and dynamism, as well as our ability to create I would not like to end this letter without remembering very specially Letter from the economic and social value. We continue to promote the development our late President, Ricard Fornesa, who died on March 1, 2014, to Chairman of socially responsible investment in our country, and we have whom we dedicate this report. Ricard Fornesa, apart from being confirmed our commitment to the Principles of the Global Compact President of “la Caixa”, was President of our insurance group for 26 and the United Nations Principles of Socially Responsible Investment, years. His great leadership and commitment decisively contributed to as well as our presence in Spainsif. With respect to our employees, the development of VidaCaixa as a reference enterprise in our country. we continue with the ambition to create the best conditions for their It is indeed an honour, which I accept with enthusiasm, to take over professional and personal development, renewing our commitment from a presidency that has left the company in its best moment. That as a Family Responsible Enterprise. Within our advisory field, we have is why we will continue working to advance the initiatives that are created a postgraduate degree in welfare, which will be taken by more already under way, that are giving us such good results and that today, than 600 employees from VidaCaixa and CaixaBank in its first year. more than ever, are so necessary for our customers and society. In this Integrated Annual Report, which I invite you to read, you will also get to know in more detail how we create value by sharing responsibility, by integrating economic, social, environmental and 6 good governance issues in our strategy and decision-taking, and thereby clearly showing our determination. VidaCaixa in 2013 Financial Highlights What VidaCaixa is 7 Main achievements in 2013 CaixaBank VidaCaixa in 2013 Financial highlights Market share (%) 2012 2013 Variation Individual business Life-savings insurance (managed funds) 17.9 20.3 2.4 p.p. Life-risk insurance (premiums) 10.1 13.3 3.2 p.p. Pension plans (managed funds) 16.9 18.7 1.8 p.p. Group and company business Savings (managed funds) 22.2 23.2 1 p.p. Risk (premiums) 18.4 19.1 0.7 p.p. 8 Pension plans (managed funds) 20.9 22.2 1.3 p.p. Main business figures 2012 2013 Variation Premiums and contributions (millions of euros) 6,030 6,649 10.3% Savings managed (millions of euros) 43,852 50,029 14.1% Consolidated net result without extraordinaries (millions of euros)* 339 328 -3.1% Excess of solvency above minimum legally required (%) 207 250 43 p.p. Private pensions paid out as income (millions of euros) 1,600 * Attributed recurrent result / average equity (percentage). Commercial activity 2012 2013 Variation VidaCaixa in 2013 Customers 3,143,015 3,586,801 14.1% Degree of global satisfaction (%) Group and Company risk and savings insurance 95.0 95.8 0.8 p.p. Group and Company pension plans 96.9 98.4 1.5 p.p. Staff 2012 2013 Variation Employees* 656 630 -4% 9 Women over total staff (%) 65 63 -2 p.p. Women on managing team (%) 31 39 8 p.p. Sustainability 2012 2013 Variation Investment portfolio managed pursuant to ESG criteria (%) 100 100 Paper consumption per employee (kg) 36.0 35.5 -0.01% * The staff information does not include, in either year, the data on the transfer of personnel from VidaCaixa to SegurCaixa Adeslas. VidaCaixa in 2013 What VidaCaixa is VidaCaixa is the leading enterprise in the complementary social welfare VidaCaixa’s values business in Spain with more than 3.6 million customers. security, fast response and VidaCaixa is 100% integrated in CaixaBank. The Company offers a solvency, honest capacity to adjust wide range of solutions in the life insurance and pension plan business and respectful to the needs of to its individual, SME, self-employed and large enterprise customers as DY treatment customers and the well as to CaixaBank’s personal and private banking customers. TRU Customers M main channels of ST Employees MIS distribution NA VidaCaixa establishes relationships with its customers through the Shareholder CaixaBank branch office network and other face to face channels, Society AgenCaixa, professional brokers and consultants, mediators, and also The through direct communication channels like telephone and the Internet. environment 10 In line with the principles and strategy of CaixaBank, VidaCaixa takes QUALITY upon itself the commitment to people and the environment with its values of trust, quality and dynamism, with the aim of creating shared value for the entity and its stakeholders: shareholder, customers, society efficiency, customer service and the environment. and professionalism To consult contact data of the Company, click here VidaCaixa in 2013 1904 1905 1915 1992 2003 2004 2007 Founding of the Launch of the Celebration of the CaiFor, VidaCaixa’s Acquisition of Swiss Acquisition of Acquisition of the Caja de Pensiones first Pension book first homage to old first name, was Life. Santander Previsión. shares Fortis held in para la Vejez. in Spain. age. set up as fruit of Integration of the Insurance Group. the shareholder Santander Previsión agreement with and Génesis. Fortis. 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Integration of Morgan Change of CaiFor’s Integration of the Agreement between The 3.1 million customer The operational 11 Stanley’s equity name to SegurCaixa Seguros Adeslas “la Caixa” and Mutua mark was reached. integration of the business. Holding, adhesion to the Company and change Madrileña to acquire August saw the merger savings banks from United Nations Global of name of SegurCaixa 50% of SegurCaixa of the insurance business Banca Cívica finalised Compact. Holding to VidaCaixa Adeslas, the non-life of Banca Cívica and in and Banco de Valencia Grupo. insurance company. November the ceding was incorporated, so First life insurance of the individual life-risk the insurance businesses Company and Integration of the In December, CaixaVida portfolio to reinsurance. from these entities nationwide pension insurance business was also integrated. became part of the plans manager to of Caixa Girona and CaixaBank insurance assume the United Bankpime. business. Nations Principles of Responsible investment, PRI, and obtained the recognition of Family Responsible Enterprise, EFR (acronym in If you wish to know the history of the Company, click here Spanish). Shareholder structure VidaCaixa in 2013 VidaCaixa started its activity in 1992, inheriting its insurance and welfare business from “la Caixa”, which had managed it for over 100 years. The Company develops its life insurance business, owns 100% of AgenCaixa and participates as a major shareholder, with 49.9% of the capital, in SegurCaixa Adeslas, whose activity is focussed on the 100% non-life insurance market. In mid-2013 VidaCaixa absorbed VidaCaixa Group. This operation was part of the restructuring process that took place in 2012 to simplify the corporate structure of the CaixaBank insurance business, which also integrated the insurance business of Banca Cívica. 12 100% 49,9% (1) (1) There is a minority shareholding of 0.08%. Business model VidaCaixa in 2013 VidaCaixa offers its individual customers, SMEs and the self-employed, large enterprises and the personal and private banking customers of CaixaBank a wide range of specialised solutions in life insurance and pension plans. An efficient and strict Investments based management of risk on sustainable and solvency. criteria. 1 2 13 Development Innovation in and leadership of savings and welfare professionals. 7 Key elements of 3 products. the VidaCaixa business model 6 4 Multiple marketing Excellence in technology, 5 channels*. automation and efficiency Commitment to quality and service. *Bancassurance channel, branch offices of CaixaBank, channels with a physical presence, AgenCaixa advisors, professional mediators and consultants, and direct channels, telephone and the Internet. VidaCaixa The management of the business model is based on four pillars: VidaCaixa in 2013 For individual customers VidaCaixa markets life-risk insurance, whether • A product offer in tune with the activity. it is linked or not to bank loans. Likewise, the Company has a wide range of products to create complementary savings that are made up • Assessment to understand and help the customer to manage his of different models of life insurance and an extensive array of pension risks. plans. Among life insurance the following stand out: insurance for • Trust that comes from a solvent brand. life-long or temporary annuities, individual systematic savings plans • Convenience of service. (PIAS as per acronym in Spanish), deferred capitals or guaranteed pension plans (PPA as per acronym in Spanish). SegurCaixa Adeslas For SME and self-employed customers, VidaCaixa provides a specific SegurCaixa Adeslas is the leading company in healthcare insurance offer of life insurance products and pension plans specially designed in Spain and the second in the non-life insurance ranking. In 2013, to meet their insurance and welfare needs. premiums in the company rose to 2,566 million euros, having a better behaviour than the market in all insurance branches. Net profits rose 14 Finally, in the area of large enterprises and groups, VidaCaixa operates to 139.1 million euros. under the brand VidaCaixa Previsión Social, offering a wide range of made-to-measure solutions in life-risk and life-savings Insurance and Mutua Madrileña is the controlling shareholder with 50% of the pension plans depending on the particular conditions of each group capital. 49.92% is held by CaixaBank through VidaCaixa. and company. AgenCaixa AgenCaixa is the company in the Group that is made up of commercial advisors who work through their own branch office network, advising customers and marketing products and services for the self-employed segment, micro-companies and SMEs. For more information Integrated Annual Report of SegurCaixa Adeslas VidaCaixa in 2013 Main Achievements in 2013 In 2013 CaixaBank finalised the operational integration of the entities that made up Banca Cívica and merged their life insurance portfolios Integration process of Banca Cívica and Banco de Valencia (life-risk, life-savings insurances and pension plans) with VidaCaixa. Agreements were also reached in 2013 with SegurCaixa Adeslas to Three important events stood out in 2013: the end of the operational integrate the respective non-life insurances. integration of the savings Banks that made up Banca Cívica, the incorporation of the integration process of Banco de Valencia and Specifically, in 2013, CaixaBank finalised the operational integration of the agreements with Caser to transfer their whole portfolio and with the savings banks acquired from Banca Cívica and also incorporated ASEVAL to transfer their pension plan portfolio. Banco de Valencia. As a result the insurance business stemming from those entities went to form part of the insurance business of CaixaBank. In 2012 CaixaBank absorbed Banca Cívica, the financial group that was made up of four Spanish savings banks: Caja de Burgos, Caja In the last quarter of 2013, VidaCaixa culminated the operational and Canarias, Caja Navarra (CAN) and Cajasol, which in turn included mercantile integration of the entities that managed the life insurance Caja Guadalajara. As a result, the life-risk, life-savings and pension and pension plan business by merging Banca Cívica Vida y Pensiones, plan portfolios, as well as other types of non-life insurance products, Cajasol Vida y Pensiones and CajaCanarias Vida y Pensiones with 15 became part of the insurance business of CaixaBank. VidaCaixa. Restructuring of the insurance and pension plan businesses of the entities absorbed by CaixaBank Caja Burgos Cajasol Caja Canarias Caja Navarra AEGON CASER CASER AEGON 2 Joint-ventures, one of life 1 Joint-venture of life and and another of health 2 Joint-ventures, one of life 1 Joint-venture of life an exclusive distribution and another of non-life ZURICH agreement in non-life 1 Joint-venture of general insurance The technological migration of the savings and life-risk portfolio of VidaCaixa in 2013 Banca Cívica Vida y Pensiones was completed in 2013 and the rest will finish in the first quarter of 2014. In the fourth quarter of 2013, VidaCaixa reached an agreement with ASEVAL to transfer the pension plan portfolio of the Banco de Valencia customers, which will be carried out during the first quarter of 2014. Launching of fu[Tu]ro Towards the end of 2013 the fu[Tu]ro concept came into being. This initiative came from the wish to advise Company customers and society in general on many of the questions that arise before retirement. In order to lend support to the advice provided, a new web was created: 16 www.presentesentufuturo.es along with a Retirement Guide called “Guía de la jubilación”, which contributes valuable information on the whole process of planning for retirement. Te ayudamos a elaborar A single team un plan para tu jubilación VidaCaixa and SegurCaixa Adeslas became independent companies in 2013, which meant that, on the one hand there was a reassignment of staff, and on the other a project was started in VidaCaixa with the aim of creating a single culture, sharing and aligned with the values Planes de pensiones individuales “PlanCaixa”, de los que VidaCaixa, S.A. de Seguros y Reaseguros es gestora y promotora; Caixabank, S.A., entidad comercializadora, y CECABANK, S.A., entidad depositaria. Planes de previsión asegurados de la entidad aseguradora VidaCaixa, S.A. de Seguros y Reaseguros. Caixabank, S.A., operador de banca-seguros exclusivo de VidaCaixa, S.A. y autorizado de SegurCaixa Adeslas, S.A., inscrito en el Registro de Mediadores con el código|C0611A08663619. NRI: 782-2013/9681. of trust, quality and dynamism. 106157 C4Futuro_esp.indd 1 03/10/13 18:51 CaixaBank CaixaBank, shareholder of reference CaixaBank, the sole shareholder of VidaCaixa, is a financial group CaixaBank is the leader of retail banking in Spain, a leadership that integrating insurance activity, investments in international banks and was consolidated in 2013 after completing the integrations of Banca stakes in leading companies in the services sector. Cívica and Banco de Valencia. Financial and insurance International Industrial business banking stakes stakes 17 Huge commercial capacity of CaixaBank CaixaBank 27 out of every 100 Spaniards are customers of CaixaBank: the Company provides services for almost 14 million customers and maintains its leadership in market share of the main products and services. Its focus on the customer and excellence in service are the foundation of its business. CaixaBank is committed to a banking model of proximity to people and territories and strives for excellence in all areas of management, in order to achieve maximum satisfaction for customers, employees, shareholders and other stakeholders. Commercial leadership in retail banking 4T12 4T13 Market shares* 4T12-4T13 18 Share of individual customers 26.1% 27.4% Loans SPR 14.8% +59 ppbb Deposits 15.0% +88 ppbb Customers (millions) 12.9 13.6 Savings 21.1% +85 ppbb Insurance Total assets (MM€) Pension plans 15.8% +116 ppbb 348,174 340,190 Domiciled +38 ppbb 19.9% pensions Volume of business (MM€) 513,977 510,835 Domiciled 21.6% +160 ppbb salaries CaixaBank is the reference for one out of every five banking customers in Spain. *Own studies. Source: Bank of Spain. To adapt to the different profiles and needs of its customers, CaixaBank In 2013, CaixaBank was recognised, for the second consecutive year, CaixaBank structures its offer in six areas of business, with a personalised value as “The Best Bank in Spain,” according to the Euromoney magazine proposal for each one, thanks to a specific catalogue of financial and and “Bank of the Year in Spain,” according to The Banker. non-financial solutions and a team of specialised professionals. Similarly, its commitment to constant innovation earned it the award This specialised business model is complemented by a leading “World’s Most Innovative Bank” in the Global Banking Innovation multi-channel distribution system, the result of a culture rooted in Awards, sponsored by the Bank Administration Institute (BAI) and innovation and a constant commitment to technology investment. Finacle. The most The largest extensive network of Online Mobile Private Corporate network in Automatic Banking Banking 19 Wealth Banking Spain Teller Machines A specialised 10 200 network Private Business Banking Banking 5,730 9,597 9.2 3.8 Millions of Millions of 0.5 9 Branches ATMs customers customers Specialised SME Personal managers Banking Banking 0.1 1 Retail Banking (the mainstay) Individuals Companies (range of managed funds, MM€) (range of turnover, MM€) Financial strengths of CaixaBank CaixaBank In 2013 capital optimisation was a priority; Core Capital BIS II reached Also, in a year of difficult access to wholesale markets, CaixaBank 12.9%. Strong capital generation stood out, which in the year successfully placed emissions of 5,344 million euros for institutional represented an increase of 193 basis points of Core Capital and the early investors. achievement of the Basel III objectives: Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1) BIS III “fully loaded” 11.7% and CET1 and BIS III “phase in” 11.2%. At 31st December, 2013, CaixaBank maintained a solid level of cover of the loan portfolio as a result of the effort undertaken in making CaixaBank maintained an excellent liquidity position, which reached higher provisions and write-downs and applying conservative risk 60,762 million euros (7,670 more in the year), all of which is cover policies (61% cover ratio). immediately available (17.9% of total assets), and improved its financing structure with a reduction in the commercial gap. 20 Results of CaixaBank CaixaBank In 2013 CaixaBank obtained an attributable net profit of 503 million euros, 118.9% more than the previous year. The evolution of the result is marked by the increase in recurring revenues in the banking business (with a 2.1% increase in net interest income and 3.5% in commissions), the reduction of recurrent expenses within a homogeneous perimeter* after achieving high synergies (436 million euros), due to the intense process of optimising the structure of the Group, and recording the extraordinary costs derived from the restructuring process. The operating profit reached 1,846 million euros, 2,685 millions excluding extraordinary costs. The major effort made in provisions and write-downs also stood out. 21 These enabled the increase in provisions in the loan portfolio and repossessed properties, and register extraordinary results for corporate transactions. *Proforma incorporating Banca Cívica and Banco de Valencia from 1st January 2012. Corporate culture and commitment to people and society CaixaBank The culture of the organisation is based on its corporate values, leadership, trust and social commitment, which, along with innovation and the development of talent and the differential management model 2013 Budget of the “la Caixa” Obra Social employed, are all characterised by foresight and prudence as the basis 500 MM € (in millions of euros) for the long-term sustainability of the bank. CaixaBank shares its commitment to the socio-economic development of the country with its shareholder, Caja de Ahorros y Pensiones de Barcelona, “la Caixa”. That is why CaixaBank works closely with the “la Caixa” Obra Social, which, with a budget of 500 million euros for the sixth consecutive year, strives to contribute to sustainable social transformation and the 22 creation of opportunities for people. CaixaBank, from its branch office network and through its staff, collaborates in the dissemination and implementation of its programmes with the aim of encouraging the participation of the people. 334 67 64 35 Science Education Social and the Culture and Environment Research Corporate Governance Governing and managing bodies Commitment to responsible management 23 VidaCaixa assumes, within its own management, the framework Corporate Governance guidelines set out in the good governance of “la Caixa” Group as well as the recommendations of the Unified Code of Good Governance, thus ensuring transparency, independence and the good governance of the Company in its relationships with stakeholders: shareholder, employees, customers, society and the environment. Relevant information on the share structure and governance of VidaCaixa The data and contents of this Report correspond to VidaCaixa. In June 2013 VidaCaixa Grupo was absorbed by VidaCaixa. This operation is within the framework of the restructuring process that took place in 2012. Its aim was to integrate Banca Cívica and simplify the shareholder structure of the insurance business of CaixaBank. Similarly, on 16th 24 May 2013 the Board of VidaCaixa accepted the voluntary resignation of its Managing Director, Mario Berenguer Albiac, as the Managing Director of the company and the appointment of Antonio Trueba de Sinéty as the new Managing Director of VidaCaixa was proposed and unanimously approved. At the same time, the Board of Directors expressed its appreciation to Mario Berenguer for his excellent work of leadership in the insurance group, as well as thanking him for his loyalty and dedication throughout his entire career, both on a professional and personal level. Antonio Trueba and Tomás Muniesa during the presentation of the 2013 results. For more information VidaCaixa Corporate Governance Report Press release: Antonio Trueba, new Managing Director of VidaCaixa VidaCaixa Board of Directors Corporate Governance Governing and management bodies The control and management of the Company is divided among the Board of Directors, the Audit Committee and the Appointments Chairman Ricardo Fornesa Ribó Committee; the latter was set up in July 2013. Executive Vice-Chairman The Board of Directors Tomás Muniesa Arantegui And Chief Executive Officer The mission of the Board of Directors is to guide, manage and represent the Company. As far as its operation is concerned, the Board of Directors is deemed valid when half plus one of its members Vice-Chairman Jorge Mercader Miró are present. Agreements are taken by absolute majority of the Board Members present or represented, except where the law foresees a Juan María Nin Génova different procedure. José Vilarasau Sala 25 After the Board Meeting on 27th March 2014, Mr. Juan María Nin Génova was appointed new Chairman of VidaCaixa. Javier Godó Muntañola Miquel Valls Masseda Board Members Miquel Noguer Planas Francesc Homs Ferret Jaime Gil Aluja José Antonio Sarría Terrón In 2013 a total of 14 VidaCaixa Board Meetings were held Audit Committee VidaCaixa Audit Committee Corporate Governance The Audit Committee is empowered to carry out the following responsibilities: Mr. Miquel Valls Masseda Chairman • Report to the Annual General Meeting on matters under its responsibility brought up at that meeting by shareholders. Mr. Jaime Gil Aluja Member • Supervise the efficiency of the internal controls of the company, the internal audit and the systems of risk management, as well as Mr. Miquel Noguer Planas Member discussing, with the accounts auditors or auditing companies, the major weaknesses of the internal control system detected in the course of the audit. • Supervise the process of drawing up and presenting the regulated financial information. 26 • Propose the appointment of external account auditors to the Board of Directors for submission to the Annual General Meeting in accordance with the regulation applicable to the company. • Establish the appropriate relationship with the account auditors in order to receive information on matters that could put their Independence at risk. • Annually issue a report, prior to the issuance of the account auditors’ report that expresses an opinion on the Independence of the auditors or auditing companies. The agreements of the Committee are adopted by the majority of the attending members, either present or represented. 4 Committee meeting were held in 2013. Appointments Committee Management team Corporate Governance VidaCaixa, through its Appointments Committee, a delegated body of The day to day management of the Company is headed by the Managing the Board of directors, carries out the following functions: Committee and the managers of each of the operating areas. • Submits to the Board of Directors the proposals for appointing Management Committee Members so that it can so designate them or take it upon itself to submit them to the AGM for decision and generally report on the Executive Vice-Chairman appointments of the Board Members. Tomás Muniesa Arantegui and CEO • Reports on the appointments and dismissals of Senior Executives. • Considers the suggestions made by the Chairman, the Members of Managing Director Antonio Trueba the Board, the managers or the shareholder of the company. Appointments Committee Jordi Arenillas 27 Assistant Managing (Economic-financial) Directors Ernesto Moreno Mr. Tomás Muniesa Arantegui Chairman (Investments) Mr. Javier Godó Muntañola Member Jesús María García (Organisation and Human Resources) Mr. Juan María Nin Génova Member José Antonio Iglesias (Marketing and segment development) Managers Carlos Lorenzo (Sales) Josep Montañés (Product offer and operations) Corporate Governance Commitment to responsible management The behaviour of the whole organisation is aligned with the values of In 2013 the Communications Committee and Corporate Social VidaCaixa (trust, quality and dynamism) that embody the principles Responsibility, both led by the Managing Director, were resumed. Three of all actions as set out in the code of ethics and internal rules of meetings were held in which a lot of work was done so that VidaCaixa conduct of the Company. would continue to be a benchmark in responsible management. Consequently, several matters were addressed including VidaCaixa’s VidaCaixa has two codes of conduct, one as an insurance company performance in economic, social, environmental and governance and the other as a pension plan manager. Both were approved by the issues as well as company relationships with stakeholders and the Board of Directors and are applied to all the employees who carry out activities related to investments. Integrated Annual Report. 28 Management of risk and solvency Risk control Solvency 29 Management of risk Risk control and solvency are at the heart of VidaCaixa’s business model. Risk control and solvency The management of the main risks associated with our insurance acIts management is one of the basic pillars on which the financial tivity (loan, market and technical risks) is the starting point that Vistrength of the Company is sustained, generating long-term results daCaixa takes into consideration in order to optimise the risk-return and the ability to provide shared value for its stakeholders. relationship in all its business operations. VidaCaixa’s Board of Directors determines the risk policy and the levels of solvency of the Company in line with what is carried out by CaixaBank and, at the same time, adopting all the directives of national and European institutions within the framework rules of Solvency II. Loan risk Since 2011 VidaCaixa has been making major investments to adjust to the new Solvency II environment. This resulted in an ambitious plan for systems control tools and risk follow-up, new management requirements were developed and employees were trained. 30 Principal risks managed by VidaCaixa Technical or subscription Market risk risk VidaCaixa has an ambitious IT plan for the control and For more information on the principal managed risks, click here follow-up of risk. Main advances in risk management in VidaCaixa in 2013 Management of risk and solvency In 2013 VidaCaixa continued to advance in the improvement of its risk management: • The risk map that enables the identification and assessment of all risks assumed in all the processes in VidaCaixa was updated as happens every year. The follow-up and control process is carried out at least once a year and, in addition, any time significant changes take place. • The push for the implementation of the management risk tool, which started back in 2012, was maintained. This tool provides the documentation as well as safe and efficient accessibility to the identified risks and the mechanisms required to control them. • VidaCaixa continued collaborating in the applications for information undertaken by the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority (EIOPA), the independent assessment body of the European Parliament and the European Union Council. In 2013 the most outstanding issue of that collaboration was the undertaking of high impact quantitative studies like the Long Term Guarantees Assessment, which culminated the development process and the approval of the Omnibus II Directive. 31 Management of risk Solvency and solvency In the social welfare sector, solvent business management is one of the key elements in gaining trust among customers VidaCaixa’s leadership is also reflected in the high levels of solvency achieved by the Company, much beyond the legal requirements and placing the Company in an ideal position before the entry into force of the Solvency II legislation in January 2016. For VidaCaixa, the improvement in the management of risk is achieved through the implementation of Solvency II, for which the Company has been making a significant effort, since 2011, in the development of new management requirements, training of its personnel and active participation in initiatives that promote solvency in the sector: 32 • The progress in the process of pre-validation of the internal model of risk management by the Directorate General of Insurance and Pension Plans. Work continues on the framework to improve the design and quality of the internal risk management model. • Work groups from UNESPA, the insurance sector confederation, and the Directorate General of Insurance and Pension Plans participated to develop the Solvency II Project. Here the active involvement in the work groups to develop improvements and solutions to treat savings products in the long term is noticeable. Management of investments The integration of sustainable management in investments 33 The active promotion of ESG criteria among stakeholders Awards for investment management VidaCaixa starts from the principle of managing its investments not from which it contributes to the promotion of socially responsible Management of only from the economic return standpoint but taking into account investment in our country. investments the environmental, social and corporate governance issues (ESG) This commitment is applied to all investments channelled through the associated with them. Company and extends to all VidaCaixa’s stakeholders through the VidaCaixa adheres and subscribes to the Principles of Responsible active promotion of PRI among VidaCaixa’s customers, suppliers and Investment of the United Nations (PRI), and is a member of Spainsif, investment managers. the main Spanish SRI Forum (Socially Responsible Investment Forum), Principles of Responsible Investment (PRI) Principle 1: Incorporate environmental, social Principle 2: Incorporate environmental, and corporate governance matters into the social and corporate governance matters analysis and decision-taking processes in into its practices and policies as owners of 34 investments. assets. 1 2 Principle 6: Report on Principle 3: Request the entities that receive activities and progress in the investments to publish appropriate information application of the PRI. 6 3 on environmental, social and corporate governance issues. 5 4 Principle 5: Collaborate to Principle 4: Promote the acceptance and improve efficiency in the application of the PRI in the global investment application of the PRI. community. Management of The integration of sustainable investments management in investments VidaCaixa puts all the means at its disposal to ensure that all its investments are analysed from an ESG (environmental, social and corporate governance) perspective. For this it has its own methodology based on a process of analysis of all investments undertaken, whether direct or channelled through investment funds Investment funds 35 131 49 Total surveys done New surveys More than 3,000 companies In a consolidated and analysed portfolio The evaluation surveys of the ESG criteria of investment funds were highly valued by the PRI and were accepted as a mechanism of engagement Application of ESG criteria in the management process of Management of VidaCaixa’s investment funds (IF) investments In investments made through investment funds, VidaCaixa undertakes a follow-up process and control applied through the following steps: 1) The evaluation survey is sent to the investment fund management teams to check the ESG criteria. 2) There is a six-monthly control to verify the degree of compliance to the ESG criteria by the companies VidaCaixa invests in through investment funds. 3) If any company is identified that does not comply with said criteria, a period of dialogue with the fund manager is started in which he is asked to report on the measures he proposes to adopt. Through 36 the dialogue process a solution is hopefully found that enables the situation to be reversed. If VidaCaixa is not satisfied with the explanations given, it can even sell off the investment fund. Application of ESG criteria in the direct management process 1.1) If affirmative, the company is deemed to comply with the PRI criteria. Management of of VidaCaixa’s investment in fixed income (FI) 1.2) If negative, VidaCaixa studies the internal information it has on investments For direct fixed income investments, the follow-up and control process that company in matters of its sustainability policies, which are reflected pursues these steps: in its Annual Report. 1) Before undertaking any investment in the primary or secondary 2) The process is repeated every six months on the existing portfolio, market, an analysis is made to find out whether the issuer is with the exclusion, due to the nature of the assets, of Public Debt, included in any sustainability list. Deeds and Mortgage-backed securities, as well as Agencies and Supranational Bodies. Asset procedure of Fixed Income FI ASSETS Exclusion by nature of product: 37 • Agencies and supranational bodies • Debt issued and guaranteed by Governments • Deed and mortgage-backed securities Compliance with ESG criteria 1st filter ASSETS TO BE ANALYSED Principal indexes of Do not pass 1st filter sustainability 2nd filter Analysis of company information (Annual Report, Corporate Web …) In fixed income the following were revised every six Do not pass 2nd filter Compliance with ESG criteria months: 294 issuers, 192 for VidaCaixa and 102 for pension funds. 13 first issuers Analysis/Specific were analised follow-up/Sale Principal advances in the integration of sustainable Management of management in VidaCaixa’s investments in 2013, in investments accordance with the PRI The principal advances with reference to the PRI principles 1, 2, 3 and 5 in 2013 were as follows: • We continued to work to identify companies whose business activity shows a low profile in environmental and social management, human rights and good governance. • As a result of the six-monthly portfolio evaluation process, and according to the process of dialogue established by VidaCaixa, an inquiry was opened on a company. • The methodology of investment valuation continued to improve 38 in accordance with the PRI criteria, for which we had the services of a referenced supplier in socially responsible investment issues, which allowed us to make a more profound ESG analysis of our portfolios. Management of The active promotion of the ESG • VidaCaixa collaborated with “la Caixa” to draw up the annual survey of Eurosif, and with Novaster in the follow-up survey of the investments issues among customers, suppliers SRI industry and investment managers • VidaCaixa has been a member on the supervisory committee of VidaCaixa takes it upon itself, as a personal commitment, to promote Spainsif, the management group, since 2013. the PRI principles among its customers, suppliers and investment managers, for which it sets up different forms of relationship with these stakeholders: from control committees to processes of dialogue. The successes obtained, as well as the new targets set, are reported annually, always keeping in mind the end goal of improving investment management in accordance with the PRI criteria of the United Nations. Principal advances in the promotion of sustainable 39 management of VidaCaixa’s investments in 2013, in accordance with the PRI The principal advances with reference to the PRI principles 4 and 6 in 2013 were as follows: • Dialogue with customers was strengthened through collaboration in drafting mandates and presentations to control committees of several employment funds. • VidaCaixa collaborated in the organization of PRI training and dissemination sessions to the whole sector of social welfare, such as 6th Annual Forum of Control Committees, the course given to the CCOO Union and the course held during the PRI week organised by the UNED and Spainsif. Management of Awards for investment management investments Throughout 2013, and in line with the brilliant trajectory started in 2008, VidaCaixa continued to receive support and recognition for its excellent management and the results it obtained. This took the form of awards presented by some well-known prestigious companies. The winning products and the awards received by VidaCaixa in 2013 are: • Pensions Caixa 30 was awarded the best pension Spanish fund for the third consecutive year at 13th IPE Awards. • PlanCaixa Selección won the Salmón prize, awarded by AIIfunds Bank Investment Research, as the best variable income pension fund in Europe. 40 • PlanCaixa Privada Activo Variable won the best global variable income pension plan in 2012, awarded by Morningstar. Investment fund committee, composed of representatives from CaixaBank and VidaCaixa, with the award. For more information Press release: VidaCaixa receives the award for the best global variable income pension fund in 2012 Press release: VidaCaixa receives the award for the best variable income pension fund in Europe. PlanCaixa Selección won the Salmon prize. Press release: Pensions Caixa 30, managed by VidaCaixa, awarded, for the third consecutive year, the best Spanish pension fund. Awards and Prizes Management of investments Pensions Caixa 30, best Spanish PlanCaixa Ambición and 2008 pension fund. PlanCaixa 10 Seguridad. Revista IPE Expansión Best fixed and mixed income pension PlanCaixa Ambición, awarded the best 2010 fund manager. Expansión and Interactive fixed income pension plan in 2010. Data, the financial consultancy Morningstar and El Economista 41 Pensions Caixa 30, best Spanish 2011 pension fund. Revista IPE Pensions Caixa 30, best Spanish PlanCaixa Privada Activo Variable, 2012 pension fund. best global variable income pension Revista IPE plan in 2012. Morningstar Pensions Caixa 30, best Spanish PlanCaixa Selección, best variable income pension 2013 pension fund. fund in Europe. Allfunds Bank Investment Revista IPE Research 6 Adapting to a complex environment Economic environment Legal environment 42 Evolution of the insurance and pension plan sector in Spain Demographic change Adapting to a complex Economic environment environment 2013 was characterised by a progressive recuperation of the main the deficit continued to be the major unresolved problems. In 2013 advanced economies, led by the United States. the deleveraging of households and businesses was intense, which reduced the resources available for household consumption and The behaviour of the euro zone showed an improvement in key investment. economic indicators and a positive evolution on major exchanges, with the exception of Greece, Portugal and Italy. Despite the troubled economy, VidaCaixa was able to adapt to the environment and managed, for yet another year, to consolidate its In the case of Spain, there was a slight improvement in the market position and continue to grow. economy at the end of the year, although the labour market and 43 Adapting to a complex Macroeconomic environment of Spain environment Social Security Savings Unemployment GDP Contributors Private consumption Housing loans (%/available gross (in thousands) (in thousands) income) 1.0% 185 0.8% 10.9% 10.4% 44 -1.2% -147 -288 -85 -2.5% -4.5% 4.1% 2013 Source: “laCaixa” Research. Forecast 2014 Adapting to a complex Legal environment environment The Spanish government introduced a series of reforms with the aim of favouring the continuity of the working life of older workers and guarantee the future sustainability of the pension system. Among the main changes introduced were: • The gradual rise in the retirement age from 63 to 65, if it is voluntary, and from 61 to 63 when it is forced. The minimum contribution period to receive the maximum pension rose to 35 and 33 years, respectively. • Penalties to discourage early retirement were increased. • Partial retirement is possible two years before retirement age, but has been limited to a 50% maximum reduction in working hours, 45 although a maximum reduction to 75% will be allowed when the worker replacing him is younger, with a full time permanent contract. • Extending working life opens the possibility of working, earning 50% of the pension, for people who have passed retirement age, restoring full pension payments after the period of activity ends. • Drawing and reviewing a pension is decoupled from the CPI and it will take into account such issues as increased life expectancy of future pensioners and the evolution of the revenue performance and expenditure of the system. In 2014 all citizens over 50 will be informed about the estimated pension they will receive on retirement Adapting to a complex Evolution of the insurance and environment pension plan sector in Spain In 2013 the life insurance business, if we look at it from the point of view of premiums, continued to fall at a year-on year rate of -3%, with a total managed fund of 25,505 million euros. Evolution compared to the market – Life insurance Premiums Managed funds 60.6% 19.4% 18.4% 17.2% 17.2% 46 27.8% 9.6% 12.5% 13.8% 3.2% 2.7% 3.5% 2.2% 1.5% 1.8% 0.7% 2.7% -4.7% -3.0% -9.0% 4T 2012 1T 2013 2T 2013 3T 2013 4T 2013 4T 2012 1T 2013 2T 2013 3T 2013 4T 2013 Market Grupo Caixa Note: Includes the impact of the integration of insurance companies within Banca Cívica Source: ICEA. Data on year on year growth Adapting to a complex Managed funds grew by 3.5% for the market, reaching 161,610 million. Evolution of Complementary Social Welfare environment The evolution of all life insurance is explained by its different The welfare-savings market in Spain peaked at 254,023 million euros in managed funds in 2013, which resulted in a year on year components: growth of 4.6%. Individual life-risk insurance Despite the decline of the different savings and social welfare With a total of 3,346 million euros in managed premiums, the businesses, VidaCaixa managed to grow in 2013, once again individual life-risk market fell by an overall 4.6% for the sector. increasing its market share with respect to its competitors, thanks to its ability to anticipate market and customer needs, offering Individual life-savings insurance a personalized advice service combined with a wide range of In 2013 the market continued its fall with a decrease of 0.8% and innovative products. total premiums managed came to 19,639 million euros. As for provisions, the figure stood at 116,371 million euros, 5.6% year on year variation. 47 Group and Company life insurance The life-savings and life-risk business for groups and companies managed a total of 3,423 million euros in premiums, 12.9% less than the previous year. Managed funds in the life-savings business for groups and companies reached 39,984 million euros, representing a decrease of 1.4% compared to the same quarter in 2012. Increase in contributions to pension plans In 2013 pension plans were marked by the upturn in this market: it was the first year since the beginning of the crisis that contributions In 2013 pension plan increased. 2013 was a good year to make long-term investments contributions grew after 7 and savings, which resulted in the first upswing in the market in years of declines seven years. Adapting to a complex Demographic change environment The aging of the population is a demographic phenomenon affecting of Japan, which is expected to reach 69.6%. This means that the most of the developed economies, especially in Europe, where it is European Union will go from having 4 people of working age for estimated that the population over 60 will double in the next four every retiree in 2010 to having just 2 in 2060. decades. For the first time, the number of elderly people in 2050 will be greater than the number of children between 0 and 14. This phenomenon, common in most developed countries, is a reality that especially affects Spain, with a population that is and will be one In 2050 the dependency ratio in Europe (number of persons over 65 of the most aged in Europe. In Spain it is expected that by 2050 some in relation to the number of people aged 20-64 years) will be 50.3%, 31.6% of the population will be over 65. In the European Union this a much higher level than in the rest of the world, with the exception percentage will be below 28.7%. Proportion of the elderly over the whole population (%) People of working age for each retiree in the EU (%) 48 4 2 People of working People of working age for each age for each 11 22 retiree in retiree in 2012 2050 2010 2060 Source: Ageing Report 2012, European Commission. Statistics of the United Nations. Source: Ageing Report 2012, European Commission. Statistics of the United Nations. Demographic change will exert great pressure on the sustainability of Adapting to a complex the public pension system. In response, governments are evaluating environment their models and carrying out pension reforms. In many cases these reforms will lead to a decrease in the ratio between the public retirement pension system and the last salary received (replacement rate). To address this new scenario it is crucial for citizens to have quality information in advance so they can plan their future and generate the savings needed to maintain their quality of life in retirement. 49 7 Strategy: present and future The strategic map: people, processes, customers and results 50 Strategy: present and VidaCaixa is attentive to the changing economic, social and Objectives and indicators of the VidaCaixa BSC legislative environment, and to meet the challenges of the present future 15 Strategic objectives and future it plans its strategy with the aim of creating long-term shared value. 28 General objectives The strategic map: people, 48 processes, customers and results Specific objectives To adapt to the changing environment and in order to seize the opportunities the market offers, VidaCaixa applies responsible and sustainable management to achieve its goals, and for this it integrated this type of management into its 2012-2014 strategic map, which 59 General indicators is embodied in four dimensions: people, processes, customers, and 51 results. The implementation of the strategy is carried out through the balanced scorecard (BSC), which communicates to and aligns all the members of the organisation with the objectives of the Company, thereby generating shared value for all of its stakeholders: shareholder, customers, employees, society and the environment. The first dimension, i.e. people, is the key on which VidaCaixa’s 225 Specific indicators strategic map is based. The Company is convinced that attracting and retaining the best talent is critical to providing excellent service for customers and achieving positive results. To do this, VidaCaixa strives to create the best conditions for the professional and personal development of its employees. The second dimension, i.e. processes, is a hub of activity in which Strategy: present and VidaCaixa works to innovate and constantly improve its technological future tools and management, with the aim of providing excellent customer service, improving efficiency and effectively managing risk. In the third dimension, i.e. clients, the priority is to understand and anticipate customer needs by offering suitable products and services of the highest quality, with the goal of achieving their preference and loyalty. The fourth dimension, i.e. financial results, is the result of applying responsible and sustainable management in the area of employees, processes and customers. Fruit of this is VidaCaixa’s ability to generate shared long-term value year after year. 52 Strategy: present and VidaCaixa’s Strategic Map 2012-2014 future Financial: Long-term Increase the uptake shared value Maximise value and Improve returns of new business and Lead market position recurrent profits managed funds Customers: Quality, innovation, Retain and make them Attract new customers responsibility Excellent service quality Promote cross-selling loyal with value 53 Processes: 3Es: Efficiency and Innovate Life and Be excellent in Affluent effectiveness, excellence of Corporate Social efficiency and Pensions processes and and Retirement customers, products Responsibility excellence products segments and processes People: Talent Maximum VidaCaixa, VidaCaixa, excellent organisational Our Project place to work capabilities 8 A team aligned with the project Our project: alignment with values and strategy 54 Maximum organisational capabilities Excellent place to work Results: motivated professionals with talent and ties to the company A team aligned with The main source of value creation in VidaCaixa resides in its 630 The four pillars of the common project employees. the project They are a dynamic team of professionals, with great potential talent, who are aligned with the strategy of the organisation. VidaCaixa is committed to motivating them, creating an excellent COMMITMENT work environment while strengthening their skills, competencies and leadership. Our project: alignment with values and strategy OUR VALUES VidaCaixa strives to create the necessary conditions for all the employees of the Company so that they can share the same vision 55 and goals. To achieve this, VidaCaixa has been using the balanced scorecard (BSC) over the last 14 years. Through the BSC the Company DAYS AND SPECIAL EVENTS transmits its strategy to every member of the organisation and evaluates the results of the Company down to the departmental level. It also employs the personal balanced scorecard (PBSC), which evaluates the results and alignment at an individual level. In 2013 work begun on the “[Un] proyecto común” programme in order to strengthen the commitment of the staff to the VidaCaixa PARTICIPATION IN TRANSVERSAL PROJECTS project, transmit the values of the Company, promote internal cohesion and encourage participation in transversal projects. This chapter fulfils Principles 1-6 VidaCaixa has internal communications tools to transmit to and share A team aligned with the strategy with all employees. Among them are: the project Corporate Intranet The launch of the new corporate Intranet in 2013 allowed access to all relevant or interesting information for all those working in VidaCaixa. One of the key objectives of the new internal communications channel is to structure the information so as to avoid duplication and improve efficiency. The Intranet was designed as an internal tool to simplify work, access all information and management applications more quickly and directly as well as learn about different issues and relevant news. 56 Some of its features include the possibility of setting up dialogue groups among VidaCaixa employees, thus allowing them to check on the everyday life of the Company. Finally, the Intranet is an efficient tool for everyday use, with a clear vocation of growth through the indispensable participation of all VidaCaixa employees. In 2013 VidaCaixa launched its new Corporate Intranet Actual Personas Annual Convention of Managers and presentation to all A team aligned with employees the project The format of the old Newsletter was modified and was renamed Actual Personas; its format was modernised and adapted to the Finally it should be noted that, like every year, the Annual Convention VidaCaixa Intranet. of Managers was attended by everyone from senior management down to department heads. The purpose of this meeting was to The aim of this publication is to focus on the more personal aspects of explain the profits in 2013 and communicate the main goals and the team of professionals that make up VidaCaixa. challenges for 2014. In this sense, “Actual Personas” covers four topics: Similarly, at the end of 2013 a meeting was also held with all 1. Protagonists: presentation of a department and/or area of the VidaCaixa employees to present the results, explain the evolution of Company (interview format). the Company and communicate the objectives for 2014. 2. Unique talents: space that gathers information about any employee and his/her interests, hobbies, talent, etc. 57 3. New employees: a section that welcomes new members of the staff, including a brief description of their career and indicating their new position in the Company. 4. Special days: this is where information is gathered about special events to be carried out in VidaCaixa throughout the year. Meeting with VidaCaixa employees. A team aligned with Maximum organisational capabilities the project In spite of a still unfavourable economic situation in 2013, VidaCaixa Welcoming new professionals continued to create stable and quality employment providing Every new professional who joins the organisation receives basic conditions for the guaranteed development of the skills and abilities information about the Company, either through individual face to of the team. face meetings, group meetings or through online training. Every Improvement in the selection process new employee can avail of a set of information tools, including the Integrated Annual Report and VidaCaixa’s Code of Ethics. This process In 2013 the Company used the policy and selection process based on is complemented with a specific welcoming plan, which involves tools 2.0, which was launched in 2012 with the support of external going through different areas of the organisation while having the partners. The management by competences model implemented in support of a tutor throughout the entire training period. 2012 proved to be efficient, which specifically enabled the processes of talent acquisition and performance evaluation to be improved. This, in turn, facilitated the identification of needs in training plans and the 58 future development of VidaCaixa professionals. Training itinerary for new employees Virtual Data Money Basic Corporate Individual life SME life welcoming Protection laundering Insurance training products products plan law prevention concepts A team aligned with Training and professional development of all employees the project VidaCaixa invests in the competence and skills training of its To develop skills, we continued in 2013 to implement the training employees, with the aim of promoting their professional development and development plan for mid-level managers, which was introduced and the continuous improvement of the organisation. In 2013 in 2012 in order to meet the training needs of the organisation. investment in training amounted to 446,414.4 euros and involved a total of 14,464 hours. The training took place on a face-to-face level, online through Aulaforum and a mixed format consisting of face-to-face activity with VidaCaixa works with a model of competence management (MGC support from Aulaforum. as per its Spanish acronym), which affects such areas as selection, training, development, evaluation and retribution. 59 545 employees received training in 2013 A team aligned with First university postgraduate degree on welfare and long-term savings the project VidaCaixa went a step further and, in 2013, in collaboration with the Universitat Pompeu Fabra (UPF), launched a pioneering university postgraduate course to train experts in the field of social welfare and long-term savings. This initiative responds to the vocation of VidaCaixa, as the leader in welfare of our country, to promote awareness about the management of savings for retirement. The main objectives of this postgraduate course, directed at employees of CaixaBank and VidaCaixa, is to improve knowledge skills on management and retirement planning, as well as stress the professional ethical commitment in the relationship with customers. The course lasts one year and it is split into 750 hours of training, with 30 ECTS credits (European Credit Transfer System). The course methodology is structured around 11 modules, which are broken down into economics and finance, money market and bond and equity markets, social welfare, tax planning, wealth management and retirement planning, personal and business skills as well as several 60 case studies. To make attendance easier and conciliation possible, participation is divided between 20% in classrooms and 80% online. The quality of the professionals who make up the VidaCaixa team allows them to be part of the faculty of the programme, which is enriched by their vast knowledge and professional experience. In 2013 VidaCaixa, in The attendees will receive a University Diploma as “Expert in Savings and Welfare”, which is granted by the UPF. collaboration with the Universitat Pompeu Fabra, launched the first For more information postgraduate course in our Press release: First university postgraduate course on country on welfare and planning for retirement savings A team aligned with An excellent place to work Support for the employee and his/her family life the project VidaCaixa attaches great importance to their goal of ensuring the In 2013 VidaCaixa obtained its renewal certificate as a Family Responsible Company (efr as per Spanish acronym), which ratifies greatest physical, social and psychological wellbeing for their employees that the Company promotes conciliation between company, work in the workplace. and family. VidaCaixa holds the erf certificate, which has been As evidence of this sensitivity, VidaCaixa develops multiple projects and granted by the Fundación Más Familia since 2009. activities in such areas as reconciling work and family life, diversity and At present, VidaCaixa has 39 measures of conciliation, distributed equal opportunities, remuneration and the involvement of its employees between family support policies, temporary and spatial flexibility in favour of society and the environment. policies and quality of employment, policies related with health and wellbeing, as well as initiatives linked to training and development of professional teams, together with other social benefits for being an Distribution of staff by professional category employee of the Company. (percentage) 61 Mid-level Some of the relevant aspects for obtaining the renewal of the managers certification stress that VidaCaixa continued to drive the efr commitment, through job creation and maintenance of the efr 11% measures, despite the economic climate. Rest of the staff 87% Managers 2% To find out more detailed information about the staff, click here A team aligned with Equality of opportunity and integration of people with Distribution of the staff by gender different capacities the project VidaCaixa ensures a work environment in which equal opportunities are met and integration of people with disabilities is provided. Women 63% Men 37% The percentage of women in positions of responsibility (senior and mid-level management) varied from 31% in 2012 to 38.6% in 2013. This was mostly due to internal promotions throughout the year, of which 26 were women and 11 were men. All staff 62 Women Men Women Men 39% 61% 67% 33% Senior and mid-level Rest of staff managers A team aligned with VidaCaixa’s Equality Plan the project VidaCaixa’s commitment to equal opportunities and integration of people with disabilities is reflected in VidaCaixa’s Equality Plan, which was signed by institutional representatives and employees of the Company in December 2013. The Plan sets out, as a general goal, the commitment of the undersigned to continue the business model, with special support for the behavioural patterns of diversity from the perspective of gender, non-discrimination, equal opportunities and conciliation. General Goals of VidaCaixa’s Equality Plan 1. Equal treatment Promote equal treatment in the workplace among the people in VidaCaixa, ensuring the same professional opportunities and gradually reaching a balanced composition of gender in work teams. 63 2. Absence of discrimination Guarantee all staff, regardless of their position in the Company, the absence of discrimination on grounds of gender in circumstances arising from maternity, paternity and assuming family responsibilities, as well as in any other area. 3. Equal opportunity Promote, through awareness-raising and training, equal opportunities in the workplace at all organisational levels, paying special attention to those who manage teams. 4. Conciliation Promote the reconciliation of personal and family life with work, reinforcing the knowledge of the measures available to all employees. 5. Prevention of harassment 39% of senior and mid-level Prevent labour, sexual and gender harassment, implementing a protocol to protect all employees in this area. management are women, 8 points more than in 2012 Support for the integration of people with disabilities A team aligned with the project VidaCaixa’s compliance of the legal obligation of hiring people with Participation disabilities is met by adopting alternative measures such as contracting of families of services with specialised employment centres. employees Within the integration measures, VidaCaixa set up the “Plan Familia” in 2009 with which it actively promoted the social and labour integration of disabled people, relatives of people who work in our Economic Company, through different educational, training and therapeutic Sports activities donations actions to favour social-labour integration. Involvement of employees in favour of society and the environment: Retorn Programme Retorn is the initiative of a team of employee volunteers, which is 64 responsible for promoting and managing projects related to social responsibility and sustainability focused on three areas: society, the environment and employees. The voluntary nature of the initiative Actions guarantees that the volunteers can choose and directly manage the undertaken by Collection of activities. In 2013 a sum of 30,000 euros was allocated to a set of volunteers in food and toys activities related to each of the three areas, where the contributions organisations and collaborations with nine non-profit organizations were most visible. 83% of the staff at VidaCaixa is between 30 and To find out exactly what actions were undertaken in the Retorn programme, click here 50 years old A team aligned with Compensation and social benefits mechanisms the project VidaCaixa has a remunerations policy for all staff based on a system Moreover, for some time VidaCaixa has had a system of advantages of fixed and variable remuneration and the application of internal and and social benefits that complement the value offer to the employee external principles of equality, which ensures and grants objectivity to that help to attract and retain talent. These benefits affect all achieving goals on a group and individual basis. employees regardless of the work they do. 65 Principal social benefits for employees • Access to loans from the company with a maximum capital of 20,000 euros. • Enlargement and improvement of healthcare cover for employees and a larger capital over the amount of the Collective Agreement • Assistance for children from birth to the age of 21. in life insurance. • Plan Familia: helping families with disabled relatives. • Possibility of joining the pension plan with employees contributing • Lunch compensation (for employees who work full time). 1% and a matching contribution by VidaCaixa with contributions • Subsidies for university and language studies. of up to 3% of the annual base salary. • Annual holidays of 29 days and an intensive working day in the To know more about the activities of Human Resources, click here summer period. A team aligned with Health and safety in the workplace the project VidaCaixa provides the necessary training in workplace safety for all the professionals in the Company, for which it has the support of the safety and health committees and the risk prevention delegates. With the aim of helping the communications of the employees in this area, the “Prevention is better” e-mail box continued to work so that suggestions and proposals could be made to improve risk prevention. Fulfilment of collective rights All the employees of VidaCaixa are covered by the state-wide collective agreement for insurance companies and have union representation. 66 2 health and safety committees 121 hours of training given on work risk prevention A team aligned with Results: motivated professionals the project with talent, who have ties to the company VidaCaixa seeks to transmit value to its employees. Absenteeism and Ties to the Company This transmission of value rests on seven pillars that, in turn, are levers to attract and retain talent, which enables VidaCaixa to have a 2% Absenteeism: Rate of absenteeism competent staff, with ties to the project and capable of taking on the challenges of the future. due to illness1 The value offer to employees rests on seven pillars: 1. Vision: Project of the Company 98% Ties to the Company: Rate of retention of 67 2. Team: A sense of Belonging and being Valued talent2 3. Communication: Information and Participation 4. Opportunity: Prospect of Professional Development 1 Does not include data from Banca Cívica Vida y Pensiones, CajaSol Vida y Pensiones, Caja Canarias Vida y Pensiones. 5. Impact: Value of Work Undertaken 2 Total number of employees hired in the last 2 years less the number of people hired 6. Experience: Tools and Means in the last 2 years who have voluntarily left the Company over the total number of employees over the last 2 years. The data from the Grupo Asegurador, VidaCaixa and 7. Incentives: Fair Compensation AgenCaixa are included. 9 Innovation Operational excellence Reduction of environmental impact 68 Operational excellence Innovation For VidaCaixa, innovation means turning ideas into value for customers. The innovative approach, which for years has been promoted among all employees in the organisation and the territorial branch office network of CaixaBank and which is channelled towards improving management processes, is focused on providing an excellent customer service with the highest possible efficiency. Intranet 69 born communicated Department of organisational development and quality Assigned to Administration Feedback on Ideas received expert and monitoring ideas managers of ideas Global vision of all ideas shared monitored • Plan study • Planned Expert managers • Bank of ideas Product Business Systems (...) • Finalised • Discarded put into practice administered or discarded This chapter fulfils studied evaluated Principles: 1-5, 7-9 Innovation in VidaCaixa’s DNA Operational excellence In 2013 Innova resumed its energising actions to obtain contributions of new ideas, with the launch of a specific section for innovation on the VidaCaixa intranet. Similarly, a new graphic line of communication was defined that characterises Innova +, and it is used in all the news, actions and communications that are made from Innova. On the intranet the following information can be found: • Innopill: They are small pieces of news or pill-size training bits whose aim is to activate the thought process and the imagination to create innovative ideas related to VidaCaixa’s business. 70 • Innowaw: They are gems or interesting or curious pieces of news related to the world of innovation, even though they are outside the sector, that employees from VidaCaixa send or are created by the Innova Team. • Innogym: They are campaigns or debates in which the generation of ideas is promoted at a specific time on a specific subject. • Innoidea: Provides access to the application so the ideas can be sent in. In 2013 some 403 ideas were received, 22.4% more than in 2012 Ideas as sources of innovation and continuous improvement Operational excellence Among the main contributions sent by employees the following are of note: • New products. • Improvements in existing products. • Boosting contacts with customers. • Improvements in the intranet. • Improvements in insurance applications. Ideas received from employees in 2013 71 Total number of ideas received 403 Headquarters CaixaBank branch offices 48 344 AgenCaixa 11 Commitment to technology Operational excellence Technology plays an important role in better knowing the needs of our customers. VidaCaixa has always bet on technology as a springboard for the relationship and communications with customers. It is indeed a competitive advantage in terms of generating economic and commercial results. Especially important was the bet, made in 2013, on the use of mobile technology in our relationship with customers. In this regard, it is worth mentioning the possibility, with the incorporation of Línea Abierta Móvil, of registering the acceptance of ready-to-buy orders and the enhancement of the application functionality, expanding channels of acceptance and the signing of documents. 72 In 2013 the use of mobile technology in customer relationships significantly increased. Technology to better know and speed up the relationship with the customer Operational excellence VidaCaixa’s direct channels enable a more agile relationship with customers, thanks to the addition of new features, among which the following stood out in 2013: • The pension plan participants receive monthly updates and detailed investment policy information the management carried out and the evolution of profitability, among other relevant aspects. • Improvements were made to visualising queries of some products in the direct channel, such as income plan, employment plans and control committees. Simulators were corrected to adapt to new taxation laws and an overall technological improvement was made to processes. 73 Operational excellence Reduction in the environmental Actions carried out for the protection of the impact environment One of the objectives of VidaCaixa is to minimise the environmental VidaCaixa continued to carry out actions, initiated in previous years, to reduce impact and work hard towards improving the efficiency of the work the environmental impact of its activity. Among these the following stand out: processes as set out in the VidaCaixa Code of Ethics and principles 7, 8, and 9 of the United Nations Global Compact. Similarly, and in Improve the Reinforce the Reduce the accordance with the commitments assumed in the PRI, VidaCaixa efficiency in the communications and generation consumption of the environmental of waste and includes the ESG questions in the analysis processes and the decision natural resources awareness on an promote the taking in questions of investments. and reduce the segregation of internal level. consumption of waste to favour CO2. • Environmental its recycling and education for the staff: reuse. • Gradual 74 proper use of office substitution of the material and a rational • Space was IT and printing consumption of energy made available equipment. and water. on all floors at Headquarters for • Promotion of • Installation of double the collection of videoconferences flush buttons on toilets such materials as to avoid travelling. and sensors to detect batteries, plastic presence. containers and toner cartridges. • Publication on the intranet of catalogues of good practices with the use of energy, water and printing of documents. Internal consumption of paper Operational excellence The consumption of paper is one of the heaviest resources the VidaCaixa activity has. Being aware of that, total paper consumption was reduced by 1%. The total amount of paper consumed is certified on an environmental level and a full 29% of paper used is recycled paper. Paper consumed (both traditional and recycled) (t) 22.4 Paper consumed per employee (kg) 35.5 75 Variation in the consumption of paper -0.6% (percentage) Total consumption of new fibre paper 22.4 (processes ECF, TCF…) (t) Note: Due to the fact that VidaCaixa and SegurCaixa share office space, an estimation of consumption and emissions was made based on the number of jobs that each company has. Internal consumption of electric energy Cover of the annual demand1 Operational excellence (percentage) VidaCaixa is firmly committed to the maximum reduction of energy consumption and the level of the associated greenhouse gas Combined emissions. The total electric energy consumed was reduced by 1%, Cogeneration and the rest2 12% cycle 9.6% although this decline was not reflected in the total energy consumed per employee. VidaCaixa takes the challenge to carry out greater Thermic to efforts to raise awareness of the workforce through the dissemination renewable of good practices, as a key factor in controlling energy consumption. 2% Coal 14.6% Total electric energy consumed (GJ) 3,796.4 Wind turbine 76 21% Total electric energy consumed per employee (GJ) 11.2 Nuclear Solar photovoltaic 21% Electric energy certified as coming from renewable sources or 1,017.4 3% Solar cogeneration (GJ) thermoelectric 2% Hydro-electric Electric energy certified as coming 14% from renewable sources or 26.8 cogeneration (GJ) 1 Does not include pumping generation. 2 Includes fuel-gas and non-renewable thermic. Source: Red Eléctrica. December 2013. Note: The information refers to Headquarters in Barcelona. Note: The information refers to Headquarters in Barcelona. Internal consumption of water CO2 Emissions Operational excellence The consumption of water in the corporate centres and buildings VidaCaixa continued its commitment to to carry out actions to comes from the municipal mains network. The consumption of water decrease the impact on the environment. Therefore work continued per employee was reduced by 6% with respect to the previous year. to reduce the emissions of CO2 associated with travelling. With respect to emissions derived from travelling, it is worth noting the 10% reduction of emissions due to air transport. Total water consumed (m3) 3,317.3 Total derived from paper consumption (t CO2) 40.6 Total water consumed per employee (l) 9,810 Total derived from electric consumption 306.9 77 (t CO2) Variation in the consumption of water (percentage) -6.1 Total derived from transport (t CO2) 186.6 Note: The information refers to Headquarters in Barcelona. Total derived from plane trips (t CO2) 162.4 Total derived from train trips (t CO2) 24.2 Note: The information refers to Headquarters in Barcelona. The data presented were calculated using the GHG Protocol methodology. Collection and treatment of waste Operational excellence VidaCaixa makes waste collection points available to its employees, where they can leave their personal waste and the waste created in the workplace. Total paper (kg) 11,596 Total plastic (kg) 1,905.5 78 Total batteries (kg) 37.6 Total toner cartridges (units) 617.3 Note: Due to the fact that VidaCaixa and SegurCaixa share office space, an estimation of consumption and emissions was made based on the number of jobs in each company. 10 Loyal customers Solutions for the Future Multi-channel and accessibility 79 Transparent and protected information Excellent quality of service to customers and channels Adaption to new channels of communication Contribution to a culture of savings and welfare Payment of services VidaCaixa has more than 3.6 million customers, 12.5% more than in Loyal customers 2012, which shows the trust they have in the Company. Pillars of the fu[Tu]ro strategy Customer orientation and the response to their needs is at the heart Creating a positive awareness of the strategic focus of the Company, as embodied in personal among customers about the assessment, a broad portfolio of insurance and welfare products importance of planning savings suitable for every need and age, and a service with the highest levels for retirement. of quality. Solutions for the future Preparing oneself fully for the time of retirement is an important task in which VidaCaixa acts responsibly, focusing on customers and their 1 2 3 planning needs, so that they can address their future or “fu[Tu]ro” 80 with peace of mind and security. To meet the new demographic challenges and changes in the public pension system, VidaCaixa launched “fu[Tu]ro”, an initiative designed to assist customers and society on the many issues raised before retirement, helping them plan and prepare for this critical time in their lives in accordance Offering personalised Training the employees of with their needs, expectations and level of expected life. Likewise, assessment, based the CaixaBank branch office “fu[Tu]ro” also helps individuals who are already retired to manage on a continuous network so as to improve their savings and enjoy the financial benefits, health and leisure the relationship with their knowledge and “Club Ahora” of “la Caixa” offers them. customers that capabilities in the customer responds to assessment process The “fu[Tu]ro” concept is implemented through two main elements their concerns at concerning retirement of communication: the “fu[Tu]ro” web and the Guide or “Presentes retirement. so that the most suitable en tu fu[Tu]ro”. decisions can be taken. In this chapter we fulfil Principles: 1, 2, 8, 9 New fu[Tu]ro web Similarly, the pension plan advisor can be consulted so that, in just Loyal customers under a minute and answering four questions, it can guide the user The new web www.presentesentufuturo.es was created with the aim to the plan that best fits his profile. In all cases, the customer can save of helping to plan, build and manage retirement, with an overall view documents in the simulations as well as their subsequent revisions. of the customer, his needs and resources. “Guía Presentes en tu fu[Tu]ro” The site is aimed at providing easy and quick access to useful and interesting content, in addition to multiple calculation tools to Apart from the fu[Tu]ro web, VidaCaixa drew up the Guide “Guía prepare a scenario of retirement in advance. These tools include a Presentes en tu fu[Tu]ro”, which provides valuable information on the pension plan simulator, through which the product can be found that whole retirement planning process with all the products and services, best fits the characteristics of each customer and thus make up an fiscal advantages and so on. action plan to achieve the desired level of income in retirement. The guide is available in both PDF format in the “fu[Tu]ro” web and in printed form at all the CaixaBank branch offices. 81 Tu jubilación, paso a paso Presentes en tu “fu[Tu]ro” was created as a new concept to advise on retirement Individual customers Loyal customers VidaCaixa adapted its savings and welfare products to respond to the The product portfolio is renewed each year in order to offer the best needs of customers, identifying four customer profiles depending on solutions from a fiscal, liquidity, profitability and risk point of view. their ages: Have a plan for When retirement Start to plan Enjoy retirement the future is near 82 Anticipate the future Think about the Invest in the future Get the most out of while enjoying the future with peace of you want. your life savings. present. mind. Plan Futuro Flexible PIAS PlanCaixa Doble Tranquilidad Loyal customers This is an individual systematic savings plan allowing one to For the second consecutive year, PlanCaixa Doble Tranquilidad generate capital for retirement in an easy systematic way, is still the only product on the market that responds to the which also enjoys an interesting financial-fiscal return. needs of customers near retirement age, who seek the peace of mind of having their savings guaranteed by a trustworthy It provides the possibility of saving in different portfolios while company like VidaCaixa. These issues guarantee an attractive using a combination of assets depending on the risk profile life-long return both during the capitalisation period and the and investment needs of each customer. monthly annuity income paid out on retiring. Moreover, it allows for complete or partial surrender at any time, and the cash value of the linked investment can be recovered at the moment of surrender. 83 Loyal customers Issue of “planes Objetivo” This is an innovative solution that allows a person to plan the future at leisure as it helps to create a capital for retirement knowing the profitability goal beforehand. The investment of the plan pursues a return in a fixed term. Issue of “Renta Vitalicia a interés fijo” With an initial contribution, the “Renta Vitalicia” or Annuity lets the customer diversify his estate, obtaining a life-long monthly income. Depending on the model subscribed, it guarantees the capital for beneficiaries in the case of death of the title holder. 84 To find out more about the main campaigns for individuals in 4 new products were sold 2013, click here in 2013 Personal Banking and Private Banking Loyal customers Seviam for microcredits Explicitly thinking about the needs of Personal and Private Banking customers, certain actions were undertaken within the framework Together with MicroBank, VidaCaixa offers insurance products of the “fu[Tu]ro” initiative with the aim of specifically guiding the like Seviam Abierto to promote economic development preparation and management of retirement. and financial inclusion. With them, there is a commitment to respond to the needs of entrepreneurs and microAmong these actions the development of the financial simulator entrepreneurs and individuals and guarantee amortisation stands out. It enables customers to estimate their end capital and the in case of death and optionally in case of absolute and corresponding fiscal savings. Moreover, these simulations are included permanent disability. in the welcome pack “Presentes en tu fu[Tu]ro”, which also includes a guide. In addition, in the Personal Banking customer market, VidaCaixa set up a professional team that gives support to the network of managers in any matters related with retirement planning. 85 Life-risk insurance for individual customers In 2013 VidaCaixa boosted the sale of life-risk products not associated with loans, such as the traditional life insurance. As in previous years, the life-risk products associated with loans were affected by the stagnation of the property market. VidaCaixa Previsión Social customers could directly do all their business through this selfLoyal customers service platform. VidaCaixa Previsión Social is the brand through which VidaCaixa offers its welfare and savings solutions for the segments of groups and companies, SMEs and the self-employed, focussing on Línea Abierta, para una supervisión efectiva Plan de Previsión Servicio proactivo para la Comisión de Control personalised products. La previsión social como Información detallada y actualizada Disponible las 24h Línea Abierta Social Empresarial Según los resultados del Barómetro de Planes de Pensiones de Empleo* llevado a cabo en el 2012, razón de ser 24h Información on-line sobre los datos de los partícipes, las aportaciones, las prestaciones Acceso y gestión del plan a través de internet las 24h del día y los 365 días del Planes de Pensiones de Empleo se corroboró que existe un desconocimiento sobre la supervisión que realizan las Comisiones de Control. Además, el estudio concluyó que la información es un aspecto clave para los partícipes. y de la situación general del Plan. año, sin restricción horaria alguna. Groups and companies Con esta inquietud de calidad y de mejora, en VidaCaixa, como entidad gestora, siempre hemos creído en la necesidad de proporcionar herramientas con las que ofrecer un valor añadido a la Eficiencia Servicio totalmente gratuito labor de gestión de la Comisión de Control. Mejora del acceso a la información, lo que GRATIS Beneficiarse de los servicios de Línea facilita una mayor rapidez en la resolución Abierta no tiene coste adicional. Por ello, damos a conocer esta utilidad de Línea Abierta, el servicio on-line de ”la Caixa” para de las consultas de los partícipes. consultar la información que necesita como Comisión de Control y conseguir, así, un mayor En VidaCaixa Previsión Social disponemos de una larga ¿Qué es el Plan de Previsión Social VidaCaixa Previsión Social has a team of specialised professionals Con la experiencia de VidaCaixa seguimiento de la evolución del plan. Más Flexibilidad Este servicio está totalmente testado y experiencia en todo tipo de soluciones orientadas a que Se adapta al perfil de los distintos tiene un alto grado de penetración en Empresarial? las empresas cubran sus compromisos por pensiones y miembros de la Comisión de Control con las Comisiones de Control de las que Solicite a su gestor el servicio de Línea refuercen sus propuestas en materia de previsión y ahorro dos niveles de consulta: nivel agregado y VidaCaixa es gestora. Abierta para Comisiones de Control para la jubilación de sus trabajadores. devoted to the sale, design, management and administration of nivel detalle. VidaCaixa ofrece, a través de su Plan de Previsión Social Empresarial, Información válida a fecha de impresión: octubre del 2013. La garantía del líder en el sector un producto de fácil contratación y gestión con el que exteriorizar los Contamos con un amplio equipo humano formado Usabilidad Línea Abierta es el servicio de banca a compromisos por pensiones de la empresa con los trabajadores, y con el por profesionales especialistas de larga trayectoria en Un servicio fácil de usar y con una distancia de ”la Caixa”, que es líder en el que ambos obtienen múltiples ventajas. previsión social, que ofrecen a un gran número de empresas pension plans and life insurance, who ensure the best service and navegación intuitiva. mercado español*. seguros de vida-riesgo, de ahorro y planes de pensiones. Se trata de un seguro con una rentabilidad asegurada que ofrece un tipo Para más información: de interés garantizado en el momento del cobro de la prestación. Para conseguir la máxima calidad del servicio y fomentar www.vidacaixaprevisionsocial.com la innovación de todos nuestros productos, disponemos Ventajas: customer attention. The personalised management of each group de una oferta competitiva y flexible, que se adapta en Y con total confidencialidad todo momento a las necesidades de cada cliente con una Se puede decidir el nivel de confidencialidad y de acceso que Es un producto sencillo y de fácil implantación gestión integral de servicio. tienen los diferentes usuarios. Aporta tranquilidad, ya que elimina la posibilidad de pérdidas en el momento del cobro de las prestaciones Y es que calidad, confianza y dinamismo son los valores que Información válida a fecha de impresión: mayo 2013 enabled VidaCaixa Previsión Social remain leader, for yet another Tiene un tipo de interés garantizado nos definen y que han convertido a VidaCaixa Previsión Ofrece la mejor rentabilidad posible Social en líder en el mercado español en materia Optimiza la rentabilidad fiscal del ahorro de previsión social empresarial. Por ello, el 95,04%* de nuestros clientes están satisfechos y, diversos estudios, year, in complementary social welfare for companies. Apart from valoran a VidaCaixa por encima de la media de otras empresas** Servicio on-line para the specialist teams, VidaCaixa Previsión Social collaborates with a Comisiones de Control y Partícipes 86 large number of mediators and consultants. VidaCaixa S.A., de Seguros y Reaseguros, en adelante VidaCaixa S.A., con domicilio en C/ Juan Gris, 20-26, 08014 Barcelona (España), NIF A-58333261, inscrita en el Registro Mercantil de Barcelona, tomo 8402, libro 7653, sección 2ª, folio 128, hoja 97107. Entidad autorizada para la práctica de Para más información consulte: www.vidacaixaprevisionsocial.com Tranquilidad para el futuro de sus empleados, un valor añadido a su empresa operaciones de seguros de vida y entidad gestora de fondos de pensiones y socio protector-promotor de entidades de previsión social voluntaria. Inscrita Plan de Previsión Social Empresarial (PPSE) de VidaCaixa S.A. de Seguros y Reaseguros. C/Juan Gris, 20-26, en el Registro administrativo de entidades aseguradoras de la Dirección General de Seguros y Fondos de Pensiones con el número C-611, y como entidad 08014 Barcelona (España). NIF A-58333261. Inscrita en el Registro Mercantil de Barcelona, tomo 8402, libro gestora de fondos de pensiones con el número G-0021. 7653, sección 2ª, folio 128, hoja 97107. VidaCaixa Previsión Social es una marca registrada de Caixabank, S.A. número 2615062, clase 36, cuyo uso está cedido a VidaCaixa S.A. de Seguros y *Encuesta a clientes en directo. Reaseguros. Designa la división de VidaCaixa especializada en el diseño y la comercialización de productos y servicios relacionados con la previsión social VidaCaixa Previsión Social, marca registrada de Caixabank, S.A. número 2615062, clase 36, cuyo uso está One of the main events organised by VidaCaixa Previsión Social empresarial. cedido a VidaCaixa S.A. de Seguros y Reaseguros. **Encuesta realizada en el 2012 por ADECOSE. *AQmetrix: sociedad independiente que cualifica en términos de servicio de banca on-line a las principales entidades bancarias del Estado español. *Estudio realizado en 2012 por TNS a partícipes y miembros de Comisiones de Control de toda España. in 2013 was 25th anniversary of mediators and consultants with acts in Barcelona and Madrid. The two events were designed to In this line, work was also carried out on the development of support commemorate the 25 years this meeting has been held. These material to explain the Línea Abierta service to the Control Committee This is the online and Shareholder and to make access easy for them. Likewise, within encounters recognise all the collaboration and work that strengthens management tool for both the programme of organised activities in 2013, the following stood the relationship between mediators, consultants and VidaCaixa clients and group mediators out: two training sessions for the Control Committee, as well as Previsión Social. the organisation of a day-long conference aimed at HR managers 726 multi-national In 2013 several marketing actions were carried out to drive the under the title “Creative Efficiency: Managing people in an adverse companies, 28 IBEX 35 development of the Social Welfare Plan for Companies and operational environment “. companies and more than improvements were made in the Life Cycle Pension Plans. 339 public bodies all place With all this, VidaCaixa Previsión Social maintained its leadership in their trust in An e-Management service (old Online Platform) was also launched the complementary social welfare market for companies with a total VidaCaixa Previsión Social with a new approach and support materials so that mediators and of 907,000 company clients, 11.9% more than in 2012. SMEs and the self-employed This good behaviour continued in 2013 as the VidaCaixa Previsión Loyal customers The SME and self-employed sector is strategic for VidaCaixa and Social products allowed companies and entrepreneurs to cover both the effort made by the Company has been rewarded in the last few the scope of their business and employees and meet the pension years as we achieved a huge increase in our customer base thanks obligations of their employees arising from sectorial and voluntary to our risk products for entrepreneurs and employees and the most labour agreements. Thus, the number of SME and self-employed complete offer of pension plans and EPSV for this sector. customers stood at 174,000, 67% more than the previous year. Main products for SMEs and the self-employed VidaCaixa Protección Autónomo Vida VidaCaixa Convenios: Seguro innominado This is a group life insurance that can be subscribed to by both This insurance lets companies comply with their legal companies and the self-employed, and which protects the obligations derived from the sectorial collective agreements entrepreneur and his family or collaborators without a working when these contemplate compensations in case of death, 87 relationship in the face of death or disability for any reason. It permanent disability or large disability. It guarantees payment of is directed at working partners in their companies and selfan amount to a beneficiary in the case that any of the foreseen employed individual entrepreneurs. It also allows for additional contingencies in the sectorial collective agreement take place. cover in the case of temporary disability. VidaCaixa offers an automatic updating service of capitals and guarantees stemming from the customer’s sectorial agreement. Loyal customers VidaCaixa Vida Pymes VidaCaixa Escolarización This is a nominated group life insurance through which a This is a group life insurance, directed at children who attend Company protects its workers, partners, administrators and school, which guarantees continuity of education in the case collaborators in the case of death or disability for any reason. of the death of one of the parents or legal tutors. Optionally, The capitals and guarantees are modular. In the pension it lets schoolchildren be incorporated into the accidents and commitment module, it allows employees to be insured and in healthcare insurance. the non-pension commitment model it allows administrators and partners to be insured. Planes de Pensiones del Sistema Asociado VidaCaixa manages two Joint Employment Pension Plans: Planes de Pensiones y EPSV de Empleo PlanCaixa Colegios Profesionales and Plan de Pensiones del VidaCaixa offers its customers a diversified range of Joint Sector Agrario. Moreover, it manages associated pension plans Employment Pension Plans. The PlanCaixa Pyme provides promoted by other associations and professional colleges. 88 groups with three models of investment: Fixed Income PlanCaixa Pyme RF, Mixed Fixed Income PlanCaixa Pyme 20 RV and Mixed Variable Income PlanCaixa Pyme 50 Planes sectoriales RV. It also offers its customers integrated Pension Plans in In 2013 VidaCaixa managed three pension plans that came GeroCaixa Pyme EPSV, in which there are 5 different models about during the collective agreement sectorial negotiations: of investment. Moreover, VidaCaixa also manages PlanCaixa pension plan of the flower and plant trade workers; pension Corporaciones Locales, a Joint Employment Pension Plan plan of the garden centre workers; and pension plan of the specifically for state and semi-state companies. bingo organising companies. For further information on the 2013 main campaigns for SMEs and the self-employed, click here Loyal customers Multi-channel and Accessibility The many commercial channels that VidaCaixa has are a powerful Bancassurance tool in the commercial relationship with customers. Access to 5,730 branch offices of information and subscription to their products is made easy through CaixaBank these channels. Direct In order to guarantee maximum accessibility, VidaCaixa avails of Telephone and AgenCaixa the branch office network of CaixaBank, the largest in the Spanish Internet financial sector, and professional attention of the consultants and mediators with whom it collaborates. In addition, the Company invested in the development of digital channels, web, mobile phones Channels and ATMs, which increase the efficiency of operations and its proximity to customers. Thus, improvements to the performance of the Línea Abierta service continued, such as ready-to-buy (the customer 89 manager sends an order to be signed through Línea Abierta), which VidaCaixa makes subscribing to welfare and savings products more efficient. Mediators and Previsión consultants Social Direct Channels Loyal customers Individual customers can consult their products through the Línea Abierta of “la Caixa”. On the web, they have an integrated reduced consultation on the customer’s global position and a broader consultation where detailed information of all individual private insurance, pension, welfare, associated and employment plans can be obtained. Also noteworthy is the adaption of products of the different migrations so that customers of the integrated companies can avail of online consultations through Línea Abierta. Customers can subscribe to those products that, by their nature, are best suited to the Línea Abierta online, such as pension plans and 90 guaranteed pension plans and life-savings and life-risk insurances. It is also possible to perform extraordinary contributions to individual pension, employment and associated plans. Moreover, customers can subscribe to a SEVIAM linked to immediately available loans through ATMs and Línea Abierta Móvil. Likewise, VidaCaixa committed itself to the mobile channel. In this sense, from 2013 it is possible to subscribe to and make extraordinary contributions to pension plans through the Línea Abierta Móvil. Lastly, with the aim of perfecting the information of those who have pension plans, the detailed information in the records was improved. Products available through the CaixaBank Línea Loyal customers Abierta in 2013 and the main actions that can be performed Renunciation (first 30 days) Vida Familiar No renovation on maturity Seviam Abierto Life-risk Duplication of documentation Collective agreement Modify number of policyholders insurance Make extraordinary contributions Libreta Futuro Asegurado Renunciation (first 30 days) Life-savings Plan Ahorro Application for complete 91 Asegurado (PIAS) surrender Make contributions Internal transfers between plans Pension Plans and PPA External transfers to other Guaranteed entities Joint promotion Pension Plans Access to fiscal simulator for pension plans (PPA) contributions Associated plans (Contributable Online advisor from Línea Catalogue of plans Abierta “la Contributions and subscriptions Caixa” and through ready-to-buy Línea Abierta Móvil) Línea Abierta enables Employment pension Apart from all the above, Special consultation for Control VidaCaixa customers to plans Committees consult their products online Bancassurance channel Loyal customers The network of 5,730 CaixaBank branch offices is VidaCaixa’s main marketing channel, through which most savings and pension plan products are distributed. To support the branch offices, VidaCaixa defined its new commercial structure in 2013, which has 5 Marketing Areas covering all the Territorial Areas of CaixaBank. In turn, the figure of Life Marketing Manager (JCV as per acronym in Spanish) was created, more specifically, covering one or more Delegations, whose main function is to stimulate and support the Life Insurance and Pension Plans business, while coordinating at all times with the branch office network of CaixaBank. For the SME and self-employed and company segments, VidaCaixa has 200 AgenCaixa professionals. These professionals, who work in 92 coordination with CaixaBank, advise clients on products and services that best fit their needs. They are highly trained to help customers identify and understand the risks of their business and protect themselves from them. Also, with the aim of boosting sales in the Private Banking centres of CaixaBank, 2013 witnessed the incorporation of a Private Welfare Advisor for each Marketing Area, a new leading figure in the marketing of products specific to Social Welfare for the Private Banking segment of CaixaBank. Loyal customers Transparent and protected information Providing clear and accurate business information is essential to building confidence in customers; therefore VidaCaixa continued to improve the information and communication processes, beyond the provisions of the regulations. In this regard, the Company took on voluntary commitments, such as the INVERCO general code of conduct in advertising, and its advertising is jointly reviewed by CaixaBank and Autocontrol, an agency to which CaixaBank is voluntarily associated with and which ensures that advertising is truthful, legal, honest and loyal. VidaCaixa also notifies its customers and channels about the 93 voluntary adhesions to the United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment and Spainsif. In order to build customer confidence it is important that the information gathered about them is protected with the utmost rigor. That is why VidaCaixa has a security policy, internal regulations and procedures governing internal processes and which are mandatory for all those who have access to technology and information in the Company. In all workplaces and offices of VidaCaixa, technical and organisational measures are applied that guarantee the integrity and confidentiality of the data. In 2013 there were no sanctions or claims relating to a breach of the Data Protection Act (LOPD as per Spanish acronym) Loyal customers Excellent quality of service to customers and channels The pursuit of excellence in customer service has always been a priority for VidaCaixa. This commitment, based on providing the highest quality through advice from its professionals, its broad range of products and services focussed on meeting customer needs, enabled VidaCaixa to strengthen its relationship with customers and achieve excellent results. The management and measuring of quality The management and measuring of quality enables VidaCaixa to identify new opportunities, which are turned into innovations and continuous improvements for customers. VidaCaixa has a system of 94 quality management based on the ISO 9001 standard, validated by an external certification authority, and whose scope is: “the management of funds and employment pension plans.” In 2013 this system of management was recertified. How VidaCaixa measures and evaluates the quality of service provided to customers Internal measurements: • In group and company business customer surveys are conducted with customers, control committees, mediators and consultants. External measurements: • ADECOSE survey among mediators. • Willis Quality Index (WQI). Evaluation of the branch office network of CaixaBank Index of Quality of the Branch office Network of Loyal customers The branch office network of CaixaBank is VidaCaixa’s main marketing CaixaBank channel, and therefore it is monitored permanently. The degree of (Evaluation scale: 0 – 148) satisfaction of the branch network of CaixaBank in relation to the services offered by VidaCaixa increased once again, reaching a high level. To measure the degree of satisfaction of the branch network, CaixaBank conducts surveys to assess the overall quality of services based on the following: 1. The perceived quality through satisfaction surveys to the branch offices of the commercial network. 2. The objective quality, which assesses aspects of the creation and implementation of products and services offered to offices. 95 3. The assessment of the Call Center service. 129 107 136 145 129 out of 148 is the overall evaluation of quality by the Evaluation Overall Perceived Objective branch office network of of the Call evaluation quality quality CaixaBank Center Evaluation of the group and company segment: surveys Loyal customers to customers As in previous years, VidaCaixa continued to centre its attention on knowing the concerns of customers belonging to the group and company business. The data from the satisfaction surveys on risk and savings products show the perception of the quality of service continuing high. From 95% in 2012 it went up to 95.8% in 2013. With respect to the evaluation of satisfaction among Control Committees of pension plans, this also rose, going from 96.9% in 2012 to 98.4% in 2013. In this sense, it must be said that 96.1% of customers and 95.6% 96 of Control Committees would recommend subscribing VidaCaixa products to third parties. 953 surveys carried out on To find out how many surveys VidaCaixa Previsión Social group and company clients conducted, click here and business professionals Evaluations of the group and company segment: surveys to Loyal customers channels Both mediators and consultants show a high degree of recommendation VidaCaixa also annually evaluates the satisfaction of mediators and of VidaCaixa products. The level of recommendation in the case of consultants who distribute the portfolio of products in this segment. mediators selling group and company insurance reached 94.7% and The degrees of satisfaction remain very high: 98.9% from consultants, 98% in the case of consultants. up from 97.2% in 2012, and 91.5% from mediators, down from 94.3% in 2012. Results of the surveys on group and Company business Risk and Savings groups Pension plans Mediators Consultants 97 95.0 95.8 96.9 98.4 94.3 91.5 97.2 98.9 2012 2013 External measurements Loyal customers The high levels of perceived satisfaction are endorsed by the good results obtained in two external studies of quality, Barometer ADECOSE 2013 and the Willis Quality Index 2013, in which VidaCaixa was evaluated along with other companies in the sector. The Barometer ADECOSE 2013, the Spanish Association of Insurance Brokers, shows that VidaCaixa Previsión Social is the company, with headquarters in Spain, most valued by insurance brokers. In the Willis study, VidaCaixa still stands at the head of the sector in Spain in all the processes and aspects evaluated in the Willis Quality Index and achieved the same 4-star rating as in 2012, exceeding the average of the companies analysed in every aspect: product subscription, administration policy and customer service. 98 Evaluation of the quality of suppliers The suppliers who do the quality surveys of individual customers are audited independently, based on a procedure defined by VidaCaixa, in which an evaluation is carried out for both competences and processes. Depending on the results obtained in the audits, the supplier is presented with the identification of the corresponding improvement actions to be carried out. VidaCaixa is the most valued Company according to the insurance brokers who took part in the ADECOSE study and the Willis Quality Index Closer to the customer Loyal customers In addition to the satisfaction indicators, VidaCaixa places the following attention channels at the disposal of customers in the branch offices of CaixaBank: 1. Letters and phone calls to the Manager. 2. VidaCaixa’s Call Center. 3. Customer attention forms on the Internet pages of CaixaBank, VidaCaixa and VidaCaixa Previsión Social. 4. The insurance and pension plan section on the Línea Abierta webpage of “la Caixa”. 5. Telephone of the customer service attention of VidaCaixa Previsión 99 Social. With regards to the letters to the Manager, a total of 88 were received in 2013, 41% less than in 2012. The Call Center managed a total of 756,748 interactions, which came mostly from CaixaBank branch offices. Of them, 16,063 were calls from VidaCaixa Previsión Social customers. Similarly, a total of 1,317 e-mails were responded to via the Corporate web of VidaCaixa. Among the main reason for contacting the center were those related to the conditions of liquidity and rescue of pension plans and guaranteed pension plans, as well as how the amounts would be paid out. Customer Ombudsman Loyal customers VidaCaixa customers have at their disposal, and can make their claims to, the Customer Ombudsman from the Catalan Saving Banks. His decisions are binding for the companies but not so for the policyholders. Regarding the Ombudsman of the Catalan Savings Banks, a total of 88 claims were handled. On the other hand, another 48 claims were handled by the Directorate General of Insurance and Pension Funds. 100 For more details on the distribution of calls received per product by the Call Center, click here For more details on the distribution of letters to the Manager and claims, click here For more details on the resolution of the claims handled by the Ombudsman of the Catalan Savings Banks and those handled by the Directorate General of Insurance and Pension Funds, click here Loyal customers Adapting to new channels of communication VidaCaixa makes multiple communication channels available to its The launch of the VidaCaixa website also includes, as a new feature, stakeholders. These greatly help relationships and marketing. In 2013 the integration of the VidaCaixa Previsión Social portal. This integration the Company made a clear commitment to digital channels and the will help increase traffic and improve efficiency in terms of continuous 2.0 environment. content updates. A new corporate website with a functional design was developed. The web is completed by a corporate blog, which continuously informs The corporate content of VidaCaixa and SegurCaixa Adeslas were about the activities of the Company and the website for the fu[Tu]ro segregated while renewing the look & feel of the site in order to make programme . it more attractive and intuitive for users. The new web also shares the presence of VidaCaixa on social networks: In addition, enhancements to its navigation and usability were Twitter, LinkedIn, SlideShare, YouTube and Google+, which sets up a 101 introduced, making the search for content and access to corporate permanent two-way communication with its stakeholders. and commercial information easier. New corporate website NEW DESIGN Attractive and functional Web Responsive Design (mobile, tablet, PC) USABILITY VidaCaixa launched a new Compatibility corporate website and 2.0 Accessibility (= webs Grupo Caixa) channels VidaCaixa websites and social networks Loyal customers Social networking integration 102 For more information • Corporate website • fu[Tu]ro website • Twitter • YouTube • Blog • Linkedin • Google+ • SlideShare Loyal customers Contribution to a culture in favour of savings and welfare UNESPA VidaCaixa’s responsible leadership in the life market sector and (Spanish Union of Insurance complementary social security in Spain is not only put into practice and Reinsurance Companies) by offering innovative products suited to the needs of its customers, but also by promoting a culture in favour of planning and provisioning APD savings for retirement in Spain . This is why VidaCaixa has such an Association for active role in initiatives in the insurance and social welfare sector. the Advancement INVERCO of Management (Group in the Furthermore, VidaCaixa has other diffusion channels to promote this Mediterranean Investment) necessary provision of savings: Area Active collaboration • Its executives and managers actively participate in events, with 103 conferences and sectorial publications. • It develops and collaborates in other publications of “la Caixa “ ICEA to spread the culture of welfare, such as the periodic newsletter (Cooperative Research of VidaCaixa Previsión Social, Info CaixaEmpresa and the Newsletter Edad & Vida Insurance 360º from Private Banking. Companies and Pension Funds) • In 2013 it issued 14 press releases with news about the Company and VidaCaixa initiatives to add value to society. Geneva Association 6th Control Committee Forum Loyal customers The sixth edition of the Control Committee Forum, promoted by the la Caixa” Employee Pension Plan and sponsored by VidaCaixa Previsión Social, was attended by over 350 people, members of Control and Pension Plan Committees, representatives of companies, employer organisations and the unions. This year’s Forum was structured around two debate panels: “The present state of pension reform” and “Future challenges and the international vision of pension funds”. They stressed the need to provide public pension information to citizens, as well as the need to improve financial training and education to be able to plan for retirement. Similarly, during the closing ceremony the speakers pointed out that it was everyone’s responsibility to construct a model that guaranteed a suitable income for retirement. The Control Committee Forum is a platform intended for leading the reflections of experts on corporate social welfare in Spain. The aim of the Forum is to offer, society in general and the financial and corporate sector in particular, a channel of communication and dialogue on pension and employment plans and corporate social welfare in Spain. 104 During the ceremony the speakers pointed out that it was everyone’s responsibility to construct a model that guaranteed a suitable income Luis Rojas Marcos, a psychiatrist and member of the Academy of Medicine of New Tomás Burgos, Secretary of State for Social Security, closed the 6th Control for retirement York, at the opening ceremony Committee Forum Loyal customers Payment of services In 2013 VidaCaixa paid 688,500 pensions in the form of income, Pensions paid out amounting to almost 1,600 million euros. Additionally, 55,063 services were paid in the form of capital, which amounted to 1,051 million euros. 688,500 This implies that VidaCaixa is responsible for paying about 27% of private pensions in Spain. Pensions paid Total amount of income 105 1,600 million euros 1,051 VidaCaixa is responsible for million euros paying almost 27% of private pensions in Spain paid in capital 688,500 pensions paid to its customers for an amount of almost 1,600 million euros Data: ICEA 3Q 2013 and own studies 11 Creating value Excellent results Leadership and increased market share 106 3.6 million customers trust VidaCaixa Excellent evolution of ordinary business, profitable and sustainable growth Creating value Excellent results In 2013 VidaCaixa’s consolidated recurring net profit was 328.3 million euros, due to the excellent performance of all businesses in which it operated, which offset the effect of the reinsurance transaction of the life-risk portfolio that took place in the last quarter of 2012. This result almost equals the ordinary profit of the previous year. These results are the work of the efficient commercial management of the Company, which resulted in an increase of 14.1% in the VidaCaixa customer base, or 3.6 million customers, and leadership in all businesses for individual customers with a market share in individual life-savings of 20.3%, 18.7% in individual pension plans, including the guaranteed pension plans, and 13.3% in individual life107 risk insurance. Also, in 2013 VidaCaixa exceeded 50,000 million euros in managed funds, a figure that represents a 14.1% increase on the previous year. Of this amount, 16,678.5 million euros correspond to pension plans and EPSV, an increase of 12.8% compared to an evolution of 6.8% for the market, according to data from Inverco. The rest, 33,350.7 million euros, correspond to life insurance, an increase of 14.7% over the same period the previous year, while the sector grew by 3.2%, according to data from ICEA. Presentation of results for 2013. Especially of note is the increase in VidaCaixa’s market share with To see the presentation of the 2013 results, click here respect to total life insurance premiums, which rose from 19.5% in Creating value December 2012 to 20.9% in the same month in 2013. This share reflects the strong leadership of the Company in the sector. The Company’s solvency margin increased again over the previous year and stood at 3,833.9 million euros, representing a solvency ratio of 2.5 times above the legally required level compared to 2.1 times in 2012. Results (millions of euros) 2012 2013 Var. 13/12 Subtotal Risk (Individual + Company) 465.5 532.8 14.5% Premiums and 108 Life-risk insurance 4,561.6 4,753.8 4.2% Pension plans 1,002.6 1,362.1 35.9% Contributions Subtotal Savings (Individual + Company) 5,564.2 6,116.0 9.9% Total Risk and Savings (Individual + Company) 6,029.7 6,648.8 10.3% Life insurance 29,70.6 33,350.7 14.7% Nº Managed Pension plans and EPSV 14,781.7 16,678.5 12.8% funds Total Cust. Funds Managed (Indiv. + Company) 43,852.3 50,029.2 14.1% Individual Customers 3,143,015 3,586,801 14.1% Consolidated net profit VidaCaixa 338.7 328.3 -3.1% Recurring net profit VidaCaixa 789.5 420.1 -46.8% The financial information of the document is reported in accordance with International Financial reporting Standards. VidaCaixa’s contribution to the Social Work (Obra Social) of “la Caixa” Creating value The contribution VidaCaixa makes to the profit of its controlling shareholder, CaixaBank enabled VidaCaixa to work indirectly through dividends and commissions with the work carried out by the Obra Social (Social Work) of “la Caixa”, through the development of social programmes, environmental and science programmes, and cultural, educational and research programmes. In 2013, the budget of the Obra Social “la Caixa” remained at 500 million euros, despite the economic downturn. 109 Creating value Leadership and increased market shares In 2013 VidaCaixa maintained its leadership position in the sector, achieving the following percentage increases relative to 20121: life-savings insurance, 4.2%; pension plans, 35.9%, and life-risk insurance, 14.5%. Also, VidaCaixa’s volume of premiums and contributions increased by 10.3% over the previous year thanks to sales of 6,648.8 million euros. Premiums and contributions Managed funds 110 6,030 6,649 43,852 50,029 2012 2013 1 Data refer to the figures of premiums and contributions Creating value 3.6 million customers trust In the individual business, the company grew by 13.2% to 2.7 million customers. The SME and the self-employed business stood VidaCaixa at 174,000 customers, up 67%. As for groups and companies, 726 multinational companies, along with 28 IBEX 35 companies and more This positive evolution of the business of the Company was possible than 339 public bodies, formed part of the VidaCaixa customer base, in part through the increase, once again, in the number of customers, which represented a growth of 11.9% over the previous year, with which rose to 3.6 million policyholders and participants, representing the number of customers reaching 907,000. 14.1% more than in 2012, an increase that was repeated in all segments. 3,6 million policyholders and participants +14.1% 111 +13.2% 2.7 million individual customers +11.9% 907,000 group and company customers 726 multi-nationals, 28 companies from the IBEX 35 y 339 public bodies +67% 174,000 SME and self-employed customers Figures net of duplicities. Evolution of individual customers The keys to success are the analysis and anticipation of demographic Creating value change, counselling prior to retirement and the forecast of the Knowing the specific needs of different segments of individual expected evolution of pensions, all enabled VidaCaixa to anticipate the customers, combined with personalised advice, allowed VidaCaixa to needs of the people and respond to them. To this one must add the focus their response on a wide range of savings and pension products strengthening of the commercial activity. Thus, VidaCaixa managed, for the individual customer segment. once again, to increase its market share in individual business. Leadership in the individual business 1 st ranking 1 1 ranking ranking individual st individual pension st individual 112 life-savings plans and PPA life-risk 20.3% 18.7% 13.3% market share market share market share 2013 2013 2013 Source: ICEA and INVERCO Life-risk insurance and pension plans for individual Among the main factors that contributed to the good performance of Creating value customers life-savings insurance the following are of note: the excellent marketing of annuities, the successful management by segment, with a boost With regards to individual life-savings insurance premiums, of the offer to the personal and private banking segments, and a VidaCaixa sold 33.1% more in 2013, the total volume amounted broadening of the range and ample acceptance of the PIAS (individual to 2,576 million euros. Similarly, the net contributions of internal systematic savings plans), a product designed for channelling longmovements to individual pension plans* showed a growth of 15.1% term savings with a new model with managed investment. to top at 1,851.5 million euros. This increase, with respect to the same period last year, is particularly noteworthy, since the savings For their part, the key elements of the good performance of the pension business is being heavily influenced by the economic environment, plan segment for individual customers were: the expansion and with a fall in the rate of household savings and a reduction in the consolidation of the range of non-guaranteed products; the increase gross disposable income. in the average contribution and the recurrence of the contributions In addition, the life-savings individual insurance segment managed of portfolio customers; and the large number of deposits obtained a total of 17,737 million euros in 2013, 9.2% more than in 2012. thanks to the PlanCaixa Ambición product. 113 *Includes PPA. Life-risk insurance for individual customers Creating value As for the life-risk premium business, volume of premiums rose to Despite the economic situation, VidaCaixa experienced a growth 532.8 million euros, 14.5% more. Of this figure, 331.3 million euros of 29% in the individual life-risk business. The keys to success corresponded to the individual life-risk business and 201.5 million were threefold: the favourable evolution of the Insurance Pack, the euros to the group and company business. successful marketing of insurance linked to portfolio assets and the marketing strategy, with segmentation and flexible rates, aimed at This improvement comes from the successful marketing of life-risk high-value customers. products not associated with loans. 114 VidaCaixa Previsión Social Creating value VidaCaixa Previsión Social, the market leader in the complementary social welfare business in our country, is the brand under which VidaCaixa operates in the group and company business. In this segment, VidaCaixa Previsión Social strengthens its leadership position through a differentiated offering that combines profitability, liquidity and flexibility. VidaCaixa Previsión Social strengthens its leadership position 1 1 2 ranking ranking ranking st Group and st Group and nd Group and Company Company risk Company savings pension plans 115 Market share in premiums Market share in managed funds Market share in managed funds +1.0% +1.3% +0.7% 18.4% 19.1% 22.2% 23.2% 20.9% 22.2% 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 Source: ICEA and INVERCO These positions in the ranking were achieved with percentage Net weighted return of group and company pension Creating value increases in market share in all three businesses with respect to 2012; plans 0.7 percentage points in group and company risk; 1 percentage point in group and company savings; 1.3 percentage points in group and VidaCaixa company pension plans, which is certainly an excellent result in a market in sharp decline because of the absence of new commitments, Market a fall in the restructuring plans and the legislative changes. The top class advice VidaCaixa offers its customers, along with the wide range of products, allowed VidaCaixa Previsión Social to capture up to 38 pension plans in the last six years, while maintaining the trust of its corporate clients. It is noteworthy that the net weighted return of VidaCaixa’s group and company pension plans remains above the market average. 116 Thus, in 2013 the group and company pension plans accumulated 9.4% 7.7% 6.2% 5.2% 6.9% 5.6% 7,669.4 million euros in managed savings, 9.9% more than in 2012. Prominent among them is undoubtedly Pensions Caixa 30, number 1 in Spain in terms of resources, with more than 5,200 million euros, and currently has 36,907 participants. In group and company savings insurance, the amount managed was 9,534.8 million euros, which represented an increase of 4%. Adding the three branches of 1 year 3 years 5 years Previsión Social, VidaCaixa continues as market leader. Source: Return calculated in accordance with INVERCO data and weighted depending on the amount of each fund. Creating value Excellent performance of ordinary business, profitable and sustainable growth In 2013 the ordinary business evolved very positively, with significant increases in profitability, which enabled profits of 328 million euros. Growth in 2013 is explained by the integration of the insurance business of Banca Civica and Banco de Valencia, while the negative variation with respect to 2012, with profit after tax falling from 789.5 to 420,1 million euros, reflecting the impact of the transfer of the life-risk individual business to Berkshire Hathaway reinsurance in that year. 117 VidaCaixa remained true to the traits that characterise it, with a wide commercial range, strict risk management and a performance aligned with its values: trust, quality and dynamism. 12 Commitments and future challenges 118 The challenges, classified by stakeholders, show VidaCaixa’s Commitments and commitment to the needs of its customers, employees, society and future challenges the environment. Degree of Response / Challenges 2013 Challenges for 2014 accomplishment actions 2013 CUSTOMERS / Leadership in sustainable management of investments, solvency and risk control Advance in the control and The process of development and At a European level, the regulatory management of risk, comply with approval of the text of the Omnibus II development of “level 2” of Solvency II the new regulations (Solvency II) and Directive came to an end, especially or Regulation should finish in 2014, participate in impact studies and with the inclusion of the valuation which is particularly relevant given that voluntary sectorial initiatives. methodology of the long-term it will be directly applied without the savings guarantees, which means need of approval. 119 the completion of the regulatory At a national level, and in accordance development of “level 1” of Solvency with the provisions set out by the II, which will come into force on 1st DGSFP, in the light of the guidelines January 2016. drawn up by EIOPA, the European supervisor, will mean the design and start of the development of all the necessary measures of “preparation” for the coming into force of Solvency II in 2016, after the next two years of “transition”. Among those measures the adaption based on four fundamental elements must be considered: System of Government, Approval of internal models, Evaluation of Risk and Solvency, and Reporting to supervisor. 1. Challenge not started 2. Challenge at initial stage 3. Challenge partially accomplished 4. Challenge at final stage 5. Challenge accomplished Commitments and Degree of Response / Challenges 2013 Challenges for 2014 accomplishment actions 2013 future challenges Attend and participate in Spainsif to All the programmed sessions were Participation in forums and seminars so generate and disseminate knowledge actively participated in and we that SRI can be disseminated and the about Socially Responsible Investment collaborated in Spainsif’s SRI week by methodology applied by VidaCaixa. (SRI). offering a training session. Progress and advance in the analysis to The services of a well-known ESG PRI Reporting on activity in 2013. detect investments in companies that supplier were hired that enabled a do not respond to SRI criteria. more profound study of SRI. CUSTOMERS / Innovative and sustainable insurance and welfare products 120 Adapt processes to build a suitable Implement improvements project. Adapt the subscription processes to the value proposal for SMEs and the segment. self-employed. Adapt the fee for high value customers. Take advantage of the commercial Commercial actions were undertaken Disseminate the offer for SMEs and the synergies with “la Caixa” customers to to link asset operations with self-employed in the bancassurance develop a financial-insurance offer for companies with life insurance. channel to meet the needs of this SMEs and the self-employed. segment. Offer new welfare and savings Improvements were developed in Continue to improve the characteristics products for retirement. the offer of products to better fit the and services of the present product needs of individuals. offer. 1. Challenge not started 2. Challenge at initial stage 3. Challenge partially accomplished 4. Challenge at final stage 5. Challenge accomplished Commitments and Degree of Response / Challenges 2013 Challenges for 2014 accomplishment actions 2013 future challenges Develop structured products in Unit Much of this project has been Create recurring offer of structured Linked format. developed and it will be finished in the product and highly specialised products first quarter of 2014. for Private Banking segment. Develop telemarketing oriented The proposal for planned product Continue to develop telemarketing products. telemarketing campaigns was products targeted at new customer implemented. segments. Design alternative savings products for income and capital adapted to capital consumption, and analyse new cover for 121 individual risk products. Integration and management of Migration of pension plans portfolio Consolidation of the integration process insurance products and pension plans from Cajasol and CajaCanarias. of the insurance from this portfolio from entities merged by CaixaBank. * in the management processes of VidaCaixa. Integration and management of products from Seguros Cajasol Vida y Pensiones and CajaCanarias Vida y Pensiones. Analysis and definition of *This challenge also responds to the required functionality in VidaCaixa integration of the Banca Cívica life applications. Migration of this portfolio insurance portfolio management, which to VidaCaixa applications. also appears in the Integrated Annual Report 2012. 1. Challenge not started 2. Challenge at initial stage 3. Challenge partially accomplished 4. Challenge at final stage 5. Challenge accomplished Commitments and Degree of Response / Challenges 2013 Challenges for 2014 accomplishment actions 2013 future challenges Integration of these portfolios into the VidaCaixa insurance management processes. Facilitate the process of document transaction through platform created with the companies, suppliers and mediators. CUSTOMERS / Security and transparency in relationships with customers Finish the revision of the outstanding All the contracts with VidaCaixa were Adapt VidaCaixa contracts to CaixaBank 122 services contracts. revised making sure they complied Group requirements. with article 12 of the LOPD (Data protection Law) and Royal Decree 1720/2007. Improve the control processes of Not developed in 2013. Development of systems for subscription subscription via data transmission: through telematic channels. telephone and Línea Abierta, as well as finishing outstanding contracts. Analyse the online processes that have Not developed in 2013. Not applicable. the greatest number of withdrawals. 1. Challenge not started 2. Challenge at initial stage 3. Challenge partially accomplished 4. Challenge at final stage 5. Challenge accomplished Commitments and Degree of Response / Challenges 2013 Challenges for 2014 accomplishment actions 2013 future challenges CUSTOMERS / Accessibility to products and services Continue to improve product Through experience in contacts Subscription to life insurance through operations. with customers and branch office Línea Abierta by electronically employees, 118 suggestions were completing a health questionnaire. managed in the operations / procedures. Analysis of the viability of projects aimed at improving operational efficiency and quality of products and, where appropriate, defined and developed within the pension plan and insurance environment. 123 Improve the Call Centre service for Development of a Contact Specialist Provide more resources for employees managers and channels based on their in 2013. via the Call Center. needs. Advance in the ongoing project In 2013 the project advanced Progress of Project according to that aims to make the access to internally and was defined and will be schedule. the technology of the Línea Abierta included in the 2014 plan for its full web of “la Caixa” available to development. policyholders of VidaCaixa Previsión Social.* *This challenge also responds to the alignment of the group and company insurance service with the current services provided for employment pension plans and individual products. 1. Challenge not started 2. Challenge at initial stage 3. Challenge partially accomplished 4. Challenge at final stage 5. Challenge accomplished Commitments and Degree of Response / Challenges 2013 Challenges for 2014 accomplishment actions 2013 future challenges Develop a commercial action plan Completion of the plan pursuant to Greater use of the e-Management with the goal of doubling users on the objectives set. platform (e-Gestión in Spanish). the platforms for brokers and group policyholders. Use telemarketing tools as a sales Increase in capital in Vida Familiar Open the action to non-VidaCaixa channel. customers. customers. Open the subscription of life insurance on Línea Abierta via the electronic completion of a health questionnaire. 124 CUSTOMERS / Customer satisfaction Maintain and extend the present The same surveys were maintained Maintain and extend the present system system of surveys and improve the in 2013 as they were considered of surveys and improve the perception perception of quality. appropriate. of quality. Maintain or improve the position in A higher valuation was obtained in Maintain or improve the position in the the rankings of external studies. ADECOSE survey while the Willis rankings of external studies. survey remained the same. 1. Challenge not started 2. Challenge at initial stage 3. Challenge partially accomplished 4. Challenge at final stage 5. Challenge accomplished Commitments and Degree of Response / Challenges 2013 Challenges for 2014 accomplishment actions 2013 future challenges EMPLOYEES / Training and personal development Definition of the Training Plan based Online employee training was boosted Bring training into the strategic on the new scope of action of the with the fu[Tu]ro initiative and objectives of the Company. Company. customer assessment. Consolidate the Management Model The goal was achieved through the Continue to implement and monitor the through attitudinal competences.* implementation and monitoring of the competency model as a mechanism to model. improve employee performance. EMPLOYEES / Dialogue, participation and communication 125 Launch the Internet for the scope The new intranet was launched Strengthen the internal use of the of VidaCaixa and AgenCaixa, as as the main means of internal intranet. a new channel of communication communication. that guarantees an optimum and effective level of information of the communication process. Maintain and adapt the BSC/PSC BSC/PSC were strengthened as a Continue using the BSC/PSC in to the new organisational structure management and communications communications of the strategy as a tool of communication of the strategy to employees. and alignment of employees with strategy and alignment of the effort organisational goals. *This challenge responds to the and dedication of the people to the consolidation of the competency objectives of the Company. management model and the retention of talent, a goal that appears in the 2012 Integrated Annual Report. 1. Challenge not started 2. Challenge at initial stage 3. Challenge partially accomplished 4. Challenge at final stage 5. Challenge accomplished Commitments and Degree of Response / Challenges 2013 Challenges for 2014 accomplishment actions 2013 future challenges EMPLOYEES / Compensation mechanisms, advantages and social benefits Maintain the system of total The system of compensation has been Keep the present system as a value offer compensation that includes fixed and in force for years. for employees. variable salary and social benefits. EMPLOYEES / Commitment to quality employment Identify and retain the talent and Define the VidaCaixa project and Continue with and strengthen the resources needed to guarantee the strengthen the value offer to attract strategy to attract and retain talent. VidaCaixa Project. and retain talent based on seven pillars. 126 In the present economic crisis, The challenge was met both in the Keep this objective in the future. maintain the challenge of parallel and development of the business and in the compensated development of the stability and consolidation of the staff. business and the staff. EMPLOYEES / Commitment to labour rights Maintain the gradual application of The labour agreement was fully No new challenges were proposed for the labour agreement. applied. 2014 because it is considered closed. Carry out Prevention of Labour Risks The planned activities to ensure the Continue with the application of the activities in accordance with what is safety and welfare in the workplace measures set out in the plan to prevent set out by law. took place. occupational hazards. Implement the Equality Plan. Approval and communication of the Ensure compliance of Equality plan. Equality Plan to all staff. 1. Challenge not started 2. Challenge at initial stage 3. Challenge partially accomplished 4. Challenge at final stage 5. Challenge accomplished Commitments and Degree of Response / Challenges 2013 Challenges for 2014 accomplishment actions 2013 future challenges EMPLOYEES / Culture in favour of Innovation Monitor the implementation of the Code A new Code of Ethics and complaints Implementation of Code of Ethics and of Ethics and the complaints channel. channel were designed. complaints channel. Strengthen the intranet as a space for Innova+ was improved through Continue working like last year with innovation and participation. dynamic mechanisms to have more regard to dynamism with the publication employee participation. of Innopill, Innowaw and also with the Ideas campaigns were undertaken design of Debates and Challenges. for both VidaCaixa and CaixaBank employees. Use the Efficiency Model as a lever The efficiency model in the Company Enlarge the efficiency model to link 127 in the search and analysis of those was consolidated and the first general business indicators. activities that are likely to optimise and analysis of the TOP 10, with respect to Undertake projects to seek out pockets obtain a better efficiency ratio. costs, was undertaken and the results of efficiency. obtained. Incorporate a particular indicator into the BSC that is specific to all the organisational units and that is representative of the efficiency unit. EMPLOYEES / Selection, welcome, retention and satisfaction of the employees Maintain the EFR certification. Recertification of the EFR model is Maintain the EFR certification. under way. Consolidate the work model of the Best Maintain the lines set up by the Best Conduct a survey at the end of 2014. Place to Work within the framework of Place to Work model. “Nuestro Proyecto VidaCaixa”. 1. Challenge not started 2. Challenge at initial stage 3. Challenge partially accomplished 4. Challenge at final stage 5. Challenge accomplished Commitments and Degree of Response / Challenges 2013 Challenges for 2014 accomplishment actions 2013 future challenges THE ENVIRONMENT / Strategy and management of environmental impact Start the definition of an The policy defined by VidaCaixa is Update is discarded in 2014. environmental policy approved by the maintained. management and transmitted to all the staff. Implement Corporate Social The actions for 2014 were defined. Revise contract clauses in relation with Responsibility when hiring suppliers. ESG criteria. Push forward the actions for accessible The awareness plan for 2014 was Develop content for internal diffusion. communication on an internal level in defined. 128 order to spread good environmental Carry out activities or events related to practices and provide information on environmental awareness. consumption. 1. Challenge not started 2. Challenge at initial stage 3. Challenge partially accomplished 4. Challenge at final stage 5. Challenge accomplished Commitments and Degree of Response / Challenges 2013 Challenges for 2014 accomplishment actions 2013 future challenges SOCIETY / The social function of insurance and welfare activity Continue researching, with important Start the collaboration with different Conclusions of the research. university organisations, into themes organisations. related to welfare and insurance. Continue with the organisation of the 6th Forum was organised and Organise 7th Forum and a training Control Committee forums and other two training sessions for Control Programme for Control Committees training events. Committees were carried out. with four sessions. Communicate the fu[Tu]ro strategy Several communications initiatives Through new initiatives such as creating 129 to policyholders and groups and were carried out. a welcome pack. companies. Maintain leadership in social welfare. Many initiatives were developed to Related actions were undertaken, such position VidaCaixa as a reference in as the Control Committees Forum, the complementary social welfare pension and restructuring plan sessions market. and events with mediators. Improvement in the management and Improved management of information communications processes with group to and communications with and company customers continued. policyholders and participants. Improvements to specific operations in Línea Abierta of “la Caixa”. Improvements to the management of channels and brokers and strengthening of the e-Gestión tool. 1. Challenge not started 2. Challenge at initial stage 3. Challenge partially accomplished 4. Challenge at final stage 5. Challenge accomplished Commitments and Degree of Response / Challenges 2013 Challenges for 2014 accomplishment actions 2013 future challenges SOCIETY / Presence of the Company in society Continue reinforcing Retorn as The activities of employees in favour Continue committed to Retorn and an instrument to channel the of society was continued and promoting it as a mechanism of social participation of employees. reinforced. action of the employees. 130 1. Challenge not started 2. Challenge at initial stage 3. Challenge partially accomplished 4. Challenge at final stage 5. Challenge accomplished Index of Appendices Index of Appendices 0.1 Cover and scope, Dialogue with stakeholders and Materiality 0.2 GRI G3.1 Indicator Tables and the United Nations Global Compact 2.1 Contact information of VidaCaixa 2.2 History of VidaCaixa 4.1 Principal risks identified by VidaCaixa 8.1 A team in figures 8.2 Retorn Programme. What we did in 2013 10.1 Campaigns for individuals 2013 10.2 Campaign for SMEs and the self-employed 2013 10.3 Excellent quality of service 131 For further information VidaCaixa Juan Gris, 20-26. 08014, Barcelona Telephone: 93 227 87 00 / Fax: 93 298 90 05 Internet: www.vidacaixa.es If you wish to send us a comment or ask a question about this report, please send your requests via this e-mail address: informeanual@vidacaixa.es
