Communication on Progress 2014 elm-plastic GmbH Kollenbergstr. 7 D-54647 Dudeldorf / GERMANY Management Statement elm-plastic GmbH has been a member of the UN Global Compact since November 2012. We support the 10 principles of the Global Compact in accordance with our own value statements. The best possible health as well as the safety of our employees, optimal environmental protection, and the highest quality of work and a fair interaction with our business partners are our management’s express responsibility and constant objectives. We have further adjusted our corporate policy hereto and communicated this to all levels of our company. Our constant efforts in the area of CSR shows, among other things, that we have achieved silver level at the independent evaluation platform (www.ecovadis.com). This evaluation system focuses on the topics of the environment, treatment of personnel / industrial safety, fair business practice, and the supply chain. Clear improvements could be achieved in the area of labour practices and fair business practices. Summary of the Evaluation for year 2012 Summary of the Evaluation for year 2013/2014 Dudeldorf, November 12th, 2014 B. Lonien (Manging Director) S. Möhs (Manging Director) 1 1. Human Rights We observe human rights protection within our scope of influence. elm-plastic GmbH is subject to the provisions regarding equality and anti-discrimination which are valid in Germany. Until this date there has been no case of any human-rights violation at elm-plastic. Should a human-rights violation complaint ever be made then the direct supervisor and management are direct points of contact for the employee. 2. Industrial Safety We strictly observe adherence to work-safety regulations in order to avoid any damages to our employees. Our company is OSHAS 18001 certified. An industrial safety and environment committee has been appointed which convenes 4 times a year. Here all potential risks are assessed and any stoppage / preventive measures are taken. Employee work-safety training is implemented. Work clothing, safety clothing and gear (safety boots, gloves, protective glasses, hearing protection) are provided to the employees. The plant location is inspected on a regular basis with regard to work safety by outside panels, such as safety specialists, occupational health physician, the liability insurance association, as well as the trade supervision. Since year 2013 elm-plastic has appointed its own representative for work safety. Two persons have been appointed as safety specialists. An occupational health physician performs preventive work medical examinations on a regular basis. A sufficient number of first-aiders is taught and trained regularly in order to be able to ensure immediate first aid in cases of an emergency. Within the framework of our work-safety management system we record the lost work time due to accidents and carefully analyze that data. The accident rate of 2013 is one accident. 2 3. The Environment Since 2002 we are operating a certified environmental management system specific energy consumption pursuant to ISO 14001 and EMAS. In 2001 the by now twelve years of experience 28 % we can show a lasting success in our strife for environmental protection. As an energy-intensive company we 2013 have placed our focus in the saving of energy consumption. But also other areas, e.g. the reduction of dangerous substances in the production were able to be improved in this context. The area of waste recycling, waste separation and waste disposal was systemized and optimized. Thanks to the constant transition to fully electrical injection molding machines and optimization of HVAC systems the specific energy consumption (in kWh per kg of processed material) could be further lowered to a level of -28%. Here we constantly endeavor to improve that objective. Our outstanding performance in this field was recognized by archiving the 2013 Sustainablity award by Janssen Pharmaceutica. 4. Corruption elm-plastic GmbH is against all sorts of corruption. We enforce a fair treatment of employees, customers and suppliers. Only in this manner can lasting business relationships be established and motivated, committed employees enlisted. 3
