CSR REPORT 2013 CSR3 CONTENTS P. 03 Contents P. 05 Managing director’s statement P. 07 About Oriental Group — History — Mission & Values P. 08 CSR approach & Organizational structure P. 08 CSR activities — United Nations Global Compact — BSCI – Business Social Compliance Initiative P. 09 Other CSR related activities — Supply chain P. 10 Oriental staff P. 10 Environmental impact — Chemical Testing — Environment P. 11 Anti corruption P. 11 CSR result year 2013 P. 11 CSR goals year 2014 4ORIENTAL CSR5 MANAGING DIRECTOR’S STATEMENT In our CSR report for 2013 we will give you an update on our continuous strive to improve all matters related to CSR in Oriental and within the suppliers we cooperate with. Responsible behaviour is one of the key values of Oriental. On the global level, we support the UN Global Compact 10 principles working for improvement of human rights, workers fair treatment, beneficial actions towards the environment and measures of anticorruption. On the European level, we have been a member of the BSCI since 2008. We focus on improving our supply chain awareness and compliance to guidelines of the BSCI and are constantly improving the joint effort of all partners in our garment production. On the national Chinese level, we participate as a full member of our local society and we cooperate with our Chinese employees and suppliers to make a difference, now and in the future. MANAGING DIRECTOR ORIENTAL CHINA HENRIK POULSEN 6ORIENTAL CSR7 ABOUT ORIENTAL GROUP HISTORY we work together with a customer, the better Oriental is a Danish founded garment company we can meet their design preferences and that has assisted retail customers in Europe in production requirements. We strongly believe the designing and production of their fashion in the value of ethical business practices and collections since 1994. use them as guiding principles in our relations with both our customers and suppliers. We operate our sales from offices in Aarhus, Denmark and Suzhou close to Shanghai in MISSION & VALUES China. In 2011 we opned our first fully-owned manufacturing factory in China, besides our MISSION own factory we also work with sub-factories in Our mission is to make our customers more China and India. competitive in their respective markets. We do this through providing cost effective We strive to offer the best services for our production options at the agreed quality level clients at all levels. Our in-house design team combined with value added know-how and creates designs that reflect the latest European customer specific services. fashion trends. They work closely with our customers to understand and support their VALUES design ideas. Our in-house technical team Our core values impact all activities at work to ensure that each design is transformed Oriental and define the way we do business. into a perfectly fitted product and work closely These values are the foundation for our with our factories and other suppliers to strategic development, our daily decision achieve the best results. Our in-house sample making process as well as our interaction with room assures correct samples on time. Our employees, business partners and the wider merchandisers closely oversee all orders, society. ensuring clear and effective communication and our Quality Control team carefully OUR 3 CORE VALUES ARE: monitors the entire production process, from • Honesty fabric inspection to the loading and signing • Responsibility off of our finished garments by our Shipping • Constant improvement department. At Oriental, we tailor our services to according to each individual company’s needs and offer the best value for our customers. The longer 8ORIENTAL CSR APPROACH & • All CSR activities, fall under the responsibilities of our Finance, HR and CSR ORGANIZATIONAL Manager who reports directly to Oriental China’s Managing Director. STRUCTURE Corporate Social Responsibility is a global issue that needs a joint global effort. Oriental CSR ACTIVITIES is committed to being a responsible Corporate UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL Citizen and Corporate Social Responsibility COMPACT is firmly rooted in our business approach The United Nations Global and values. Our CSR activities are examples Compact tackles human of how we impact the world around us in a rights, labour conditions, the positive way. impact on the environment and ethical business practices. Their ten • All of our CSR activities related to our principles are universally recognised. We at supply chains in China and India are Oriental aim to embrace support and follow managed from our office in Suzhou, China. this framework of core values within our sphere of influence. 10 PRICIPLES OF GLOBAL COMPACT 1 2 3 4 5 6 INFORMATION DIVISION INTO DIALOGUE DECISION ON EVALUATION RECOMMENGATHERING RISK GROUPS WITH HIGH-RISK PHYSICAL AUDIT OF DIALOGUE DATIONS SUPPLIERS OF DIALOGUE Supplier CSR Risk Assessment process BSCI – BUSINESS SOCIAL COMPLIANCE INITIATIVE OTHER CSR As a member of the European organisation RELATED ACTIVITIES BSCI since 2008, we are SUPPLY CHAIN dedicated to improving social To strengthen and streamline the management compliance across our supply chain in line of our supply chain and ensure all of our with the BSCI Code of Conduct to ensure our suppliers are doing business with the highest suppliers take social responsibility seriously. levels of honesty, integrity, consideration We do this through a comprehensive and respect, we have developed our own monitoring and QC system. Oriental Supplier Manual. In the manual, amongst others, it states that the supplier The BSCI Code of Conduct is built on must follow the Ten Principles of the United the most important international labour Nations Global Compact, the BSCI Code of standards protecting workers’ rights taken Conduct and the European REACH legislation from the International Labour Organisation related to garments. We ask all suppliers and (ILO) Conventions, the OECD guidelines for employees to read, acknowledge and sign this multinational enterprises and the UN Global manual and consider the principles as they Compact and other important declarations. carry out their daily responsibilities. GOALS OF BSCI CODE OF CONDUCT • Our QC team regularly visit our supplier factories to inspect them and our Audit personnel conduct regular evaluations and appraisals to determine their strengths and weaknesses. • Supplier CSR Risk Assessment process (See illustration above) • For suppliers that do not meet CSR requirements, Oriental offers advice and guidelines to improve their business practices in accordance with international principles. • We also carry out third party audits performed by internationally recognised institutions Intertek, SGS and Bureau Veritas. 10ORIENTAL ORIENTAL STAFF and our suppliers are instructed to meet these standards, we follow a detailed random testing of fabrics and accessories schedule. In oriental we acknowledge, that one of our main strengths is a dedicated and highly • We renewed OEKO-TEX100 certification resourceful staff, we strive to support and in 2013. We are proud to be able to provide advance them. We provide an employee our customers with this option to purchase handbook to make company policies OEKO-TEX100 products from us and thus transparent to all. We provide a daily lunch avoiding the use of harmful substances in the meal based on healthy and nutritious food. We garment production. are open to all ethnic groups. Oriental seeks to take action to provide equal employment ENVIRONMENT opportunities to all qualified employees. At Oriental we acknowledge the importance We provide air-condition both in summer and of environmental issues. We put constant winter to assure a comfortable work climate. focus on integrating environmental friendly procedures and progress in within our own ENVIRONMENTAL production and in our supply chain. We promote: IMPACT • Responsible purchasing: We only work with CHEMICAL TESTING suppliers that use environmentally friendly The production of fabrics and accessories chemicals and observe environmentally in the garment industry requires the use of friendly processes, including how they chemicals, some of which can be harmful to dispose of wastewater. our health and the environment. Thus it is absolutely necessary to take a responsible • Reuse and recycle: We reuse and recycle approach to handling chemicals. wherever possible to minimise our waste. We purchased a cutter to minimise fabric waste • At Oriental we work in accordance with and use both sides of paper when we print. European REACH specifications and We collect cartons, papers, PET bottles, legislation and conduct random chemical aluminium cans and fabric and send them to testing validated by internationally be recycled. recognised third party testing organisations such as Intertek, SGS and Bureau Veritas. • We strive to run a punctual production so we can send garments by sea freight and • We pay special attention to the selection thereby keep the CO2 emission at the lowest of dyes and chemical auxiliaries and possible level. ensure that products are free of hazardous substances such as azo dyes, formaldehydes, • Clean work environment: Oriental ensures pesticides and toxic heavy metals. a clean, hygienic working environment for all employees. • We have updated our Supplier Manual to include the newest REACH specifications CSR11 ANTI CORRUPTION • We project that 1-2 our sub suppliers will be re-audited for BSCI in 2014. In Oriental we do not engage in business • We project to reach our 2015 goal to goal relations with customers or suppliers, where to have minimum 75% of our production corruption, bribe or personal relations and produced in BSCI certified facilities already gifts are necessary to drive business. No in 2014. employee is allowed to take bribe, we have zero tolerance to fraud, bribe and theft and • We will continue and further strengthen if such is detected it will lead to immediate our random testing program of fabrics termination of the employment. The antiand accessories in order to live up to Corruption guidelines have been incorporated customer requirements and EU legislation. in our employee manual. By this systematic testing, we will further strengthen our supply chain. CSR RESULTS 2013 • We project to upgrade our IT system, which will facilitate the daily workflow in the office Through a rigorous and constant focus on our CSR work, we have managed to achieve our • We will continue to lead by example at goals for our CSR work in 2013: Oriental and incorporate socially and environmentally responsible business • 3 of our sub-suppliers gained BSCI practices both in-house and across our certification with the highest possible score supply chain. for the first time in 2013. • 67 % of our production is produced in BSCI certified facilities in 2013 getting closer to our 2015 goal to have minimum 75% of our production produced in BSCI certified facilities. • We have increased our in house fabric and accessories purchasing significantly, this enables us to focus on fewer sub suppliers. We have therefore gained increased control in our supply chain. CSR GOALS 2014 • We project that 3-4 of our sub-suppliers will gain BSCI certification by the end of 2014. CONTACTS Oriental Denmark Mosevej 20A 8240 Risskov Denmark henrik@ori.dk Oriental China 215011, SND, Suzhou, Jiangsu No. 687 Binhe Road P.R. China henrik@oriental-sz.com.cn
