Sustainability Report 2013 Support on the Community Development Application Level GRI 3.1 B+ 1 2 3 Índex Letter from the OMA Board Charmain 6 4. Econimic Dimension 88 Letter from the CEO 10 5. Social Dimension 96 Memory Parameters 14 5a. Social Responsability 98 5b. OMA Labor Practices 121 1. Profile 20 5c. Health and Safety in the Workplace 141 1a. OMA: 13 years fostering our growth 22 5d. Quality and Service for Customers 164 1b. OMA Culture 26 5e. Airport Security 160 1c. OMA Facilities 29 1d. Services and Diversification 34 6. Environmental Dimension 166 6a. Water 170 2. Corporate Governance 44 6b. Energy 174 2a. Board of Directors, Support 46 6c. Waste Management 180 Committeess and Managerial 6d. Air Emissions 184 Team of OMA 6e. Biodiversity 190 2b. Risk Management 56 6f. Climate Change 205 2c. Business Ethics 59 2d. Human Rights 65 7. GRI Index 208 Global Reporting Initiative 3. Sustainability 69 OMA Sustainability Report 4 5 Letter from the OMA Board Charmain Dear Readers: The year 2013 was full of challenges and achievements for OMA, which drove us to reinforce the sustainability culture in the management of our operations. We have devoted ourselves a constant improvement the performance of processes contributing to the achievement of business objectives while actively participating in the economic development of the regions where we operate. We have adopted an Integrated Management System, which comprises the economic, corporate social responsibility and environmental spheres, and materialize the sustainability policy adopted by the group. On economic issues, OMA controls the financial impact on the business through several various mechanisms such as risk management, labor practices to create and ensure jobs, and the active involvement with local suppliers. Regarding the corporate social responsibility framework, it focuses on the impacts that organizations have on local communities. Among the most important projects in this area, the diagnosis made in conjunction with the Autonomous University of Guerrero in order to contribute to the preservation of the Tres Palos Lagoon adjacent to the Acapulco´s airport, defining clear action lines to achieve the goal. 6 In regards to environmental care, there are clear commitments about biodiversity, minimizing the adverse impacts of airport operations on the flora and fauna that inhabit the lands occupied by the airports is a priority for us. Other initiatives in this area are devoted to reducing waste and we did actually participating in the Management and Environmentlly Sound Disposal of Polychlorinated Biphenyls Program, sponsored by the United Nations Program for Development, the Global Environment Facility and the Secretariat of Environment and Natural Resources (SEMARNAT). Today we can proudly say that OMA is committed in reducing carbon footprint by promoting the generation of renewable energy. In the first year of operation of the solar park at Zacatecas airport, we were able to generate half of the energy requirements of the facility, hoping to replicate this technology in the rest of the airports in the group with the conditions for their implementation. Note that this report was generated in compliance with GRI G3.1 guidelines and Airport Operators Sector Supplement in an application level B+, greatly increasing the number of relevant performance indicators over the previous years. These results place us at the Sustainable Index of the Mexican Stock Exchange for the third consecutive year, reaffirming our commitment to socially responsible investing. 7 We will continue investing to be a sustainable company, because I am sure it is the way to achieve permanence in time of OMA, generating economic, social and environmental value for all stakeholders. I want to thank all our associated the preparation of this report, this great achievement would not be possible without the effort from you all. Congratulations. Diego Quintana Kawage OMA Board Chairman 8 9 Letter from the CEO Dear Readers: OMA is defined as an organization committed to sustainable management, operating 13 airports under a policy that drives their sustainable growth, with activities focused on business development and exceeding the expectations of employees and their families, customers, shareholders and business partners. Through its Board of Directors and Support Committees, the Corporate Governance of OMA establishes sustainability guidelines, adapting the scope of its policies to ensure the fulfillment of the strategic objectives that encourage the company’s sustainable development. OMA’s value offer seeks to create synergies in order to maximize the positive impact on the surroundings. Therefore, our efforts are focused on customer satisfaction improvement, service quality, contributing to community development, promoting environmental care, and mitigating risks on health and safety. In order to evaluate the experience of passengers and customers, we compare the quality of the service provided and identify areas of opportunity that will increase the level of satisfaction with our services. Since 2013, all of OMA’s airports joined Airports Council International’s Airport Service Quality Program; this year Mazatlan stands out for the second time, by achieving the prize for Best Regional Airport in Latin America and the Caribbean in the category of less than 2 million passengers a year. 10 In terms of environmental care, 2013 marked the first year of operation of the solar park at Zacatecas Airport, which, along with new investments in energy-efficient technology and management of electricity demand in every OMA airport, helped reduce near half a million kilowatts in total energy consumption. OMA’s Sustainability Policy has been updated in order to incorporate specific commitments to prevent adverse impacts on biodiversity due to our operations, establish mechanisms to identify and preserve the flora and fauna present in airports, communicating to our employees the importance and benefits of their protection and conservation. Mitigating risks to occupational health and safety is an ongoing objective. OMA advances in the Certification program “Safe Company”, sponsored by the Secretariat of Labor and Social Welfare, with a total of seven certificated airports by the end of 2013. This strategy has reduced accidents by 56% over the previous year. OMA encourages practices that thrive socioeconomic development of the regions close to airports, strengthening the relationship through educational and social development projects, and benefiting vulnerable children and schools in nine states of the republic. The results of the Corporate Social Responsibility Program, in addition to actions directed towards improvement of quality of life at work and adherence to business ethics principles, allowed OMA to be recognized for the sixth consecutive year with the Socially Responsible Company Distinctive, awarded by the Mexican Center for Philanthropy. 11 This is how in 2013, the perimeter of the Sustainability Plan was expanded to include performance indicators related to the quality of air and water discharges, as well as compliance with legal and voluntary requirements in occupational health and safety, responsible marketing, product liability, environmental impact decreasing, and human rights. I invite you, in this fifth Sustainability Report, to know more about the actions taken and results achieved during 2013, based on the commitments, strategy and management approach for sustainable development of OMA. Porfirio González Álvarez CEO 12 13 Memory parameters [2.1, 2.9, 3.1, 3.2, 3.3, 3.6, 3.7, 3.9, 3.10, 3.11, 3.13] 14 The Grupo Aeroportuario del Centro Norte (OMA) 2013 Sustainability Report is submitted on a yearly basis with information for the period from January to December 2013. It follows up on information submitted in the previous year’s report in which there were no changes of note, and it is prepared pursuant to Guide G3.1 of the Global Reporting Initiative, with an application level of B+ given that it was checked by the company PricewaterhouseCoopers S.C. The information submitted has been consolidated using documentation backed up in our Integrated Management System, as well as through exercises and interviews conducted with the people in charge of the organization’s different departments through a series of internal calculation procedures. Memory Parameters 15 GRI Application Level Memory Parameters 16 OMA’s Strategic Plan is comprised by the guide define measures in the field of sustainability that we implement throughout the year. At the same time, OMA’s Sustainability Committee, headed by our CEO and representatives from all the organization’s departments, plans and sets guidelines for following up on our Sustainability Policy. The results set out in the report cover the operations of the group’s 13 airports, excluding the NH hotel in Terminal 2 of Mexico City International Airport (except for where stated as such), OMA VYNMSA AERO INDUSTRIAL PARK, and the operations of business partners and suppliers are also excluded. Memory parameters 17 Contact Information [2.4, 3.4] Sustainability Management sustentabilidad@oma.aero Tel. +52 (81) 8625-4300 Corporate Offices Servicios Aeroportuarios del Centro Norte, S.A. de C.V. Torre Latitud Av. Lázaro Cárdenas 2225, L501 Col. Valle Oriente San Pedro Garza García, N.L. México, C.P. 66269 Memory Parameters 18 Artesanos del Barro 19 1. OMA Profile [2.2, 2.3, 2.5, 2.6, 2.8, 4.8] 20 21 1a. OMA: 13 Years of Operations At OMA we have been operating and managing 13 airports, awarded by concession by Mexico’s Federal Government, since 1998 in the Northern Central region of Mexico. In addition, our company also comprises OMA Carga (Freight) and Hotel NH at Mexico City International Airport Terminal 2. Relevant figures from 2013 worth highlighting include: 1,054 direct workers 1,264 indirect workers1 13,292,473 passengers 6,344 hectares of airport space $886 million pesos in infrastructure investment 94 domestic destinations 60 international destinations 1 Indirect employees: workers hired through a third party for duties such as: security guards, checkers, parking lot cashiers and cleaning personnel. Profile / OMA: 13 Years of Operations 22 Aeroinvest (ICA) and Aéroports de Paris Management (ADPM) are the strategic partners that operate OMA through Servicios de Tecnología Aeroportuaria, S.A. de C.V. (SETA). 1 SETA: Servicios de Tecnología Aeroportuaría, S.A. de C.V. 2 SETA: Includes 1,440,783 repurchased shares. Profile / OMA: 13 Years of Operations 23 Profile / OMA: 13 Years of Operations 24 25 1b. OMA Culture Vision To be the leading airport group in Mexico in value creation for the airport industry, its personnel and shareholders. Mission To develop airports with world class infrastructure and services in terms of quality and security that satisfy the needs of our customers and encourage our sustainable development. Generating social, economic and human value is one of our priorities. The values that govern our daily operations are transformed into an organizational culture that represents our convictions. Profile / OMA Culture 26 Values • Ethics, integrity in the execution of our activities. • Collaboration, motivate and promote initiatives to contribute to teamwork. • Innovation, application of new ideas that propose solutions and promote continuous improvement. • Customer service, exceed expectations with a commitment and dedication to service. • Sustainability, we direct our operations and take action for the benefit of current and future generations. Profile / OMA Culture 27 28 1c. OMA Facilities [2.1, 2.2, 2.4, 2.5, 2.7, 2.8, 3.8, EC8] In order to facilitate the personal or business trips of the 13 million plus passengers who travel each year through the 13 airports, we carry out constant innovation to offer high quality service with as little environmental and social impact as possible, and make an effort to improve our operational efficiency. Profile / OMA Facilities 29 Profile / OMA Facilities 30 In order to maintain ordered development that also adheres to defined goals and objectives, we have a 2011-2015 Master Development Plan that enables us to keep the infrastructure of all the facilities in optimal conditions. To achieve this, $886 million pesos were invested in infrastructure in 2013 to meet planned requirements. 2013 Investment in Infrastructure Master Development Plan Rehabilitation of runways, platforms and taxiways Land acquisition for second runway at MTY and runway extension at CUL Security Works in terminal buildings Terminal equipment Profile / OMA Facilities 31 Note: 2010 does not include investment for Terminal B of Monterrey City Airport, which was for an amount of 840 million pesos. Profile / OMA Facilities 32 33 1d. Services and Diversification [2.2, 2.7] The provisioning and diversity of services at OMA airports is planned so that users, visitors and passengers can find all they need at the facilities to enjoy an extraordinary travel experience. Airport services Services that are rendered as part of our concession include: y Takeoff and landing. y Apron parking, boarding, disembarking, long or overnight stay of aircraft. y Boarding devices, telescopic corridors and aircars. y Passenger Facility Charge (PFC), which includes the use of terminal building facilities such as free and restricted access zones, baggage check and reclaim areas and halls, boarding lounges, roadways, signage, flight arrival/departure information systems, flight information screens, access for disabled persons and information booths. y Leasing of hangars, workshops, warehouses, storehouses, premises and facilities indispensable for airline and complementary service provider operations, as well as counters and spaces for the sale of air and land transport tickets. Profile / Services and Diversification 34 y Parking lots for cars and public road transport service vehicles. y Health services, urgent medical care and ambulances. y Water treatment, garbage collection and incineration of organic products from international flights. y Security and surveillance, passenger and hand baggage checks. y ARFD: Airport Rescue and Firefighting Division. y Rights of access for public and service provider road transport services. y Conservation, maintenance and cleaning services. Complementary services Additional services offered to facility users include the following: y Ramp. y Traffic. y Dispatch. y Fuel supply. y Vehicle towing. y Removal of unused aircraft. y Security and surveillance of aircraft, baggage, cargo and mail. y Maintenance and repair of aircraft and ground support equipment. y CREI, brake cooling and washing of asphalt after fuel and lubricant spills. Profile / Services and Diversification 35 Commercial services OMA airport facilities have services that are not essential for our operation, but are available for the comfort of passengers and visitors. These include the following and may vary from airport to airport: ATMs, ticket sales, direct car hire phone lines, wireless internet and public phones, massage chairs, bank branches, currency exchange, phone booths, hotels, tourist information, car rental, business centers, timeshares, shoe shining, vending machines, baggage packing and wrapping. Through OMA Plaza, we offer a variety of products and services in the 313 commercial premises located at our airports, where visitors and passengers can enjoy local crafts and souvenirs, duty paid, books and magazines, lottery tickets, gifts, gastronomy, boutiques, fashion and accessories, restaurants, bars, snack bars, cafes, as well as food and drink vending machines. The incorporation of new technologies into how advertising information is displayed in our airports definitely adds value to the travel experience of each passenger. In 2013 we focused on the development of new digital support and projects with greater user interaction in order to encourage the innovation factor at our airports. The current development of MagnoPantallas in Monterrey, Culiacán and Chihuahua falls under that scheme. Profile / Services and Diversification 36 In order to provide diversity in advertising, which benefits companies that decide to advertise their products and/or services at OMA facilities, we have the capacity to offer them: y Digital advertising. y Fixed advertising. y Alternative advertising. y Showrooms. y Temporary exhibitions. y Podiums. y Seasonal decoration. y BTL (Below The Line) activations. Profile / Services and Diversification 37 The objectives of OMA are directly linked to enriching the passenger’s experience, therefore, we strive to establish innovative commercial concepts by identifying key high potential activities. To achieve this, we have made a series of services available to passengers that facilitate their stay at the airport, such as: recharge modules, passenger support services, valet parking services, ground transportation, spa lounges, kids’ areas, VIP lounges, mobile applications and our own general interest magazine. Some of the main achievements of 2013 include the opening of 35 new commercial spaces that achieved a 96% occupation rate, 13 new advertising projects and 51 new services. These generated a growth of 8.1% in commercial revenue with regard to the previous year. Currently, commercial revenue represents 53% of total non-aeronautical revenue and 14% of total group revenue. Aware of the importance and usefulness of social networks as a communication tool, to date we have over 95,000 followers on Facebook with whom we interact constantly and whom we inform of OMA Plaza promotions. We also attend to comments, complaints, suggestions and requests for information through our Facebook page. Profile / Services and Diversification 38 Diversification [2.7, 3.8, HR1, AO8] With the utmost comfort of users and passengers in mind, we have diversification projects that enable us to maintain commercial services that complement our airports. This strategy paves the way to greater profitability for the business as well as the possibility of providing a greater number of additional high quality services and products. Most noteworthy diversification projects at OMA in 2013: y Incorporation of the company Consorcio Hotelero Aeropuerto de Monterrey, in partnership with Santa Fe Grupo Hotelero, for the construction, management and operation of a 134-room hotel through the Hilton Garden Inn brand. y Development of the executive project and start of the urbanization of the OMA VYMNSA Industrial Park at Monterrey Airport. y Marketing and operation at 95% capacity of the Cargo City Building at Monterrey Airport aimed at offering office spaces to companies linked with cargo and logistics activities at the airport. In accordance with the principles and ethics of OMA, 100% of the significant investment agreements executed in 2013 include and stipulate human rights clauses. Profile / Services and Diversification 39 Likewise, it is important to highlight that, as a result of these diversification actions, in 2013 no physical or economic displacements were recorded of persons caused by the operation of our airports or new infrastructure projects. OMA Carga [AO3] Due to the importance the cargo area is gradually acquiring, in 2013 better management practices were incorporated as well as new routes from Monterrey Airport with multiple ground origins/destinations. Likewise, an increase of 47% in daily invoicing was achieved with regard to 2012, recording growth in all revenue generators: volume, number of airway bills operated, and in the handling of merchandise value with regard to the previous year. In 2013, 12 million tons of cargo were operated through OMA Carga, while the total cargo that was moved in the 13 airports was 85,532 tons of total domestic and international cargo, thus increasing revenue by 40%. Profile / Services and Diversification 40 Profile / Services and Diversification 41 Hotel NH As an additional facility for passengers and travelers, the Hotel NH is located at Mexico City International Airport Terminal 2. At the close of 2013, total revenue of 174.6 million pesos and 82.4% average occupation were recorded. During this year the provision of services was increased with the construction of three additional event lounges. Profile / Services and Diversification 42 43 2. Corporate Governance [2.3, 4.1, 4.2, 4.3, 4.4, 4.5, 4.7, 4.9, 4.10, LA13] 44 45 2a. Board of Directors, Support Committees and Managerial Team of OMA Defining the general guidelines of OMA and establishing the strategies that mark the direction of our business is the main responsibility of the Board of Directors, which is made up of 11 members, five of which are independent and one of which is female. Some examples of the activities that are within the duties of the Board are approving the business plan and annual budget, proposing increases in capital stock in OMA or any of its subsidiaries, as well as approving the five-year Master Development Program. The Board guides and ensures everything relating to the sustainability strategy of the business at the same time as assessing the risk to which the company is exposed. The Board as a whole supervises the punctual compliance of the standards, certifications and code of conduct that govern us, which include: the Board Manual, the Committee Regulation, the Code of Ethics and Conduct in Business and the OMA-designed Sustainability Policy. Corporate Governance / Board of Directors, Support Committees and Managerial Team of OMA 46 * Directors appointed by shareholders holding Series “BB” shares. ** Independent Directors are considered those persons who are not linked to the management team of the company and who are selected for their experience, ability and professional prestige, considering too that because of their characteristics they can perform their duties free from conflicts of interest and without being subject to personal, business and economic interests in terms of the provisions of article 26 of the Securities Market Law. Note: The General Director of the Company does not form part of the Board of Directors; the Chairman of the Board of Directors does not occupy the position of director within the company. Corporate Governance / Board of Directors, Support Committees and Managerial Team of OMA 47 It is important to state that the Board Manual is the guideline for determining the composition of the Board of Directors, and the selection of Directors requires them to have prior experience, as established by the Securities Market Law (LMV). For their part, Independent Directors sign the declaration to the Board. Any Director who runs for the position of Chairman of the Committee must qualify in the Financial Expert Criteria established by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. The Full Payment Policy (fixed and variable) is the guide for setting the compensation amounts for the General Director and Directors, which is reviewed annually by the Support Committee and the Board of Directors. Corporate Governance / Board of Directors, Support Committees and Managerial Team of OMA 48 We also have an annual evaluation to measure the performance of the top governing body, which was conducted in September 2013. This procedure of anonymous self-evaluation of the Board of Directors was the responsibility of an external supplier in order to ensure the independence, confidentiality and autonomy of the process. The results arising from this selfevaluation will be incorporated into the recommendations made by Directors on the practices of the Board with regard to auditing, finance, planning, sustainability and risks in order to continuously improve its performance. In order to coordinate communication and transparency between the top governing body and interest groups, we have the Investment Relations Department, which uses different interaction tools, such as telephone conferences with investors, as well as monthly and quarterly reports published on our website and also delivered to the Mexican Stock Exchange (BMV), the National Banking and Securities Commission (CNBV) and NASDAQ. We also maintain a policy for the preparation and publication of relevant events of the company. Corporate Governance / Board of Directors, Support Committees and Managerial Team of OMA 49 Support Committees The Stock Market law establishes that the Board of Directors will be supported by one or more committees in charge of Societary Practices, and Audit. OMA´s Board of Directors works with two committees who take care of Audit and Societary Practices, Finance, Planning and Sustainability, these are formed by 5 independent board members. Shareholders elect the President for both Committees. Corporate Governance / Board of Directors, Support Committees and Managerial Team of OMA 50 The duties and responsibilities of the Support Committees, in each category, are: Auditing y Select and propose the appointment of the independent external auditor, as well as provide an opinion on its possible removal. y Supervise the work of the external auditor and analyze the reports prepared thereby. y Discuss and supervise the preparation of financial statements. y Submit to the Board of Directors a report with regard to the efficacy of internal control systems. y Request reports from the relevant directors whenever the Committee deems it necessary, as well as propose attendance to the Board of Directors at the preparation of reports that include the accounting and information guidelines primarily used for the preparation of financial statements, as well as at the preparation of the operations and activities report, in which the Board of Directors has participated in accordance with the Securities Market Law. y Inform the Board of Directors of any irregularities of which it is aware. y Receive and analyze comments and observations formulated by shareholders, directors, relevant directors, external auditors, and take the any actions that, in its opinion, are appropriate with regard to such observations. y Call Shareholders Meetings. Corporate Governance / Board of Directors, Support Committees and Managerial Team of OMA 51 y Supervise the implementation, by the General Director, of the shareholders’ and directors’ resolutions. y Prepare and submit to the Board of Directors an annual report of it activities. Corporate Practices y Provide an opinion to the Board of Directors on matters under its responsibility. y Request the opinion of independent experts when deemed appropriate. y Call the Shareholders Meetings. y Support the Board of Directors in the preparation of annual reports and pursuant to information delivery obligations. Finance and Planning y Analyze and propose general guidelines for the determination of the Strategic Plan and follow up thereon. y Evaluate and offer an opinion on investment and financing policies proposed by the General Directorate and corroborate that they are consistent with the Strategic Plan. y Offer an opinion on the premises of the annual budget and follow up on its application, as well as the control system. y Analyze and assess the risk factors to which the company is subject, as well as the mechanisms for its control. y Assess and review that financial projections are consistent with the Strategic Plan. Corporate Governance / Board of Directors, Support Committees and Managerial Team of OMA 52 Sustainability y Create and propose guidelines with regard to sustainability to be followed by the company. y Evaluate that the guidelines with regard to sustainability agree with the Strategic Plan of the company. y Assist the Board of Directors with regard to sustainability. y Support the company subsidiaries in the definition of goals with regard to sustainability. y Preparation of any reports that must be submitted to the Shareholders Meeting with regard to sustainability. y Write and submit an annual report with regard to sustainability on the current situation of the company. y Identify risks with regard to sustainability, and propose and submit for the consideration and approval of the Board of Directors actions to be followed. y Be up to date with national government provisions and policies with regard to sustainability, as well as internal guidelines adopted by the company. y Evaluate that the policies issued by the company satisfy the minimum criteria established with regard to sustainability relating to social responsibility and relationships with employees, suppliers and communities that are impacted by the company. Corporate Governance / Board of Directors, Support Committees and Managerial Team of OMA 53 Management Team [3.11] The General Directorate of OMA is responsible for seven department directorates that are together responsible for the correct management of OMA and for its economic performance. These teams are made up of managers, airport managers, deputy managers, administrative personnel, department bosses, coordinators and operations personnel. Corporate Governance / Board of Directors, Support Committees and Managerial Team of OMA 54 55 2b. Risk Management [1.2, 3.9, 4.9, 4.11, SO2] Due to the importance of the area, we have a Risk Management Committee whose responsibility is to detect and appropriately manage the potential risks to which the company is exposed, as well as generate key strategies that enable them to be prevented, reduced or mitigated. This Committee is made up of six directors and four managers of OMA, who report directly to the Executive Committee. Correct risk management involves identifying, prioritizing and assessing risks according to the impact they could have on operations and/or profitability, which enables us to ensure the continuity of our business in the long term. To achieve this appropriate management, we turn to a typical methodology that identifies and classifies risks relating to: 1. Compliance Risks 4. Environment / Market Risks 2. Operational Risks 5. Strategic Risks 3. Financial Risks Corporate Governance / Risk Management 56 In addition, and as part of the prevention strategy, 100% of our business units were analyzed during the period with regard to corruption risks. During 2013 an in-depth review of risks detected in 2012 was conducted, identifying 64 potential risks, for which actions were started in order to attend to and mitigate them, and to minimize residual risks. In 2014, these will be updated both in the probability of their occurrence and with regard to their potential financial impact. Corporate Governance / Risk Management 57 58 2c. Business Ethics [4.6, 4.8, HR4, HR9, SO3, SO4] OMA’s undertaking is to act ethically in all our business areas and transactions. To achieve this and to standardize procedures, the document that governs us in the guidance of the ethical conduct of all collaborators is the Code of Ethics and Conduct in Business. This document divides the guidelines into ethics-related themes, and prohibits bribery and corruption in working practices, either inside or outside the company. In 2013 we trained 92% of administrative and operational personnel in themes of ethics and corruption, therefore, all our operations were subject to a risk analysis relating to acts of corruption. As part of the Code of Ethics and Conduct of Business, the procedures to avoid conflicts of interest of the top governing body are specified. In addition, Independent Directors sign a letter to the Board, in which they mention that they are not subject to those cases established by the Securities Market Law (LMV) in order to avoid a conflict of interest. Corporate Governance / Business Ethics 59 The OMA Code of Ethics, available on the corporate website, specifies the free telephone line open to all our interest groups, where complaints relating to noncompliance can be reported. Complaints are anonymous and coordinated by an independent company in order to avoid conflicts of interest and confidentiality in the handling of the information. http://www.oma.aero/es/somos/gobierno-corporativo Corporate Governance / Business Ethics 60 Flow chart showing the complaints procedure from their reception to their resolution Corporate Governance / Business Ethics 61 The free direct telephone line 001 877 492 3315 is permanently available 365 days a year for all our interest groups. Complaints can also be received personally through the following authorities: Directive of Legal Affairs, Human Capital Management, or through the direct boss. Complaints received in person are sent to the Auditing Management for follow-up and resolution. In 2013, 18 complaints were received, of which 16 were submitted anonymously and two were submitted in person. Of the total complaints received, 12 (66.7%) proceeded as valid and six (33.3%) did not proceed as a failure of the Code of Ethics and Conduct. As a result of valid complaints, appropriate measures were taken and three persons were let go from the organization, five formal reports were filed and two others were relocated. Corporate Governance / Business Ethics 62 Of the complaints submitted in 2013, none were in connection to incidents or violations of indigenous rights. Corporate Governance / Business Ethics 63 64 2d. Human Rights [HR2, HR3, HR8] As part of OMA’s commitment to respect for people and in line with our values, from 2009 we have been adhering to the United National (UN) Global Compact, the most important international initiative with regard to human rights. The Ten Principles of the United National Global Compact Human Rights 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and 2. make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Corporate Governance / Human Rights 65 Labor 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 4. the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor; 5. the effective abolition of child labor, and 6. the elimination of discrimination in respect to employment and occupation. Environment 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 9. encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anticorruption 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Corporate Governance / Human Rights 66 Due to the relevance of human rights in developing an attitude of respect towards others, OMA has proposed to strengthen the training standards on this matter. In order to make this possible, during 2013, 44% of our employees (466people) attended near 400 hours of instruction on topics related with human rights policies and procedures. Also, 163 airport security co-workers (60%), received information concerning human rights. We will continue this effort during 2014, until every member of this area participates in this initiative. In 2013, the Board of Directors also ratified the Code of Ethics and Conduct for Suppliers, which establishes respect for human rights in line with the United Nations Global Compact. In this regard, 100% of contracts with suppliers and contractors include human rights clauses. Our main contractors provide us with cleaning, surveillance and security services, as well as operational personnel at parking lots. Corporate Governance / Human Rights 67 68 3. OMA Sustainability [3.9, 4.11, 4.12, 4.17] 69 Today’s great challenges drive us to ensure that our airport activities are not only carried out with operational quality and efficiency, but also respect the environment, our interest groups and the communities surrounding our airports. OMA’s Integrated Management System and Sustainability Policy enables us to guarantee and give continuity to actions we undertake, which are defined by the internal Sustainability Committee, which is presided over by the General Director. OMA Integrated Management System OMA Sustainability 70 In order to manage all actions with regard to sustainability, we have the Integrated Management System. Its scope encompasses the provision of management services for terminal facilities, including passenger baggage checks, the appropriate cleaning and maintenance of facilities, as well as parking area operations. This System is audited annually pursuant to the three certified standards: ISO 9001:2008; ISO 14001:2004; and OHSAS 18001:2007. In order to evaluate compliance of the entire group, we also have an annual program of management reviews of the Integrated Management System, which are carried out twice a year locally and twice a year on a consolidated basis. There are several indicators that are submitted for evaluation as part of this System, and these include the following: y Financial and market perspective: related to achieve company profitability. y Customer perspective: focused on identifying the needs and satisfaction of the customer and market segments that provide financial yields. y Internal perspective: related to the performance of relevant processes. y Learning perspective: related to employee training and corporate cultural attitudes in relation to the individual and global improvement of the company. OMA Sustainability 71 OMA Sustainability 72 OMA Sustainability 73 OMA Sustainability 74 Sustainability Policy Contribute to the wellbeing and satisfaction of our employees and their families, customers, shareholders and economic partners through the development of airports with high quality infrastructure and services based on: respect for human rights, mitigation of the environmental impact of operations, caring for the quality of life at work and balance in the use of economic, social and environmental resources by preserving them for future generations, as well as working for the socioeconomic development of communities near our airports. This year, biodiversity has been added to our sustainability commitments due to the importance it has acquired in the context of the airports we operate. The set of commitments are: Gobierno Corporativo I. Establish an economic, corporate, environmental and social performance in line with the OMA Code of Ethics, the adoption of best practices and the fulfilment of applicable national and international standards. II. Effectively control the risks for which the company is directly responsible. III. Promote an anti-corruption culture. IV. Be accountable to interested parties on a regular transparent basis. OMA Sustainability 75 Environment I. Systematically integrate a preventative approach that favors caring for the environment in all our activities. II. Promote values and diffuse best environmental practices to interested parties. III. Establish goals to prevent environmental contamination. IV. Favor the reuse, recovery and recycling of materials. V. Mitigate the environmental impact of our operations with regard to water, air, ground, noise, waste and energy. Biodiversity I. Mitigate the impact on biodiversity deriving from our operations. II. Inform employees of the importance and benefits of the protection and conservation of biodiversity at our airports and areas of influence. III. Identity the flora and fauna species present at our airports in order to establish conservation priorities. IV. Collaborate with external organizations and government bodies for the protection and recovery of areas of ecological importance inside and outside our facilities. OMA Sustainability 76 Social Sphere I. Respect universally recognized fundamental human rights. II. Operate within a framework of Social Responsibility. III. Collaborate and a socially balanced manner with our interest groups. IV. Respect diversity and promote equality of opportunity. V. Promote the professional inclusion of persons with disabilities. VI. Foster a working atmosphere that contributes to improving the quality of life of employees. VII. Establish objectives to prevent work risks that enable us to achieve the goal of zero work accidents and zero occupational illness. VIII. Stimulate individual and collective efficacy by motivating and developing employee abilities. IX. Train our employees in the principles of Quality, Health and Safety, the Environment and Social Responsibility in order to face the challenges of our business and our community. OMA Sustainability 77 Economic Sphere Customers: I. Establish fair commercial relationships with suppliers. II. Apply the OMA Code of Ethics and ensure its compliance in acquisitions. III. Involve suppliers and commercial partners in compliance with quality, corporate governance, environmental and social standards. Suppliers: I. Establish fair commercial relationships with suppliers. II. Apply the OMA Code of Ethics and ensure its compliance in acquisitions. III. Involve suppliers and commercial partners in compliance with quality, corporate governance, environmental and social standards. Neighboring Community: I. Work for the socioeconomic development of communities near our operations. OMA Sustainability 78 The OMA Integrated Management System enables us to follow up on the performance of processes and the fulfilment of objectives and goals with regard to sustainability. The scope of this system encompasses the provision of management services for terminal facilities, including passenger baggage checks, cleaning and maintenance of facilities, as well as parking lot operations. The Integrated Management System has two annual programs: internal audits and management reviews: y Internal audits are performed at least once a year and include the total of the processes included in the scope of the certification. These audits are performed by taking as an evaluation reference the compliance of standards ISO 9001:2008, ISO 14001:2004 and OHSAS 18001:2007. y Management reviews se ejecutan semestralmente de manera local y consolidada, con la finalidad de asegurar la conveniencia, adecuación y eficacia del Sistema de Gestión Integrado. OMA Sustainability 79 Materiality process [3.5, 3.11, 4.15, 4.17] In order to efficiently attend to the need to determine important themes both for the company and our interest groups, in 2012 we carried out a process of determination of materiality with the support of an external company. As part of this exercise, in 2013 new indicators were incorporated into those reported the previous year. The commitment for 2014 is to carry out a new materiality analysis in order to review the importance of the themes reported and to determine whether these still satisfy the information expectations for the interest groups. OMA Sustainability 80 The process of defining the material themes consisted in the evaluation of indicators relating to the economic, environmental and social sphere. The premises used for this evaluation comprised: y The Sustainability Reporting Guidelines [GRI G3.1] and Airport Operators Sector Supplement. y The evaluation of the Mexican Stock Exchange Sustainable IPC (Price and Quotations Index) y The regulatory framework under which we operate. y OMA risk analysis. y The materiality analysis conducted by PricewaterhouseCoopers S.C. so that surveys could be conducted on interest groups. A sector benchmarking was carried out and public information on the airport sector was analyzed for the identification of important themes and indicators. y The contribution of sustainability indicators for the achievement of the Business Objectives. The GRI G3.1 guide, sustainable IPC and the regulatory framework in which we operate enable us to compare ourselves with other organizations and to become familiar with the performance of OMA with regard to sustainability. These external guidelines were a useful OMA Sustainability 81 reference for determining which economic, environmental and social aspects are important to measure and report in accordance with the risks and objectives of our business. In order to carry out this process, 64 potential risks for OMA were analyzed and classified according to any danger and economic impact they might have on the company’s operation. According to the materiality analysis carried out in 2012, the important topics identified fall into the following sectors: With regard to Corporate Governance themes, those that are considered very important, according to concurring opinion, both internally and externally, are: y Risk analysis and opportunities in sustainability. y Anti-corruption. y Code of Ethics. The Economic themes that are considered very important both internally and externally are: y Economic impact due to investments in local infrastructure. y Number of flights. y Number of passengers. y Value generation for interest groups. OMA Sustainability 82 With regard to the Environment, the themes that are considered very important for internal and external interest groups are: y Environmental investments. y Spills. y Air emissions. y Energy use and energy efficiency. y Waste from international flights. y Waste management. y Water management. y Rainwater capture. As part of this same category, internal interest groups considered it very important to report pollution themes relating to noise and everything concerning the biodiversity strategy. OMA Sustainability 83 With regard to Social themes, the very important ones, according to concurring opinion, both internally and externally, are: y Customer satisfaction. y Training. y Accidents on runways caused by fauna. y Safe working conditions y Positive and negative impact on communities. With regard to Human Rights and Gender Equality themes, internal interest groups classified these as very important, while external interest groups classified them as important. OMA Sustainability 84 With the classification of each theme, together with the comparative study with airport sector companies, it was feasible to determine which indicators are significant for the fulfilment of the financial objectives of the business which, in turn, will enable us to maximize company profitability and optimize operational costs and expenses. Process of definition of the materiality of OMA indicators OMA Sustainability 85 OMA Sustainability 86 87 4. Economic Aspects [2.8, 3.9, 5.1, EC1, EC4, EC6, EN28, SO8, PR2, PR4, PR9, AO1, AO2] 88 The sustainability of OMA is based on the company’s productive economic performance. Year on year, we strive to be more efficient and carry on generating value for business partners and shareholders, while, at the same time, satisfying the needs of users and passengers. In order to provide an overview for 2013 in figures, we highlight the following parameters: y The number of passengers at terminals was up 5.5% compared to 2012. y 13,292,473 passengers used our airports. y 32 airlines rendered services. y We operate 94 domestic routes and 60 international ones. Economic Aspects 89 Economic Aspects 90 Economic Aspects 91 The economic performance of OMA is administered through three key mechanisms that are implemented and monitored in detail: y Annual budget: this is comprised by the budget of all OMA companies and is reviewed monthly. In addition, quarterly projections are made so that any possible deviations from the original plan can be monitored. y Strategic Planning: Key Performance Indicators (KPI) for each strategic initiative of the Group’s companies are determined as part of this planning, including economic indicators for each one. After quarterly reviews, the Strategic Planning Committee receives information on possible deviations in order to prepare plans to mitigate them. y Risk Management Committee: This committee detects any dangers and possible risks facing the business and prepares the corresponding mitigation plans. Economic Aspects 92 Economic Aspects 93 OMA does not receive funding from the Federal Government for the running of its airports. In 2013, 99% was used to pay local suppliers, by which we mean suppliers in Mexico. Given the complexity of our day-to-day operations and the sensitive nature of regulatory requirements we need to comply with, respect for established rules is of paramount importance for OMA. In this regard, in 2013 we did not incur any significant fines or nonmonetary penalties for the following: y Noncompliance with environmental standards. y Noncompliance with laws and regulations. y Noncompliance with legal voluntary codes or regulations regarding the impact of our products and services on health and safety during their life cycle. y Noncompliance with voluntary codes or regulations regarding product and service information and labeling. y Noncompliance with regulations regarding the supply and use of the organization’s products and services. For fuller information on OMA’s economic performance, please consult the Annual Report at the website: www.oma.aero Economic Aspects 94 95 5. Social Sphere [5.1] 96 97 5a. Social Responsibility The measures taken by OMA are intended to ensure the business’s profitability, but also to enable us to work in harmony with the environment, the community and all interest groups. Our social undertaking is to excel in every aspect of our day-to-day activities, which means social investment and, in turn, is reflected by our efforts and actions in the field of Social Responsibility. Our actions in these fields are not haphazard; what we do is work on initiatives that are aligned with the business’s objectives, the values we identify with, OMA’s Sustainability Policy, our Code of Ethics and Conduct, as well as the full complement of policies and procedures we operate under. In order to do this, we rely on the OMA Social Responsibility Reference Framework. Social Sphere / Social Responsibility 98 In 2013, we won recognition as a Socially Responsible Company by the Centro Mexicano para la Filantropía (Mexican Philanthropy Center or CEMEFI), for the sixth year running, together with a string of acknowledgements in the field of the environment, social matters and quality at different airports. Social Sphere / Social Responsibility 99 Social Responsibility Actions [3.9, 4.12] In order to help the development of communities located near airport facilities, in 2013 we implemented 200 different Social Responsibility measures in projects to help employees and their families, the community, users and economic partners and the environment. The main programs performed by OMA included: Voluntariado OMA This comprises a series of activities promoted and supported by OMA with the aim of involving and fostering free participation by members of staff, by devoting their time, abilities and talent to causes, projects and organizations that benefit society. In 2013 we held 28 volunteer events with activities such as visits to health centers and hostels, as well as providing help for people left homeless by natural disasters in different Mexican states. These activities were carried out with the participation of 400 volunteers, and provided support for ten civil society organizations. Social Sphere / Social Responsibility 100 Feria de Sustentabilidad The fifth Sustainability Fair was held in 2013 at all our airports. This week-long event was all about socializing and learning, and it gave us the chance to encourage all our staff members and their families to get involved. It featured conferences on topics such as customer service, the environment, social Responsibility, and health and safety. There were also competitions, guided trips to the airports’ facilities and visits to nonprofit organizations, wrapping up with volunteer activities. This year’s event was attended by more than 3,500 participants. The Sustainability Fair also included the fifth photography, drawing and collage competition, in which staff members and their families were invited to take part with works of art focusing on the topic of sustainability. There were around 200 entries this year with three winners in each category. Mujeres OMA The aim of this initiative is to promote the overall development of our female staff members and create a bond with the wives of male staff members to strengthen family ties. Social Sphere / Social Responsibility 101 In 2013 a number of conferences on women’s welfare were imparted at all the airports. They were attended by 450 people who received information on very specific topics, such as balancing family life with work, nutrition, communication, health and breast cancer. OMA Buen Vecino This program was designed to build good relations with communities living near our facilities. Each work center holds events and collects donations, both in cash and in kind, to help the communities cope with previously identified problems or needs. In 2013 help was provided to 13 communities through the OMA Buen Vecino program. The measures taken included 39 donations in cash and in kind in support of social and environmental causes that provide benefits for communities. The donations provided in kind in 2013 included computers, benches, lighting, fire extinguishers, as well as personal protection equipment for fire fighters and ambulances. Social Sphere / Social Responsibility 102 Programa Adopta una Escuela Stimulating, promoting an enhancing the conditions for education are key elements that favor the formation of students. At OMA we strongly believe that education is indispensable for the development of the country and in building an equal and productive society. We are committed at all levels in channeling all our efforts towards immediate actions. Every one of our work locations has adopted a school where we promote sustainable education for children and young adults. Through this program, work teams in each airport undertake voluntary efforts for the betterment of infrastructure, maintenance, remodeling, reforesting and furniture and equipment refurbishing of each school. We invite not only our co-workers, but their families too. In 2013 we adopted 14 schools, helping 3,000 students, making this a very tangible and visible effort that motivates us to make it grow even more in the upcoming years. Social Sphere / Social Responsibility 103 Social Sphere / Social Responsibility 104 Interest Groups [4.13, 4.14, 4.15, 4.16] One of our priorities at OMA is to maintain constant interaction with our interest groups, which have been identified on the basis of two factors: the type of influence they exert on OMA and the degree of interdependence between these groups and the company. In 2014 we held talks with interest groups in order to update the substantiality of the specified sustainable indicators. The interest groups we identified include 91 institutions, organizations and/or groups that we classify into nine categories. Social Sphere / Social Responsibility 105 Social Sphere / Social Responsibility 106 Social Sphere / Social Responsibility 107 Customer Satisfaction [PR5, PR7, PR8, SO5] Our customers comprise an important interest group for OMA. Our wish is to provide all our users, customers and passengers with quality services that meet their expectations when they come to our airports. We have a number of mechanisms for staying in touch with them at all times: y Information modules and screens. y E-mail / info@oma.aero /sustainability@oma.aero y Website. y Local Ops and Shift Committee. y Telephone line. y E-mail: sugerencias@oma.aero and suggestions@oma.aero y Suggestions box at air terminals. Social Sphere / Social Responsibility 108 Our Personal Data Protection Policy ensures that personal information of passengers and users, which is kept confidential, is used in an appropriate manner. In 2013 we did not receive any complaints relating to privacy or the disclosing of personal data. Nor were there any incidents due to noncompliance with regulations regarding the promotion or advertising of our services. As part of OMA´s evolution towards continuous improvement, passenger internal satisfaction polls were eliminated in 2013, instead all airports were inscribed in the Airport Service Quality (ASQ) Program, promoted by the Airports Council International (ACI). ASQ is a comparative study about the service provided by more than 200 airports at an international level. The poll design allows the analysis of airports from the passenger experience perspective on the day of travel. Participating in ASQ allows us to obtain a clear vision on the experience passengers have while navigating OMA´s facilities, as well as on opinions of actual passengers on their visits to airports in America, Africa, Asia, Europe and the Middle East. Social Sphere / Social Responsibility 109 * 5 is the highest possible score. The score represents: Overall satisfaction. Social Sphere / Social Responsibility 110 Mazatlan Airport obtained for the second time the ASQ Award for the Best Regional Airport in Latin America and the Caribbean, in the Under 2 million Passengers Per Year category in recognition for the actions launched for the betterment of service quality. Another very useful option for strengthening customer attention is the suggestions box, which is a tool that enables us to keep in contact and obtain feedback from users and passengers. We have 42 electronic suggestions boxes in all our airports, encouraging customers to provide feedback in a communication process that is more efficient than the previous system based on cards. Social Sphere / Social Responsibility 111 In 2013 we received 2,282 feedbacks, 78 % up on 2012. The number of complaints received was down on the previous year, dropping from 45% to 43%, while congratulations increased from 14% 2012 to 27 % in 2013. Of this feedback, 100% was attended and forwarded to the corresponding departments for follow-through and resolution where required. Number of feedbacks received in suggestions boxes Social Sphere / Social Responsibility 112 One tangible result of this feedback process is that, in 2013, luggage carts were installed at the airports of Chihuahua, Culiacán, Mazatlán and Monterrey. Social Sphere / Social Responsibility 113 The Voicing Committee implemented an acoustic study at the airports of Torreón, Tampico and San Luis Potosí with the aim of assessing the OMA voicing system. The study will continue in 2014 at the airports of Chihuahua, Reynosa and Zacatecas. For second year in a row the Airline Satisfaction Poll was applied to our corporate personnel, to key personnel of 11 airlines, 71 airport managers and 296 pilots. The following aspects were evaluated: interaction between OMA and their companies, administrative processes, services at terminals for airline personnel, services for their passengers and services for air operations. Social Sphere / Social Responsibility 114 Consultative Commissions We have Consultative Commissions at the 13 airports, which meet once a year and are comprised by federal, state and municipal authorities, as well as business representatives from each state. The state government participates as the Honorary President at the meeting, which is chaired by the Airport Administrator. The purpose of the commissions is to promote the airports and interact with the authorities and representatives of the productive sectors to boost socioeconomic activity in the regions where airports are located. In 2013 consultations, discussions and agreements in the following fields were carried out at each airport: y Development Master Plan and updates. y Operating situation at the airports. y List of airports with urban development plans. y Impact on the region’s economy. y Impact on the environment, tourism and the economy. Social Sphere / Social Responsibility 115 y Cooperation with authorities and service providers to promote flight connectivity. y Promotion of air freight services. In 2013 a new focus for Consulting Committee participation was designed, In order to give continuity to each and every one of the projects, and to be able to vent any common interest problems, propose new business and form attention groups. This has been possible through the different stakeholders where we are present. We also belong to a number of associations and organizations, as part of our drive to play an active part in national and international initiatives. Our participation on a corporate level in 2013 includes: y UN World Pact y Movimiento Congruencia (Congruence Movement) y ACI Airports Council International y American Society for Quality Social Sphere / Social Responsibility 116 Participation by airport in 2013: Social Sphere / Social Responsibility 117 Social Sphere / Social Responsibility 118 Social Sphere / Social Responsibility 119 120 5b. OMA Labor Practices [EC7, LA1, LA2, LA4] In 2013 OMA’s in-house team was comprised by 1,054 members of staff whose day-to-day work in the operative and administrative fields is intended to satisfy the needs and requirements of users and passengers alike, as well as ensure the smooth running of airport facilities. In keeping with our values, we support all forms of diversity, and our staff recruitment and development processes are based on selection on the basis of abilities. Social Sphere / OMA Labor Practices 121 Social Sphere / OMA Labor Practices 122 OMA’s top management team consists of 43 Directors, Airport Administrators and Managers. Of these 74% are from regions where we have operations, 9% are foreign and 91% are Mexican. CREI: Cuerpo de Rescate y Extinción de Incendios Rescue and Fire-Fighting Corps (CREI – acronym in Spanish) Social Sphere / OMA Labor Practices 123 Social Sphere / OMA Labor Practices 124 Social Sphere / OMA Labor Practices 125 Social Sphere / OMA Labor Practices 126 Staff Benefits [EC3, EC5, LA3, LA14] As part of OMA’s philosophy, we guarantee that our staff’s wages are based, on the one hand, on their skills and performance and, on the other, by their staff category, airport category and length of service. Our aim is to ensure there are no salary discrepancies due to sex, age or any other social condition. The earnings of staff members in the low salary bracket are higher than the minimum salary in each region we operate in. * Geographic zones are classified in terms of the zones defined by the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit through the National Minimum Wage Commission in the Official Gazette of the Federation. Social Sphere / OMA Labor Practices 127 The benefits we provide our staff members with go beyond the ones required by national legislation. Social Sphere / OMA Labor Practices 128 Given the importance of planning for retirement for each staff member, we have created a Pensions Plan so that OMA’s employees can obtain financial benefits at the end of their working lives. These benefits are comprised by an indemnity set forth by law for the moment of retirement, together with contributions from both the worker and OMA throughout the plan’s duration. Social Sphere / OMA Labor Practices 129 Training [LA10, LA11, LA12] In order to make sure each of our staff members receives adequate training to perform their jobs efficiently, increase company profitability and help staff members grow as professionals, at OMA training is something we work on all the time. There are a number of different processes and tools for attending to the development needs of all our staff members such as: y Creating Leaders y OMA Innova y Talent Management Process y Recognitions for Best Work Climate y Induction Program y Zero Accidents y OMA Skills Model y Length of Service y Teambuildings y Academic Merit y Recognition of Values y Action Learning Program y Prize for Excellence y OMA Scholarships, as well as others. Social Sphere / OMA Labor Practices 130 Members of staff who provide cleaning and security services at airports have received training in OMA Culture, Sustainability Policy, Customer Service, Social Responsibility, Code of Ethics, Environment and Health and Safety at Work. In 2012 we set a goal for 2013, whereby we would provide ops staff with 70 hours of training and administrative staff with 65 hours. We surpassed these targets by 152% and 11%, respectively. Social Sphere / OMA Labor Practices 131 Social Sphere / OMA Labor Practices 132 In support of the growth and development of our staff members, each year we conduct performance appraisals. In 2013, 422 (40%) staff members did it, 265 of whom were men and 157 women. In 2013 we provided a total of 264 scholarships for a total amount of $2,045,282 Mexican pesos to help staff members as well as their spouses and children. Social Sphere / OMA Labor Practices 133 We are convinced that education is a critical factor in the country´s development and crucial in successful growth for every human being. Since 2009 w OMA participates in the “Empresa Libre de Rezago Educativo” program, promoted by the Instituto Nacional para la Educación de Adultos (INEA). In a four year period, in 2012, we accomplished zero educational lag for elementary education and we continue efforts aimed to encourage all our employees to finish junior high. Motivating allk our co-workers to consolidate their education opens valuable opportunities for them and has positively impacted our organization. Social Sphere / OMA Labor Practices 134 OMA Capability Management Model, is a program designed to support our personnel growth and aimed to improve personal and corporate development. This model, designed to fit the organizational culture that defines us, comprises various processes that help everybody in OMA to accomplish the betterment and auto-development of capabilities required for current positions or desired ones in the future. This Model includes various stages designed to face and overcome any challenge. On the first stage, three workshops were held: model theory, study cases and action plans. The second stage was held through 2013 and focused on the development of three topics: y Human Capital process modification, based on capabilities. y “Gap Closing Co-Development”, activities and communication. y Program design for development in key and technical positions. The complete program will end in 2014, when the deployment strategy will be communicated to the organization as a whole. Social Sphere / OMA Labor Practices 135 At OMA it is very important to recognize staff members who stand as an example of the values that distinguish us. It is because of this that in 2010 we launched a Value Recognition initiative to identify employees who are an example of our institutional values. Staff members are nominated by their colleagues and given a diploma by the Airport Administrator or the CEO, as the case may be. This is then made known to everyone in the organization with internal memos and, at the end of the year, the winners at each airport are invited to an event in the city of Monterrey. The OMA Innova program encourages and promotes innovation in our company’s projects and processes. It is one of the organization’s main strategic initiatives and, at the same time, one of the institutional values that form part of OMA’s corporate philosophy. For us, innovation means creating, imagining, devising, doing, inventing, planning, being better, redesigning, contributing, harnessing creativity and making the difference. At OMA, innovation is about turning ideas and knowledge into new or improved services to generate value for customers, users and passengers. Social Sphere / OMA Labor Practices 136 OMA Innova is an open space available to any employees who want to propose, share and develop ideas that can help the organization save money, devise sustainable initiatives, create new sources of income, promote the image of OMA, improve operating processes and contribute towards a better working atmosphere. Social Sphere / OMA Labor Practices 137 In 2013 we participated in the Great Place to Work Institute of Mexico (GPTW) certification process for the sixth year, and, for the third year running, ranked among the Best Companies to Work in in Mexico in the 500 to 5,000 employee and Multinational Company category. We also achieved sixth place in the Northeast and Northwest Regional Ranking. Social Sphere / OMA Labor Practices 138 Social Sphere / OMA Labor Practices 139 140 5c. Health and Safety in the Workplace [LA6, LA7, LA9, PR1] Our permanent target is zero accidents at work in all our operations and airports. The health and safety of all our members of staff is a priority at OMA. We make sure that all our processes and activities comply with current legal requirements, as well as evaluating and identifying significant processes and activities for which we have controls to eliminate, mitigate, reduce or control any that could pose a risk to people. Health and safety risks are identified once a year or, as the case may be, whenever a process, activity or service is developed, modified or eliminated. The extent of risks is determined on the basis of likelihood, exposure and consequences. Social Sphere / Health and Safety in the Workplace 141 CREI: Cuerpo de Rescate y Extinción de Incendios Rescue and Fire-Fighting Corps (CREI – acronym in Spanish) Social Sphere / Health and Safety in the Workplace 142 Once we have identified key processes, we have to establish specific actions and goals destined to decrease effectively accident frequency and severity indexes. The joint effort accomplished 96.09% compliance from the 2013 goal. OMA´s health and safety programs include since 2012, all security, janitor, parking, “aerocar” and checked baggage control subcontractors. This is a strategy designed to reach beyond our co-workers and aligned with our responsibility among our close interest groups. Social Sphere / Health and Safety in the Workplace 143 Social Sphere / Health and Safety in the Workplace 144 Social Sphere / Health and Safety in the Workplace 145 Social Sphere / Health and Safety in the Workplace 146 Social Sphere / Health and Safety in the Workplace 147 We have Health and Safety Committees at every work center, where 100% of our workers are represented, to ensure targets are met more efficiently. The committees are comprised by a proportion of staff members from each work center and run in accordance with the regulations currently in force in this field: Mexican Official Standard NOM-019STPS, OMA Health and Safety Regulations, as well as internal procedures. Social Sphere / Health and Safety in the Workplace 148 Social Sphere / Health and Safety in the Workplace 149 Social Sphere / Health and Safety in the Workplace 150 Our talks with the Sindicato Nacional de Trabajadores de la Industria Aeroportuaria y Servicios, Similares y Conexos de la República Mexicana (National Union of Airport Industry and Similar and Related Service Workers of Mexico) in the field of Health and Safety at work consider the following participation agreements: y Collective Employment Contract y Internal Work Regulations y Internal Health and Safety Regulations y Sustainability Fairs for staff members and their families y Security Procedures y CREI Excellence Program y OMA Scholarships Program y General and Local Health and Safety Committees y Participation in Great Place to Work surveys Social Sphere / Health and Safety in the Workplace 151 Training in health and safety at work [LA8] As part of our accident prevention and healthcare promotion programs, in 2013 we imparted a total of 63,571 hours’ training in health and safety at work. Social Sphere / Health and Safety in the Workplace 152 Social Sphere / Health and Safety in the Workplace 153 Certifications In 2013 we followed up on the OHSAS 18001:2007 Certification we obtained in 2011. This certification was issued in a multi-site scheme for the Group’s 13 airports and its main aim is to have a system in place for mitigating health and safety risks to members of staff as well as all the people involved in our day-to-day operations. Two follow-through audits were performed in 2013, the first at the airports of San Luis Potosí and Torreón, and the second at the airports of Reynosa and Ciudad Juárez. In both cases we obtained a recommendation to continue with the Certification. Social Sphere / Health and Safety in the Workplace 154 At the same time, the Health and Safety at Work Self-Management Program of the Ministry of Labor and Social Development (STPS) seeks to encourage companies to install and run management systems in the field of health and safety at work based on national and international standards, in order to ensure safety and hygiene at work centers. The Safe Company Certificate recognizes compliance with regulations, actions to foster continuous improvement and accomplishments in the efficient management of health and safety at work. OMA’s 13 airports are part of this program and at the end of 2013, seven of them were certified by the STPS: Ciudad Juárez, Culiacán, Chihuahua, Mazatlán, Monterrey, San Luis Potosí and Torreón. In 2013 the airport of San Luis Potosí became the first transportation and communications company in the country to be appraised for level three re-certification. Social Sphere / Health and Safety in the Workplace 155 Social Sphere / Health and Safety in the Workplace 156 As part of our commitment to looking after the health and safety of our staff members and anyone we have any dealings with, for the fifth year running we ratified the Company Free of Consumption of Drugs Certificate, which is backed by the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Labor and Social Development and the Mexican Social Security Institute. The purpose of this program is to prevent occupational risks linked to addictions to illegal substances and help improve our staff members’ productivity and quality of life. It consists of tests to detect the use of illegal drugs, and puts into practice our pursuit of zero tolerance for the consumption of illegal drugs, as well as our drive to implement corrective measures in cases that test positive. In 2013, we tested 100 percent of airport personnel, directors, middle-level managers and key members of staff at the corporate offices. Social Sphere / Health and Safety in the Workplace 157 Health and safety prevention programs at OMA Since 2011 we have been implementing the Civil Protection Family Plan initiative with the aim of fostering safety for families. Our efforts consist of providing training and distributing equipment and materials to increase protection in the event of contingencies at home. In 2011 families were given a document holder, a first-aid kit and an emergency plan; in 2012, we provided an emergency backpack and a dynamo lamp; and in 2013 we provided 1,170 smoke detectors and a fire prevention handbook. The foregoing was supplemented with additional training on preventing accidents at home and first aid. In 2011 we conducted a series of medical studies on 95% of staff members to obtain a complete diagnostic on their health. This drive seeks to cut down on the number of days lost through illness in general, prevent occupational health risks and improve the health of all members of staff. To this end, in 2013 we implemented the OMA Health Program at every work center. As part of this drive, in 2013 we launched programs in the fields of nutrition, hearing protection, eye protection and general programs such as vaccination and cancer prevention campaigns for all Group employees. Social Sphere / Health and Safety in the Workplace 158 159 5d. Airport Security Security at OMA airports is an obligation we have towards all our users, passengers and visitors. In this regard, we comply not only with current legal requirements but actually surpass national and international standards for minimizing risks derived from unlawful interference, injuries and damage. We have a Checked-In Baggage Control Program and an Airport Security Reference Program, as well as other security procedures and mechanisms. Investment in this field in 2013 came to $32.5 million pesos channeled into the following projects: extension of the CCTV system; installation of a fire-fighting system and automated access control integrated into the CCTV; extension of points of inspection and improvements in their configuration at all airports; adaptation of areas and the installation of equipment for the emergency operations center at the airports of Chihuahua, Monterrey, Mazatlán and Reynosa; virtual training for staff members performing checks at inspection points at the airports of Acapulco, Ciudad Juárez, Chihuahua, Monterrey and Reynosa. Social Sphere / Airport Security 160 Among other things, these investments enable us to step up security in relevant areas of airports, enhance restricted access controls, improve attention to passengers at inspection points, have the right tools to deal with emergencies adequately and provide better training for staff members working at inspection points. Rescue and Fire-Fighting Corps (CREI – acronym in Spanish) In 2013 five fire-fighting units were acquired for the airports of Acapulco, Chihuahua, Culiacán, San Luis Potosí and Zacatecas, as well as four Cistern Units for the airports of Chihuahua, Culiacán, Torreón and Zacatecas. We also procured Autonomous Breathing Equipment for the airports of Durango, Reynosa, San Luis Potosí and Tampico, personal protection equipment for the airports of Acapulco, San Luis Potosí and Zihuatanejo, two sets of tools for Chihuahua and Torreón, and a lighting tower for Torreón airport. Social Sphere / Airport Security 161 Aerodrome certification In 2013 we obtained approval from the Aviation Authority for Phase 1 of the Operational Security Management System (SMS) for the airport of Monterrey, and an appraisal was carried out for Certification purposes. This included improvements to facilities in the areas of movement and the pertinent studies to ensure compliance with international standards. At the same time, we started an evaluation to obtain Aerodrome Certification for the airport of Acapulco, which involved submitting the necessary documentation. Approval for Phase 1 of the Operational Security Management System (SMS) for the airports of Acapulco and Torreón was also submitted. Social Sphere / Airport Security 162 163 5e. Quality and Service for Costumers Quality certification is part of OMA´s permanent commitment with facilities that comply with international quality, safety, sustainability and efficiency standards. Since 2005 we have a punctual follow up on this matter. During 2013, two ISO 9001:2008 follow up external audits were undertaken. For nine years in a row we obtained zero no major or minor conformities. Also we obtained recommendations for maintaining the ISO 9001:2008 certification, which has a three year validation. We also obtained zero no major or minor conformities for nine years in a row. As part of our Programa de Mejora Seis Sigma (Sigma Six Improvement Program), in 2013 a second group of staff members was created for preparation on Green Belt level. The group is comprised by eight employees who will develop 14 projects to obtain certification at this level in 2014. Social Sphere / Quality and Service for Costumers 164 165 6. Environmental Dimension [5.1, EN30] 166 We are aware of the important role played by companies in helping look after the environment, and at OMA we are working as a team to minimize the impact of our operations on the environment and use resources efficiently. As part of our drive to take high-impact preventive measures, in 2013 we invested more than seven million pesos in environmental causes. It is our firm belief that generating a profit is not our only undertaking; we must also run responsible operations and ensure our environmental performance is suitable for the zones we work in. In 2013 an analysis was performed to identify steps we can take to deal with priorities in this field. We set up a team comprising a Corporate Environment Coordinator and eleven Coordinators assigned to 13 airports with the support of the OMA Integrated Management System to constantly monitor aspects relating to variables such as : y Water y CO2 emissions y Energy y Biodiversity y Waste Environmental Dimension 167 Environmental Dimension 168 169 6a. Water [EN8, EN10] The water consumed at nine of OMA’s airports comes from underground wells, while in the other four it is supplied by municipal utilities. Environmental Dimension / Water 170 Water used for operations at the 13 airports is processed by wastewater treatment plants with biological systems and tertiary processes such as filtration and chlorination, which enable us to treat 98.8% of the water we use each year. Treated water is used to irrigate green areas or is discharged into the ground. In 2014 we will carry on working to devise mechanisms to allow us to reuse treated water that is currently poured or discharged onto the ground. During 2013 we started measuring residual water quality parameters, as part of our efforts in minimizing our own environmental footprint. The existing infrastructure and the past investments have allowed us to be within permissible range on the 13 airports. Environmental Dimension / Water 171 Environmental Dimension / Water 172 173 6b. Energy [EN3, EN4, EN5, EN6, EN7, EN18] One constant drive by OMA over the last few years has been to use energy efficiently in our operations. In order to achieve this, we have launched projects aimed at cutting down on the consumption of energy, which is a crucial resource in the rendering of our services. In 2013 we achieved net overall savings of 2,354,779 Kwh, thanks to the implementation of different strategies to save electricity. This saving considers the impact on consumption of airports that witnessed expansion in infrastructure, such as extensions, refurbishing or the installing of new air conditioning equipment, as well as other things. Environmental Dimension / Energy 174 Environmental Dimension / Energy 175 Of the overall net savings specified above, the initiatives implemented in 2013 account for 1,455,284 Kwh, equivalent to 5,239 gigajoules, accomplished thanks to the following strategies: Replacing conventional lighting with magnetic induction technology at parking lots and on roads. 865 lights with metal and sodium vapor additives were replaced by magnetic induction lamps. The lamps work an average of 12 hours a day and induction lamps cut energy consumption by 60% or 1,125,284 Kwh, which is equivalent to 4,051 gigajoules. Power generation using solar panels at Zacatecas airport. As of the end of 2013, we saved 330,000 Kwh, equivalent to 1,188 gigajoules, thanks to the use of photovoltaic concentrators and panels at the airport of Zacatecas. Savings in money terms came to $523,000 pesos. Electricity demand administration control. Demand is administered through the efficient control of equipment that consumes large amounts of energy during peak hours, and this helps us keep costs down. In 2013, such measures brought us savings of 3.9 million pesos, which is equivalent to 4.5% of annual billing. Environmental Dimension / Energy 176 Thanks to the efforts made in this field, the airport of Mazatlán won recognitions during its participation in the Premio Nacional de Ahorro de Energía Eléctrica (National Electricity Savings Prize or PNAEE). The PNAEE is a public recognition awarded each year by the Federal Electricity Commission (CFE) through the Electricity Savings Trust (FIDE). It is aimed at companies that stand out Environmental Dimension / Energy 177 for their efforts and accomplishments in saving electricity. The airport of Zacatecas has won several recognitions over the last few years: y 2010: it won second place in the medium-sized business category. y 2011: it won third place nationally in the large business category for energy savings of 22% and a 40% reduction in its electricity bill over the previous two years. y 2013: Winner in the large businesses, entities and trade and service institutions category. In order to heighten awareness at home, as part of OMA’s commitment to promoting the habit of looking after the environment and saving energy, at the 2013 Sustainability Fair our staff members were given five thousand 14 W and 20 W ecological light bulbs. In addition, in view of the importance that OMA attaches to research, we also provided support for a research project by a student doing a master’s degree in Renewable Energy Technologies at Southampton University in England. The study is called MICROGRIDS-An alternative solution for decentralized power generation in Mexico and its aim is to provide an overview of “micro-networks” based primarily on renewable energy sources, help cut down on CO2 emissions, and improve the quality of the country’s energy supply. Environmental Dimension / Energy 178 179 6c. Waste Management [EN22, EN27] In line with international standards, we classified the waste we produce as hazardous or nonhazardous, depending on its impact on the environment. Hazardous waste includes oils, paint, solvents and grease used in our operations. Nonhazardous waste includes refuse produced on the yards and platforms of airports, such as plastics, fibers, wood, bottles, cardboard, scrap metal, paper and glass mainly. Both hazardous and non-hazardous waste is delivered to suppliers authorized by the Ministry of the Environment and Natural Resources (SEMARNAT) for correct disposal without recycling in the case of hazardous waste, and in garbage dumps for non-hazardous waste. Environmental Dimension / Waste Management 180 Environmental Dimension / Waste Management 181 En 2013, OMA participated in the Manejo y Destrucción Ambientalmente adecuados de BPC´s en México (Environmentally Adequate Handling and Destruction of PCBs in Mexico) program, which won recognition for its commitment to and active involvement in detecting and getting rid of Polychlorinated Biphenyls (PBC’s). This initiative is promoted by the UN Development Program, World Environment Fund and SEMARNAT. Our participation included the analysis of 34 transformers and the disposal of eight transformers with a total weight of 7.2 tons of PBC waste. Environmental Dimension / Waste Management 182 183 6d. Air Emissions [AO5, EN16, EN20] As far as our operations are concerned, emissions into the air are not significant at OMA, given that they are produced by emergency plants at electric substations or at ecological incinerators from international flights. Emergency plants are only used when there are power supply failures, while incinerators have a controlled combustion device that does not pollute the ground, water or air. Environmental Dimension / Air Emissions 184 In order to take corrective measures and improve metering accuracy, in 2013 we also conducted a study to determine the concentration levels of contaminants that have the greatest impact on air quality, such as: y PM2,5 particles in ambient air, y PM10 particles in ambient air, y Sulfur dioxide SO2, y Nitrogen dioxide NO2 and y Benzene, Toluene, Ethylbenzene and Xylene (BTEX), Pursuant to the modification to the Mexican Official Standard NOM-025-SSA1-1993, the maximum air quality criterion for PM2,5 particles is 65 µg/m³ ca (average over 24 hours). µg/m³ cr (=) Micrograms per cubic meter under reference conditions (25°C, 101 325 Pa). µg/m³ ca (=) Micrograms per cubic meter under current conditions (See Table 10 of the Report REP-4116-13). Environmental Dimension / Air Emissions 185 Pursuant to the modification to the Mexican Official Standard NOM-025-SSA1-1993 the maximum air quality criterion for PM10 particles is 120 µg/m³ ca (average over 24 hours). µg/m³ cr (=) Micrograms per cubic meter under reference conditions (25°C, 101 325 Pa). µg/m³ ca (=) Micrograms per cubic meter under current conditions (See Table 10 of the Report REP-4116-13). ppb (=) Parts per billion. < (=) Lower than the Method Quantification Limit (LoQ). (1) Pursuant to the Mexican Official Standard NOM-023-SSA1-1993, the standard value for nitrogen dioxide (NO2) concentrations in the ambient air as a public health protection measure is 210 ppb for one hour once a year. (2) Average temperature and average humidity were used over the 11 days of sampling. Average temperature = 19.4°C and average relative humidity = 35.8%. Note: Sampling was performed using OGAWA passive samplers, which were placed at an average height of three meters above the ground. Sampling lasted approximately 264 hours. The client chose sampler location. Sample analysis and results calculations were carried out using supplier-specified procedures (see the procedure at www.ogawausa.com). The results presented are for each cartridge filter, which contains two. The results are averaged over the 11 days of sampling. Environmental Dimension / Air Emissions 186 ppb (=) Parts per billion. < (=) Lower than the Method Quantification Limit (LoQ). (1) Average temperature and average humidity were used over the 11 days of sampling. Average temperature = 19.4°C and average relative humidity = 35.8%. (2) Pursuant to the Mexican Official Standard NOM-022-SSA1-2010, annual average. (3) Pursuant to the Mexican Official Standard NOM-022-SSA1-2010, average over 24 hours once a year. (4) Pursuant to the Mexican Official Standard NOM-022-SSA1-2010, average period of eight hours, no more than twice a year. (†) Result of analysis of each filter of the cartridge, which has two. (‡)Result of analysis of filters of the cartridge, which has two. Note: Sampling was performed using OGAWA passive samplers, which were placed at an average height of three meters above the ground. Sampling lasted approximately 264 hours. The client chose sampler location. Sample analysis and results calculations were carried out using supplier-specified procedures (see the procedure at www.ogawausa.com). The results are averaged over the 11 days of sampling. Note: Result of SO2 corrected by average analytical blank. Environmental Dimension / Air Emissions 187 (1) Average temperature and average humidity were used over the 11 days of sampling. Average temperature = 19.4°C and average relative humidity = 35.8%. < (=) Lower than the Method Quantification Limit (LoQ). Note: Air quality measurement for Benzene, Toluene, Ethylbenzene and Xylene is done precisely even though there are no defined standards. Environmental Dimension / Air Emissions 188 189 6e. Biodiversity [AO9, EN11, EN13, EN15] The environmental issues facing the world require short, medium and long term measures and undertakings in order to reduce the impact that a company can generate to a minimum. At OMA we are very aware of the situation affecting the entire planet and have taken the initiative to lend our weight to efforts to protect biodiversity as part of the sustainability strategy that drives us. In our quest to achieve results of note, we have developed our operations aware of the need to conserve and protect biodiversity. It is with this in mind that we have launched projects such as the ones in place at the airport of Zihuatanejo and in ecologically important areas like La Laguna de Tres Palos in the state of Guerrero. The Biodiversity Action Plan has been implemented in order to set guidelines and execute the necessary activities. This reflects the relevance of this matter for OMA. With support at all levels we have set the foundations to boost a total commitment with biodiversity, which are already on the move through the following 4 lines of action: Environmental Dimension / Biodiversity 190 y Mitigate biodiversity impact, derived of our operations y Inform our employees about the importance and benefits of protection and conservation of biodiversity within the airports and areas of influence. y Collaborate with external organizations and government offices in the protection and recuperation of areas with ecological importance around OMA´s influence range. y Identify flora and fauna species present within the airports, and establish conservation and management priorities. During 2013 we identified performance indicators for each line of action, evaluation will take place during 2014 in order to monitor the corresponding effectiveness. By stimulating the restoration and protection of species and ecosystems in an interinstitutional collaboration context, and with educational and sensitization strategies, we will be able to achieve significant reach in the short, medium and long terms. Environmental Dimension / Biodiversity 191 Our airports are not located in protected natural areas, but we are underlining our unyielding commitment to the flora and fauna of the areas we operate in. Our work and efforts continue in key projects that help us protect biodiversity, such as: y Program to Control Fauna Hazardous to Aviation. y Fauna Management Plan. y Aero-Zihuatanejo Environmental Management Unit (UMA – acronym in Spanish). y La Laguna de Tres Palos project in Guerrero. Program to Control Fauna Hazardous to Aviation This program is actually aimed at managing Operational Security at airports by mitigating the risks posed by wildlife to aviation operations, but it also plays an important role in managing biodiversity at the 13 airports. This program comprises the diagnosing, evaluation and mitigation of risks through the following processes: Environmental Dimension / Biodiversity 192 Diagnosis of risks posed by fauna at the airport: This environmental study enables us to identify general conditions at airports, as well as the flora and fauna there and their ecological dynamics. The aim is to determine fauna species that pose a risk to air operations, as well as conditions and practices that foment their presence. Fauna Management and Control Plan: The management plan is the document used to categorize fauna species in accordance with the level of risk they represent for air operations. It also sets forth specific management and control strategies, as well as procedures and adaptations to airport infrastructure. Fauna Management and Control Plan Implementation: This is the constant drive to identify and monitor ecological groups in which a range of fauna management and control methods are implemented in accordance with the level of risk posed by each species to operations and the environmental protection context of each one. The Group’s 13 airports currently have specialized services for implementing the Management Plan, which ensures that appropriate fauna risk management is carried out by competent personnel, alongside compliance with the specific and environmental regulations of the aviation industry. Environmental Dimension / Biodiversity 193 In 2013 there were 24 recorded collisions between fauna and aircraft without any serious consequences. The indicator for 2013 was 0.7477 impact events for every 10,000 operations attended, which means an adequate performance level given the drop in events of this type reported at airports. Impacts 10,000 operations The indicator was calculated on the basis of 320,978 OMA annual operations in 2013. In 2011 figures were only obtained at three airports. Environmental Dimension / Biodiversity 194 Since the program’s launch in 2012, 101 fauna specimens have been relocated. In 2013, a total of 61 specimens were relocated outside airports, in compliance with environmental regulations. Number of relocated specimens Environmental Dimension / Biodiversity 195 One fundamental aspect of the Program to Control Fauna Hazardous to Aviation is the constant professional monitoring of fauna at airports in order to identify their habits, behavior, distribution and frequency at the premises and, as a result, be able to implement effective management and control strategies. These activities include complying with environmental regulations that provide the framework for protecting the specimens of each species identified. In 2013, 79 specimens were identified, in addition to the ones reported in previous years, contained in the Mexican Official Standard NOM-059-SEMARNAT-2010 “Environmental protection – native species of wild flora and fauna in Mexico – categories of risk and specifications for their inclusion, exclusion or change list of endangered species”. Environmental Dimension / Biodiversity 196 E = Endemic NE = Non-endemic N/A = Species not subject to protection but that pose a risk to air operations. Environmental Dimension / Biodiversity 197 UMA Aero-Zihuatanejo The progress within the Environment Management Unit (UMA) and the experience to date has enabled us to contribute with: y 100,000 sq/m of mangrove reforesting in the Zihuatanejo Airport surroundings. y 800 sq/m UMA mangrove in Zihuatanejo Airport. Aero-Zihuatanejo UMA´s main objective is establishing a nursery garden capable of producing seedlings of “botoncillo” mangrove (Conocarpus erectus). There are several propagation techniques, through seeds, seedlings, cutting which contribute to the health and conservation of this species throughout the Zihuatanejo Airport grounds. Additionally in 2013 in a joint effort with the Universidad Autónoma de Guerrero (UAG) we performed a technical study aimed to establish a UMA for the Acapulco Airport, where we will undertake the “botoncillo” mangrove reforesting efforts. Environmental Dimension / Biodiversity 198 This UMA is equipped with a nursery covering an area of 800 m2 for reproducing button mangrove, which allows us to drive reforestation within the UMA with an estimated target of 30,000 specimens that will cover an area of approximately 10 hectares. In its second year of operations, the UMA produced: As a result of the contingencies brought on in 2013 by Hurricane Manuel, the reforestation program was affected principally by water oversaturation, given that replanted areas were flooded. A diagnosis of the affectations was carried out and a reforesting plan is being prepared so that replanting can begin in these areas in 2014. Environmental Dimension / Biodiversity 199 Laguna de Tres Palos Project An agreement with the Autonomous University of Guerrero in 2012 led to the launching of a project to help preserve the Tres Palos lagoon and the mangrove zone of Acapulco airport. The aim was to encourage care for the environment through the conducting of a socioenvironmental diagnostic of communities located on the coast and in Laguna de Tres Palos, in the municipal district of Acapulco de Juárez. The lagoon stretches out for approximately 55 km2 and stands between the La Sabana and Papagayo rivers. The setback here is that the wastewater from many human settlements is being pumped into this lagoon. The project’s aim is to protect the ecosystem of Laguna de Tres Palos, as well as foster R&D in technologies for preserving swamps, controlling pollution in the area, restoring fishing and promoting ecotourism. The project’s first step began with a group of teachers, researchers and students who carried out a socio-environmental diagnostic with the financial support of OMA to cover the costs of both operations and investment, including the sum of $791,252 pesos to purchase lab equipment and materials. Environmental Dimension / Biodiversity 200 Based in the environmental diagnosis performed by the University in 2013, an analysis was made by OMA in order to identify viable areas of cooperation. As a first line of action it was determined the development of an environmental educational program, leaded by the University and applied within the surrounding communities of Barra Vieja, Plan de los Amates and Tres Palos. The program identifies the need to focus on the urban waste management, which is a main concern in the region. The goal is to create the proper sensibility on natural resource sustainability. The goals of the theory/field practice workshop tackle waste generation impact; water availability, water use, care and quality; and the importance of wetlands and mangrove restitution. The program contemplates field practices and demonstrations; advise and counseling on three thesis within the study area and publication of results. As part of this process, of preserving the Tres Palos Lagoon, OMA also supported five Environmental Sciences college students, which final projects revolve around the lagoon project. Environmental Dimension / Biodiversity 201 Certification Since 2011, OMA has had ISO 14001:2004 Certification under a multisite scheme. It confirms that OMA has an Environmental Management System that enables it to devise and implement its environmental policies and objectives, bearing in mind the relevant legal requirements, as well as information on environmental aspects of note. This Certification also accredits that OMA: y Has set forth, implemented, maintains and improves the performance of its environmental management system. y Has ensured compliance with its environmental policies. y Has demonstrated its compliance with all the requirements of the ISO 14001:2004 international standard. In order to follow through on its compliance, in 2013 two audits were performed: one at the airports of San Luis Potosí and Torreón, and another at the airports of Reynosa and Ciudad Juárez. In both cases, the recommendation obtained was for the Certification to be maintained. Environmental Dimension / Biodiversity 202 Environmental Dimension / Biodiversity 203 204 6f. Climate Change OMA participated in the GEI Mexico Program coordinated by the Ministry of the Environment and Natural Resources (SEMARNAT) and the Private Sector Study Commission for Sustainable Development (CESPEDES), based on a methodology in line with the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), which enables us to measure and control emissions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases produced as a result of our operations. In 2013, at OMA we saved 3,473 tons, 162 of which were the result of our solar panel initiative in Zacatecas and 554.6 were due to the changing of lights. As part of its drive to cut down on CO2 emissions into the air produced by the transportation of our colleagues to their work centers, OMA has implemented a personnel transportation system. This service is offered at all airports, as well as corporate offices, covering different routes and ending at the work center. Environmental Dimension / Climate Change 205 Environmental Dimension / Climate Change 206 207 7. Global Index Reporting Initiative 208 Index of indicators GRI 3.1 [3.12] Strategy and analysis 1.1 Declaration of the highest ranking person responsible for making decisions in the 6 organization (general director, president or equivalent position) on the importance of sustainability for the organization and its strategy. 1.2 Description of the main impacts, risks and opportunities. 56 Profile of the organization 2.1 Name of the organization. 14, 29 2.2 Main brands, products and/or services. The organization should indicate the 20, 29, degree to which it uses outsourcing to supply its products and render its services. 34 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including the main divisions, operating 20, 44 entities, subsidiaries and joint ventures. 2.4 Location of the headquarters of the organization. 18, 29 2.5 Number of countries in which the organization operates and names of the 20, 29 countries in which it develops significant activities or any that are specifically relevant to matters of sustainability dealt with in the report. Global Index 209 2.6 Nature of the ownership and legal status of the company. 20 2.7 Markets served (including geographical breakdown, sectors it supplies, types of 29, 34, customers/beneficiaries, size of airports, minimum connection between flights at 44, 39 the airport, number of operations, number of airlines established in the period reported and number of destinations established in the period reported). 2.8 Size of the reporting organization. 20,29,88 2.9 Significant changes during the period covered by the report to the size, structure 14 and ownership of the organization. 2.10 Awards and commendations received during the reporting period. 86 Memory parameters 3.1 Period covered by the information contained in the report (for example, fiscal 14 year, calendar year). 3.2 Date of the most recent previous report (if applicable). 14 3.3 Report submission cycle (annual, biennial, etc.). 14 3.4 Point of contact for questions regarding the report or its contents. 18 3.5 Definition process for the contents of the repor. 80 Global Index 210 3.6 Scope of the report (e.g. countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint 14 ventures, suppliers). Consult the Protocol regarding the Scope of the GRI report for more information. 3.7 Indicate the existence of limitations to the scope or coverage of the report. 14 3.8 The basis for including information in the case of joint ventures, subsidiaries, 29, 39 leased facilities, subcontracted activities and other entities that could significantly affect comparability between periods and/or between organizations. 3.9 Data measurement techniques and bases for carrying out calculations, including hypotheses and techniques underlying the estimates applied in the collection of 14, 56, indicators and other information in the repor. 69, 88, 3.10 Description of the effect that the restatement of information belonging to previous 100 memories could have, along with the reasons for said restatement (for example, 14 mergers and acquisitions, change in reporting periods, nature of the business, or assessment methods). 3.11 Significant changes regarding previous periods in the scope, coverage or assessment methods applied in the report. 14, 54, 3.12 Table showing the location of the basic contents of the report. 80 3.13 Current policy and practice regarding the request for external verification of the 209 report. If this is not included in the verification report of the sustainability report, 14 the scope and basis of any other existing external verification must be explained. The relationship between the reporting organization and the supplier or suppliers of the verification must also be clarified. Global Index 211 Governance, commitments and participation of interest groups 4.1 The governing structure of the organization, including committees for the most 44 senior governing body responsible for tasks such as definition of strategy or supervision of the organization. 4.2 It must be indicated if the chairperson of the most senior governing body also 44 holds an executive position (and, if so, his/her duties within the management of the organization and any reasons justifying this). 4.3 Organizations with a unitary management structure will stipulate the number and 44 gender of the members of the most senior governing body that are independent or not executive. 4.4 Shareholder and employee mechanisms for communicating recommendations 44 or instructions to the most senior governing body. 4.5 Link between the payment of the members of the most senior governing body, 44 senior management and executives (including agreements on leaving the position) and the performance of the organization (including its social and environmental performance). 4.6 Procedures implemented to prevent conflicts of interest in the most senior 59 governing body. 4.7 Procedure for determining the composition, training and experience required 44 from members of the most senior governing body and its committees, including any consideration regarding gender and other diversity indicator. Global Index 212 4.8 Internally developed statements regarding mission and values, codes of conduct 20, 59 and principles relevant to economic, environmental and social performance, and the status of their implementation. 4.9 Procedures of the most senior governing body for supervising the identification 44, 56 and management, by the organization, of economic, environmental and social performance, including risks and related opportunities, as well as adherence to or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct and principle. 4.10 Procedures for evaluating the performance of the most senior governing body 44 itself, especially with regard to economic, environmental and social performance. 4.11 Description of how the organization has adopted a precautionary proposal or 56, 69 principle. 4.12 Social, environmental and economical principles or programs developed externally, 69, 100 as well as any other initiative endorsed or approved by the organization. 4.13 Main associations to which it belongs (such as sectoral associations) and/or 105 national and international bodies supported by the organization. 4.14 List of interest groups included by the organization. 105 4.15 Basis for the identification and selection of interest groups to which the 80, 105 organization is committed. 4.16 Approaches adopted for the inclusion of interest groups, including the frequency 105 of their participation by type and category of interest groups. 4.17 Main concerns and areas of interest that have emerged through the participation 69, 80 of interest groups and the manner in which the organization has responded to these in the preparation of the report. Global Index 213 Management approach and performance indicators 5.1 The section that covers performance indicators regarding sustainability is 88, 96, organized into the following categories: economic, environmental and social. 166 Economic performance indicators EC1 Generated and distributed direct economic value, including revenue, operating costs, 88 employee salaries, donations and other investments in the community, undistributed profits and payments to private equity providers and governments. EC3 Scope of the obligations of the organization attributable to social benefit 127 programs. EC4 Significant financial aid received from governments. 88 EC5 Status of the ratio of the standard entry level salary to the local minimum salary 127 in places where significant operations are developed. EC6 Spending policy, practices and proportion corresponding to local suppliers in 88 places where significant operations are developed. EC7 Procedures for local hiring and the proportion of senior directors from the local 121 community in places where significant operations are developed. EC8 Development and impact of investments in infrastructures and services rendered 29 primarily for public beneﬁt through commercial commitments, pro bono or in kind. Global Index 214 Social performance indicators LA1 Breakdown of the workforce by job type, contract or region. 121 LA2 Total number of employees and average employee turnover, broken down by age 121 group, gender and region. LA3 Social benefits for full-time employees that are not offered to temporary or part127 time employees, broken down by main activity. LA4 Percentage of employees covered by a collective bargaining agreement. 121 LA6 Percentage of total number of workers represented in joint management-employee 141 health and safety committees, established to help control and advise on occupational health and safety programs. LA7 Rates of absenteeism, occupational illnesses, lost days and number of work141 related deaths by region and by gender. LA8 Education, training, assistance, risk prevention and control programs that apply 152 to workers, their families or members of the community with regard to serious diseases. LA9 Health and safety matters covered in formal agreements with unions. 141 LA10 Average number of training hours per employee per year, broken down by 130 employee category. LA11 Skills management and continuous training programs that encourage worker 130 employability and help them manage the end of their professional careers. Global Index 215 LA12 Percentage of employees who receive regular performance and professional 130 development evaluations. LA13 Composition of corporate governing bodies and personnel, broken down by 44, 121 gender, age group, minority groups and other diversity indicators. LA14 Ratio of the basic salary of men to that of women, broken down by professional 127 category. Environmental performance indicators EN1 Materials used, by weight or volume. 216 OMA is a service provider, not a manufacturing company. The supplies used can be seen in indicator AO6. EN3 Direct energy consumption broken down by primary sources. 174 EN4 Indirect energy consumption broken down by primary sources. 174 EN5 Energy saving from conservation and improvements in efficiency. 174 EN6 Initiatives to provide efficient products and services in terms of energy consumption 174 or based on renewable energies, and reductions in energy consumption as a result of said initiatives. EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and the reductions achieved as 174, 184 a result of said initiatives. EN8 Total water capture by sources. 170 Global Index 216 EN9 Water sources that have been significantly affected by water capture. 217 No liabilities were recorded during 2013. EN10 Total percentage and volume of recycled and reused water. 170 EN11 Description of land adjacent to or located inside protected natural spaces or 190 unprotected high-biodiversity areas. Indicate the location and the size of land that is owned, leased or managed of high biodiversity value in zones outside protected areas. EN13 Protected or restored habitats. 190 EN15 Number of species, broken down based on their risk of extinction, included on the 190 IUCN Red List and on national lists, whose habitats are in areas affected by the operations, according to the extent the species is threatened. EN16 Total emissions, direct and indirect, of greenhouse gases, in weight. 184 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. 174 EN20 NO, SO and other significant emissions into the air by type and weight. 184 EN22 Total weight of waste handled, according to type and treatment method. 180 EN23 Total number and volume of the most significant accidental spills. 217 “In 2013 we had a significant spill at Torreon Airport, where 17m3 of kerosene were accidentally poured onto an asphalt surface. No environmental damage was recorded, since the spill did not occur on a natural surface.” Global Index 217 EN27 Percentage of products sold, and their packaging materials, that are recovered at 180 the end of their useful life, by product category. EN28 Cost of significant fines and number of non-monetary penalties due to breaches 88 of environmental regulations. EN30 Breakdown by type of total environmental expenses and investments. 166 Human rights performance indicators HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that include 39 human rights clauses or that have been subject to analysis in terms of human rights. HR2 Percentage of main distributors and contractors that have been subject to analysis 65 in terms of human rights, and measures adopted as a consequence. HR3 Total hours of employee training regarding policies and procedures relating to 65 human rights issues relevant to their activities, including the percentage of employees trained. HR4 Total number of discrimination incidents and measures adopted. 59 HR8 Percentage of security personnel that has been trained in relation to the policies 65 or procedures of the organization in terms of human rights relevant to their activities. HR9 Total number of incidents relating to violations of the rights of indigenous people 59 and measures adopted. Global Index 218 Company performance indicators S02 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed in relation to corruption56 related risk. S03 Percentage of employees trained in relation to the anti-corruption policies and 59 procedures of the organization. S04 Measures taken in response to incidents of corruption. 59 S05 Position on public policies and participation in the development thereof and in 108 ”lobbying” activities. S08 Monetary value of significant penalties and fines and total number of non88 monetary penalties deriving from breaches of laws and regulations. Product liability performance indicators PR1 Phases in the life cycle of products and services in which their impact on customers’ 141 health and safety is evaluated in order to be improved, where applicable, and the percentage of significant product and service categories subject to such evaluation procedures. PR2 Total number of incidents resulting from breaches of legal regulations or voluntary 88 codes relating to the impact of products and services on health and safety during their life cycle, distributed according to the type of result of said incidents. Global Index 219 PR4 Total number of breaches of regulations and voluntary codes relating to 88 information on and labeling of products and services, distributed according to the type of result of said incidents. In 2013 there were no fines in this category. PR5 Practices with regard to customer satisfaction, including the results of customer 108 satisfaction studies. PR7 Total number of incidents caused by breaches of regulations relating to marketing 108 communications, including advertising, promotion and sponsorship, distributed according to the type of result of said incidents. PR8 Total number of properly substantiated claims in relation to respect of privacy 108 and leaking of customers’ personal data. PR9 Cost of any significant fines caused by breaches of regulations with regard to the 88 supply and use of the products and services of the organization. Global Index 220 Sectoral indicators AO1 Total number of passengers per year, broken down by national and international 88 flight passengers, as well as by origin and destination, including transfer and transit passengers. AO2 Total annual operations (24 hours) divided into commercial, cargo, general 88 aviation and government aircraft flights. AO3 Total amount of cargo tonnage. 40 AO5 Air quality level according to pollutant concentrations (microgram per m3 or parts 184 per million), in accordance with legislation. AO6 Number of operations that used anti-freeze liquid by treatment and by m3 and/or 221 tons. OMA does not use anti-freeze liquid in any of its operations. AO8 Number of persons physically or economically displaced, either voluntarily or 39 involuntarily, by the airport operator or on its behalf by a government or other body, and compensation awarded. AO9 Total annual amount of wildlife affected by every 10,000 aircraft movements. 190 Global Index 221 Our Recognitions: We are listed on: Strategic Partners: oma.aero 222
