THE VOLVO GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 OUR PROGRESS TOWARDS SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORT SOLUTIONS 2 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 CONTENTS Contents STRATEGIC APPROACH 8 MOVING SOCIETY AND OUR ­ CEO message 9 41 BUSINESS FORWARD Sustainability strategy and approach 11 Creating shared value 42 Sustainability approach 12 Moving society forward 43 Sustainability objectives 12 Supporting productivity 43 Global drivers 14 Growing market value 43 Demographic growth and urbanization 14 Engaging with society 44 Climate change 14 Moving our business forward 49 Resource scarcity 14 Economic performance and outlook 50 Safety and security 15 Our employees 52 Competition for skills 15 Our material issues 16 RETHINKING TRANSPORTATION 18 EARNING TRUST, GAINING RESILIENCE 58 Towards sustainable transportation 19 Managing our business risks and impacts 59 Our holistic approach 19 Stakeholder engagement and governance 59 Cleaner, smarter, safer 20 Risk management 61 Cleaner solutions 21 Code of Conduct policy 62 Electromobility 22 Company culture 63 Alternative fuels 23 Business ethics 63 Next generation diesel engines 25 Human rights and labor relations 64 Smarter solutions 27 Managing our value chain risks and impacts 66 Rethinking urban mobility 27 Product development 67 Rethinking infrastructure 29 Purchasing 70 Intelligent Transport Systems 30 Production 72 Future freight 31 Distribution and service 76 Safer solutions 33 Products in use 78 Safer products 34 Re-use 79 Driver training 35 Independent recognition 80 How we rethink 36 Key data 81 In-house innovation 36 Research partnerships 37 Venture capital 38 ABOUT THIS REPORT 82 Changing habits 39 Reporting scope and boundary 83 Driving habits 40 Dialogue with stakeholders and issues in focus 83 Accounting principles 83 Scope and boundary of the report 84 Data collection and verification 84 Standards 84 References 85 Disclaimer 85 Contact 86 Front cover: Maddalena Cirani is an engineer working in the Electromobility and Subsystems department at Volvo Group Trucks Technology. Her idea of a tiny wedge to improve the efficiency of magnets used in electric engines could cut production costs on 10,000 machines by USD 1 M, enabling us to make electromobility technology more affordable for customers. This document is a PDF-version of the full Volvo Group Sustainability Report 2013, available online at www.volvogroup.com/sustainabilityreport. This report covers the sustainability performance of the Volvo Group from 1 January to 31 December 2013. It has not been independently audited. See ‘About this report’ for more detail. 3 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THE VOLVO GROUP About the Volvo Group The Volvo Group is one of the world’s leading manufacturers of trucks, buses, construction equipment and marine and industrial engines. The Group also ­provides complete solutions for financing and service. The Group employs 110,000 people, has production facilities in 18 countries, and sells its products in more than 190 markets. In 2013, the Volvo Group’s sales amounted to around SEK 273 billion. AB Volvo’s shares are listed on NASDAQ OMX Stockholm. Strong brands We address diverse customer requirements, in both mature and growth markets, by offering products and services under different brands. Volvo Group net sales Share of net sales Geographic distribution of employees 2000—2013, SEK bn Trucks, 65% 272.6 Construction Equipment, 20% Europe 55% +110% Buses, 6% North America 17% Volvo Penta, 3% South America 6% 130.1 Customer Finance, 3% Asia 19% Other, 3% Other countries 3% 2000 2013 4 SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY 2013 2013 REPORTREPORT ABOUT THE AVSNITT VOLVO GROUP Efficient solutions The Volvo Group develops products and services that contribute to efficient transport and infrastructure solutions. Our trucks, construction equipment, buses, engines, special-purpose vehicles and financial services meet a wide and diverse range of economic and social needs. TRUCKS We are one of the world’s largest truck manufacturers. Our portfolio of brands include the Mack, Renault Trucks, UD Trucks, Volvo and Eicher* brands. Each brand has its own unique and distinct characteristics that attract customers in their market segments. All offer efficient and economic solutions for long-haul, regional and city distribution and construction purposes. In 2013, we launched a completely renewed European range of Volvo trucks, an all-new range of Renault trucks, the new heavy-duty UD Quester range and the Eicher Pro Series for Asia and other growth markets. *VE Commercial Vehicles is a 50/50 joint venture where we sell trucks and buses under the Eicher brand. CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT Volvo Construction Equipment develops, manufactures and markets a comprehensive range of equipment for construction and related industries under our Volvo and SDLG* brands. Our products include a wide selection of heavy and compact construction equipment as well as road machinery products. *SDLG is a brand of the Shandong Lingong Construction Machinery subsidiary, in which we have a 70 percent shareholding. BUSES Volvo Buses is one of the world’s leading bus manufacturers and a world leader in the electromobility market, offering complete buses as well as bus chassis under the Volvo, Nova, Prevost and Sunwin* brands. Our product offering includes city buses, intercity buses and coaches, servicing and repairs, finance, diagnostics and traffic information systems. *Sunwin (formally Shanghai Sunwin Bus Co) is a 50/50 joint venture. 5 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THE VOLVO GROUP MARINE AND INDUSTRIAL ENGINES Volvo Penta manufactures engines and drive systems for leisure boats and commercial crafts as well as a wide range of industrial engines for container handling, mining equipment and other industrial applications. Our customers are supported by a global network of approximately 4,000 dealers. SPECIAL-PURPOSE VEHICLES The Volvo Group manufactures special-purpose vehicles used by government, defense, peace-keeping and relief organizations, among others. FINANCIAL SERVICES Volvo Financial Services (VFS) delivers customer financing and leasing, dealer financing and insurance solutions. 6 SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY 2013 2013 REPORTREPORT ABOUT THE AVSNITT VOLVO GROUP Global presence The Volvo Group has established a global industrial structure with manufacturing, sales and distribution channels on all continents. We have 67 factories in 18 countries and employed 95,533 employees and 14,794 temporary employees and consultants at the end of 2013. We are present in more than 190 markets and sell over 300,000 trucks, buses, construction equipment machines and engines every year through wholly-­owned and independent dealerships. Europe 55% 52,334 employees Asia 19% 17,953 employees North America 17% 16,397 employees South America 6% 6,275 employees Other markets Share of permanent employees 3% 2,574 employees Major production facilities North America South America Europe Asia Other markets Eicher* Pithampur* (IN) Mack Macungie (US) Brisbane (AU) Group Trucks Operations Renault Trucks Blainville, BourgDurban (ZA) en-Bresse (FR), Kaluga (RU) UD Trucks Ageo (JP), Hangzhou* Pretoria (ZA) (CN), Bangkok (TH) Volvo New River Valley (US) Curitiba (BR) Gothenburg, Umeå Bangalore (IN), Brisbane (AU), (SE), Gent (BE), Bangkok (TH) Durban (ZA) Kaluga (RU)  ngines and E Hagerstown (US) Curitiba (BR) Köping, Skövde (SE), Ageo (JP), transmissions Vénissieux (FR) Pithampur* (IN) C  onstruction EquipShippensburg (US) Pederneiras (BR) Arvika, Braås, EskilChangwon (KR), ment stuna, Hallsberg (SE), Shanghai, Linyi* (CN), Konz-Könen, Bangalore (IN) Hameln (DE), Belley (FR), Wroclaw (PL), Kaluga (RU) Buses St Claire, St Eustache Curitiba (BR) Borås, Uddevalla (SE), Bangalore (IN), (CA), Wroclaw (PL) Shanghai* (CN) Mexico City (MX), Plattsburgh (US) Volvo Penta Lexington (US) Gothenburg, Vara (SE) Shanghai (CN) * Ownership ≥ 50% 7 SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 2013 REPORT SUMMARY AVSNITT HIGHLIGHTS 2013 highlights From the biggest product renewal in the Volvo Group’s history through to collaborative educational projects; successful trials of new technology, and continued environmental improvements, 2013 was a positive year in terms of corporate social responsibility and sustainability. Here are some of the highlights. More detail and examples can be found throughout this report and in the Volvo Group Annual Report 2013. SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORT 60% reduced energy consumption achieved in plug-in hybrid bus trials in Gothenburg SHARED VALUE Page 23 5-10 City Mobility Program launched April 2013 in 5 cities. Plans to expand to 10 Page 28 EU COSMO project results prove potential for intelligent transport systems (ITS) Page 30 4 DME trucks are road tested in the US ahead of commercialization Page 25 2013 The year of the largest-ever product renewal in the Volvo UD Quester range designed, priced 157Diversity and Inclusive Leadership training facilitators across 10 COUNTRIES Vocational training schools to open across Africa in partnership with Group’s history and launched specifically for growth the Volvo Group worldwide Sida and USAID markets and businesses Page 50 Page 43 Page 53 Page 44 RESPONSIBLE BEHAVIOR CO2 -NEUTRAL Our Braås factory in Sweden 5 out of 6 years completed. CO2 60 trade unions and employee repThe Volvo Group is ranked among becomes the world’s first certified emissions from factories resentatives attend the inaugural the world’s top 300 most sustainable carbon-neutral construction reduced by 13% (12% target) Volvo Global Dialogue companies in the Dow Jones World equipment production plant between 2009–2012 Index Page 73 Page 66 Page 65 Page 80 Pages 8-17 STRATEGIC APPROACH As a provider of commercial transport solutions, the Volvo Group’s products and services play an important part in our everyday lives – they enable people and societies to fulfill their basic needs and are drivers for economic growth. CONTENTS CEO message 9 Global drivers 14 Safety and security 15 Sustainability strategy and approach 11 Demographic growth and urbanization 14 Competition for skills 15 Sustainability approach 12 Climate change 14 Our material issues 16 Sustainability objectives 12 Resource scarcity 14 9 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 STRATEGIC APPROACH CEO MESSAGE CEO message The Volvo Group has a clear and compelling vision for the future: to become the world leader in sustainable transport solutions. We have always been a progressive company and we have put humans and their needs first since our earliest days. When Volvo was founded in 1927, quality and safety were our core contradiction between meeting our customers’ needs and environvalues, because the founders knew that our vehicles would be opermentally sustainable development. For example, reducing fuel conated by humans. In 1972, we added care for the environment as a sumption in our products benefits both our customers and the envicore value. By doing this we put ourselves at the absolute forefront ronment through lower fuel costs and fewer emissions. of our industry. It showed that we took a holistic view of the world With economic sustainability, we are referring to our ability to creand the impact that our products have on society. Now we are ate economic value for our customers, our shareholders and for taking the next logical step, to become the world leader in sustainsociety as a whole. In delivering quality, we help our customers able transport solutions. improve their efficiency and profitability. By Today, several of the global challenges understanding our customers’ business the world faces are directly or indirectly I see no contradiction between models and contributing to their success, related to the infrastructure and the transmeeting our customers’ needs and enviwe secure our own long-term profitability. port sector. They include climate change, ronmentally sustainable development” By developing infrastructure solutions and population growth, urbanization and the effective transport systems we create shortage of natural resources and raw materials. Sustainable prodgrowth, job opportunities and benefits for society as a whole. ucts and services will be essential for the world in addressing these When we talk about social sustainability, we are referring to the challenges and provide us with a competitive edge if we can conVolvo Group’s role and impact on society. We want to be a good tinue to succeed within this field. Striving to reach our vision we will corporate citizen and in order to contribute to positive societal drive product and service development; advance our position and development we collaborate with different stakeholders – from capture market share, while helping to change the world and enainternational organizations and universities to local authorities and bling it to move in a more sustainable direction. individual citizens. A society or business that suffers losses – Traditionally, sustainability in the transport industry has first and whether due to accidents, injuries, fatalities, damage to goods or foremost involved reducing environmental impacts. Naturally, the vehicles, or congestion and standstills – is not sustainable over environmental dimension is still very important, but the Volvo Group time. By using our knowledge of traffic safety, we can create shared has a broader focus and we pay equal attention to economic and value for society and business. social sustainability. Being the world leader in sustainable transport solutions means Environmental sustainability drives us to utilize resources more that we have a profound influence on the world around us, and our effectively, improve the reliability and lifecycle of our products and products and services contribute to sustainable development. We reduce their impact on the environment. In this context, I see no will reach our vision by meeting our customers’ needs, because only 10 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 STRATEGIC APPROACH SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 CEO MESSAGE AVSNITT a profitable company can make the investments needed for the a presence in more than 50 African countries. We have a clear future. To this end, we are in the midst of an intense period of transstrategy for how we want to grow further in Africa, but we also have formation which began in 2012 and will take us through 2015. great respect for the many challenges faced by the countries where In 2012, we established a new organization and new strategies we want to grow. aiming to increase the Group’s profitability. During 2013, we carried Our CSR agenda for Africa aims to support our growth objectives out the most extensive product renewal in the Group’s history. Over by solving some of the obstacles that exist in these markets. One the course of 2014, our focus will be on improving the Group’s effisuch obstacle is the severe shortage of trained drivers, technicians ciency through an extensive strategy-linked efficiency program. We and operators. Our joint project with the Swedish International still have some way to go before reaching our strategic objectives Development Cooperation Agency (Sida) and the US Agency for but we have made good progress over the International Development (USAID) will past year and there is no doubt we will introduce vocational training in 10 African reach our targets. Our factory in Braås, Sweden, is the countries that are business-critical for the I believe that only a sustainable comworld’s first construction equipment Volvo Group and eligible for development pany can provide sustainable solutions. plant and the Group’s fourth manufacgrants from both Sida and USAID. This Our 2013 materiality assessment underexemplifies the benefits of our new stratturing site to become carbon neutral. lined the importance of continuing to egy to engage in community activities focus on the environmental, economic and social dimensions of related to our core business. Taking another example, in India we sustainability and I would like to highlight a few of the initiatives have trained more than 110,000 drivers on driver responsibility, fuel carried out over the past year. efficient driving and traffic safety, and thereby created shared value During 2013, we strengthened labor relations with our new Volvo by addressing a societal challenge using our unique knowledge. Global Dialogue forum; we reinforced governance with our new During 2013, we took many innovative steps towards realizing our CSR Supply Chain Steering Committee, and we introduced new vision, not only with pioneering product technology, but through colresponsible sourcing procedures and training. laborative programs that are rethinking infrastructure and changing When our factory in Braås, Sweden, was certified carbon neutral, driver behavior. For example, results of the latest electromobility it clearly demonstrated our corporate core value of environmental trials show a positive reduction in fuel consumption and emissions. care. It is the world’s first construction equipment plant and the The launch of our City Mobility Program is another milestone in field Group’s fourth manufacturing site to become carbon neutral. As the testing products with alternative fuels and smart technology. world’s first automotive manufacturer to be approved by WWF to All these initiatives simultaneously move our business forward and participate in its Climate Savers program another of our objectives create value for the societies where we operate while opening up is to reduce the total lifetime carbon emissions for trucks, con­ opportunities for the future. You can read more about our initiatives in struction equipment and buses manufactured between 2009 and this report as well as how we apply the principles in UN Global Com2014 by 30 million tons of CO2, compared to vehicles manufactured pact in our daily business in order to become a sustainable company. in our 2008 baseline year. Between 2009 and 2012, we reduced 2014 is going to be the year when we see our strategies and hard emissions from these products by 28 million tons – 93 percent of work beginning to bear fruit. We have our new organization in place, our goal. we have a product range that is extremely competitive and we have One of many new products launched during 2013 was the new co-workers who are engaged and professional. I believe we are now UD Quester range, designed specifically to meet the needs of cusvery well equipped to implement the next two years of our 2012tomers in growing economies and thereby contributing to econom2015 strategies, aiming for improved efficiency, growth and profitaically sustainable development. The trucks are developed in Asia, bility. This will put us on the right track to fulfill our long-term vision produced in Asia and will provide jobs and livelihoods for families in to become the world leader in sustainable transport solutions. Thailand, India and China where production takes place. Moving our business towards sustainable transport solutions also Olof Persson influences our thinking about ways to help move society forward. President and CEO Today the Volvo Group produces trucks in South Africa and we have 11 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 STRATEGIC APPROACH SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY AND APPROACH Sustainability strategy and approach Sustainability is integral to the Volvo Group, our policies and actions. As a Group, we believe it is possible to run a responsible and sustainable business, while creating long-term value for our stakeholders. The Volvo Group’s vision is to become the world leader in ­sustainable The Volvo Group’s approach to CSR and sustainability focuses on: transport solutions by: • conducting business in a responsible manner • creating value for customers in selected segments • taking stakeholders’ perspectives into account • pioneering products and services for the transport and infra• creating value for our shareholders and society structure industries • contributing to sustainable development. • driving quality, safety and environmental care • working with energy, passion and respect for the individual. The Volvo Group CSR and sustainability model Sustainability Report 2013 Sustainable ­ transport PAGES 18–40 Rethinking the future Shared value Moving society and our PAGES 41–57 business forward Responsible behavior Earning trust, gaining resilience PAGES 58–81 12 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 STRATEGIC APPROACH SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINABILITY 2013 ANDAVSNITT STRATEGY APPROACH Our vision is a public commitment to social, economic and environthis goal by investing, developing and delivering pioneering products mental sustainability that not only helps us to manage risk, it creates and services for the transport and infrastructure industries. business opportunities and builds trust. This supports us in develDeveloping tomorrow’s transport solutions cannot be achieved by oping lasting relationships with customers, employees, suppliers the Volvo Group alone. We can only do this by sharing our expertise and other stakeholders. and working in collaboration with visionary partners, including universities, authorities and customers. The Sustainability approach Our vision is to become the world ‘Rethinking transportation’ section of this report highlights key initiatives and the In 2012, we introduced the Volvo Group leader in sustainable transport solutions” progress we are making. corporate social responsibility (CSR) and sustainability model to express our approach to sustainability. Sustainability objectives The Volvo Group CSR and sustainability model is based on the United Nations Global Compact principles, other internationally recLong-term, the Volvo Group’s CSR and sustainability ambitions ognized norms of responsible behavior and interviews with internal include being: and external stakeholders. It is represented by a pyramid that vis• proven innovators of energy-efficient transport and infrastructure ually demonstrates the need to build upon a broad yet solid foundasolutions tion of responsible and sustainable behavior in order to create and • amongst the most profitable in our industry share value and reach our ultimate goal of becoming the world • our customers’ closest business partner leader in sustainable transport solutions. • a contributor to societal development, globally and locally • an employer of choice with a global team of high-performing peoResponsible behavior ple, with more women and minorities in leadership positions Conducting our business in a responsible manner is essential for • a carbon-neutral manufacturer and provider of carbon-neutral maintaining the Volvo Group’s reputation as a trustworthy company transport and is the foundation of our sustainability strategy. Compliance and and to achieve zero accidents with the Volvo Group’s products. risk management are actively integrated into our everyday business. Responsibility and sustainability are embedded in our corporate Our long-term ambitions are broken down into shorter-term targets culture, values, and Code of Conduct and every employee is responand activities. In line with our CSR and sustainability model and sible for upholding these. More information on our approach and 2013 materiality matrix, we have chosen to report on the following progress is detailed in the ‘Earning trust, gaining resilience’ targets. More detail on our management approach and perforsection of this report. mance is included throughout this report. The Volvo Group’s financial goals and progress are described in our Annual Report. Shared value The Volvo Group creates sustainable economic value by delivering products and services that meet the needs of society today while considering their long-term social and environmental impacts. A strong economic performance enables us to fulfill our commitments SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING DEFINITIONS to our employees and to the societies in which we operate today, and to invest for the future. Material issues These are relevant environmental, economic and social issues that We believe in taking all stakeholder perspectives into account senior management and external stakeholders believe could substanand working with energy, passion and respect for the individual. The tially affect an organization’s sustainability performance Group strategically shares its knowledge, experience and resources to address societal challenges, such as road safety, education and Materiality assessment This is the process of assessing and scoring an organization’s key disaster relief. Aligning our CSR programs and initiatives with our environmental, economic and social issues – known as ‘material business objectives benefits both society and the Volvo Group. Find issues’ – according to their potential impact on business performance out more in the ‘Moving society and our business forward’ and their relative importance to external stakeholders section of this report. Materiality matrix This is a chart that visually maps an organization’s material issues – its Sustainable transport key environmental, economic and social issues – according to the scoring given by internal and external stakeholders. Being the world leader in sustainable transport solutions is the ultimate point of our sustainability strategy. We are progressing towards 13 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 STRATEGIC APPROACH SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY AND APPROACH Material issue Sustainability target Target date Result 2013 SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORT Alternative fuels Offer commercial market trucks that can operate 2014 On track 2: Methane Diesel truck launched on renewable gas1 2012 Energy-efficient products Develop a new truck prototype with 20% lower fuel 2014 On track: Current prototypes indicate a consumption than a corresponding truck manufacpotential fuel saving of at least 20%, if tured in 20081 techniques are combined Environmental impact of product in use Reduce the total lifetime CO2 emissions of the 2014 On track: 29 million ton CO2 reduction Group’s products by 30 million tons between 2009achieved by 20123 20141 SHARED VALUE Culture and values Be among the high-performing companies in the Annual On track: Volvo Group scored 76% in 2013, Employee Engagement Index (EEI) of the employee one percent off the high-performing sector. survey (Global norm 2013: 70%) Customer satisfaction Be the leader in customer satisfaction, delivering Ongoing On track: Top 3 position on customer satispioneering products and services for the transport faction in all main markets and infrastructure industries Diversity and equality Attract and retain a diverse workforce Ongoing On track: Women represented 17% of the workforce and 19% of senior executives. Train all managers down to CEO-3 level in diversity 2015 On track: new program launched Nov 2013 and inclusive leadership Occupational health and safety Increase the number of plants certified to OHSAS Ongoing On track: 37% of plants certified to OHSAS 18001 18001 RESPONSIBLE BEHAVIOR Culture and values Train all employees on our updated Code of Conduct, Ongoing On track: 23,500 employees have taken the through e-learning and face-to-face training e-learning course since the launch of the updated Code of Conduct in Nov 2012 (out of around 50,000)4 Maintain ISO 9001 certification for all whollyOngoing Achieved: all plants certified to ISO 9001 owned plants Business ethics Train all white collar employees through an Ongoing On track: 37,300 employees had completed anti-corruption e-learning course the course by December 31, 2013 (out of around 50,000) Train all white collar employees through a competiOngoing On track: 26,900 employees had completed tion law e-learning course the course by December 31, 2013 (out of around 50,000) Production related environmental Achieve ISO 14001 certification for all the Volvo Ongoing On track: all but four (out of 67) plants issues Group’s major production plants certified to ISO 14001 Reduce CO2 emissions from the Volvo Group’s 2014 Achieved: 0.3 million tons (13%) reduced production plants by 0.2 million tons (12%) between 2009–20123 compared to 20081 Complete energy mapping of the Volvo Group’s 2012 Behind schedule: 70% completed by 2013 plants Responsible sourcing Assess 100% of suppliers delivering automotive 2014 On track: 68% completed the self-assessproducts in ‘high-risk’ countries (‘high-risk’ as ment, corresponding to 80% of spend defined in the purchasing section) Ensure all suppliers delivering automotive products Ongoing On track: more than 94% of spending are certified to ISO 14001 Train all purchasers face-to-face on supply chain 2014 On track: 60% by the end of 2013 business ethics and environmental issues 1 One of our objectives as part of the WWF Climate Savers program 2 We are currently adapting and improving the technology for Euro 6. Production and deliveries are due for 2015 3 Figures for the year ending 2013 will be available in June 2014 4 Figures for face-to-face training not measured 14 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 STRATEGIC APPROACH SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 GLOBAL DRIVERS AVSNITT Global drivers The world continues to evolve at a rapid pace, making it more important than ever for the Volvo Group to have an informed understanding of our global operating environment. As part of our business and sustainability strategies, we continually analyze megatrends and regional variations to assess their impact on our Group and seek new business development opportunities. From our perspective, the most significant trends driving our work Climate change towards sustainably meeting transport and infrastructure needs today and tomorrow are: There is widespread agreement that the burning of fossil fuels, 1. Demographic growth and urbanization including oil and diesel, is a major source of greenhouse gas emis2. Climate change sions, which causes climate change. A sustainable transport sector 3. Resource scarcity must respond by improving fuel efficiency and moving towards 4. Safety and security lower carbon alternatives. 5. Competition for skills. This challenge is driving interest and opportunities in electromobility, and alternative and renewable fuels, that reflect the varying Demographic growth and urbanization availability of natural resources, infrastructure, political will and incentives in different regions. Today over seven billion people live on the planet. By 2025 the United Nations Population Fund expects there to be eight billion Resource scarcity people and nine billion before 2050. Half the world’s population already lives in cities; urbanization rates by region, however, are not Population growth, increasing industrialization and urbanization, uniform. The 50 percent milestone will be reached in Asia in 2020, and economic growth place increasing demands on the use of the but Africa will not be urbanized to this level until about 2035. planet’s finite capital. Resource efficiency and finding ways to reuse These trends are driving an urgent and growing need for transmaterials and energy in product lifecycles is increasingly important portation and better infrastructure that address the social and envifor industry. ronmental challenges of congestion, noise and pollution, and provide solutions for regions at different stages of development. 15 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 STRATEGIC APPROACH GLOBAL DRIVERS Safety and security Every year, according to the World Health Organization (WHO), there are more than 1.2 million road traffic fatalities and as many as 50 million people are injured in traffic. The WHO predicts that traffic fatalities could be among the top five causes of death worldwide by 2030. The tragedy of traffic injuries and fatalities is accentuated by the fact that the problems are worst where resources to counteract it are the scarcest; for example, low and middle income countries account for the majority of traffic fatalities. As more nations and organizations set increasingly ambitious goals for passenger Every year, there are more than 1.2 and commercial traffic safety, there is a million road traffic fatalities” growing trend for authorities to regulate commercial vehicles and make certain safety systems mandatory. As the population and economies grow, the rising number of vehicles to transport increasing volumes of goods adds to the widespread risk of theft of both vehicles and goods. Security, therefore, continues to be a key focus for the transport and infrastructure industry. Competition for skills The transport and infrastructure industry requires a broad range of competences, from engineering and technical skills to management, leadership and financial skills. Multiple factors influence the availability of skilled people for the industry, both today and in the future. These include falling interest in science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) in some developed countries; limitations of the educational systems in some emerging markets; and the long-term decline in the number of people of working age in advanced markets. The Volvo Group is actively undertaking a wide range of initiatives to address these global sustainability challenges. Examples of our innovative products, services and approaches are included throughout this report. 16 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 STRATEGIC APPROACH SUSTAINABILITY REPORT OUR 2013 MATERIAL AVSNITT ISSUES Our material issues During 2013, we strengthened our approach to CSR and sustainability by conducting a wider and more formal analysis of the Volvo Group’s material issues. This has enabled us to rank the issues that the Volvo Group and external stakeholders consider of highest importance, with customer satisfaction, energy-efficient products and product safety emerging as the top three key priorities. Our methodology As a first step, we completed the process internally this year. Colleagues from the Group’s CSR committee, business intelligence, Customer satisfaction, energy-efficient business strategy and management teams assessed and ranked a products and product safety emerged as long list of issues relevant to the Volvo Group’s business success. the top three key priorities” Employees with close contact and detailed knowledge of eight stakeholder groups completed the assessment from the point of view of customers, employees, potential employees, suppliers, capital market, decision makers, universities and NGOs. Conclusions We regard the resulting matrix as a useful tool to guide and inform our CSR and sustainability strategies, actions and communications. We know not all issues will be relevant for every segment, and that priorities will vary by region – such as human rights in emerging markets. We will continue to evaluate issues, and their importance, as we expand our stakeholder input in our materiality process. 17 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 STRATEGIC APPROACH OUR MATERIAL ISSUES HIGH 2 1 4 Stakeholder expectations 9 3 6 5 10 8 11 7 16 12 18 17 21 15 19 14 20 13 23 26 25 22 24 27 29 28 30 MEDIUM MEDIUM Importance for business success HIGH 1 Customer satisfaction 11 Production related environmental issues 21 Climate change 2 Energy-efficient products 12 Volvo Group values and culture 22 Mobility in urban areas 3 Product safety 13 Availability of skilled workforce 23 Diversity and equal opportunity 4 Business ethics 14 Transport system efficiency 24 Corporate governance 5 Research and innovation 15 Employee training and development 25 Local economic growth 6 Alternative fuels and drivelines 16 Traffic safety 26 Product end-of-life management 7 Financial performance 17 Responsible sourcing 27 Local community engagement 8 Transition to sustainable transport solutions 18 Occupational health and safety 28 Goods security 9 Environmental impact of product in use 19 Emerging markets products 29 Water consumption 10 Human rights 20 Stakeholder dialogue 30 Donations and charity Pages 18-40 RETHINKING TRANSPORTATION The Volvo Group is rethinking transportation by developing tomorrow’s solutions for the transport and infrastructure industries today. Our vision is to become the world leader in sustainable transport solutions. We will achieve this with pioneering products and services, while driving quality, safety and environmental care. Sustainable transport Rethinking the future Shared value Moving society and our business forward Responsible behavior Earning trust, gaining resilience CONTENTS Towards sustainable transportation 19 Smarter solutions 27 Driver training 35 Our holistic approach 19 Rethinking urban mobility 27 How we rethink 36 Cleaner, smarter, safer 20 Rethinking infrastructure 29 In-house innovation 36 Cleaner solutions 21 Intelligent Transport Systems 30 Research partnerships 37 Electromobility 22 Future freight 31 Venture capital 38 Alternative fuels 23 Safer solutions 33 Changing habits 39 Next generation diesel engines 25 Safer products 34 Driving habits 40 19 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 RETHINKING TRANSPORTATION TOWARDS SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORTATION Towards sustainable transportation To address urgent global challenges and contribute positively to economic, social and environmental development, transportation needs to be made more efficient and more sustainable. The Volvo Group’s products and services play an important role in Our holistic approach transporting people and goods and building roads and infrastructure. As a business, we are committed to and take an active part in For the Volvo Group, sustainable transport solutions improve ecofinding, developing and delivering sustainable solutions within our nomic and environmental performance in both the shortand longsphere of competence. In 2013, we delivered the biggest renewal of term, while considering the social impact at all times. products in the Volvo Group’s history, with sustainability factors We achieve sustainable transport solutions by delivering against playing a significant part. all three sustainability dimensions: However, the complexity, size and scale of global challenges Environmental: energy-efficient transport solutions with very low mean that the Volvo Group cannot meet all needs by acting alone. emissions of carbon dioxide, particulate matter, nitrogen oxides and When developing tomorrow’s transportation solutions, we must noise work in cooperation with other commercial and governmental Economic: the right product or service in order to contribute to organizations and with society. And we must take into account the high productivity in the transport system availability of fuels, the environmental impact of our products, the Social: safe and secure transport systems for people and goods. existing and required infrastructure, and the prevailing and emerging social, economic and political needs. The Volvo Group’s sustainable transport solutions model Environmental dimension Energy ­ The Volvo Group defines sustainable efficiency transport solutions as ‘solutions that and low improve shortand long-term economic emissions and environmental performance while considering their social impact’. The Volvo Group’s vision of sustainable transport Social dimension solutions is achieved at the point where all High three sustainability dimensions intersect. productivity Safe and in the transport secure system transport solutions Economic dimension 20 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 RETHINKING TRANSPORTATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 TOWARDS SUSTAINABLE AVSNITT TRANSPORTATION Cleaner and more efficient According to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, Environmental sustainability is about reducing the negative environgreenhouse gas emissions must be reduced by 50–80 percent mental impact of our products. The Volvo Group aims to develop between 2000 and 2050 if we are to avoid the most serious consolutions that enable more transportation that uses fewer resources sequences of climate change. Research shows that transport is and emits lower emissions. Our responsible for approximately 14 peradvanced engineering therefore has a cent of total manmade greenhouse strong focus on energy efficiency, We achieve sustainable transport solutions gas emissions and road freight alternative fuels and drivelines. By by delivering against all three sustainability accounts for about four percent of reducing fuel consumption, investing dimensions: environmental, economic and social” emissions globally. in new technology, utilizing resources Approximately 1.2 million people die more effectively and giving our products longer service lives, we every year on the world’s roads, and another 20 to 50 million suscan reduce the impact on the environment. tain injuries. If current trends continue for more than a decade, up We also recognize that attitudes and behavior are important for to 2.4 million people could be killed annually in road traffic accireducing impacts and increasing efficiency and we actively develop dents. By 2030, the World Health Organization predicts traffic acciand provide new sustainable transport services. Together, our proddents will be one of the top five causes of death globally. ucts and services help our customers operate in the most eco-effiThe Volvo Group can address these global challenges by working cient way possible. towards our vision. We will reach our vision by meeting our customers’ needs. This means working as one team, being progressive, driving Highly productive innovation and developing sustainable products and services that Economic sustainability in terms of sustainable transport solutions fulfil unmet customer needs. Our approach to sustainability is suprefers to the Volvo Group supporting high productivity in the transported by our corporate core values. These spring from our heritport system. Our products and services enable many vital business age, but are more applicable today than ever: and societal tasks to function efficiently. By understanding our customers’ business models and contributing to their success, we Environmental care expresses our commitsecure our own long-term profitability. We offer reliable and cost-­ ment to reducing the environmental impact of effective transportation solutions that help customers improve their our operations and products. productivity. We also strive to increase our customers’ success with products and services that are cleaner, smarter and safer. By developing infrastructure and effective transport systems, we create Quality reflects our promise to deliver reliable additional benefits for our customers and for society as a whole. products and services that add economic value to our customers. Safe and secure Social sustainability for the Volvo Group focuses on making things safer for people. A society or business that suffers losses caused by Safety is about improving our social impacts by accidents, injuries, fatalities, damaged goods or vehicles, congesreducing accidents, both within the Volvo Group tion and downtime, is not sustainable over time. As the volume of and in the use of our products and services. transport grows, traffic safety and security become increasingly important, with higher demand for solutions to protect the driver, vehicle and goods as well as other road users and pedestrians. The Volvo Group has therefore chosen to put substantial effort into By using our knowledge in traffic safety we can create shared research and development of products with significantly reduced value for society and business. The Volvo Group’s research and fuel consumption and the ability to run on alternative, cleaner fuels. development addresses all safety and security aspects by focusing Our investment in smarter technologies and infrastructure supports on smart technologies and services to reduce the risks of accifuel efficiency, while improving safety. dents, theft and threats that may occur and to mitigate the consequences. Cleaner, smarter, safer Responding to the global challenges of climate change and road safety is critical for the long-term sustainability of the Volvo Group. Award-winning The new Volvo FH truck won many awards during 2013, including the prestigious Red Dot design award. It was also voted International Truck of the Year in recognition of its important innovations in all crucial areas: fuel economy, ergonomics, handling, active and passive safety and time-saving features. 21 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 RETHINKING TRANSPORTATION CLEANER SOLUTIONS Cleaner solutions Reducing the environmental impact of our products and services is extremely important for our business and our stakeholders. Innovation, energy-efficient products and alternative fuels are among the Volvo Group’s top material issues. Carbon reduction commitment The Volvo Group was the world’s first automotive manufacturer to SOME DEFINITIONS be approved by WWF to participate in its Climate Savers program. Alternative fuels Fuels, including electricity, that can replace conventional diesel or One of our program objectives is to reduce the total lifetime carbon ­petrol fuel derived from crude oil emissions for trucks, construction equipment and buses manufacBioDME tured between 2009 and 2014 by 30 million tons of CO2, compared DME (dimethylether) derived from renewable material such as biomass, waste and agricultural products to vehicles manufactured in our 2008 baseline year. Between Biomass 2009–2012, we reduced product emissions by 29 million tons – 97 Biological material from which energy can be provided percent of our goal. The 2013 figures will be available in June 2014. Carbon-neutral transport Carbon-neutral vehicles powered by fuels or electricity produced from sources and processes that add no excess carbon dioxide (CO2) into WWF Climate Savers the atmosphere DME (dimethylether) program 30 M tons A sulphur-free gas with ultra-clean combustion that is easy to liquefy – less CO2 derived from fossils fuels (coal, natural and shale gas) or a variety of sustainable feedstocks (wood, black liquor and organic materials) Fully electric vehicles Vehicles and machines powered or propelled by an electric motor Fossil fuels Fuels based on fossil energy, primarily oil, coal and natural gas 2009-2014 HVO (hydrotreated vegetable oil) Vegetable oils or animal fat are converted into diesel-like molecules in Priorities and progress a refinery process. The end product is similar to conventional diesel fuel Alternative and renewable fuels offer the transport sector opportuHybrid vehicles nities for reducing carbon emissions. We have already proven our Vehicles and machines powered or propelled by two different power sources that are able to recover and store kinetic energy ability to produce carbon-neutral transport, and we continue to Methane actively research and develop technologies that operate on renewMethane gas (CH4) is the main component of natural gas and biogas, able or alternative fuels. in both compressed or liquefied form Plug-in hybrid vehicles In order to be commercially viable, all sustainablility dimensions – Hybrid vehicles with rechargeable batteries, or another energy storage social, economic and environmental – must be taken into considerdevice, that can be fully charged by connecting to an external electric ation. This includes setting up the infrastructure for new fuels. In power source Renewable fuels addition, fuel represents a significant operating cost for the transFuels, including electricity, produced from a renewable source – such port sector and energy efficiency is therefore a key priority in supas biomass, hydro, wind or solar power porting our customers to create value. Well-to-wheel A concept that considers all relevant stages of the fuel chain, including culAs there is no single solution to all needs and markets, the Volvo tivation and harvesting of the raw material, its transport to the fuel producGroup continues to develop a range of products and services. tion plant, production and distribution of the fuel and its use in vehicles 22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 RETHINKING TRANSPORTATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORTSOLUTIONS CLEANER 2013 AVSNITT Following an extensive city mobility study in 2012, the Volvo Group formally launched its City Mobility Program in April 2013, beginning with partnerships in Gothenburg, Stockholm, Hamburg, Luxembourg and Montreal. In Gothenburg, Sweden, we have confirmed plans to launch fully electric Volvo buses powered entirely from renewable electricity on the city’s public transport network from 2015. In Canada, our North American subsidiary, Nova Bus, has entered into an agreement with the Société de transport de Montréal (STM) to test three Nova Fully electric trucks emit no particulate matter, nitrogen oxides or carbon dioxide during operation and have very low noise levels, making electric buses and two rapid charging stations at bus terminals in them suitable for city distribution. 2015. Read more about the City Mobility Program in the ‘Smarter solutions’ section. FULLY ELECTRIC TRUCKS Electromobility Renault Trucks has developed a fully electric 4.5-ton truck, Renault Maxity Electric, in partnership with electric commercial vehicle Electromobility offers cleaner transport solutions by reducing exhaust manufacturer PVI. It emits no particulate matter, nitrogen oxides or emissions and noise. It can also significantly reduce fuel cost for the carbon dioxide and has very low noise levels, making it suitable for customer. The electromobility market includes fully electric vehicles city distribution, operations at night and use in restricted low-emisand machines – powered or propelled solely by an electric motor – as sion zones. It is available for purchase or for long-term rental in well as hybrids, which have two sources of power. European markets such as France, Spain and Benelux. It is a new, important and growing market for the Volvo Group. We In 2013, Renault Trucks began testing new commercial applicaquickly realized society’s need for low cartions for the Maxity Electric, including bon solutions to tackle climate change boom lifts and refuse collection. Together and have already developed and sold more With our extensive range of fully with the City of Lyon, we have brought into than 2,500 hybrid city buses, for example. electric, plug-in hybrid and hybrid service France’s first fully electric boom Such product innovation has helped us vehicles, we are the world leader within lift Maxity truck. We are monitoring its establish a strong presence and good repthe electromobility bus market” performance under actual working condiutation in the market. With our extensive tions and will adapt it as required to meet range of fully electric, plug-in hybrid and hybrid vehicles, we are the urban operational requirements. We also delivered the first Maxity world leader within the electromobility bus market. Electric residential garbage dumpster, capable of covering 50 km. The model draws its energy from a battery pack located in the rear FULLY ELECTRIC BUSES wheelbase and supplies it to the dumpster electronically. Fully electric vehicles emit no particulate matter, nitrogen oxides or carTests continue on higher tonnage trucks in order to prepare the bon dioxide during use and have very low noise levels. This makes them Volvo Group for future commercial offers. These include two 13-ton especially suitable for use in densely-populated urban environments. all-electric refrigerated Renault Midlum trucks, delivered in 2012 to China represents a huge market for sustainable public transport supply stores in the urban areas of Lausanne and Zürich, Switzerland. solutions. Sunwin Bus, the Chinese joint venture of Volvo Bus, is a In addition, a logistics company supplying fresh products to store leading supplier of fully electric buses longer than 10 meters. The chains in the metropolitan area of Lyon is currently testing a 16-ton company has sold 787 fully electric buses to date. fully electric Renault Midlum truck. It is the largest electric-powered Driving distance for a bus with 5 l diesel equivalent to 50 kWh DIESEL 10 KM HYBRID 14.2 KM PLUG-IN HYBRID 25 KM FULLY ELECTRIC BUS 34 KM 23 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 RETHINKING TRANSPORTATION CLEANER SOLUTIONS truck on the road delivering produce in an urban environment. It can carry 5.5 tons of goods, has an operating range of 100 km and can be fully recharged in only eight hours. ELECTRIC AND HYBRID DRIVELINES The Volvo Group has tested various types of hybrid solutions since the 1980s and is now the world leader in hybrid technology. Our solution is based on a unique Volvo Group concept known as I-SAM (Integrated Starter Alternator Motor). I-SAM consists of an electric Volvo plug-in hybrid bus tests have recorded average fuel conmotor and a diesel engine working in parallel – each can be used sumption of less than 11 liters of fuel per 100 km – 81% less than where they are most effective. I-SAM can be used for different an equivalent diesel bus. products and applications, thus facilitating large-scale manufacturing and reducing production costs. Since 2011, Volvo Buses has been in a joint venture with the Chinese company, SAIC Motors, for the development of driveline systems for electric and hybrid drivelines. The company is based in fuel consumption that is up to 30 percent lower than current diesel Shanghai, and operated by Sunwin Bus. It conducts research and models. We also announced that all complete low-floor buses sold development, assembles new driveline systems, completes vehicle from 2014 by Volvo in Europe will be hybrid buses. matching, prototypes manufacturing and tests new energy driveline By the end of 2013, the Volvo Group had sold more than 2,500 systems. hybrid city buses worldwide, under our Volvo (1,300), Nova (900) and Sunwin (350) brands. PLUG-IN HYBRID BUSES The Volvo Hybrid city bus and the Volvo Hybrid double-decker During 2013, Volvo Buses undertook field testing of its new plug-in offer significant fuel savings of up to 39 percent, compared to a hybrid model. Volvo’s plug-in hybrid bus: conventional diesel bus. The technology functions equally in con• is fitted with an electric motor, powered by a lithium battery, and gested traffic situations and where there is greater distance has a small diesel engine between bus stops. The diesel engine only starts when the bus •  enables recharging from electricity grids via a collector installed reaches 15–20 km/hour, which ensures a quiet and exhaust-free on the roof – charging takes approximately 7 minutes environment at bus stops. These factors make Volvo hybrid buses •  can run exclusively on electric power for approximately 7 km, the most commercially viable option among hybrid vehicles. without any noise or emissions. HYBRID TRUCKS Working in partnership with Västtrafik, three plug-in hybrid Volvo We have offered two models of hybrid trucks in selected European buses have been running on the public transportation system in markets since 2011: the Volvo FE Hybrid and the Renault Premium Gothenburg since the summer 2013. Hybrys Tech. Customers have given very positive feedback on both Initial results have exceeded expectations. The plug-in hybrid models, and the technology has met customers’ high expectations consumes less than 11 liters of diesel per 100 km – 81 percent less on both reliability and performance, reaching the expected fuel savthan an equivalent diesel bus. Total energy consumption – based on ings of up to 30 percent. diesel fuel and electricity – is 60 percent lower overall. However, sales to date have been low and current sales forecasts The field test in Gothenburg will continue throughout 2014 are not high enough for the Volvo Group to deliver an economically and complete 10,000 operating hours. viable Euro 6 version of these models right A de­mon­stration project in Stockholm will now. In light of this, we announced our bring eight more plug-in hybrid buses into From 2014, all complete low-floor decision to halt production until customservice in 2014. buses sold in Europe by Volvo will be ers are more confident about the market A number of other European cities are hybrid buses” and are in a position to commit to the addishowing a keen interest in Volvo Buses’ tional investment. plug-in hybrids. Hamburg and ­Luxembourg have already signed We continue to invest in long-term research and development in contracts for supplies in 2014 and 2015. The Group plans to begin order to remain at the forefront of hybrid technology. When market commercial production at the end of 2015. conditions are more favorable, we will be in a strong position to reintroduce highly efficient and reliable hybrid trucks. HYBRID BUSES We began serial production of hybrid buses in 2010 with the Volvo Alternative fuels Hybrid city bus and the Volvo Hybrid double-decker. During 2013, we strengthened our hybrid range with a new articulated bus. The Alternative fuels and the transition to sustainable transport soluVolvo 7900 Hybrid Articulated has a capacity of up to 154 passentions rank among the Volvo Group’s top ten material issues. We gers, which is more than any other hybrid bus on the market, and a have conducted extensive research on various types of alternative and renewable fuels, assessing them from a well-to-wheel perspective. 24 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 RETHINKING TRANSPORTATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORTSOLUTIONS CLEANER 2013 AVSNITT Short-distance transport: we see this leading the shift to electricity, especially in urban areas, for buses, urban delivery and utility vehicles. We believe compressed methane, followed by DME, will also be important for these applications. METHANE DIESEL TRUCKS The Volvo Group was the first manufacturer to develop an efficient diesel engine fuelled by a mixture of methane and diesel and the DME trucks are currently being road tested in the US. We aim to become the first manufacturer to commercialize DME-­powered heavyfirst manufacturer in Europe to start selling gas-powered trucks for duty commercial vehicles in North America. long-haul operations that conform to Euro 5 emissions regulation. In February 2012, the Volvo Group began series production of the Volvo FM Methane Diesel truck, which could use up to 75 percent methane. When powered by renewable biomethane, the truck cut carbon emissions by up to 70 percent, compared with traditional diesel fuel operation. OUR POSITION The first markets to receive this new truck technology were SweThe Volvo Group believes that renewable fuels have the long-term den, the Netherlands and the UK – where the infrastructure and potential to substitute diesel – at least in part – and significantly distribution for methane is well established. We have been developreduce carbon emissions in transport. Right now, however, the main ing and improving the engine, technology and customer features challenge is the availability of renewable and alternative fuels in before testing a new model against Euro 6 emissions regulation. different parts of the world. The transition to a low-carbon society We expect deliveries of Euro 6 compliant methane diesel trucks will requires collaboration between vehicle manufacturers, vehicle commence in the second half of 2015. users, politicians, government agencies and fuel producers. The Volvo Group actively collaborates with various stakeholders DME TRUCKS to promote the establishment of infrastructure to distribute fuels Dimethylether (DME) mirrors the exceptional performance qualities with high energy efficiency and low greenhouse gas emissions, but and energy efficiency of diesel fuel, but burns clean without producin the short term, we see no single successor to fossil fuels. For this ing any soot. reason, we still focus strongly on improving the fuel efficiency of It is non-toxic, and can be made from a variety of sustainable diesel engines. feedstocks, including farmed wood, waste wood, black liquor, and In the absence of a single optimal alternative, the Volvo Group conmany other organic materials. BioDME can achieve CO2 reductions tinues to develop and offer a number of different solutions adapted of up to 95 percent compared to diesel. for various fuels, applications, markets and commercial conditions: DME can also be produced from natural gas. Converting natural gas to DME is an innovative way to address many of the distribution, Long-distance transport: we believe crude oil-derived diesel fuel storage and fueling challenges presented by alternatives such as will remain dominant, but with increasing renewable and synthetic compressed natural gas (CNG) or liquefied natural gas (LNG). components. Liquid methane and DME are prioritized components. In the long term, DME can, in principle, be adapted to the majority of Volvo Group applications. Regional transport: we expect compressed and liquefied methane to grow as a preferred fuel due to improved pricing and security of supply. DME will also be prioritized. Alternative fuels: assessment of sustainability features Bi od Sy sel nt ie DM tiche E dies M Dim el et ( ha eth Et ha l no no yle th er ) Bi l og Bi s a H og as + Bi Elyd ro o ge dies el ec n + tri H city iog VO B as (H ve droy ge tr ta ea bl te e d All fuels in this chart are assumed to be produced oi l) from renewable sources. The results may vary for Minimized climate impact a particular fuel depending on the production process used. Energy efficiency Efficiency of land use Source: Climate issues in focus, Volvo Group, 2007–2013. Fuel potential Vehicle adjustment Optimal Fuel costs Fuel infrastructure Less preferable 25 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 RETHINKING TRANSPORTATION CLEANER SOLUTIONS BioDME in Sweden To meet the demanding requirements of EPA 2010 and Euro 6 The Volvo Group was the first truck manufacturer in Europe to test emissions regulation – in force from January 1, 2014 – Volvo Group BioDME as a vehicle fuel on a large scale. Since 2010, we have vehicles are equipped with both Exhaust Gas Recirculation (EGR) collaborated with various funders and partners to conduct field and Selective Catalytic Reduction (SCR). EGR lowers the amount of tests with ten trucks covering a total of 1,350,000 km. oxygen in the combustion chamber, which reduces combustion The tests show that BioDME trucks function very well on the road, peak temperature and thereby lowers the formation of nitrogen the technology is reliable and the entire process is energy efficient, oxides. With SCR technology, a water solution of urea is injected from production and distribution all the way to the vehicles themselves. into the diesel exhaust stream to convert nitrogen oxides into harmless nitrogen and water vapor. US field tests and commercialization Using both techniques together achieves low emissions. Further In 2013, in conjunction with fuel suppliers and customers, the Volvo information about emissions can be found in the product developGroup began road testing four Volvo DME trucks in the US. Since ment section of the ‘Earning trust, gaining resilience’ chapter. DME has the potential to improve air quality and reduce CO2 emissions, especially when using BioDME, the Volvo Group has been SAVING FUEL awarded funding from the San Joaquin Valley Air Pollution Control Delivering fuel savings is of material importance to the Volvo Group District to extend the DME testing to California. As a result, we will and our stakeholders. Fuel accounts for one of the highest operatbegin testing with Safeway – one of the nation’s largest grocery retailing costs for all our customers – and typically one third of a truck ers with more than 1,600 stores across the US and Canada – by 2015. fleet owner’s operating costs – so any measure that reduces fuel The US tests will continue during 2014 and 2015, and the Volvo consumption will help to improve our customers’ profitability while Group aims to become the first manufacturer to commercialize reducing environmental impact. DME-powered heavy-duty commercial vehicles in North America. For a long-haul Volvo truck, we have forecast potential fuel savings of 15 percent over the next 15 years. This can be achieved in a HVO RENEWABLE DIESEL number of ways, as shown in the infographic. New technology can HVO (hydrotreated vegetable oil) is a type of synthetic diesel. It is be used to achieve even more significant savings. very similar to conventional diesel, but is derived from vegetable oils or animal fats. Together with a fuel company, we have been conMARINE ENGINES ducting trials for over a year on Euro 5 trucks powered solely by In 2013, Volvo Penta launched a new engine, IPS900, with medium HVO. The mid-term results are very positive, indicating that no duty operation, enabling a larger number of commercial boats in adjustments are needed to hardware or the maintenance schedule. segments such as the coastguard and patrol, supply, offshore energy In the next phase of the project, we will be testing HVO on Euro 6 and passenger transport segments to take advantage of its Inboard vehicles and entering discussions with various authorities over cerPerformance System (IPS). tification. Volvo Penta IPS combines improved performance with less environmental impact, compared to a boat equipped with a traditional Next generation diesel engines shaft installation, for example up to: • 30% reduced fuel consumption at cruising speed The market for diesel engines continues to be strong and the Volvo • 30% lower CO2 emissions Group is focused on ways to improve their eco-efficiency and • 50% lower perceived noise level and vibrations. performance. The lower power usage means reduced load, lower oil temperature, REDUCING EMISSIONS lower engine temperature and thus reduced stress on components. Countries worldwide are increasingly introducing legislation to This results in increased durability and a longer life, with longer serreduce emissions from heavy-duty vehicles. Having initially focused vice intervals. on particulate matter and nitrogen oxides, more recent legislation is Thanks to these features, the Volvo Penta IPS system received the now targeting carbon dioxide emissions. International Powerboat Association’s award for Best Innovation 2013. IPS900 Penta engine Euro 6 engine 26 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 RETHINKING TRANSPORTATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORTSOLUTIONS CLEANER 2013 AVSNITT –5% Intelligent –5% Design Improving the cab and trailer cruise control –5% Fuel efficient driving design can reduce air resistI-See is a feature where the As an alternative to intelligent ance and contribute to a fuel truck learns the topography cruise control, a driver trained in saving of 5 to 10%. of the road and memorizes fuel-efficient driving can lower fuel the curves and slopes. The consumption by 5 to 10%. next time it drives along the same road it automatically adapts the brakes and gears in the most optimal way. This new technology can save up to 5% fuel. –15% 25.25 meters With a vehicle length of 25.25 meters instead of the current 18 meters in the EU, three truck-trailer sets can be replaced by two. –5% Low weight Thanks to a weight-optimized design, each vehicle can carry higher loads. –4% Efficient driveline –5% Side spoilers Euro 6 engine combined with Adding side spoilers can the I-Torque technology has a fuel-­saving potential of up to 4%. –5% Tires contribute to reducing air resistance. Low rolling resistance tires can affect fuel consumption by up to 5%. Fuel-saving potential 2013 was the year of the largest product renewal in the Volvo Group’s history. We introduced the majority of these fuel-saving measures in the range of Volvo trucks launched during 2013. For a long-haul Volvo Truck, we have forecast potential fuel savings of 15 percent over the next 15 years. This can be achieved in a number of ways. 27 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 RETHINKING TRANSPORTATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORTSOLUTIONS SMARTER 2013 AVSNITT Smarter solutions Drawing on our materiality matrix and holistic approach to sustainability, the Volvo Group’s advanced engineering and research and development teams continually look for ways to improve the overall efficiency of transport systems. This involves increased collaboration with external stakeholders and requires us to broaden our focus beyond the Volvo Group’s products and services. It does, however, lead us to smarter transport and infrastructure solutions. And ultimately towards the fulfillment of our Group vision of becoming the world leader in sustainable transport solutions. Rethinking urban mobility The issue of mobility in urban areas is of material importance to our Bus Rapid Transit was pioneered in Curitiba, Brazil, in the 1970s. Since then, the Volvo Group has supplied more buses for BRT systems business. An increasing number of stakeholders are expressing an than any other supplier in the world. interest in working collaboratively with the Volvo Group on more sustainable solutions for public transport and city distribution of goods. BRT is an efficient public transport concept designed to meet BUS RAPID TRANSIT growing transport demands in cities around the world. It reduces Volvo Buses was a pioneering partner in the world’s first Bus Rapid traffic congestion, lowers environmental impacts and increases Transit (BRT) system, in Curitiba, Brazil, in the late 1970s. Since then, safety for bus passengers through: we have supplied more buses for BRT systems than any other supplier • high-capacity buses in the world. The Volvo Group currently works on leading BRT systems • exclusive bus lanes in Bogotá, Colombia; Mexico City, Mexico; Gothenburg, Sweden, and • off-board ticketing York, Great Britain, and continues to develop the system in Curitiba. • level boarding • priority at intersections • traffic control • passenger information. 28 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 RETHINKING TRANSPORTATION SMARTER SOLUTIONS cations. We will also be applying smart technology and infrastructure solutions, such as Bus Rapid Transit. In each city, the program will be operated in close collaboration with local partners. ElectriCity Gothenburg, Sweden In 2013, the Volvo Group confirmed plans for the ElectriCity project in Gothenburg, where we are working with the Swedish Energy Agency, Region Västra Götaland, the City of Gothenburg, Göteborg Energi, Västtrafik, Lindholmen Science Park and Johanneberg Science Park. Volvo Group’s City Mobility Program was launched in 2013 with partnerships in Gothenburg, Stockholm, Hamburg, Luxembourg and We have agreed to run buses powered entirely from renewable Montreal. We aim to expand to 10 cities worldwide. electricity on the city’s public transport network beginning 2015. ••• They will be extremely fuel efficient, silent and completely emissions free. In addition to the electric buses, the program also includes the creation and trial of new bus stop solutions, traffic-routing systems, safety concepts and energy supplies. The partners hope that the project will attract more commuters to use public transport, highlight Gothenburg as a progressive city in terms of sustainable urban planning and help it achieve its aim of becoming a climate-neutral city. The Climate-Smart City Distribution project studied emissions City Mobility Montreal, Canada from nearly 400 vehicles over 3 years. Emissions were reduced on average by 30% and in some cases by up to 80%. The Volvo Group’s North American subsidiary, Nova Bus, and the Société de transport de Montréal (STM) have entered into an agreement on an electrification project for the public transport system of Montreal, Canada. The city will be testing three Nova electric buses and two charging stations. The goal is to have the noiseless and emission-free buses Economically, BRT is a much cheaper option for cities looking to operational for demonstration in the third quarter of 2015 and in expand public transport routes, requiring less capital investment regular traffic for three years, beginning in 2016. The buses will be per kilometer than new subway or tramline infrastructure. used in city operations and will charge rapidly at bus terminals. The program will test a range of new technoloCITY MOBILITY PROGRAM gies in real operating conditions to assess Following on from an extensive city mobilWe formally launched our City Mobiltheir impact on planning, operations, ity study in 2012, the Volvo Group formally ity Program in 2013 starting in Gothenmaintenance, and the improvement of launched its City Mobility Program in April burg, Stockholm, Hamburg, Luxembourg customer service. 2013. Having met with stakeholders in and Montreal” This strategic partnership aims to make various cities and ascertained their conMontreal a leading city with innovative cerns and goals, we are trying to find sustainable transport solusolutions for electric transit. It is in line with the Government of tions relevant to each city’s unique circumstances. Québec’s 2020 Transportation Electrification Strategy to signifiStarting in Gothenburg, Stockholm, Hamburg, Luxembourg and cantly lessen its ecological footprint and the City of Montreal’s tarMontreal, and focusing initially on city buses, the program will evenget for reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 30 percent in 2020, tually expand to 10 cities with a high focus on electric vehicle applicompared to 1990 levels. How much public transport 10 km Subway does $1 billion buy? 50 km Tramline 250 km Bus Rapid Transit 29 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 RETHINKING TRANSPORTATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORTSOLUTIONS SMARTER 2013 AVSNITT CITY DISTRIBUTION For the Climate-Smart City Distribution project, which ended in spring 2013, the Volvo Group worked together with a number of partners to improve the efficiency of distribution operations in central Gothenburg, Sweden. Replacing conventional diesel distribution trucks with vehicles using three different technologies – renewable fuels such as biodiesel, biogas and DME, hybrid technology, and methane-diesel fuel – resulted in a significant reduction in emissions. Over the course of the three-year project, emissions from almost 400 vehicles involved in the study dropped by an average of 30 percent, in some cases by up to 80 percent. ELECTRICAL ROAD SYSTEMS PROJECT The problems experienced in downtown Gothenburg are the same Duration the world over and, together with other partners, the Volvo Group is Phase 2: 2 years (September 2013–December 2015) working on the development and testing of solutions for next-generBudget ation cargo traffic both on inter-city highways and inner-city streets. Phase 2: EUR 4.8 M (from California’s South Air Quality Management District, the Swedish Strategic Vehicle Research and Innovation COMMUTE GREENER agency, and participating companies) Commute Greener is a mobile-based application developed by the Key objective Volvo Group that calculates and keeps track of CO2 emissions. The To evaluate the viability of electrical road systems that charge vehicles app transforms a cell phone into a tool to measure emissions genas they drive along. erated during everyday commuting, including traveling by bus, car, train, bicycle or other means of transport. Users include corporations, cities, organizations and individuals. The program challenges users to reduce carbon emissions and ment teams as it delivers cleaner and more fuel-efficient solutions traffic congestion while improving health and quality of life. It also for the world’s increasingly urbanized populations. Fully electric calculates financial savings and gives proactive suggestions on how vehicles, plug-in hybrids and hybrids already offer cleaner and to commute greener, such as riding on public transport or taking a smarter city solutions today and we are now testing the next generbus. Encouraging more people to commute by bus is good for Volvo ation of electric vehicle solutions. Bus customers and, in turn, our business. Systems that enable vehicles to charge as they drive along the In addition to the application itself, Commute Greener provides a road could take the advantages of electromobility beyond urban community website where commuters can challenge each other to recharging points and open up opportunities for electromobility reduce their individual carbon footprint. technology for long-distance bus and truck journeys. Rethinking infrastructure The Volvo Group has been involved in the multi-stakeholder Electrical Road Systems (ERS) project since 2010. The project has Infrastructure is an essential part of the transport system and we received funding from the Swedish Strategic Vehicle Research and are rethinking this as much as we are rethinking our products in Innovation agency (FFI), and participating companies. It will conorder to meet current and future transportation needs. tinue through to December 2015. In the first study, the Volvo Group is testing a recharging solution ELECTRICAL ROAD SYSTEMS developed by Alstom on our test track in Sweden, where two power Electromobility is a key focus for the Volvo Group’s product developCommute greener is an app that transforms a cell phone into a tool to measure CO2 emissions from everyday c­ ommuting by bus, car, train, bicycle or other means of transport. The free and public version of Commute Greener can be downloaded from the App Store and www.commutegreener.com. 30 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 RETHINKING TRANSPORTATION SMARTER SOLUTIONS The Volvo Group is involved in the EU Green Corridors initiative, collaborating with universities, authorities and other transport companies to reduce the environmental impact of long-distance freight transport. We contribute technical vehicle expertise and knowledge of the transportation system. We also participate in field tests that study real operational circumstances. In the US, the Volvo Group is involved in several projects related to a corridor connecting the ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach with regional distribution centers. Forty-five percent of US imports Platooning uses wireless technology to link a road train where the lead truck, operated by a trained driver, controls the convoy behind. come through these ports. With container volumes expected to triple ­Trials are currently underway in the US, following EU tests. in the next 20 years, their local stakeholders are investing in sustain••• able solutions for the future. We are involved in projects that include plug-in hybrid trucks, electrical road systems and truck platooning. Intelligent Transport Systems Intelligent Transport Systems (ITS) is a concept that will ultimately contribute to more efficient transport and infrastructure solutions. ITS combines new technology with advanced IT and communication technology, providing real-time traffic information, remote monitoring and communication between vehicles and the infrastructure. This offers major opportunities for increasing safety and reducing COSMO PROJECT congestion and environmental impacts. Duration The latest ITS development is the deployment of short-range 3 years (2010-2013) vehicle to vehicle (V2V) and vehicle to infrastructure (V2I) commuBudget nication. We are committed to supporting future deployment of this EUR 3.88 M (including EUR 1.94 M of funding from the European technology, which will have a major impact on traffic safety as vehiCommission) cles will be able to ‘talk’ to each other. Key objectives To field test C-ITS technology on public transport and quantify its COSMO IN EUROPE impact on eco-efficiency COSMO was a pilot project, co-funded by the EU Commission, to field test C-ITS (cooperative intelligent transport systems) on public transport and quantify its impact on eco-efficiency. Between 2010 lines have been built into the surface of the road. The power line is and 2013, project partners tested V2I technology in real conditions built in sections and each section is only live as the truck passes. across three pilot sites: Salerno (Italy), Vienna (Austria) and GothPower is transferred to the truck via a current collector located at enburg (Sweden). the front of the vehicle. The Volvo Group took part in the Gothenburg pilot and studied V2I In parallel to this initiative, the Volvo Group is working in coopertechnology involving three intersections and six buses. For the puration with Siemens on a second ERS project, named eHighWay, poses of the project, we developed and piloted enhanced bus interwhich is funded by California’s South Coast Air Quality Managesection and traffic light logistics, Intelligent Speed Adaptation (ISA) ment District (SCAQMD). The system charges the vehicle from an and congestion prevention. We also provided eco driver support. overhead wire and is another adaptation of existing tramcar techThe results from the Gothenburg pilot demonstrated average nology for other vehicles. Tests on location in California will begin in speed increases of 6.4 percent and average fuel reductions of 13 November 2015. percent when drivers followed the system advice at least half of the time. GREEN CORRIDORS The idea of a green corridor is to concentrate goods traffic between PLATOONING TRIALS major urban areas along specially adapted routes that provide effiPlatooning is the US term for road trains, which the Volvo Group cient links between highways, sea routes and railways. This will successfully trialed during 2010-2012 in the EU-financed SARTRE result in safer and more efficient transportation, less traffic conges(Safe Road Trains for the Environment) project. The SARTRE tests tion and overall lower environmental impact. included a lead Volvo FH truck followed by three cars driven at 31 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 RETHINKING TRANSPORTATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORTSOLUTIONS SMARTER 2013 AVSNITT speeds of up to 90 km/h, with no more than a six-meter gap between the vehicles. Using wireless technology to link the road train, the lead truck, operated by a trained driver, controlled the convoy behind. The car drivers behind were able to let go of their steering wheel while the road train controlled them autonomously. The EU tests indicated that driving in a close-formation convoy could reduce accidents, improve traffic flow, offer greater comfort to drivers and lower fuel consumption and carbon emissions. However, there are other challenges regarding legislation, responsibility MACHINE TO MACHINE COMMUNICATION PROJECT and communications standards, which must all be resolved before platooning can be adopted as a sustainable transport solution. Duration In 2013, the Federal Highway Administration, FHWA, a division of 5 years (October 2011-October 2016) the United States Department of Transportation, awarded a total Budget USD 2 M platooning contract to a multi-stakeholder team including SEK 6 M (from public funding, Volvo Group and Mälardalen University, the Volvo Group; University of California, Berkeley; Sweden) CALTRANS; Los Angeles Metro and other partners. Objective The aim is to develop and demonstrate a system in which three To increase productivity and fuel efficiency by implementing lean heavy-duty trucks are connected in a platoon in order to increase principles and optimizing machine movements roadway capacity and decrease fuel consumption. The project will begin in 2014 and run until 2016. The main demonstration will take ••• place around the ports in Los Angeles, where 45 percent of US VOLVO ENERGY EFFICIENT VEHICLE PROJECT imports are routed. In Japan, UD Trucks participated in 2013 in a small-scale plaDuration tooning project on the test tracks of the National Institute of 5 years (2011-2016) Advanced Industrial Science and Technology. Budget for the US The Volvo Group actively participated in dialogue with the US, EU and USD 38 M (from US Department of Energy (DOE) and the Volvo Swedish authorities during 2013 on issues surrounding platooning. Group) Budget for Sweden MACHINE TO MACHINE COMMUNICATION SEK 177 M (from the Swedish Energy Agency and the Volvo Group) Volvo Construction Equipment (Volvo CE) is now half way through Objective 1 its five-year study into EASY embedded systems, which facilitate Improve freight efficiency by 50% (ton-km/liter or ton-mile/Gal) machine-to-machine communication, with the aim of increasing productivity. We are collaborating with one of the Volvo Group’s acaObjective 2 Demonstrate engine technologies that can reach 55% brake thermal demic research partners, Mälardalen University, Sweden. efficiency The project aims to find and evaluate business opportunities for Volvo CE telematics solutions in quarries and on construction sites. The team is adapting and applying lean principles normally used to identify and analyze sources of waste in production plants. The ENERGY EFFICIENT VEHICLES results will be used as input for generating solutions for these new We have been running a bi-lateral project in the US and Sweden applications. since 2011, where we are considering all aspects of a complete vehicle, including the efficiency of the engine, the length of the Future freight trucks and the aerodynamics of the trailers. The objectives are to improve freight efficiency by 50 percent, The Volvo Group is undertaking several projects to improve the compared with 2009 truck models, and to demonstrate a technolfreight efficiency of its trucks. The objective is to reduce fuel conogy pathway to improve engine efficiency by over 30 percent. Volvo sumption per volume of freight transported and to reduce greenGroup researchers, together with key suppliers in both countries, house gas emissions. are looking at many innovative solutions to meet the program’s aggressive targets. 32 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 RETHINKING TRANSPORTATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORTSOLUTIONS SMARTER 2013 AVSNITT port efficiency, such as advanced driver aid systems. We will also be looking at more sustainable materials and components, and new solutions to optimize the efficiency of regional and low-density freight transport. HIGH CAPACITY TRANSPORT The Volvo Group has been actively involved in the development of high capacity transport vehicles (HCT) since 2007. The HCT projects are funded partly by the Swedish Strategic Vehicle Research and InnovaONE MORE PILE PROJECT tion program (FFI) – a cooperation between the automotive industry Duration and the Swedish Governmental Agency for Innovation Systems. The 10 years (2007–2016) projects are carried out by the Volvo Group and several other compaBudget nies. SEK 150 M (from Swedish industry, public funding and the Volvo Many initiatives are ongoing until 2016, with our company conGroup (approx. SEK 25 M)) tributing to products and solutions including: Key objective • VETT: ‘One more pile’ forestry transportation project To develop a modular system for forest transportation that increases • DUO2: a 32-meter 80-ton truck. the amount of timber per load, while reducing fuel consumption, carbon emissions and the number of vehicles on the road One more pile ••• The One more pile (VETT) project aims to develop a modular system for forest transportation that increases the amount of timber per load, while reducing fuel consumption, carbon emissions and the number of vehicles on the road. To date, the 90-ton test vehicle combinations have covered 1,300,000 km, providing vast amounts of valuable data, which appears highly encouraging. Compared to standard 60-ton combinations, the high-capacity DUO2 PROJECT 90-ton combinations have so far achieved a 22 percent reduction in fuel consumption and CO2 emissions, while the 74-ton combinaDuration tions have reduced CO2 by 10 to 15 percent per tonkm. 7 years (2010–2016) All aspects, such as traction, braking, monitored weight, lift axles Budget and safety, have been thoroughly investigated and addressed. And SEK 95 M (from Swedish industry, public funding and the Volvo Group despite initial fears, overall safety has actually improved. In 2013, (approx. SEK 20 M)) the Finnish government approved use of the 74-ton combination on Key objective the general road network where bridges are strong enough. SweTo reduce fuel consumption and increase freight capacity by using a den is considering approval of the 74-ton on a limited road network truck that is longer and heavier than those available in Europe today as a first phase. DUO2 The DUO2 project is testing a truck that is longer and heavier than those available in Europe today. Under EU legislation, trucks are US SuperTruck permitted up to a maximum of 18.75 meters in length and 40 tons The concept SuperTruck in the US has been developed as part of the in weight, except in Sweden, Finland, Denmark and the Netherlands global Volvo Group Energy Efficient Vehicle Project. By the end of where the limit is 25.25 meters and 60 tons. 2013, it had already achieved freight efficiency improvements of 30 For the DUO2 project, we have special permission to test a percent. 32-meter-long truck weighing up to 80 tons, travelling between At the halfway point of this five-year project, the team has sucGothenburg and Malmö in Sweden – a journey of approximately cessfully reduced the aerodynamic drag of the tractor and trailer by 300 km. over 26 percent and increased thermal efficiency of the engine by In 2013, the Volvo Group announced the first set of verified test approximately 15 percent, using multiple technologies including results. The data shows a 27 percent reduction in fuel consumption, heat recovery solutions. Advanced engine design, transmission compared to standard combinations. DUO2 also optimized cargo technology and software are a key enabler to optimize the effiloads, transporting up to 200 m3 and averaging 60 tons in weight. ciency of the complete driveline without compromising drivability. This indicates that volume and load distribution may play a more Over the remainder of the project, we aim to reduce overall aerosignificant role than weight restrictions and requires monitoring dynamic drag by 40 percent and continue to implement driveline systems to be developed. Work will continue over the coming year improvements, and develop technology to further enhance transalongside consultation on the legislative framework. 33 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 RETHINKING TRANSPORTATION SUSTAINABILITYSAFER REPORT 2013 SOLUTIONS AVSNITT Safer solutions Safety has been a guiding core value for the Volvo Group since 1927 and spans many areas of our business, from how we work to what we deliver. Product safety is a top three material issue and our ultimate goal is zero accidents with the Volvo Group’s products. We are aware that our products do not operate in isolation and acciISO 39001 dents can occur at any stage during the use of our products. HowThe Volvo Group has been active in the development of the internaever, we are committed to working on safety issues for as long as it tional Road Traffic Safety Management System, ISO 39001. This is a takes to reach our vision. This includes supporting safer customer voluntary tool to complement legislation and can be used by all organuse of our products. izations that use roads directly or indirectly. The ultimate goal is the elimination of deaths and serious injuries in the road transport system. UNITED NATIONS DECADE OF ACTION The Volvo Group supports the ambition of the United Nations Decade TRAFFIC SAFETY RESEARCH of Action for Road Safety (2011–2020), which aims to save five milIn Scandinavia, the Volvo Group’s in-house Accident Research Team lion lives over a 10-year period. focuses its work on understanding the causes and consequences of Road traffic fatalities affect current and future generations. traffic accidents. Our accident investigators have looked at Volvo and Today, injuries sustained in traffic accidents are the number one Renault trucks accidents for 40 years and have built up a unique cause of death among young people aged 15–29 and are expected bank of knowledge and experience from more than 1,600 accidents. to be among the top five causes of all Each year, they carry out onsite and workdeaths by 2030. This is unsustainable shop studies of 30 to 50 accidents involvand unacceptable. Our accident investigators have built ing the Group’s vehicles. In the EU, the number of traffic fataliup a unique bank of knowledge and expeThe team’s specialists use this in-house ties has declined by approximately 50 rience from more than 1,600 accidents” data along with information from national percent since 1990, but globally the and international accident databases to trend is worsening – due mainly to developing markets. Despite build up a comprehensive understanding of the causes of accidents. owning just over half (52 percent) of the world’s vehicles, middle-inIn addition, methods and tools are used to study driving behavior in all come countries are home to 80 percent of the world’s road traffic types of driving scenarios. Growth markets – including China, India deaths. This is due, in part, to the rapid growth in motorization outand Southeast Asia – are of particular interest, due to the high numpacing the development of suitable infrastructure. ber of road fatalities in these regions. Combining data analysis with 34 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 RETHINKING TRANSPORTATION SAFER SOLUTIONS interactIVe project We took part in the collaborative European ‘InteractIVe’ project that ended in November 2013. This four-year EU project involved 30 companies, organizations and research institutes and focused on continuous driver support, collision avoidance and collision mitigation. The Volvo Group tested an emergency steering system with sensors including lasers, cameras and radars. The system could be deployed, for example, if the vehicle is about to leave the road or if something unexpected appeared in front of it. The vehicle would The Step Safe Cab of Volvo Construction Equipment won the Manufacturer Innovation Award at the 2013 World Demolition Awards. automatically steer away from the potential collision and was often used in combination with braking assistance. A large number of tests using professional drivers were conducted. These proved that assisted systems can improve traffic safety. However, they also pointed to the need for further research on adapting the designs and support to the driver. the Group’s own research and test programs gives us solid insights into the causes of accidents and injuries. The team’s work provides important input into our future product CONSTRUCTION SAFETY plans, advanced engineering and research. The top level conclusion The Volvo Group is not only contributing to improved safety on the is that human factors are involved in 90 percent of incidents, so the roads, we also aim for zero accidents in our products used for the highest priority is placed on developing driver assistance systems to actual construction of roads. support the driver in difficult driving conditions, as well as driver education and training. Zero accidents in road construction Working in collaboration with our academic partner, Chalmers University, and research partner, Vinnova, in Sweden, Volvo ConstrucSafer products tion Equipment is leading a three-year project which will identify and test active safety systems to increase safety in roadside conThe Volvo Group’s product development focuses on active and passtruction combined with increased productivity. sive safety features. Active safety technology and features, such as Having initially investigated accidents and safety conditions at vehicle stability and visibility support, aim to prevent accidents and roadside sites, the project team are now acting on their improved crashes from occurring. Passive safety components, including airunderstanding of the risks attached to road works. They are currently bags and body protection in the cab, aim to protect the occupants evaluating appropriate active safety functionality to create a virtual of a vehicle during a crash. electronic cage. This concept includes solutions to estimate machinery position, detect human and other objects, and raise warnings. COLLISION AVOIDANCE The systems will be integrated into machines in 2015 for proofHuman factors are a contributing factor in 90 percent of traffic of-concept trials within a realistic construction environment, accidents so finding ways to reduce these risks can have a signifiweather and operating conditions. cant impact. The Volvo Group is pioneering several solutions that assist the drivers of our vehicles. INTERACTIVE PROJECT ZERO ACCIDENTS IN ROAD CONSTRUCTION PROJECT Duration Duration 4 years (January 2010–November 2013) 3.5 years (January 2012–July 2015) Budget Budget EUR 28.4 M (consortium of 30 companies, organizations and research SEK 7.5 M (from public funding and the Volvo Group) institutes) Objective Objective To identify and test active safety systems for increasing safety in To develop safety systems that support the driver, intervene when danasphalt laying gerous situations occur and help to mitigate the impact of collisions in unavoidable accidents 35 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 RETHINKING TRANSPORTATION SUSTAINABILITYSAFER REPORT 2013 SOLUTIONS AVSNITT MARINE SAFETY Making things easier for the boat driver and enhancing on-board safety and comfort are fundamental objectives for Volvo Penta and its new Interceptor System (IS) does just that. IS-equipped boats have greatly improved visibility, with the bow of the boat remaining lower during a considerably shorter acceleration and planing phase, compared to boats with traditional trim systems. For side visibility, a boat without IS typically has a sight distance of about 30 meters and a visibility sector of about 300 m2. A boat with Driver training is a key focus as 90% of accidents are caused by IS has a sight distance of about 300 meters and a sector of visibility human factors. In India, we have trained over 110,000 drivers in of about 5,100 m2. responsible, safe and fuel-efficient driving. The new IS also enables all people on board to stand up safely without having to hold on to the interior, even when accelerating or taking sharp turns. Driver training For example, in India, we have trained more than 110,000 drivers. For every Volvo truck and bus sold, we train at least two customer The most advanced safety technology can only work to improve drivers. To qualify for the training program, drivers must first pass a driver awareness and behavior; it cannot fully compensate for test. To date, this program has trained more than 35,000 drivers on human error or solve all traffic safety issues. driver responsibility, fuel efficient driving and traffic safety. Our proGiven that human factors contribute to 90 percent of accidents, gram for truck and bus drivers run by our joint venture partner, changing attitudes and behavior is a vital part of the Volvo Group’s Eicher, has so far trained 75,000 drivers. ongoing commitment to improving traffic safety. We work with difRead more about the Volvo Group’s traffic safety activities in the ferent stakeholders to raise awareness and increase drivers’ knowl‘Moving society and our business forward’ section of this report. edge and understanding of issues such as alertness and the use of seat belts, alcohol and speed. Interceptor system 36 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 RETHINKING TRANSPORTATION HOW WE RETHINK How we rethink The Volvo Group’s vision is to become the world leader in sustainable transport solutions. We believe that bringing together the best minds is one of the best ways to achieve sustainable innovation. We therefore strongly encourage teamwork and collaboration internally, and with a wide variety of external stakeholders, including academia, customers, governments, trade and industry. Thanks to the many innovations that our people and our collaborathoughts to grow and ideas to develop into innovations while shartive partnerships deliver year after year, we are improving quality, ing knowledge and perspectives brings out the best solutions. delivery and productivity. Another example is the iCoach network of innovation ambassadors all over the world. They dedicate 10 percent of their time to support In-house innovation innovation, working with advanced engineering and their extensive networks to connect people with the same interest and challenges. The Volvo Group innovation model is a framework with various proWe support innovative thinking through Innovation Jams concesses, methods and tools that enable us to capture our innovative nected to focus challenges; creative workshops for specific high capability in a systematic way. priority areas and Innovation Labs to boost pioneering ideas. Two of 2013’s biggest Innovation Jams were about CO2 and fuel Advanced engineering efficiency, and reducing fixed costs. We encourage our engineers to think The reducing fixed costs Innovation differently about issues and give them Interact invites everyone to share a Jam generated 456 ideas in 72 hours. time to come up with new ideas to challenge, a hot topic or an idea for discussion” It had 23,288 views and, at its peak, make our products more competitive 828 people were online simultaneand sustainable. ously in one of three virtual rooms. The carbon dioxide and fuel For example, the Volvo Group has recently patented a relatively efficiency jam involved 2,100 active users and resulted in 617 ideas straightforward, yet effective, idea developed by one of our engineers for new products, services and process changes in 57 hours. since 2009. It is a wedge measuring just millimeters that offers The Volvo Group InVolve platform helps us get ideas from outside great potential for electromobility. the organization, in particular from academics and researchers The wedge makes the magnets needed for electric engines more where we benefit from the latest thinking and cross-sector expertise. efficient. Initial tests indicate that the weight of the magnets could be reduced by 41 percent without affecting the motor’s perforINVOLVE TONGJI mance. In the production of 10,000 machines, the financial saving The Volvo Group has launched a competition – Involve Tongji – to build would equate to more than USD 1 M. This would enable us make on our partnership with Tongji University, China. We invited the univerelectromobility technology more competitively priced for customers. sity’s students to submit ideas for sustainable transport solutions. The 10 best ideas were selected and the students presented them Innovation through interaction to a panel made up of Volvo employees and a professor from Tongji. The global online tool, Interact, invites everyone to share a chalThe four winners were offered paid three-month innovation internlenge, a hot topic or an idea for discussion. Open dialogue enables ships carried out at Volvo Group facilities in both China and Sweden. 37 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 RETHINKING TRANSPORTATION SUSTAINABILITY HOW REPORT 2013 WE RETHINK AVSNITT JINAN TECHNOLOGY CENTER As well as investing in research and development in our established markets, the Volvo Group recognizes the importance of transferring knowledge to growth markets, to enable joint development. For example, we have established the Jinan Technology Center in China, equipped with high-caliber testing facilities. It aspires to become a world-class technical center for Volvo Construction Equipment and develop products for growth markets. The Academic Partner Program Conference 2013 brought all Research partnerships our preferred research and talent partners from across the world together for the inaugural event in Gothenburg, Sweden. The Volvo Group develops research partnerships with the aim of increasing knowledge and innovation for the future. All our partnerships share our long-term ambition to work towards sustainable transport solutions. RESEARCH FOUNDATIONS ACADEMIC PARTNER PROGRAM Volvo Research and Educational Foundations (VREF) is the collecThe Academic Partner Program (APP) is about long-term partnertive name under which four foundations collaborate: the Volvo ships. The program was founded in 2009 and covers selected uniResearch Foundation, the Volvo Educational Foundation, the Dr versities in Sweden, France, the US, China and India working in Pehr G Gyllenhammar Research Foundation and the Håkan areas of special interest to the Volvo Group. Frisinger Foundation for Transportation Research. The APP has two types of collaboration – Preferred Research Research and education into future urban transport worldwide Partners and Preferred Talent Partners – and aims to cooperate on are among various projects financed by the VREF. For example, the specific projects and increase the Group’s visibility to students and Future Urban Transport (FUT) program grants approximately SEK researchers, while securing a pool of talented potential employees. 30 M annually to three Centers of Excellence fully dedicated to In 2013, we held a partner conference in Gothenburg bringing research and educational projects supporting the development of together preferred research and talent partners from all countries sustainable transportation systems in large urban areas around the with members of the Volvo Group’s research and talent manageworld. The Centers, integrated within universities or technology ment teams. institutes, cooperate closely through case studies with key stakeWe discussed changing competency needs and increased coopholders responsible for urban transportation systems. eration between universities and industry; held several sessions to VREF also organizes regular conferences or symposiums that share best practice and generate ideas, and enjoyed the opportubring together FUT researchers and key stakeholders. The particinity to network and discuss common initiatives – very important for pants have the opportunity to learn from each other and develop developing strong partnerships. new ideas that give rise to papers, articles or publications. For further information on the research foundations, the Centers of Excellence and the FUT program, visit www.vref.se. THE VOLVO GROUP’S ACADEMIC PARTNERS TRAFFIC SAFETY RESEARCH China In China, the Volvo Group is one of five partners behind a new Tongji University, Shanghai (T) Tsinghua University, Beijing (T) center for research on traffic safety inaugurated in Beijing in December 2012. The other partners are Volvo Car Corporation, France Chalmers University of Technology, the Chinese Ministry of TransEM Lyon (T) INSA Lyon (T, R) port’s Research Institute of Highways and Tongji University. China is one of the world’s biggest markets for cars and heavy India trucks and traffic safety has emerged as an increasingly important National Institute of Technology Karnataka, Surathkal (T) NEW 2013! issue for both the Chinese government and the general public. In its first year, the China Sweden Research Center for Traffic Safety has Sweden held knowledge-sharing seminars and run several collaborative Chalmers University of Technology, Gothenburg (T, R) Mälardalen University, Västerås/Eskilstuna (R) pilot projects and activities on driver behavior and its impact on University of Gothenburg – School of Business, Economics and Law, safety. A full-scale project on this is now being prepared. Gothenburg (T) University of Skövde (R) US North Carolina State University (T) Penn State University (T, R) R = Preferred Research Partner T = Preferred Talent Partner 38 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 RETHINKING TRANSPORTATION HOW WE RETHINK Venture capital Online reporting and tools help the driver learn how to correct mistakes in the future. Founded in 1997, Volvo Group Venture Capital is an investment Independent evaluations have demonstrated that the DriveCam company owned by the Volvo Group. Its ambition is to be a leading solution provides up to 50 percent reduction in safety-critical corporate investor in sustainable transport and infrastructure soluevents after the introduction of its behavior-based safety program tions. Each investment should have a positive return in itself while thereby reducing collision-related costs for the fleet by up to 50 also contributing to the sustainable growth and competitiveness of percent. the Volvo Group. In simple terms, this means fewer accidents on the roads and less The convergence of automotive design with communications cost for the customer and society. For further information, visit: technology has been fuelled by user demand for increased connecwww.lytx.com. tivity. This has opened up a multitude of exciting opportunities for growth, increased brand loyalty, competitiveness and profitability. RidePal: building sustainable commuting services Volvo Group Venture Capital is at the forefront of this revolution, as RidePal offers companies the opportunity to set up tailor-made the following investments show. sustainable commuting systems for employees thus changing the way people get to and from work. Lytx: safer vehicles on the road RidePal’s business model enables a hassle-free shared shuttle Our investment in DriveCam, powered by Lytx, is an initiative to furbus service at a significantly lower cost where businesses pay only ther strengthen the Volvo Group’s continued leadership in safety. for the seats they use. Lytx has built a very strong value proposition for safety and risk It has proven effective in terms of corporate productivity, as management by creating a service – DriveCam – using a video employees arrive fresh and ready for work. It also reduces the numevent recorder to capture risky driving habits. These videos are ber of vehicles on the road. uploaded via a wireless network and are reviewed and analyzed. For further information, visit: www.ridepal.com. 39 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 RETHINKING TRANSPORTATION SUSTAINABILITYCHANGING REPORT 2013 HABITS AVSNITT Changing habits Producing cleaner, smarter and safer vehicles takes us another step closer to achieving our vision, but the Volvo Group cannot achieve sustainable transport solutions alone. To fulfill our vision, we have to understand our role within a much wider operating context and try to encourage more sustainable thinking among a variety of stakeholders. Influence works both ways – while we aim to work collaboratively The next-generation solutions we are developing to further improve with local authorities, fuel producers and distributors, and customour customers’ productivity require long-term development of transers, we ourselves are subject to the limits placed on our company by port infrastructure and fuels. It is therefore essential for the Volvo market needs, infrastructure, fuel Group to participate in dialogue on availability and regulation. transport policy and logistics to ensure Our core business is to meet the Producing cleaner, smarter and safer vehithat the products, infrastructure and needs of customers requiring efficient cles takes us another step closer to achieving fuels of the future are all aligned. and reliable vehicles, machinery and our vision, but the Volvo Group cannot achieve Commercial success, however, will transport services that enable them to sustainable transport solutions alone.” only come if enough customers are be productive. To be economically viaprepared to buy our products and serble, the solutions we deliver must be compatible with the existing vices. Investing in new products and technology and switching to infrastructure and fuels. new services and fuels requires a change of mindset, which is something we must prepare for now. Sustainable transport interdependency Delivering sustainable transport solutions is a complex system that requires all parts to work in harmony. We influence corresponding systems Vehicles & Transport Infrastructure Fuels machinery services We are influenced by corresponding systems 40 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 RETHINKING TRANSPORTATION CHANGING HABITS Driving habits Thanks to wireless communication with traffic lights, the on-board system can also show the time remaining until the lights change The Volvo Group is already actively supporting customers and color, giving the driver the opportunity to adjust travelling speed and encouraging employees to think differently about transportation avoid stopping at the lights. and to change their driving habits to be more sustainable. The applications for eco-driving, fleet and traffic management could reduce fuel consumption and CO2 emissions by 10 to 15 perDRIVER SUPPORT cent in urban areas where trucks face traffic and frequent changes Over the past three years, the Volvo Group has been a member of in speed. the eCoMove consortium of 32 partners – including public authorities, vehicle manufacturers, service providers, infrastructure and EMPLOYEE ELECTROMOBILITY telecommunication operators, and research institutes. To increase our employees’ knowledge and experience of electroeCoMove (Cooperative Mobility Systems and Services for Energy mobility, the Volvo Group has invested in a fleet of 20 Volvo C30 Efficiency) has been developing next-generation vehicle-to-infraElectric company cars. Over a three-year period, these fully electric structure technologies where drivers receive real-time on-board battery-powered vehicles are being distributed to employees for a advice to take action ahead of downstream situations, for example temporary period of up to six months. In total, this will give around by changing their speed. 100 employees the opportunity to fully test and evaluate driving an By incorporating map data and GPS, the driver can be provided electric vehicle. with advanced information of items, such as an upcoming roundaSo far, the 20 electric cars have been driven a total of 400,000 bout or changes in speed limits, for example from 90 to 70 km/h. km, saving approximately 60 tons of CO2 emissions, compared to Via a dashboard screen, the driver can be advised to ease off the standard fleet cars. accelerator or engage the engine brake. Pages 41-57 MOVING SOCIETY AND OUR BUSINESS FORWARD The Volvo Group aims to create shared value for our business and for society. Matching the Group’s business objectives with societal challenges results in activities where both the company and society benefit. Sustainable transport Rethinking the future Shared value Moving society and our business forward Responsible behavior Earning trust, gaining resilience CONTENTS Creating shared value 42 Growing market value 43 Economic performance and outlook 50 Moving society forward 43 Engaging with society 44 Our employees 52 Supporting productivity 43 Moving our business forward 49 42 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 MOVING SOCIETY AND OUR BUSINESS FORWARD CREATING SHARED VALUE Creating shared value The Volvo Group has taken a shared value approach to contributing to socio-economic ­development for a very long time. The term ‘shared value’ reflects the alignment between our business objectives and our responsibilities towards society, both locally and globally. For the Volvo Group, creating shared value involves the development of practices that enhance our competitiveness while simultaSOME DEFINITIONS neously advancing the economic, environmental and social condiCommunity engagement tions of the societies in which the Group operates. We see this not Working collaboratively with community groups to address issues that only as a responsibility, but an opportunity. affect them e.g. wellbeing We create economic value for our company and shareholders by Corporate social responsibility (CSR) delivering transport and infrastructure solutions that meet the Conducting business in a responsible and ethical manner needs of our customers. To be successful in the market, however, it is important that our company, products and services are also seen Creating shared value (CSV) Enhancing competitiveness while advancing the socio-economic conas contributing positively to society. ditions of the communities in which a business operates The Volvo Group invests in initiatives that are mutually beneficial to society and our business. For example, programs that develop Strategic partnerships Creating mutually beneficial relationships with organizations that supskills in the local community also give us access to future talent. port communities The Volvo Group cannot address societal challenges alone so we develop partnerships with customers, government officials, Sustainability Meeting today’s needs without compromising the ability of future gennon-governmental organizations, local decision makers, educaerations to meet their own needs tional and community groups. Together we can use our resources in the most efficient way. Our global presence and decentralized Global approach to local needs While many challenges are similar across the world, priorities and structure enable us to operate successfully with partners and crestakeholder expectations often differ from region to region. Knowlate shared value in countries with diverse social, political, economic edge and understanding of local markets’ needs and conditions are and cultural systems and conditions. essential for planning and executing strategies and initiatives 43 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 MOVING SOCIETY AND OUR BUSINESS FORWARD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT MOVING 2013 SOCIETY AVSNITT FORWARD Moving society forward We see the Volvo Group as part of society and believe in contributing to the positive development of the communities in which we operate, both now and in the future. To fulfill our strategy based on the philosophy of creating shared Growing market value value, we need to deliver long-term economic value in a way that addresses communities’ current challenges and meets the needs of The Volvo Group is well-positioned within all market segments, from future generations. In this way, we move both our company and the basic to the premium segment, and every brand within the ­society forward. Group focuses on meeting specific buying needs and behaviors. Emerging markets are the drivers of long-term global growth and Supporting productivity offer great potential in the so-called value segment. Many of these customers need to balance operational cost and purchase price, or The Volvo Group’s operations, products and services play an imporhave set up business in challenging economic conditions and are tant socio-economic role and have a positive impact in both mature moving upwards. These customers want products that offer quality, and growth markets worldwide. reliability, service and support, but at a reasonable cost. Trucks transport food and other goods to their destinations, and One reason why these growth markets are important to us is the collect the waste. Buses help people reach work, school, family and clear correlation between GDP increase and demand for transport friends. Machines build roads and bridges. Marine engines power solutions. Our products and services contribute to greater ecoin-land waterway vessels and pilot boats. Industrial engines can nomic development, which in turn brings a generally higher standprovide a secure electrical supply to hospitals and airports, as well ard of living. Increased employment and wealth leads to a long-term as material handling in ports. need for improved infrastructure. Additional consumer spend Our global presence enables the Group to offer a wide range of requires increased distribution. We aim to be a significant player in products and services customized for different markets and needs. the value segment and have invested heavily in targeted product For example, our new UD Quester truck range has been designed research and development. to meet specific needs of customers in growth markets in Asia and beyond. In Europe, Volvo Trucks and Renault Trucks offer 24-hour UD QUESTER roadside assistance to keep customers moving. Our remanufacturIn 2013, we made great strides towards our goals with the launch of ing centers enable us to reduce the cost of spare parts for customQuester – the Group’s new heavy-duty truck range designed, priced ers worldwide. and equipped especially for growth markets and businesses. The We place great emphasis on supporting our customers to be sucfirst target markets are Thailand, Indonesia, Malaysia and China, with cessful in their business. We focus on high product quality, safety India and several other growth markets across the world to follow. and reliability, fuel efficiency and support services, including servicQuester serves a wide range of heavy-duty transport applicaing and maintenance, repairs and assistance that aim to reduce tions, including off-road mining and construction as well as on-road customers’ downtime and costs. distribution and long-haul transportation. It is based on a modern 44 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 MOVING SOCIETY AND OUR BUSINESS FORWARD MOVING SOCIETY FORWARD heavy-duty truck platform designed for a range of drivelines and various configurations. Uptime and fuel efficiency are key features, enabling customers to spend less money on fuel and maintenance and more time on running a successful business. Quester is the result of six years of research, development and testing. Distribution is being supported by a large and expanding support network providing genuine UD parts and service. A production system for complete built-up Quester trucks has begun in Thailand and China, with India to follow. This innovation will create shared value for an UD Quester is our new heavy-duty truck range designed, priced and increasing number of stakeholders. equipped especially for growth markets and businesses. It will create shared value for an increasing number of stakeholders. CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT FOR EMERGING MARKETS In August 2013, the Volvo Group launched onto the Chinese market ••• two new types of teeth for the buckets of two models of Volvo Construction Equipment’s (Volvo CE) excavators. They are part of a new range of components that includes economically priced ground-engaging tools, such as side cutters, side shrouds, segments and bolt-on edges. Volvo CE’s new products for mediumto light-duty applications generally offer lower initial purchase costs and adapted wear-resistant specifications. Bucket teeth are the first part of a new range of Volvo Construction This latest initiative follows on from the launch in 2012 of the Equipment components that offer quality at an economic price for the wheel loader, designed specifically for growth markets and curhuge Chinese construction market. rently manufactured in China. As part of Volvo CE’s development strategy, a dedicated team has been set up in Shanghai to help ••• ensure rapid product development of other worn parts. It is geographically close to important Asian markets as well as the excavator technology team in Korea. There is a considerable market for bucket teeth and undercarriage parts in China and we are developing a totally new range of undercarriage replacement parts, due to launch in 2015. The project team is also looking at the possibility of launching the new teeth in other markets across the Asia-Pacific region and Latin America. Vocational training schools in Africa will develop job skills and enhance the employability of students to become technicians and operate trucks, buses and construction equipment. Engaging with society We have supported various society engagement activities for many years. We work collaboratively with a variety of stakeholders to im­­ prove the wellbeing of society broadly. This takes the form of proDEVELOPING SKILLS jects and strategic partnerships with non-governmental organizaThe Volvo Group conducts a variety of professional training programs tions, philanthropic donations, community volunteering and in emerging and established ­markets worldwide that facilitate employsponsorships. ment opportunities within the local community and secure the longIn 2013 we implemented a tool for systematic reporting of these term development of our business. activities and aggregation of their value. While this is a group-wide In many countries, the transport and construction industry faces effort, it is not exhaustive and will need to be further refined in a shortage of people with the right skills and competencies. The 2014. Initial data values the Group’s total society engagement at Volvo Group’s professional training for technicians, drivers, operamore than SEK 230 M over the course of the year, where a substantors and factory workers increases people’s experience and equips tial part is related to the Volvo Step program. them with the rights skills for roles in these sectors. Today, we are fulfilling our new CSR strategy of society engagement built on the concept of shared value, where we match societies’ Training schools in Africa needs with the Group’s business objectives. The Volvo Group is planning to invest a total SEK 30 M to introduce We engage in activities related to our core business and operatvocational training schools in 10 African countries, in partnership with ing context where we can use our unique expertise, knowledge and the Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency (Sida) skills to address social and environmental challenges. All activity is and the US Agency for International Development (USAID). guided by our corporate core values of quality, safety and environThis follows on from the successful pilot we conducted during the mental care and aims to support our vision. The Volvo Group is most year in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, working with the Selam Technical and active in the areas of skills development, traffic safety, education, Vocational College in a unique partnership with Sida and the United environmental protection and disaster relief. Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO). We provided 45 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 MOVING SOCIETY AND OUR BUSINESS FORWARD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT MOVING 2013 SOCIETY AVSNITT FORWARD world. Reliable trucks are vital to the WFP’s logistics and Renault Trucks is a key partner for carrying supplies in extreme conditions. Renault Trucks initiated a five-month volunteer program to train WFP mechanics in six East African countries, concluding March 2013. We provided a mobile training unit and a team of expert technicians to give WFP mechanics onsite training in the most advanced maintenance techniques. The team of nine employee volunteers carried out weeklong training events in Kenya, Burundi, Uganda, Rwanda, South Sudan World Food Program (WFP) was supported by Renault Trucks ­volunteer technicians who spent 5 months training WFP drivers on and the Democratic Republic of Congo. In total, 40 mechanics have advanced maintenance techniques in order to keep supplies moving. been trained and, equipped with their new skills, they will be able to ••• greatly contribute to the ongoing success of WFP missions. The Volvo Step The Volvo Step is a one-year, paid vocational training program in industrial production created specifically for unemployed young people aged 18 to 22. The Volvo Step takes place at 13 sites across Sweden and provides both theoretical and practical learning experience. Representing an overall investment of SEK 450 M, The Volvo The Volvo Step one-year, paid vocational training program in indusStep is a three-year project that began in 2012. Each year, 400 trial production for 18–22 year olds had 52% of its 2013 places filled by female participants. young people are given professional training and experience. Successful participants receive a certificate showing they are sufficiently qualified to work in industrial production. The first cohort of Volvo Step participants graduated in October the college with equipment, training materials, hands-on teacher 2013. Around 50 were offered jobs within the Volvo Group, with a training and ongoing curriculum development as well as apprenticefurther 75 approximately receiving jobs in the Group via manpower ship opportunities for 65 students. agencies. The program does not guarantee employment with the In November, the Volvo Group signed an MoU (Memorandum of Volvo Group, but it does improve young people’s chances in the Understanding) with USAID and Sida with the labor market overall. aim to open vocational training schools in 10 The Volvo Step also places great emphasis African countries over a five-year period beginAll activity is guided by our on diversity, in terms of gender, social and eduning 2014. The schools will train students to core values of quality, safety cational background, academic capabilities and become technicians and to operate trucks, and environmental care” interests. In the program’s second round, startbuses and construction equipment, developing ing November 2013, 52 percent of participants job skills and enhancing the employability of those enrolled. are female. This is particularly encouraging for our industry, which The program is one of the new ways that development agencies traditionally struggles to attract women. are actively partnering with the private sector to produce sustainable development solutions. By working together in public-private The School Step partnerships we can generate more resources for sustainable It is becoming increasingly difficult to attract young people into development and contribute to reducing poverty. Training local labor engineering careers in Sweden. In response to this major recruitto sell, drive and service Volvo Group products contributes to susment challenge, the Volvo Group has announced plans for a new tainable growth in Africa by generating decent jobs and giving pilot program to build on the success of The Volvo Step. ­people the ability to support themselves in the long term. It also Starting in 2014, The School Step aims to increase interest in techhelps us to broaden our market reach and to build up the network of nology, mathematics and the natural sciences. The program will offer dealers and mechanics that is required for future sales of our prodhigh schools across Gothenburg, Sweden, the opportunity to host visucts in these countries. its by highly-talented, young and enthusiastic Volvo Group technicians The Volvo Group has an ambition to grow revenue in Africa by 25 and engineers for two semesters over the course of a school year. percent between 2013 and 2015. The schools will be set up in counOur people will describe the profession and the projects they are tries that are both business-critical for the Volvo Group and eligible currently working on, and highlight ways of solving problems. They for development grants from both Sida and USAID. The partnership will interact with the teacher to support a real-life learning approach also includes traffic safety and health awareness initiatives. to theoretical studies. In this way, the Volvo Group aims to build long-term relationships between itself and the city’s high schools World Food Program and achieve closer links between school and professional life. The United Nations World Food Program (WFP) works to combat hunger by guaranteeing access to food in the poorest parts of the 46 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 MOVING SOCIETY AND OUR BUSINESS FORWARD MOVING SOCIETY FORWARD IMPROVING TRAFFIC SAFETY Safety is one of the Volvo Group’s corporate core values and we have a long tradition of sharing our expertise in product and traffic safety. Approximately 1.2 million people die every year on the world’s roads, and another 20 to 50 million sustain injuries. This has an immeasurable impact on the individuals and families affected and on the communities in which they live and work. Economically disadvantaged families are hardest hit by both direct medical costs and indirect costs, such as lost wages, that The TransFORM program is part of the Volvo Traffic Safety result from traffic accidents. Road traffic injuries are estimated to ­Program in Brazil, which has been running for 27 years and has cost lowand middle-income countries between one and two pertrained over 900 drivers. cent of their gross national product. The increase of road traffic injuries in lowand middle-income ••• countries is partly attributable to the rapid rate of motorization in many developing countries that has occurred without sufficient investment in road safety strategies. Through educational programs and sponsorship, the Volvo Group participates in different initiatives to increase safety and reduce the number of traffic accidents. Professional driver programs Driver training programs in India have reached over 110,000 drivers In South America, the Volvo Group’s TransFORM program has to date. We train two drivers for every Volvo truck and bus sold and our trained over 900 professional drivers in vehicle safety technology partner, Eicher, trains truck and bus drivers on responsible driving. and safe driving behavior skills since its launch in Brazil (2008) and Peru (2010). ••• The program offers a five-day intensive training on appropriate vehicle handling and better use of its safety elements onsite or at Volvo Group facilities or dealerships. It also motivates drivers to consider the emotional impacts of traffic accidents on their families. Improving driver training has resulted in fewer road accidents, deaths and associated financial losses, as well as reduced operational and maintenance costs for companies. Many participants say the program has also changed their mind about work and life. America’s Road Team and Share the Road program are national public outreach programs led by professional truck drivers who teach The TransFORM program is part of the Volvo Group’s long-runcar drivers how to drive safely in close proximity with trucks. ning Volvo Traffic Safety Program in Brazil, where close to 91,000 accidents involving freight vehicles occur every year. In India, we have trained over 110,000 drivers in total. We train at cials and government leaders to demonstrate the trucking indusleast two drivers for every Volvo truck and bus sold – around 35,000 try’s commitment to safety and promote trucking as a sustainable to date – and we collaborate with our joint venture partner, Eicher, and and essential part of the US economy. They teach car drivers about government agencies on award-winning truck and bus driving and potential blind spots when driving around large trucks, truck stopsafety programs. Since our partnership with Eicher started a decade ping and safe following distances. ago, over 75,000 drivers have received training on traffic safety regulations, safe driving habits and skills, vehicle maintenance and fuel School safety programs saving tips plus health awareness on drugs, alcohol, stress and disSixty percent of all accidents in which a truck collides with a pedesease. In addition to Volvo and Eicher customers, we train drivers from trian or cyclist result from a driver’s blind spot. Many of the injured are competitor companies, government and educational institutions. children. The Volvo Group conducts a wide range of traffic safety In 2013 alone, over 24,000 Indian drivers received training thanks to campaigns geared towards schoolchildren in diverse countries our investment in recruiting more trainers. Courses are now delivered including Latvia, Russia, Sweden, Denmark, South Korea and India. continuously at two dedicated driver training centers in Indore and Our longest-running program is Denmark’s Traffic Safety at Eye Pithampur and a team of five regional trainers deliver locally-­based Level campaign, launched in 2003. Working together with several courses for Eicher bus and truck customers across the entire country. other organizations, we have so far taught over 75,000 children how to approach trucks safely. In the US, we support the long-running America’s Road Team We launched our latest community initiative during 2013, working under our Volvo brand and the Share the Road program through our with the non-profit HOPE Foundation in India on a road safety camMack brand. These national public outreach programs are led by paign for children and women in Bangalore. In the first six months professional truck drivers who take a few days each month to meet of this trial, HOPE aims to educate 13,000 children about traffic with the motoring public, news media, students, transportation offietiquette through interactive audio-visual presentations. The pro47 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 MOVING SOCIETY AND OUR BUSINESS FORWARD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT MOVING 2013 SOCIETY AVSNITT FORWARD aimed primarily at politicians, opinion leaders, safety organizations and the transport industry in selected EU member states. The campaign also aims to identify and support good practice and carry out training programs and educational activities. The Volvo Group sponsors several safety awards worldwide to highlight best practice. In North America, the annual Volvo Trucks Safety Award is open to US and Canadian fleets who can win USD 25,000 prizes for the safest driving records and top safety programs. In Brazil, the Volvo Traffic Safety Award recognizes good practice that contribSchools safety programs are run in diverse countries including Latvia, Russia, Sweden, South Korea and India. In Denmark, we have utes effectively to increasing safety in the transportation sector. Every taught over 75,000 children how to approach trucks safely. two years, Volvo Trucks and Buses Argentina SA honors news media ••• and journalists who produce the best communications on traffic safety in the country. RESPONDING TO DISASTERS We respond to disasters in various ways, depending on the situation and the most appropriate use of our expertise, skills and resources. While we cannot contribute to all cases, we do try to assist several each year. During 2013, we offered disaster relief assistance following: Volvo Trucks Safety Award is open to US and Canadian fleets who • typhoon Haiyan in the Philippines can win USD 25,000 prizes for the safest driving records and top safety programs. • the Ya’an earthquake in China ••• • flash floods in Uttarakhand, northern India. Typhoon Haiyan Oxfam is one of our strategic partners for society engagement activities, including emergency and relief work. Following the devastation caused to millions when typhoon Haiyan hit the Philippines in November 2013, the Volvo Group immediately donated SEK 7.5 M to Oxfam and offered the loan of trucks to assist in the relief efforts and the recovery phase, equivalent to SEK 2.5 M. Disaster relief support 2013 included donations of money, clothing Our financial donation provided emergency life-saving aid for and equipment to assist organizations dealing with the Ya’an earthpeople left without food, shelter or clean drinking water. It will also quake, Uttarakhand floods and Typhoon Haiyan. be used to help people rebuild their lives, help communities learn new skills and build resistance against future disasters. Fourteen machines mobilized by Volvo CE and its Philippine gram for 5,000 women is targeting self-help groups in low income dealer, Civic M ­ erchandising Inc, are being used by the Philippine areas, using street plays as a means of instruction. government to remove debris in two of the worst affected islands. In the longer term, the machines will be used in site preparation and Raising awareness, rewarding best practice housing projects in Tacloban city. The Volvo Group raises awareness of traffic safety and shares information with authorities and leading organizations through various Thanks to support from the Volvo Group, Oxfam has also been able awards, campaigns, seminars, symposia and forums. to provide support to housing 1,000 families affected by the earthFor example, as part of the Volvo Traffic Safety Program in Brazil, quake in Haiti. We have also funded a project in Ethiopia to improve which has been running for 27 years, we host the annual Volvo Trafwater and sanitation facilities in a refugee camp for approximately fic Safety Forum, attended by approximately 200 customers, jour25,000 people and a project in Indonesia to strengthen community nalists, government representatives and freight transport specialresilience to natural disasters by training villagers to identify and ists. The theme of the 2013 forum was business and the future of assess disaster risks. Brazil’s road transportation. We presented the results of a national survey on the image of Brazil’s road transportation undertaken with Ya’an earthquake members of the public, society leaders, media and trade entities. A magnitude-7 earthquake hit Lu Shan, near the city of Ya’an in We also discussed the key role of professional truck drivers in the China’s Sichuan province on April 20, 2013. Volvo Construction transportation of goods. Equipment (Volvo CE) China responded by donating two wheel In Europe, the Volvo Group continues its active support for the loaders and skills support to the Sichuan Road and Bridge ConSafe & Sober campaign, run by the independent non-profit Eurostruction Group tasked with infrastructure reconstruction. pean Transport Safety Council (ETSC). Throughout 2013, the camEight employees from our dealer Sichuan Dingfeng Co (SCDF) paign held a series of debates, known as the Safe & Sober Talks, were among the many whose property was affected. Volvo CE col48 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 MOVING SOCIETY AND OUR BUSINESS FORWARD MOVING SOCIETY FORWARD leagues in the region responded generously, delivering a donation totaling RMB 33,340 to the trade union representing the affected employees. Uttarakhand floods The torrential rains that hit Uttarakhand during June 2013 were among India’s most devastating natural disasters in recent times. Thousands of people died or were left homeless after the floods and landslides had destroyed towns, villages and civic infrastructure. 2013 Volvo Environment Prize of SEK 1.5 M was awarded to the Without a physical presence in Uttarakhand, Volvo Group India Chinese glaciologist and climate scientist, Dr. Qin Dahe, in recognition employees responded by making cash donations through payroll of his work on climate change. deductions totaling SEK 60,000, matched with a company donation of SEK 100,000. The majority of these funds were handed over to the ••• Volvo Group’s strategic partner, Oxfam. Our company also made a cash donation to the nonprofit organization, Goonj, to cover medical supplies needed in the area. Our employees also collected 28 boxes of food and medicine and 42 boxes of clothing for Goonj to distribute. CARING FOR THE ENVIRONMENT Environmental care is one of our corporate core values and we aim Volvo Environmental Center in Brazil lies amid remnants of ancient to establish programs that encourage society to take a greater rainforest that is home to 1,500 botanical species, over 250 bird and interest in the environment globally and locally. hundreds of other animal species. Volvo Environment Prize ••• The Volvo Environment Prize foundation was established in 1988 and has become one of the world’s most prestigious environmental prizes. It is awarded annually to people who have made outstanding scientific discoveries within the area of the environment and sustainable development. The prize consists of a diploma, sculpture and a cash sum of SEK 1.5 M and is presented at a ceremony in S ­ tockholm, Sweden. The Chinese glaciologist and climate scientist, Dr. Qin Dahe, was Up-Cycling Design Arts Campaign in China encourages people to transform scrap machinery parts into urban artwork and explore new awarded the 2013 Volvo Environment Prize. He was a key contribuapproaches to environmental protection and city enhancement. tor to the fifth assessment report from the UN climate panel (IPPC) having attracted wide attention through his game-changing report which was the first to scientifically demonstrate that extreme weather and climate phenomena have become more frequent over Group employees, family members and customers in addition to the last 50 years. The findings gained wide currency since they 2,600 school and university students, researchers and professors. showed a clear connection between climate change and periods of extreme conditions, such as extended droughts and heat waves, but Up-Cycling Design Arts Campaign also torrential storms and rain in other regions. With the support of the China Resource Recycling Association, Volvo Construction Equipment unveiled ‘City Garden’ – the first conVolvo Environmental Center ceptual piece of art designed from scrap machinery parts – to Close to our factory in Curitiba, Brazil, the Volvo Environmental launch a new campaign in Shanghai during 2013. The campaign Center lies amid remnants of ancient rainforest that is home to encourages people to transform scrap machinery parts into urban 1,500 botanical species, over 250 bird and hundreds of other aniartwork and explore new approaches to environmental protection mal species. The site includes the Green House (Casa Verde) enviand city enhancement. ronmental educational center, several ecological nature and walkThe competition offers ordinary people and everyday artists ing trails, and dedicated spaces for courses, arts and organic across the whole of China a platform to unleash their creativity and growing activities. The Center is of both historical and environmenimagination while putting recycling and environmental protection tal importance, conserving elements of the area’s pre-industrial into action. The aim is to give everyone an opportunity to consider rural character. how we can extend a product’s lifestyle through design. Winners Participation in work-related workshops ensures a unique opportuwill be chosen by professional artists after March 2014. nity to bring our company closer to the surrounding community, and ties with the local community are very strong. Monitored visits to the Center have exceeded expectations, attracting more than 600 Volvo 49 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 MOVING SOCIETY AND OUR BUSINESS FORWARD MOVING OUR BUSINESS FORWARD Moving our business forward The Volvo Group is in a strong position as one of the world’s largest manufacturers of trucks, construction equipment and heavy-duty diesel engines and continues to enjoy good market presence globally with its strong brands. Our employees are key to our value creation and ­success. We see recruitment of talent and investment in employees as a fundamental part ­­ of staying competitive, profitable and sustainable. Global strength Operating context The Volvo Group has a presence in around 190 markets and The Volvo Group is one part of the transportation industry that conemploys approximately 110,000 people. Together, we all strive to nects economic production with consumption. Demand for many of create efficient and sustainable transport and infrastructure soluthe Group’s products is therefore closely linked to overall trends in tions for our customers. GDP. Additional factors, such as fuel prices, interest rates, emisThe global presence of the Volvo Group has undergone a drasions standards and political decisions, all influence industry confimatic change since the streamlining towards commercial vehicles dence and expectations about the short-term future. These impact was initiated in 2000. The Group has significantly strengthened its customers’ decisions whether to purchase now or wait until later. positions outside the traditionally large markets of Western Europe According to Consensus Economics, global GDP grew by 2.4 and North America and has grown considerably in emerging marpercent in 2013, compared with 2.6 percent in 2012. GDP in the EU kets, welcoming new companies and employees. The Volvo Group’s was flat following a decline of 0.4 percent in 2012. US GDP share of markets outside of Western Europe and North America increased by 1.9 percent, compared with 2.8 percent in 2012. has grown from 16 percent of Group sales in 2000, to 45 percent Japan’s GDP expanded by 1.7 percent compared with 1.4 percent in 2013. growth in 2012. Growth in countries such as Brazil, India and China Positions have been moved forward by acquisitions, primarily in continued to be relatively subdued in 2013. For 2014, global GDP is Asia, and by the expansion of the distribution and service networks expected to grow by 3.1 percent. The expected acceleration in in places such as Eastern Europe and South America. In Asia, we global GDP growth in 2014 is largely driven by improvements in the have grown through our acquisitions of UD Trucks in Japan and US and Europe. SDLG construction equipment in China as well as our joint venture The Volvo Group’s global presence is an advantage, enabling the on trucks and buses with India-based Eicher Motors. We have rapcompany to offset cyclical slowdowns in some markets through idly expanded our distribution and service networks in emerging strong performance in growing markets. In the longer term, markets, including Eastern Europe and South America. increased global wealth will result in the need for improved infrastructure. This drives sustainable demand for building and construction equipment as well as transportation. 50 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 MOVING SOCIETY AND OUR BUSINESS FORWARD SUSTAINABILITY MOVING REPORT 2013 FORWARD OUR BUSINESS AVSNITT Strategic objectives 2013–2015 Economic performance and outlook In 2012, a new strategy was launched for the period 2013-2015 aimed at achieving the Volvo Group’s targets in the short term and The Volvo Group’s financial performance for the year ending staking out the road to the Group’s wanted position and ultimately, 31 December 2013 was marked by the most extensive product re­­ our vision – becoming the world leader in sustainable transport newal in the Group’s history. solutions. We have established a distinct brand portfolio and have moved from a regional focus with individual brands to a globally 2013 PERFORMANCE coordinated approach. In 2013, we launched the Group’s biggest The following information has been extracted from the Volvo Group renewed product range in our history. Annual Report 2013. It is intended as a topline overview of key financial performance indicators. Full financial data can be found in the Volvo Group Annual Report 2013, available at THE KEY STEPS OF THE PERIOD 2012–2015 CAN BE www.volvogroup.com/investors. SUMMARIZED AS FOLLOWS: 2012 Reorganization and strategy Group net sales 2013 Extensive product renewal Net sales for the Volvo Group declined by nine percent to SEK 2014 Execute efficiency program and drive organic growth 272.6 bn in 2013, compared to SEK 299.8 bn in 2012. 2015 Deliver profitability improvements. Find more information in the Annual Report 2013. Investment and expenditure 2013 investments in property, plant and equipment amounted to SEK 8.5 billion, compared with SEK 9.5 billion in 2012. Major Memberships investments related to new product programs, development costs Knowledge of legislation, trends and best practice, both in our and production facilities. industry and the wider world, is essential to the Volvo Group’s ability to actively meet needs and identify new business opportunities. Shared economic value The Group is a signatory of the UN Global Compact, a member of The Volvo Group is dependent on many stakeholders to develop its the WWF Climate Savers Program and participates in many trade competitiveness. Similarly, a great number of stakeholders – suppliers, and industry forums including: employees, governments, financial institutions and shareholders – are • European Automobile Manufacturers’ Association (ACEA) dependent on the value that the Group creates and shares with them. • Committee for European Construction Equipment (CECE) • Truck and Engine Manufacturers Association (EMA) in the US Value by stakeholder group • Japan Automobile Manufacturers Association (JAMA) SEK M 2013 2012 • Association of Equipment Manufacturers in the US To suppliers – Purchases of goods and services 192,198 207,808 • American Trucking Associations To employees – Salaries and remunerations1 36,212 39,179 • American Public Transportation Association To society – Social costs1 8,262 9,686 To society – Pension costs1 4,144 3,965 • National Marine Manufacturers Association To society – Income taxes paid 2,823 5,366 • American Bus Association To creditors – Interest paid 2,437 2,900 • European Association of Internal Combustion Engine ManufacturTo the Volvo Group – Investments in tangible assets 8,281 9,338 ers (Euromot) To shareholders – Dividend 6,0842 6,083 • World Economic Forum 1 For further information, please see note 27 to the consolidated fi ­ nancial statements in the • International Transport Forum (ITF) Annual Report. 2 According to the Board’s proposal. The Volvo business moves in close tandem with macroeconomic development Volvo Group net sales 2000–2013, SEK bn Euro area GDP and heavy-duty trucks registration growth % % 272.6 6 60 GDP growth (left axis) 5 50 New heavy-duty trucks +110% 4 40 registration growth 3 30 (right axis) 130.1 2 20 1 10 0 0 2000 2013 (1) (10) (2) (20) (3) (30) (4) (40) (5) (50) (6) (60) 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 51 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 MOVING SOCIETY AND OUR BUSINESS FORWARD MOVING OUR BUSINESS FORWARD Taxation In accordance with the Group’s Code of Conduct, the Volvo Group Share of net sales by market 2013 shall comply with the tax laws and regulations of each country in which it operates. Where tax laws do not give clear guidance, prudence and transparency shall be the guiding principles. The Volvo 39% 23% Group does not take part in aggressive tax planning by placing sub20% sidiaries in tax havens. In the period 2009–2012, SEK 11 billion or 79 percent of the Volvo Group’s current taxes were paid in emerging market countries, as 11% defined by the IMF. In 2013 approximately SEK 2.2 billion or 70 percent of the current taxes were paid in emerging market countries. Rest of the world 7% OUR ECONOMIC OUTLOOK We continued the high pace in implementating measures connect­ed to the Group’s strategy for 2013–2015. Key ratios 2013 20121 Efficiency measures Net sales, SEK M 272,622 299,814 We decided to combine a number of measures under a Group-wide Operating income, SEK M 7,138 18,069 Operating margin, % 2.6 6.0 efficiency program, including a structural re­­­duction of white-collar Income after financial items, SEK M 4,721 15,495 employees and consultants, a restructuring of the industrial footIncome for the period, SEK M 3,802 11,378 print in Europe and Japan, a more streamlined sales and service Diluted earnings per share, SEK 1.76 5.61 organization for trucks in Europe and a reorganization of the parts Dividend per share, SEK 3.002 3.00 distribution globally. These measures are the consequence of the Return on shareholders' equity, % 5.0 14.7 transformation that the Group is undergoing and aim to increase 1 Comparative figures for 2012 are restated in accordance with new accounting principles. Read more in Note 31 of the Annual Report, Changes in the Volvo Group’s Financial our efficiency and competitiveness. The program will result in Reporting 2013. restructuring costs totaling approximately SEK 5 billion. Annual 2 According to the Board’s proposal. savings are estimated at SEK 4 billion which will gradually generate results during 2014 and achieve their full effect by the end of 2015. The Volvo Group continStrengthening our core business ued to be ranked among the world’s top 300 During the year, we made a number of strategic decisions aimed at companies in 2013 and strengthening our core business. In January 2013, we signed an qualifies, once again, for agreement to acquire 45% of the Chinese company Dongfeng the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index. Commercial Vehicles. Through this alliance, we will get a very strong position in the Chinese truck market, which is the world’s largest. In early January 2014, the National Development and Reform Commission (NDRC) in China approved the strategic alliance. Complesequence net financial debt in the Volvo Group’s Industrial Operation is subject to certain other conditions, including the approvals tions was reduced by SEK 7.0 billion. Volvo CE will continue to sell from other Chinese authorities, but we aim to conclude the deal by products to Volvo Rents under the new ownership. mid-year 2014. We also announced the acquisition of the Terex Corporation’s rigid In December we decided to divest Volvo Rents in North America, and articulated hauler business, which will strengthen Volvo CE’s and the transaction was completed at the end of January. As a conposition in the important earthmoving segment and extend the Capital expenditures, industrial operations Share of net sales Capitalized development Trucks, 65% costs, SEK bn Construction Equipment, 20% Property, plant and Buses, 6% equipment, SEK bn Volvo Penta, 3% Capital expenditures, Customer Finance, 3% % of net sales Other, 3% 09 10 11 12 13 2.6 3.2 4.1 5.1 3.7 7.7 7.1 8.5 9.5 8.5 5.0 4.0 4.1 4.9 4.6 52 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 MOVING SOCIETY AND OUR BUSINESS FORWARD SUSTAINABILITY MOVING REPORT 2013 FORWARD OUR BUSINESS AVSNITT presence in light mining. The deal, which is subject to regulatory As part of the Group’s 2013-15 efficiency and restructuring proapproval, is ex­­pected to be finalized during the second quarter of gram, we opened the Group’s first China Remanufacturing Center in 2014. Shanghai and an excavator plant in Kaluga, Russia, during 2013. More information and detail can be found in the Volvo Group We closed the Volvo Buses plant in Säffle, Sweden, with the loss Annual Report 2013, available at www.volvogroup.com/ of 328 jobs. Here, we worked closely with the trade unions and local investors. authorities on employee consultation and programs offering information and advice on new employment opportunities. Our employees We also provided support for the establishment of new companies with high expansion potential. As a result, contract manufacThe Volvo Group’s employees are key to our value creation and turer Hanza and Cellcomb – specialized in developing and manufacsuccess. We see recruitment of talent and investment in employturing environmentally-friendly disposable products – will invest in ees as a fundamental part of staying competitive, profitable and the former buses plant. By the end of the year, 248 former Säffle sustainable. employees had taken on new roles or were offered occupational Being an attractive employer with a global and diverse team of pension. high-performing people, with more women and minorities in leaderIn 2013, we announced plans to downsize, relocate and close ship positions, is part of our long-term ambitions. The Group’s goal several manufacturing, distribution and logistics centers across is to offer interesting opportunities and a unique corporate culture Europe and North America. We also announced plans to reduce the that attract and retain the best individuals from diverse backgrounds. number of support staff and consultants globally. Following detailed To achieve this – for both current and future employees – the analysis of our efficiency programs, we now estimate that a total of Volvo Group aims to offer competitive remuneration and benefits 4,400 white-collar employees and consultants will be affected. The and be an attractive employer in the key areas of diversity and majority of reductions will be implemented during 2014. All cutequity, health and safety, training and competence development. backs are subject to trade union negotiations. We are actively pursuing policies and best practice in these areas. These structural changes are necessary for improving our competitiveness and profitability, which will enable us to invest more in Global workforce new products and services and be less sensitive to fluctuations in The Volvo Group had 95,533 permanent employees and 14,794 temthe economy. porary employees and consultants at the end of 2013, compared to 96,137 permanent employees and 13,452 temporary employees and consultants at the end of 2012. Global workforce Europe 55% 52,334 employees Asia 19% 17,953 employees North America 17% 16,397 employees South America 6% 6,275 employees Other markets Share of permanent employees 3% 2,574 employees The dots represent our major production facilities. 53 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 MOVING SOCIETY AND OUR BUSINESS FORWARD MOVING OUR BUSINESS FORWARD VALUES AND CULTURE term target is for all levels and operations of the Group’s employee The continued availability of a skilled workforce is of high imporand management pool to reflect the diversity of the world in which tance to the Volvo Group’s business success. The Volvo Group’s the Volvo Group does business. values and culture are also ranked highly in our materiality index. The Volvo Group does not tolerate discrimination on the grounds These issues are linked, as a company’s values and culture influof gender, gender identity, race, religion, age, sexual orientation, ence its ability to attract and retain a sustainable workforce. nationality, political opinion, union affiliation, disabilities, social or Quality, safety and environmental care are the Volvo Group’s corethnic origin. The Volvo Way is to work with energy, passion, and porate core values. They are embedded into the Volvo Way – our respect for the individual. company culture, which every employee is responsible for upholdDiversity and inclusion are promoted in the Group’s Code of ing. We can measure how well we are living up to our values and ­Conduct and in our Diversity and Inclusion Policy, which underlines culture through our annual employee survey. managerial responsibility for working to increase diversity and create an inclusive environment. Diversity is a key factor in business Employee survey performance and work on it is coordinated on a global scale. TarWe have carried out an employee survey – the Volvo Group Attitude gets are set at corporate level and broken down by division. Tailored Survey (VGAS) – every year since 1999, with the exception of 2010. plans are enacted at country and local level. The Employee Engagement Index (EEI) measures pride, satisfaction, commitment and referral level of employees. In 2012, we Measurement added a Performance Excellence Index (PEI) to measure customer The Volvo Group uses two key performance indicators to measure satisfaction, speed and quality of results and this year we added the diversity – the Balanced Team Indicator and the Inclusiveness index: Leadership Effectiveness Index (LEI). Combining all three indices, • The Balanced Team Indicator is a quantitative measure covering we are able to evaluate our employees’ engagement levels, key nationality, gender, age and experience across different Volvo ­drivers of performance and leadership’s success in communicating Group companies and aligning the workforce with business objectives. • The Inclusiveness index is more qualitative, gauging the extent We compare the Volvo Group against an international data­ to which employees judge their workplace to be inclusive. base of approximately 15 million employees, representing over 80 countries. Our aim is to be among the world’s high-performing The results for 2013 show the diversity mix of our top level managecompanies. ment teams, overall gender equality and the perceived manageManagers are responsible for analyzing their teams’ results and, ment focus on diversity are stable, but gaps remain to meet targets. together, establishing and following through on action plans to furIn terms of inclusiveness, we made significant progress in 2013. ther improve engagement and performance excellence. These results drive improvement action plans, which are followed up in management forums. Volvo Volvo High performing Global Group Group company norm norm Employee survey 2013 2013 2012 2013 2013 Diversity training for managers EEI (Employee Engagement The Group Executive Team (GET) takes ultimate responsibility for Index) % 76 76 77 70 diversity and inclusion leadership (DIL), ensuring they are part of PEI (Performance Excellence business as usual. In 2013, GET members participated in a specially Index) % 75 74 77 71 LEI (Leadership Effectiveness focused DIL training seminar to deepen their knowledge and estabIndex) % 71 – 74 68 lish common understanding of the topic. The response rate for the 2013 VGAS was 93 percent, up from 92 percent in 2012. The Group’s target is to train all managers down to CEO-3 level in DIL by the end of 2015. The training is run in-house and in 2013, The Volvo Group’s EEI was in the 2013 top quartile of global comwe trained an additional 38 training facilitators from seven different panies surveyed. Our PEI result was 75 percent, moving closer to countries. In total, we now have 157 DIL facilitators worldwide. They the high-performing norm of 77 percent. The new Leadership are responsible for running internal DIL seminars and supporting Effectiveness Index was 71 percent, resting midway between the our daily work on highlighting the importance of inclusion to realize global norm of 68 percent and high-performing norm of 74 percent. the benefits of diversity. More than 50 additional facilitators are set to be trained mainly in Asia as well as the other regions of operation. DIVERSITY, EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES AND OTHER HUMAN RIGHTS Employee diversity networks The Volvo Group is a large multinational company and as such, The Volvo Group has used employee diversity networks to help diversity and inclusion are fundamental to our long-term success. empower minorities and provide feedback to management on how We are a signatory of the UN Global Compact and work actively to best to improve inclusiveness and remove roadblocks. Since 2011, uphold the UN’s principles on human and labor rights. It is stated in the number of groups has increased from eight to 11. our Code of Conduct that we shall support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights and make sure the Group is not complicit in human rights abuses. We seek to recruit and retain a broad spectrum of employees with different backgrounds, experience and perspectives. Our long54 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 MOVING SOCIETY AND OUR BUSINESS FORWARD SUSTAINABILITY MOVING REPORT 2013 FORWARD OUR BUSINESS AVSNITT Gender diversity 2013 2012 Gender balance It is a challenge for the entire automotive industry to attract women Share of women, % 17 17 Share of women, presidents and other senior in sufficient numbers. The Volvo Group has a long-term ambition to executives; % 19 20* increase the number of women in executive teams, while taking into account all other important diversity parameters. *The data originally reported in 2012 did not include Volvo Penta executives. At the end of 2013, women accounted for 17 percent of the Volvo Group’s global workforce, unchanged from 2012. The share of women in senior executive positions slightly decreased. EMPLOYER AWARDS The Volvo Group believes that one way of overcoming the indusExternal recognition is an excellent indicator of performance and the try’s gender imbalance is to focus on diversity at the recruitment Volvo Group was honored with the following 2013 employer awards: stage. Group policy requires all white-collar positions to be openly Brazil: Editora Abril’s ‘Best company to work for in Brazil’s automotive posted for at least ten business days – to prevent recruitment sector’. through exclusive networks – and at least one woman and one man to sit on each recruitment panel. Poland: CRF Institute’s ‘Top Employer’ award, for the fourth consecutive year and Polityka magazine’s ‘CSR Silver Leaf’ award. Battle of the Numbers The Battle of the Numbers program – a unique project to get more women into operative management positions – delivered its proposWorking either locally or globally, the Volvo Group diversity netals and conclusions in 2013. The Volvo Group was one of 10 large works have addressed multi-cultural issues and inclusion of women companies headquartered in Sweden to take part. Ten women from employees, women managers, women in technical fields, LGBT each company joined forces to study how organizations should work to (lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender) employees. attract, develop and retain more female talent in decision-making roles. The Volvo Group team held workshops and meetings with the LGBT landmark CEO and Group Executive Team (GET) members during the year. In addition to the Volvo Group’s internal worldwide LGBT ‘V Eagle’ Among various plans put forward to the GET, the Volvo Group’s team network, the Volvo Group in France has joined the country’s ‘Other recommended integrating a Female Talent Review in the current TalCircle’ association and publicly signed its charter. In this pilot initiaent Review process. The specific focus will be carried out at all mantive for the Volvo Group, the company commits to: agement levels, including the top talent review conducted by the GET. • creating an inclusive environment for LGBT staff members • ensuring equality of rights and treatment for all the workforce, Leadership forums regardless of sexual orientation, identity or gender In October 2013, the Volvo Group organized the Female Leader • supporting staff who are victims of discriminatory remarks or actions Forum with two of our strategic academic partners in China – Tongji • measuring progress made and sharing best practice to improve University and Tsinghua University. Four senior female leaders from the overall professional environment. different Volvo Group divisions and businesses were invited to events in Beijing and Shanghai to share their experiences with US early career professional network female engineering students. They told packed auditoriums about The Early Career Professional Group was initiated in Greensboro by their challenges; their personal journeys of learning and growth; several young employees who felt a need to connect with peers to how they leverage their own strengths and how they balance a develop professionally and help establish networks. For the Volvo successful career with marriage and a family. Group, this network will help the ‘Y Generation’ achieve their full potential in the organization. The concept is open for development SAFETY, HEALTH AND WELLBEING at other sites. Occupational health and safety is viewed as an important material issue, both by the Volvo Group and our external stakeholders. We believe that increased employee wellbeing leads to raised productivity, reduced costs and increased competitiveness. We therefore strive to eradicate workplace risks and promote a safety culture by taking a holistic approach to workplace safety, health and wellbeing. This is part of the Volvo Group strategy. In accordance with the Volvo Group’s Code of Conduct, all employees have the right to a safe and healthy working environment and should have access to information, support and other tools to reduce or eradicate health risks associated with work, lifestyle or emotional stress. Battle of the Numbers program in Sweden involved 100 women from 10 leading companies to study how best to attract, develop and Managers at all levels share the responsibility of ensuring safety. retain more female talent in decision-making and operative manageManagers are responsible for adherence to Volvo Group safety policy ment positions. and precautions, national requirements and regulations. 55 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 MOVING SOCIETY AND OUR BUSINESS FORWARD MOVING OUR BUSINESS FORWARD The Volvo Group’s global health and wellbeing programs cover various initiatives including medical examinations, rehabilitation support, ergonomics, and health promotion programs such as smoking cessation activities. These programs and activities sometimes extend to the employees’ family members. Management systems The Volvo Production System provides tools including occupational risk assessment, indicators for measuring health and safety, and Ergonomic improvements on assembly lines for new Renault methodology for ergonomic workplace assessment. trucks have transformed 50% of workstations that previously had an OHSAS 18001 (Occupational Health and Safety Assessment average ‘high’ and ‘heavy’ ergonomic quotation to the lowest level. Scheme) is an international standard for processes that control and improve company workplace safety and health performance. In ••• 2013, 37 percent of our production sites were certified to the standard. Improved approach The Volvo Group has a global presence through different companies, brands and joint ventures. Over the past decade, we have grown significantly through mergers and acquisitions in different countries at different levels of maturity. This has resulted in various ways of workHealth coaches are Volvo Group employees who volunteer to help colleagues improve their physical and mental health and wellbeing. ing and reporting on health and safety across our Group. We have 93 in Sweden. In order to create a more structured and harmonized approach to health and safety across the Volvo Group, a new Group function for safety, health and wellbeing was established in December 2012. The future direction is to strengthen the Volvo Group health and High Volvo Volvo Volvo performing Global safety focus, to enable and stimulate global health and safety colEmployee survey Group Group Group company norm % of positive answers 2013 2012 2011 norm 2013 2013 laboration, and to establish our position as the industry benchmark in health and safety. My business entity is committed to workplace safety 85 85 84 89 83 My business entity promotes Human resource data activities and choices that improve employee health and Employees are responsible for reporting all work-related accidents wellbeing 72 71 68 n/a n/a and incidents to enable the investigation and identification of the I am satisfied with the physical root causes so that immediate corrective action can be taken. environment at my business entity 70 69 69 74 67 Depending on the conditions, a detailed analysis of the incident may My business entity is flexible, conclude in specific long-term measures. allowing me to balance work Regrettably, one fatal accident occurred at one of our plants in and home life 74 73 71 81 72 Bangalore, India, in 2013. Immediate measures have since been taken to review risk evaluation and visual management, and to Ergonomic improvements update employee training. In 2013, the Volvo Group launched a new range of Renault trucks Data relating to absence due to illness is collected on a country where the production line had been carefully analyzed and redelevel, based on national legislation. The difference in definitions and signed to reduce posture issues for assembly workers. national reporting requirements currently makes it difficult to More than 50 percent of workstations that previously had an aggregate the information on a corporate level. We are, however, average ‘high’ and ‘heavy’ ergonomic quotation have been transable to calculate a lost time accident rate (LTAR) covering 40 performed to ‘green’ – the lowest level. This breakthrough has been cent of our employees and 70 percent of our plants. We achieved a made possible by the integration of ergonomic requirements in the LTAR of two for 2013.* early phases of the design of the truck. The 2013 employee survey, which had a very high participation rate of 93 percent, shows a positive trend on most items related to Health and wellbeing examples safety, health and wellbeing. Our award-winning stress prevention program includes management training, risk evaluation, identification of employees needing * T he LTAR is calculated as the number of accidents with lost time multiplied by 200,000 divided by the number of hours worked. support and immediate help, as well as work on underlying causes. Actions taken have led to consistent improvement over time. For example, the program has helped to reduce stress levels in France from 33 to 27 percent of the workforce. 56 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 MOVING SOCIETY AND OUR BUSINESS FORWARD SUSTAINABILITY MOVING REPORT 2013 FORWARD OUR BUSINESS AVSNITT In Sweden, the Volvo Group employees can volunteer to act as Reviewing and developing talent health coaches, allocating part of their time to support and encourPerformance reviews, development programs and self-managed age colleagues to adopt healthy behaviors. At the end of 2013, we learning methods are essential elements for developing the compehad 93 health coaches, who arranged different activities relating to tence of the Volvo Group employees. physical training, nutrition, recovery, happiness and healthy mindset. Performance reviews REWARDING, RETAINING AND DEVELOPING TALENT We expect all Volvo Group employees to have a personal business The Volvo Group aims to be a competitive and attractive employer, plan that translates our corporate strategic objectives into individual attracting and retaining talented individuals. Our company culture, objectives and contributions. It includes business-related and comvalues, leadership, reputation and performance are all important petence development targets, and provides essential feedback for drivers. So too are the remuneration and benefits, and the career both short and long-term individual development. and personal development opportunities that we offer. All employees review their plan annually with their manager to ensure everyone clearly understands their role in the team and what Remuneration and benefits is expected of them. As stated in our Code of Conduct, the Volvo Group complies with all applicable laws, agreements and industry standards on working Talent review hours and compensation. Equal pay for work of equal value is the The talent review is an established management process to systemVolvo Group’s guiding principle. In practice, however, individual salatically and transparently identify, assess and develop leadership aries have traditionally been based on different local practices in talent throughout the company and ensure a sufficient and diverse different operating countries. supply of talent and skills, based on the leadership pipeline model. In addition to fixed salaries and variable remuneration, and in The talent review starts at unit level – market, company, plant, site accordance with local practice, Volvo Group companies offer, for or a function – and moves up level by level in the organization. All example, employees health and welfare support, income protection managers in a management team participate in the talent review against absence caused by ill health, retirement benefits and promeeting and the Volvo Group executive management team congrams that promote wellness. cludes and reviews top key talent and succession planning. Following the Group’s 2013–15 strategic objectives, we have been working on ways to harmonize our remuneration and benefits Career development processes. The Volvo Group offers various career opportunities across the company. There are training programs at all levels for employees, Performance-related pay aimed at both professional and personal growth. The activities The Volvo Group is pursuing various strategies to increase the profrange from traditional and e-based training to individual coaching itability of our business and performance-related pay is one of the and mentoring. strategies we have decided to use. One of the Group’s strategic objectives is a reward and recognition program related to individual, Leaders team and company performance. The Volvo Group’s leadership pipeline has been set up in collaboraBeginning 2013, we are introducing a harmonized salary struction with research institutes to develop and prepare our current ture that links salaries more closely to performance. We are also leaders, and potential leaders, for future roles. developing a global framework for compensation and benefits that Our leadership pipeline is divided into four levels, each with a can be adapted to different countries. specific development program: We have begun with our 15 largest countries covering around 85 • The Exploration program targets ‘emerging leaders’ percent of all employees. Pending further evaluation and refine• The Foundation program is for managers on the ‘leading people’ level ment, we will roll out the program to all other countries from 2015. • The Looking Glass Experience looks at managers on the ‘leading leaders’ level Employee turnover • The Edge is for those on our leading business level. Overall, the Volvo Group has very low employee turnover, even in growth countries like India where turnover is generally high. During 2013, around 960 employees in all major countries of operIn the future, the changing demographics of some countries – ation participated in the Volvo Group’s Leadership Pipeline prowith an aging population and too few young people with the right grams, an increase from the 650 who took part in 2012. skills – will be a challenge for the Volvo Group. In addition to attractive remuneration and benefits, we will need development strategies to attract a young generation interested in a positive balance between work and life. 57 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 MOVING SOCIETY AND OUR BUSINESS FORWARD MOVING OUR BUSINESS FORWARD Project managers Mentors-mentees The Volvo Group Institute for Project Management (VGIPM) aims to Mentorship is strongly encouraged at the Volvo Group and is considestablish a clear career path for project managers equipped with the ered to be an important development tool for leaders. Mentoring is necessary skills at all levels. The institute provides standard training, used as a long-term, tailored development aid for an individual, which assessments and a forum for sharing experiences and best practice. also benefits the organization. It builds a visible talent pool, increases In 2013, some 1,120 participants attended VGIPM training, with loyalty and commitment and supports organizational development. 400 certified as project management professionals by the PMI, one The Group has published an online guide to support both parties. of the world’s leading professional associations for project manageThe mentor is, in general, senior in the organization and helps a ment. This compares with 1,250 participants and 330 who achieved mentee outside their normal line management duties by sharing his/ certification in 2012. her professional and personal knowledge, skills and experience. During the year, the VGIPM successfully rolled out its knowledge database and assessment center to support recruitment and perInternational Internship Program sonal development across the Volvo Group. The Volvo Group International Internship Program was piloted in 2013, as part of the Preferred Talent Partnerships under the Specialists Academic Partner Program with selected The objective of the Volvo Group’s Specialist top universities. Twelve students from Recognition Program is to raise visibility and We see recruitment of talent and partner universities were selected and offer career opportunities to engineers with investment in employees as a fundaoffered the opportunity to join the Volvo extensive experience and expertise in their mental part of staying competitive, profGroup for an international internship field. Specialists are appointed for three itable and sustainable” assignment in Sweden, France, China or years with the aim of developing their field of the US. The purpose is to give the interns expertise, supporting the Group’s strategies and transforming discovinternational work experience and increase their knowledge about eries into increased business value across the Group. the Volvo Group. The program also creates opportunities for the Specialists take a lead role as an internal and external technolVolvo Group to benefit from talented students in our Preferred Partogy consultant, partner and mentor. Networking, both internally and ner Universities. externally, is a basic tool for gaining and driving progress and development. Specialists are encouraged to give lectures, seminars and Self-managed learning training courses in his/her field of expertise. The Volvo Group’s learning strategy emphasizes workplace learning, including classic training courses and self-managed learning. Globetrotters We have created a number of resources to support managers in In 2011, the Volvo Group launched a global mobility program, aimed helping employees find their most suitable individual learning style. at making mobility between countries, functions and companies a motivating, productive and enriching experience for employees, their families and the Volvo Group. New graduates In January 2013, a group of 21 graduates from Sweden, France, Germany, China, Japan, the UK and the US – selected from a pool of 2,232 applicants – embarked on the latest round of the Volvo Group International Graduate Program. This 12-month training program aims to develop future leaders through a variety of avenues, such as job rotation, international work experience, common training modules and project work. Pages 58-81 EARNING TRUST GAINING RESILIENCE The Volvo Group aims to earn trust and gain long-term resilience for our company by managing and mitigating risks and behaving in a responsible manner across our organization, operations and value chain. Sustainable transport Rethinking the future Shared value Moving society and our business forward Responsible behavior Earning trust, gaining resilience CONTENTS Managing our business risks and impacts 59 Managing our value chain 66 Re-use 79 Stakeholder engagement and governance 59 risks and impacts Independent recognition 80 Risk management 61 Product development 67 Key data 81 Code of Conduct policy 62 Purchasing 70 Company culture 63 Production 72 Business ethics 63 Distribution and service 76 Human rights and labor relations 64 Products in use 78 59 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 EARNING TRUST MANAGING OUR BUSINESS RISKS AND IMPACTS Managing our business risks and impacts Realizing the Volvo Group’s ambition of becoming the world leader in sustainable transport solutions requires the trust of all our stakeholders. Trust is based on reputation, which our company earns by consistently striving to behave in a responsible manner. We firmly believe that sound business practices are profitable in the Our stakeholders include customers, employees, trade unions, long run as they help to establish our company’s reputation as a suppliers, investors, governmental officials and policymakers, acareliable business partner. demic and research partners, and non-governmental organizations. The Volvo Group’s approach to CSR and sustainability is based on: STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT • conducting business in a responsible manner To help us identify and prioritize corporate social responsibility • taking stakeholders’ perspectives into account (CSR) and sustainability issues for the Volvo Group, we hold round• creating value for our shareholders and society tables with selected stakeholders and continue ongoing dialogue • contributing to sustainable development. with all stakeholders. This engagement enables us to better understand the internal and For us, behaving responsibly is the only founBehaving responsibly is the only external expectations of the Volvo Group, dation upon which we can build a truly susfoundation upon which we can build and helps to ensure that our business opertainable business. Our approach to CSR and a truly sustainable business” ations build value both for the company and sustainability – starting with compliance with society. the principles in the Code of Conduct and risk management – is integrated into our policies and implemented through our everyday Society market days business decisions and actions. In 2013, we held a Society Market Day for the second time. To Issues such as business ethics, corporate governance, human achieve a good discussion, we invited a broad audience including rights, environmental impacts, safety, responsible sourcing and lifepoliticians, authorities, academia and media. The discussion focused cycle management are all ranked highly in the Volvo Group’s mateon the importance of production close to research and development riality matrix. They are of significant importance to our business and and how to keep the competitiveness of production in Sweden. The our stakeholders expect us to report on how we manage and mitiday resulted in mutual understanding and a roadmap for further gate these risks. strengthening the competitiveness of Swedish production. Stakeholder engagement and governance Ongoing dialogue In addition to regional stakeholder initiatives, we maintain ongoing Everything starts with our stakeholders, and we strive to manage contact with all stakeholder groups to help us shape our direct busiand meet our stakeholders’ expectations across our organization ness operations and activities. All stakeholders are invited to use the and operations. contacts listed on www.volvogroup.com to raise questions or share opinions with the Group on any issue, at any time. 60 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 EARNING TRUST SUSTAINABILITY MANAGING OURREPORT 2013 BUSINESS RISKS AVSNITT AND IMPACTS Customers Capital market We have long-term relationships with most of our customers, and We communicate regularly with shareholders, other investors and increasing numbers want information about our CSR performance. financial analysts who take an active interest in CSR and sustainaWe communicate with our customers in various ways, including: bility issues. We hold a capital market day at least once a year and • interaction in daily operations hold regular investor meetings. We issue a number of publications, • dialogue forums such as customer focus groups during product including: development • annual reports • dialogue via social media • interim reports • customer satisfaction surveys. • press releases. Once a customer satisfaction interview is completed and the results Compliance issues remain of high interest among socially responsievaluated, the market research company informs the dealer of any ble investors. They also want to see how CSR, sustainability and our alerts. The dealer will contact the customer to follow-up on any dissustainable transport solutions strategy are being integrated into satisfaction within 48 hours. We have systems for handling comthe Group’s business model. Banks and capital lenders are increasplaints, market quality requests and dealers’ quality requests for ingly focusing on corruption and sanctions as part of their contraceach brand and business in the Group. Issues registered in the custual pre-requisites for doing business with the Volvo Group. tomer database are fed into product development. The Group also tracks customer satisfaction and brand image through established Decision-makers industry surveys. The Volvo Group communicates with politicians, authorities and institutions on an ongoing basis, including responding to proposed Employees and trade unions legislation and regulations. The Group also communicates with The Volvo Group has formalized systems for employee dialogue and local authorities on issues such as employment and working condidevelopment, such as the annual review of personal development tions. We deal with most regulatory issues related to our products plans and employee engagement survey. We also use various chanvia our membership of industry organizations. nels for communication among employees, including: • intranet Non-governmental organizations • in-house magazines The Volvo Group welcomes dialogue with civil society stakeholders • team meetings and NGOs and engages with hundreds of organizations on a mix of • videos and webcasts. global, national and local activities. The Group has two worldwide strategic partnerships – WWF and Oxfam – but most cooperation is Our managers practice top-down cascading of company informaon a local level with local NGOs and aid organizations. tion, but all employees can put questions directly to the Group’s CEO and management team via the intranet. Internally we commuUniversities and research institutes nicate in many different languages. The Volvo Group is involved in a comprehensive series of cooperaThe Volvo Group also maintains close relationships with a number tive ventures with research bodies and academic institutions, aimof labor unions, in both formal forums – such as the Volvo Global ing to advance the technologies needed for future product developDialogue – and informal meetings. ment. Forums include the Volvo Group Academic Partner Program. Our involvement with universities is also important for creating relaProspective employees tionships with students as potential employees thus securing It is increasingly important for employees that the company they access to future talent. work for has sound values and actively engages with its stakeholders. The Volvo Group participates in university career days, industry GOVERNANCE conferences and other events in order to meet potential employees, Sound governance is key for building a trusting relationship with map their areas of interest and make sure that the Group is regarded shareholders and other stakeholders. Here we report on governas a preferred employer. ance of our sustainability related issues. For the Group’s complete corporate governance report, see the Volvo Group Annual Report Suppliers 2013 at www.volvo.com/investors. The Volvo Group works closely with its suppliers and values longOur president and CEO, Olof Persson, has ultimate ownership of term relationships, and the transfer of knowledge and understandthe Volvo Group’s vision, and governance issues. ing of each other’s processes, procedures and values. Our forums for formal supplier engagement include: Governance body for CSR and sustainability • regular face-to-face meetings The Volvo Group’s Sustainability and Public Affairs Council takes • our web-based supplier portal organizational responsibility for CSR and sustainability. Niklas Gus• training sessions tavsson was appointed Executive Vice President Sustainability and • dedicated supplier days. Public Affairs in April and took over as chair of the Council. He is a 61 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 EARNING TRUST MANAGING OUR BUSINESS RISKS AND IMPACTS member of the Volvo Group Executive Team and is responsible for • Financial risks including currency fluctuations, interest level decisions on sustainability and ensuring their implementation fluctuations, market value of shares or similar instruments, credit throughout the organization. risk and liquidity risk. The purpose of this governing body is to establish strategies and direction and to follow up on performance. It also supports and • Operational risks including market reception of new products, advances the Volvo Group’s business in areas related to its corporeliance on suppliers, protection of intangible assets, complaints rate core values, CSR and sustainability, public affairs and relevant and legal actions by customers and other third parties, human emerging issues. capital risks. CSR and sustainability committee A full description of the Group’s external, financial risks and operaThe Volvo Group CSR and Sustainability Committee is tasked with tional risks, can be found in the Volvo Group’s Annual Report 2013, supporting and developing the Group’s CSR and sustainability work, available on www.volvogroup.com/investors. coordinating this work and making recommendations to the SusThis is an extract of some external and operational risks. tainability and Public Affairs Council. The CSR and Sustainability Committee is chaired by the Volvo The commercial vehicles industry is cyclical Group’s Senior Vice President, Corporate Social Responsibility The Volvo Group’s markets undergo significant changes in demand Management, Malin Ripa. The committee’s members include CSR as the general economic en­­vironment fluctuates. Investments in managers from across the Group who represent different parts of infrastructure, major industrial projects, mining and housing conthe organization and relevant processes for the implementation of struction all impact the Group’s operations as its products are ceninternal CSR work. tral to these sectors. Adverse changes in the economic conditions for the Volvo Group’s customers may also impact ex­­isting order CSR supply chain books through cancellations of previously placed orders. The cycliA new Volvo Group CSR Supply Chain Steering Group was formed cal demand for the Group’s products makes the financial result of in September 2013 to oversee the work of the Volvo Group CSR the operations dependent on the Group’s ability to react quickly to Supply Chain Network. The steering group’s membership comchanges in demand, in particular to the ability to adapt production prises management team members from the Group’s different purlevels and production and operating expenses. chasing organizations as well as the chair of the Group’s CSR and Sustainability Committee. The Volvo Group CSR Supply Chain Network reports to and Intense competition implements the decisions made by the steering group. The network Continued consolidation in the industry is expected to create fewer includes representatives from all the Group’s purchasing organizabut stronger competitors. Our major competitors are Daimler, Iveco, tions. Each representative is responsible for reporting to their MAN, Navistar, Paccar, Scania, Sinotruk, Bruns­ wick, Caterpillar, organization’s decision-making forum to ensure all CSR sourcing CNH, Cummins, Deere, Hitachi, Komatsu and Terex. In recent years, requirements are applied by each organization. new competitors have emerged in Asia, particularly in China. These new competitors are mainly active in their domestic markets, but are expected to increase their presence in other parts of the world. 2014 priorities The Volvo Group’s CSR and sustainability work will continue throughout 2014. Some of the activities planned include: Prices may change • continued implementation of the updated Code of Conduct The prices of commercial vehicles have, at times, changed consid• review of the Responsible Supply Chain Management Program erably in certain markets over a short period. This instability is • continued work towards integrated reporting caused by several factors, such as short-term variations in demand, • stakeholder dialogues shortages of certain component products, uncertainty regarding • development of the Creating Shared Value strategy underlying economic conditions, changes in import regulations, • start of the implementation of our CSR Africa agenda. excess inventory and increased competition. Overcapacity within the industry can occur if there is a lack of demand, potentially leadRisk management ing to increased price pressure. At the Volvo Group work is carried out daily to identify, measure and Extensive government regulation manage risk. In some cases the Group can influence the likelihood Regulations regarding exhaust emissions levels, noise, safety and that a risk-related event will occur. In cases beyond the Group’s conlevels of pollutants from production plants are extensive within the trol, we strive to minimize the consequences. industry. Most of the regulatory challenges regarding products relate to The Volvo Group classifies its risks into three main categories: reduced engine emissions. The Volvo Group is a significant player in • E xternal risks including the cyclical nature of the commercial the commercial vehicle industry and one of the world’s largest provehicles business, intense competition, commercial vehicle price ducers of heavy-duty diesel engines. The product development changes and government regulations. capacity with­­in the Volvo Group is well consolidated to be able to focus resources for research and development to meet tougher 62 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 EARNING TRUST SUSTAINABILITY MANAGING OURREPORT 2013 BUSINESS RISKS AVSNITT AND IMPACTS environment in which energy, passion and respect for the individual are guiding principles. Every year a Group-wide survey is conducted, and according to the survey the share of satisfied employees has been on a high level in recent years. Code of Conduct policy The Code of Conduct is the Volvo Group’s mandatory, group-wide policy for appropriate business behavior and responsibility towards Code of Conduct training continued Group-wide during 2013 to our stakeholders. Its content is based on international charters, ensure all employees are aware of the updates. Nearly half of all white-collar employees have had web-based training. including the UN Global Compact and the OECD’s guidelines for multinational companies. The Code applies to all employees and Boards of Directors. The Volvo Group managers are responsible for communicating and demonstrating the content and spirit of the code, and for complying with its rules and objectives. emissions regulations. Future product regulations are well known, The code includes the business ethics, human rights, social jusand the product development strategy is well tuned to the introductice and environmental principles to be applied in all our policies, tion of new regulations. decisions and activities, and outlines the Group’s principles and minimum standards for conducting business in an appropriate, Profitability depends on successful new products responsible and transparent manner. It is complemented by around The Volvo Group’s long-term profitability de­­pends on the Company’s 20 other policies – relating to areas such as accounting and reportability to successfully launch and market its new products. Product ing, anti-corruption, anti-discrimination and environmental care – life cycles continue to shorten, putting increased focus on the sucthat describe in more detail how to address the code’s minimum cess of the Group’s product development. standards. Our Code of Conduct is reviewed annually and was updated in 2012 to reflect internal and external changes. It is publicly available Reliance on suppliers on www.volvogroup.com/responsibility. The Volvo Group purchases raw materials, parts and components During 2013, we continued with the rollout of the Group-wide from numerous external suppliers. A significant part of the Group’s training program that accompanied the updated code. The training requirements for raw materials and supplies is fulfilled by sinis available in twelve languages as an e-learning course and a workgle-source suppliers. The effects of delivery interruptions vary shop with open discussions. We have also adapted training for spedepending on the item or component. Certain items and components cific target groups, such as buyers. Since the launch of the updated are stand­­ard throughout the industry, whereas others are internally Code of Conduct in November 2012, 23,513 white-collar employdeveloped and require unique tools that are time-­ consuming to ees (out of around 50,000) have participated in the web-based replace. training. This is the third round of Group-wide training on the Code The Volvo Group’s costs for raw materials and components can of Conduct since 2006. vary significantly over a business cycle. Cost variations may be Compliance with our Code of Conduct is monitored through mancaused by changes in world market prices for raw materials or by an agement systems, audits, assessments and the annual employee inability of our suppliers to deliver. survey. Complaints and legal actions Whistleblower procedure The Volvo Group could be the target of complaints and legal actions All employees are expected and encouraged to report suspected initiated by customers, employees and other third parties alleging violations to our Code of Conduct to their superiors. If reporting to health, environmental, safety or business related issues, or failure to the superiors is not feasible or possible, the whistleblower procecomply with applicable legislation and regulations. Information dure is available, which gives employees recourse to the Head of about legal proceedings involving entities within the Volvo Group Corporate Audit. The Volvo Group does not tolerate retaliation are found in note 24 Contingent Liabilities of the Annual Report 2013. against a person for making complaints of suspected improper Even if such disputes are resolved successfully, without having behavior in good faith. All incidents are investigated and appropriate adverse financial consequences, they could negatively impact the action taken. Group’s reputation and take up resources that could be used for In total, 56 cases were reported in 2013 under the Whistleblower other purposes. procedure. Twenty-seven of these were dismissed following investigation, as there were no grounds for the allegation. Risk related to human capital In 19 cases we found grounds for the allegations and proceeded A decisive factor for the realization of the Volvo Group’s vision is our with appropriate actions. Ten of these cases are still under investiemployees and their knowledge and competence. Future developgation. All cases were investigated and reported to the Audit Comment de­­pends on the company’s ability to maintain its position as an mittee of the AB Volvo Board of Directors. attractive employer. To this end, the Volvo Group strives for a work 63 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 EARNING TRUST MANAGING OUR BUSINESS RISKS AND IMPACTS Company culture are higher. The Volvo Group does not tolerate corruption in any part of its business. Our work on anti-corruption is guided by the followThe Volvo Group aims to build a responsible culture and has develing principles, contained in our Code of Conduct: oped tools covering conduct, operational processes and production • The Volvo Group shall not participate in or endorse any corrupt systems to set the standard of excellence and guide people across the practices Group on responsible social, business and environmental behavior. • Representatives of the Volvo Group shall not offer customers, potential customers, suppliers, consultants, governments, agenTHE VOLVO WAY cies of governments, or any representative of such entities, any The Volvo Way is a fundamental Volvo Group policy that defines our rewards or benefits in violation of applicable laws or established company culture. The values and principles it contains guide everybusiness practices stricter than applicable laws, in order to obtain one’s daily efforts to effectively realize the Group’s business strateor retain business or to gain any other improper advantage gies. Its purpose is to set a standard of excellence and build high • The Volvo Group employees shall not accept payments, gifts or commitment and performance across our organization. The Volvo other kinds of reimbursement from a third party that could affect Way addresses business critical issues, including value creation, or appear to affect their objectivity in their business decisions. customer focus, and the way we work. The core principle is about enabling people. Responsibility for compliance with our anti-corruption policy rests Every manager within the Volvo Group is responsible for sharing with line management. the Volvo Way with their team and discussing how our values and principles affect their daily work. Policy and program The Volvo Group has an Anti-Corruption Compliance Policy that has OPERATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND VOLVO been adopted by the Group’s Audit Committee. In addition to this PRODUCTION SYSTEM policy, our three-part Anti-Corruption Compliance Program covers Operational Development (OD) and Volvo Production System (VPS) corruption prevention, detection and response. It aims to prevent are complementary and reinforce each other as a complete continthe Volvo Group or any of its business partners from participating in uous improvement system. Operational Development (OD) is a syscorrupt activities. tem with clear steps that is used by management and employees to The program is continuously developed to detect and mitigate formulate a future position, set objectives, deploy targets and define emerging corruption risks faced by our business. The program is an action plan. In times of crisis, OD helps teams react quickly and designed to the strictest standards and is aimed at ensuring the can shift the focus and activities of an entire organization. Volvo Volvo Group meets all legal requirements in the countries where we Production System (VPS) is an improvement system based on lean do business. The majority of our sales are made through third-party principles. It was initially used to improve the production flow of the distributors who represent the Group and our brands in the marketassembly line, but is now also used for many business processes place. A major part of our anti-corruption efforts are thus directed throughout the organization, such as product development, busiat ensuring we choose distributors who share our views on business ness services, and at dealerships and logistics. conduct. This is done through anti-corruption due diligence and These combined systems offer tools and methods to make similar measures. improvements in a systematic way. They focus on everyone’s contriAll white-collar employees (approximately 50,000) are expected bution – either as an individual or as a team – to generating improveto participate in an e-learning course related to anti-corruption ment ideas, implementing them and ensuring the contribution to the every three years. The Volvo Group’s anti-corruption e-learning was end customer is measured. updated in 2013 to take account of new legislation and issues. Face-to-face meetings and discussions are important for creatBusiness ethics ing awareness and the Chief Compliance Officer and members of the compliance network conduct onsite training for selected groups For many sectors globally, business ethics was a hot topic during every year. 2013, with various stakeholders demanding greater transparency In 2013, 37,277 employees were trained in anti-corruption via from corporations. As part of our materiality assessment, business e-learning and approximately 500 employees via face-to-face training. ethics emerged as one of the most important issues for our stakeholders and our business. Compliance reporting As a global company operating in many countries at diverse The Volvo Group’s Audit Committee monitors compliance with our stages of development, we are aware that corruption is a higher risk anti-corruption policy. The Chief Compliance Officer is responsible in some markets where we operate. We have robust systems in for overseeing the implementation of the program, leading and parplace to ensure we respond and adapt our business practices and ticipating in training and audits, and leading investigations into activities to address higher-risk areas. alleged non-compliance. The Chief Compliance Officer reports to the Audit Committee ANTI-CORRUPTION three times a year on current incidents and investigations. In addiThe Volvo Group conducts business on a global scale and consetion, annual reports are submitted to the Audit Committee on activquently operates in a number of countries where corruption risks ities in the Anti-Corruption Program. Regular reports are made to 64 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 EARNING TRUST SUSTAINABILITY MANAGING OURREPORT 2013 BUSINESS RISKS AVSNITT AND IMPACTS All white-collar employees, approximately 50,000, must participate in an e-learning course on competition law. All employees working in sales and marketing, and managers within purchasing, research and development and product development must also participate in mandatory face-to-face training. In 2013, 1,855 employees completed the competition law compliance e-learning course and 1,139 employees were trained face to face, in addition to 31,025 and 5,685 trained respectively in 2012. For further information on ongoing investigations by competition Fair competition e-training is mandatory for all white-collar employees. Face-to-face training is mandatory for employees in certain authorities, see Note 24 in the Annual Report 2013. departments, including sales and marketing and purchasing. GOVERNMENTAL SALES Governmental Sales is a relatively new business area for the Volvo Group covering all sales we have in the areas of defense, safety and international collaboration. Customers include the armed forces in Group management. The General Counsel of each division or France, Sweden and the US, police forces, and various UN organibusiness area is responsible for the program activities in their zations. respective area. The segment includes commercial trucks to variants with bulDuring 2013, three investigations into potential corruption were let-proof cabs, as well as construction equipment and buses. It carried out. includes vehicles that have been developed specifically for use by the armed forces, such as armor-plated special vehicles for troop FAIR COMPETITION transport, surveillance and support. Customer procurement is an The Volvo Group’s work to ensure fair competition is guided by the extensive process, with strict legal rules and procedures. For this following principles, contained in the Code of Conduct, which reason, these sales are collected into a separate business area. applies to all employees and members of Boards of Directors: The Volvo Group’s sales of defense material – as defined in the • The Volvo Group shall comply with the laws and regulations of Swedish Military Equipment Ordinance (1992:1303) section A – each country in which it operates and shall compete in a fair manner amounted to 0.55 percent of net sales in 2013, compared to 0.66 and with integrity percent in 2012. • The Volvo Group shall not exchange information or enter into agreements or understandings with competitors, customers or Human rights and labor relations suppliers in a way that improperly influences the market place or the outcome of a bidding process The Volvo Group is a global employer and strives to comply with the • The Volvo Group shall use legitimate methods to gather informaincreasing requirements, guidelines and frameworks set by internation about its competitors. tional organizations including the United Nations, International Labor Organization and OECD. Responsibility for compliance rests with line management. During 2013, we continued to take a more active and global stance towards human rights and labor relations by: Policy and program • strengthening the Group’s labor relations function with the The Volvo Group’s Competition Law Compliance Policy outlines our appointment of new personnel principles of behavior towards competitors, distributors, customers • holding a Volvo Global Dialogue Day between the Executive Manand suppliers and relates to both the Volvo Group’s employees and agement Team and 60 unions and employee representatives the company. All employees in contact with the Group’s competitors from around the world are expected to be familiar with the policy and apply it at all times. • convening a three-day meeting of the Volvo Global Works Council The Group’s Competition Law Compliance Program includes and conducting numerous discussions, including Code of Condetailed guidance, handbooks and related tools aimed at supportduct related issues. ing all employees and preventing the Volvo Group from participating in activities that are contrary to competition law. It aims to provide As a global organization, we need to better understand our different employees with an overall understanding of acceptable behavior, operating countries and to have better measures and analysis. We and to promote free and open competition in the markets where the have therefore begun work on developing a new diligence approach, Group is present. which will be continued in 2014. The Chief Compliance Officer, under the supervision of the General Counsel of AB Volvo, supports the Volvo Group management HUMAN RIGHTS on compliance with competition law. Each division and business The Volvo Group supports the aims of the United Nations Guiding area is responsible for following the program and complying with Principles on Business and Human Rights and its ‘protect, respect competition laws. The General Counsel of each division or business and remedy’ framework, also known as the Ruggie principles. Our area is responsible for counseling on the law and program and for position on human rights is part of our Code of Conduct and is program activities in their respective area. supported by training on: 65 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 EARNING TRUST MANAGING OUR BUSINESS RISKS AND IMPACTS • non-discrimination • non-tolerance of forced labor • non-tolerance of compulsory or child labor • freedom of association • the right to collective bargaining • the right of all employees to a healthy and safe work environment • working hours and compensation. LABOR RELATIONS Volvo Global Dialogue was set up in 2013. It enables employee The Volvo Group respects the right of all employees to join an associrepresentatives from the Volvo Global Works Council to meet Group ation to represent their interests as employees, to organize and to management. bargain collectively or individually. We respect recognized unions and maintain a close relationship with a number that represent employees. An employee’s right to refrain from joining a union is equally respected. Board representation included issues such as collective bargaining over wage increases. There are three employee representatives on the AB Volvo Board of In some cases, in France and Germany, strikes were called to show Directors and two deputies appointed by labor organizations. general labor solidarity, they were not directed against the Volvo Group specifically as an employer. In total, strikes during 2013 Volvo works councils resulted in the loss of approximately 0.08 percent of available workThe Volvo Global Works Council (GWC) was created in 2013 as the ing days and remain on a very low level. All strikes were resolved global version of the Volvo European Works Council (EWC), which through negotiation with trade unions and acceptable compromise. has been running since 1991. The GWC is chaired by Board Director, Mikael Sällström, and includes representatives from the existing Job losses EWC and from wholly-owned Volvo Group companies in countries The automotive industry is cyclical. To remain competitive and profoutside Europe with more than 500 regular employees. itable over the long term, the Volvo Group needs to adapt, reorganize and restructure its operations. In 2013, we made redundancies Volvo Global Dialogue among about 1,200 permanent Volvo Group employees globally in The Volvo Global Dialogue was set up in 2013 and is held once a response to economic conditions and forecasts. year. The forum is led by our President and CEO, Olof Persson, and In accordance with our Code of Conduct and legal requirements, employee representatives from the Volvo Global Works Council we notify employees’ representatives and relevant government meet Group management. The new forum is based on the Volvo authorities of major changes in our operations. European Dialogue, established in 1996, and reflects the expanAs planned, we closed the Volvo Buses plant in Säffle, Sweden, sion and globalization of the Volvo Group. Volvo Global Dialogue during 2013 with the loss of 328 jobs. We worked closely with the does not replace normal escalation or the Whistleblower procetrade unions, local authorities and local businesses on employee dures. consultations and opportunities. At the end of year, 248 had taken It is a forum for information and dialogue, and to discuss our retirement or found new jobs. global observance of the principles on human rights and social jusAs part of the Group’s efficiency program, we have announced tice contained within our Code of Conduct. It is not a forum for any plans for structural reductions in staff and support functions, to be negotiations. implemented mostly in 2014. We will also downsize, relocate and The 2013 Volvo Global Dialogue included the participation of 60 close several manufacturing, distribution and logistics centers trade unions and employee representatives from all around the world. across Europe and North America. Approximately 4,400 mainly white-collar employees and consultants will be affected. Freedom of association and collective bargaining The Volvo Group complies with all legal requirements in the The Volvo Group now reports on collective bargaining agreements respective countries and all cutbacks are subject to trade union in 14 countries, up from seven in 2012. The latest study covered negotiations. countries where the Group has its largest operations – corresponding to 87 percent of all permanent employees. Overall, 75 percent of permanent employees in these 14 countries were covered by collective bargaining agreements and a minimum of 43 percent were members of an independent trade union, where known. During 2013, there were only a few strikes across the Volvo Group globally. The main cause differed from country to country, but 66 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 EARNING TRUST SUSTAINABILITY REPORT MANAGING OUR VALUE 2013RISKS CHAIN AVSNITT AND IMPACTS Managing our value chain risks and impacts What we produce and how we produce it is at the core of the Volvo Group’s sustainability commitment. We look at our entire value chain and manage sustainability issues at every stage of the lifecycle of our products – from product development to recycling. Investments Income for the year SEK 3,802 million Product Purchasing Production Distribution Product in use Re-use development and service Shareholders The Volvo Group has 67 production sites in 18 countries around the WWF’s Climate Savers Program involves multinational compaworld. In 2013, we delivered 200,300 trucks, 8,900 buses, 70,800 nies in the effort to reduce carbon dioxide emissions. Each comunits of construction equipment, 17,500 marine engines and 17,700 pany pledges to reduce its carbon dioxide emissions following a engines for industrial applications. Memorandum of Understanding made with WWF. The results are All wholly-owned production facilities are certified by a thirdreviewed by independent technical experts. The agreed target is party auditor in accordance with the ISO 9001 quality management more ambitious than the company would have set on its own, and system and 94 percent are certified in accordance with the ISO must also signify that the company is leading its sector in the 14001 environmental management sysreduction of greenhouse gas emissions. tem. In 2013, our Macungie plant in the The Volvo Group became the world’s US became the second Volvo Group facWe manage sustainability issues at first automotive industry manufacturer tory to be certified to the international every stage of the lifecycle of our products approved by WWF to participate in the energy standard, ISO 50001 – New River – from product development to recycling” Climate Savers Program in 2010. In Valley, US, was certified in 2012. 2012, Volvo Construction Equipment (Volvo CE) and Volvo Bus Corporation joined the Climate Savers WWF Climate Savers program. SDLG, Volvo Group’s joint-venture company manufacturWWF is one of the world’s largest and most respected environmening construction equipment in China, became the first Chinese tal organizations. Its vision is to stop the degradation of the planet’s company to be approved as a partner of the program. natural environment and build a future in which humans live in harmony with nature. 67 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 EARNING TRUST SUSTAINABILITY REPORT MANAGING OUR VALUE 2013RISKS CHAIN AVSNITT AND IMPACTS Interim results VOLVO GROUP WWF CLIMATE SAVERS PROGRAM GOALS We have now completed five of the program’s six years and independent technical experts verify how the Volvo Group is complying with its commitments annually. Figures for the year ending 2013 will be available in June 2014, but the results for the period 2009-2012 indicate that we are already on or ahead of target in key areas: • CO2 emissions from the Group’s facilities have been reduced by 1 2 0.3 million tons, making them 13 percent lower than 2008 • total lifetime CO2 emissions of the Group’s products have been 12% less CO2 reduced by 29 million tons. 30 M tons less CO2 Product development The Volvo Group has a long history of developing pioneering products and services for the transport and the construction industries. 2009-2014 2009-2014 Its research has resulted in cutting-edge technologies in the areas 1. The objective is to reduce the total amount of carbon dioxide emitof safety, energy efficiency and emission reductions. ted by trucks, construction equipment and buses manufactured by the We have research and development (R&D) facilities close to our Group through 2014 by more than 30 million tons, compared with vehicles manufactured in 2008. main production sites, with approximately 60 percent of people working in R&D located in Sweden. 2. The Volvo Group will also reduce carbon dioxide emissions from its production plants by 0.2 million tons (12 percent) before 2014, compared with 2008. R&D investment In 2013, investments in R&D amounted to SEK 15.1 billion, compared with SEK 14.6 billion in 2012, which corresponds to 5.5 percent of net sales (4.9 percent in 2012). A large part of the Group’s In our arrangement with WWF, the Volvo Group is committed to investments were related to reducing exhaust emissions, lowering reducing: fuel consumption and developing electromobility solutions. • the total amount of carbon dioxide (CO2) emitted by the Group’s trucks, construction equipment and buses by more than 30 milGrants and tax credits lion tons by 2014, compared with vehicles manufactured in 2008 In 2013, government grants of SEK 400 M (SEK 492 M in 2012) were • CO2 emissions from our production plants by 0.2 million tons received, and SEK 467 M (SEK 342 M) was recognized in the income (12 percent) before 2014, compared with 2008. statement. The amount includes tax credits of SEK 245 M (SEK 165 M) related to product development, which were primarily received in Our arrangement also states that: France and in the United States. Other grants were mainly received • the Volvo Group will develop a new truck prototype with 20 perfrom Swedish, Chinese and US governmental organizations and from cent lower fuel consumption than a corresponding truck manuthe European Commission. factured in 2008 and offer commercial trucks that operate on renewable gas before 2014 PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT PROCESS • Volvo Construction Equipment will prepare a new prototype with conThere are six stages to the Volvo Group product development cycle. siderably improved fuel efficiency compared with existing models Each stage has different environmental, quality and safety objec• Volvo Buses will expand the number of field tests with plug-in tives that need to be met before proceeding to the next stage. hybrid buses. Research and development costs THREE areas of focus Research and development costs, Energy-efficient SEK bn drivelines Research and development costs, % of Industrial Operations' net sales Electromobility 09 10 11 12 13 Alternative fuels 13.2 13.0 13.3 14.6 6.3 5.0 4.4 5.0 15.1 5.7 68 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 EARNING TRUST MANAGING OUR VALUE CHAIN RISKS AND IMPACTS Developing a completely new vehicle can take up to four years, impact of our products during their use, which means a higher focus sometimes longer if a new powertrain is included. Customers are on fuel efficiency. actively involved in the project providing input through surveys, clinAs part of our assessments, the Volvo Group uses Environmental ics and field tests. For each new vehicle developed, the Volvo Group Load Unit (ELU) weighting methodology, developed by our acakeeps track of all project experience in a white book, with the learndemic partner, Chalmers University. Based on this, the LCA for a ings serving as a basis for future projects. Euro 6 truck includes an increased environmental impact at producDuring product development, we take into account driver ergotion and recycling. This is due to the weighting of platinum and palnomics, accessibility of parts for technicians and the ergonomics ladium, which are used in the after-treatment system of Euro 6 for employees working on the product’s assembly line. engines. Platinum and palladium are precious materials whose scarcity LIFE CYCLE ASSESSMENT constitutes a high environmental impact, which becomes a high The Volvo Group was one of the first companies in the automotive material ELU in producing the truck. We also assume a high recyindustry to use life cycle assessment (LCA) during the 1990s to cling rate, once it is sold, even though it may not be possible to map a product’s environmental impacts as part of the product control the end of life of a truck. This is an industry-wide resource development decision process. The basic principle is that each of issue, which we are monitoring. the Group’s new products will have less environmental impact than the product it replaces. EMISSIONS AND FUEL CONSUMPTION Our LCAs are based on adding up all impacts from the use of raw Over the past two decades, a significant part of the Volvo Group’s materials, energy and water consumption and investment has been allocated to product the creation of waste, as well as emissions to development to ensure compliance with regair and water. Over the long lifetime of a truck, The basic principle is that each ulated emissions of nitrogen oxides (NOX) fuel is consumed, making it the most impornew product should have less enviand particulate matter (PM). Regulations tant impact, both on raw materials and emisronmental impact than the product have been imposed for on and off-road vehisions. Our LCAs clearly demonstrate that the it replaces” cles and engines by authorities around the vast majority of a product’s environmental world aiming to reduce their negative impact impact results from its use – more than 90 percent. The Volvo on local air quality and health. They affect the Volvo Group’s trucks, Group’s efforts therefore focus on reducing the environmental buses, machines and Volvo Penta products. We have made vast progress on NOX and PM emissions across all our product ranges. For example, since the early 1990s, emissions Environmental impact of a Renault truck of NOX and PM from a Volvo truck have been cut by more than 95 Model: T High tractor 4x2 Euro 6, % percent. The latest regulation for trucks and buses is Euro 6, which came Use phase, 94% into effect on 1 January 2013 for new type approvals and 1 January 2014 for all registration of new vehicles in the EU. The most recent regulation in the US – EPA 2010 – became effective in 2010. Volvo Construction Equipment and Volvo Penta were among the first to certify engines compliant with the Tier 4 final emissions regulation in the US and Stage IV in Europe. Nitrogen oxide emissions 49 59 28 7 k n s e are reduced by 80 percent in these products compared with the tru c tio ion nc e mp i ss t e na previous emissions regulations. Volvo Penta has also finalized the h u gt on s Em in cin lc Ma introduction of engines compliant with the most stringent marine u e od Fu Pr emissions regulation, US EPA Tier 3. -43 Having reached these ultra-low levels of NOX and PM emissions, ng cli regulation and product development in this area is forecast to flatten. cy Re Product development cycle 1 2 3 4 5 6 Industrialization Detailed Final Pre-study Concept study and commer­ Follow-up ­development ­development cialization 1. Definition of the project’s scope 4. Development phase including building, verifying and validating the product solution 2. Choice of concept 5. Industrialization and commercialization phase to enable production 3. Technical feasibility study 6. Launch of the product and aftermarket products and services 69 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 EARNING TRUST SUSTAINABILITY REPORT MANAGING OUR VALUE 2013RISKS CHAIN AVSNITT AND IMPACTS New trends in legislation are increasingly focusing on CO2 emissions The Group is also monitoring and participating in the EU debate and fuel consumption. The Volvo Group is aligning its product develregarding greenhouse gas and fuel consumption certification of opment investment to take account of the following regulations. heavy-duty vehicles. There is currently no legislation for buses and Fuel consumption has already been regulated in China, and trucks, but there are targets for the transport sector as a whole. The Japan will enforce fines for non-compliance with its 2006 regulaEU targets a 20 percent reduction in greenhouse gases by 2030, tion from 2015. Taiwan and South Korea are also considering regbased on 2008 levels, and at least 60 percent by 2050, from a ulations. The US will introduce a greenhouse gas emissions regula1990 baseline. In urban transport, the target is to achieve essention in 2014 – for which Volvo and Mack trucks were among the first tially carbon-neutral city logistics in major urban centers by 2030. to be certified – and a corresponding fuel consumption regulation in The European Union has stated that new technologies for vehi2016. cles are necessary to reduce transport-related emissions. These Fuel consumption of a Volvo truck Significantly reduced emissions 50 120 Carbon monoxide (CO) Nitrogen oxides (NO X) 45 100 Solvents (VOCs) 40 80 Benzene Liter / 100 km 40% Particulate matter (PM) 35 60 from diesel 30 40 Carbon dioxide (CO2 ) Sulphur dioxide (SO2) 25 15% 20 20 0 1975 1980 1985 1990 1995 2000 2005 2010 2015 2020 2025 1995 2000 2005 2010 2015 2020 Within the EU all road transport emissions except for CO2 are expected to Emissions regulations for trucks and buses decrease in the future. This is the result of stringent emissions regulations. PM, g/kWh NO X, g/kWh Source: ACEA – European Automobile Manufacturer’s Association. 0,16 8 0,14 Europe USA 7 Reduced PM and NOX 0,12 6 0,10 5 0,08 4 0,06 3 0,04 2 0,02 1 0 0 1996 2002 2006 2009 2014 2002 2007 2010 Euro 2 Euro 3 Euro 4 Euro 5 Euro 6 EPA 2002 EPA 2007 EPA 2010 40 years ago Today Particulate matter, g/kWh Nitrogen oxides, g/kWh 40 years ago one truck emitted as much particulate matter and nitrogen oxides as 33 trucks today. Emissions regulations for non-road mobile machinery1 PM, g/kWh NO X, g/kWh FACTS ABOUT EURO 6 0,55 11 0,50 Europe USA 10 • One fifth the nitrogen oxide emissions of a Euro 5 engine 0,45 9 • Half the particulate emissions of a Euro 5 engine 0,40 8 • Emissions legislation encompasses nitrogen oxides (NOX), 0,35 * 7 particulates (mass), particulates (quantity), ammonia (NH3), 0,30 6 carbon monoxide (CO) and hydrocarbons (HC) 0,25 5 * * • Mandatory measurement and limit of exhaust emissions in real 0,20 4 driving conditions. 0,15 3 0,10 2 0,05 1 0 0 1999 2002 2006 2011 2014 1996 2001 2006 2011 2014 Stage I Stage II Stage Stage Stage IV Tier 1 Tier 2 Tier 3 Tier 4 Tier 4 interim final IIIA IIIB Particulate matter, g/kWh Nitrogen oxides, g/kWh 1 These regulations affect both Volvo Penta’s industrial variable speed engines and Volvo Construction Equipment’s products. *Including also hydrocarbons (g/kWh) 70 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 EARNING TRUST MANAGING OUR VALUE CHAIN RISKS AND IMPACTS include engines, materials and design, traffic management feaeducation or training, communication services and corporate mertures, and cleaner energy use through new fuels and drivelines. chandise. These are all prioritized research areas within the Volvo Group with In 2013, more than 36,000 suppliers delivered products and sersignificant resources dedicated to them. vices to the Volvo Group, of which approximately 6,900 supplied By 2025, we aim to further reduce fuel consumption by 15 perautomotive products. cent, from a 2010 baseline. As a general rule, we stipulate that sales to the Volvo Group should account for less than 30 percent of a supplier’s turnover. NOISE This approach decreases a supplier’s exposure when delivering to a Noise is a growing problem in urban areas. The European Union cyclical industry such as ours. estimates that some 20 percent of its population suffers from noise The Volvo Group has long-term partnerships with suppliers and levels that scientists and health experts consider unacceptable. shares common tools. Generally we source close to our production There are different regulations around the world for noise from the sites to ensure efficient flow of supplies. This means that most suptransport sector. The current noise emissions limit for heavy trucks pliers are located in Europe and North America. At the same time, in most parts of the world including the EU, India and South Korea the Group’s expansion in Asia has led to an increased number of is 80 decibels (dB). new suppliers located in Asia. The Volvo Group is continuously working to measure noise and vibration characteristics in engine and driveline components. Sound RESPONSIBLE SOURCING engineers use both insulation and alternative design solutions to Responsible supply chain management enables the Volvo Group to make everything from engines and transmissions to axles, fans and meet growing customer expectations, and reduce the risk of inciair intakes quieter. dents that may interrupt supply flow or damage the Group’s reputaAt speeds above 50 km/h, noise created from the contact tion. The Volvo Group’s responsible sourcing processes aim to manbetween tire and road is higher than noise emissions from the driveage risk, promote responsible behavior and build long-term line. This means that effective control of road traffic noise requires relationships with suppliers to improve social, environmental and a holistic approach with coordinated efforts between vehicle and business ethics across our supply chain. tire manufacturers, road builders and infrastructure architects. Strategy and implementation Purchasing Our long-term CSR supply chain strategy was developed in March 2012, and updated in February 2013. We publish an annual plan In 2013, the Volvo Group purchased goods and services worth SEK covering supplier processes and systems, communication, meas192 billion. Since 1996, the Group has consistently increased supurement and targets, evaluation process, and benchmarking. plier requirements on environmental issues, business ethics, human A new Volvo Group CSR Supply Chain Steering Group was rights and social issues. formed in September 2013, with members of management teams from the Group’s different purchasing organizations and the chair of SUPPLIER BASE the Group’s CSR and Sustainability Committee. The steering group The Volvo Group’s suppliers can be divided into two groups: oversees the Volvo Group CSR Supply Chain Network, which • suppliers of automotive products includes representatives from all the Group’s purchasing organizations. • suppliers of indirect products and services. Minerals extraction Automotive products are materials and components used in the In 2013, a Swedwatch report on human rights issues in the platinum production of the Group’s trucks, buses, construction equipment extraction industry in South Africa highlighted the issue of platinum and engines. Indirect products and services include any products or extraction. The report aimed to investigate stakeholder responsibilservices that are not used in automotive products. This encomities based on the principles in the UN report on Human Rights. The passes everything from cleaning services to office furniture, travel, Volvo Group’s responsibility as one part in the value chain was Noise emission requirements for heavy-duty vehicles Reduced exhaust emissions 95% dB (A) 88 China USA (different test method) Nitrogen 86 Decrease Australia (>320 kW: +3dB) oxides and Brazil particle 84 matter Japan (different test method) 82 India Korea 80 EU/ECE 78 1990s Today 2000 2002 2004 2006 2008 2010 2012 2013 2014 71 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 EARNING TRUST SUSTAINABILITY REPORT MANAGING OUR VALUE 2013RISKS CHAIN AVSNITT AND IMPACTS the Volvo Group. They are also responsible for deploying the same requirements on their own suppliers. Environmentally, the Volvo Group requires most suppliers to be certified by a third-party environmental management system – such as ISO 14001 – and to be committed to our objectives of continuous improvement. More than 94 percent of Volvo Group spending on automotive products comes from suppliers that are certified in accordance with ISO 14001 or its equivalent. In the EU, suppliers must also comply with the Volvo Group’s posiCSR purchasing roadshows were launched in 2013 to train purchasers on business ethics, social and environmental issues affecting tion on chemicals and harmful substances, in accordance with our supply chain. REACH legislation. Full information for suppliers is available on the Volvo Supplier Portal website www.volvogroup.com/suppliers. Risk evaluation investigated. The report concluded that we have limited opportunity Approximately 13 percent of our automotive products suppliers are to affect the human rights situation in and around mining operalocated in countries assessed as ‘high risk’. Risk assessments are tions, but more could be done in the form of based on analyses conducted by internacollaboration with various networks and tionally recognized institutions and include trade organizations to try to influence the Country risk assessments include factors such as human rights, labor standsituation. The Volvo Group has initiated factors such as human rights, labor ards and perceived corruption. activities based on these recommendations. For indirect products and services, the standards and perceived corruption” Volvo Group also takes into account the risk CSR purchasing roadshow level of each product or service segment. For instance, merchanIn 2013, the Volvo Group launched a brand new series of global dise, personal safety equipment, construction work and waste manroadshows to train purchasers on CSR issues. Attendees were agement are associated with high risks. trained mostly on business ethics and social issues, but also some environmental issues affecting our supply chain. We conducted Assessments training in Ageo in Japan, Shanghai in China, Bangalore in India, Since 2009, most new suppliers to our company have to be Eskilstuna in Sweden, and in Greensboro, Hagerstown and Shipapproved by the Group’s Global Sourcing Committee. Potential suppensburg in the US – covering 60 percent of the total number of pliers of automotive products are evaluated by a quality engineer, purchasers. using the Group’s Supplier Evaluation Model. As well as buyers, we also invited selected quality people and manAs the Volvo Group’s purchases should not account for more than agers. Additional training was given for those preparing to become 30 percent of any supplier’s total business, many of our suppliers key contacts for their site and deliver training to other employees. Its also supply our competitors, who demand equally high standards. In rollout will continue and be completed in 2014. line with general automotive industry practice, the Volvo Group uses a self-assessment approach to evaluate supplier performance and European Automotive Working Group compliance with the Group’s ethical requirements. The Volvo Group became one of the nine founding members of the The supplier assessment poses approximately 40 questions on European Automotive Working Group on Supply Chain Sustainabilissues relating to: ity, established in 2013 and overseen by the European Automobile • social performance Manufacturers’ Association (ACEA). • work environment and conditions It is of great importance to the members of this Working Group • workforce rights, including freedom of association and that the individuals making vehicles, components, or providing sernon-discrimination vices, are afforded decent working conditions and are treated with • child and forced labor dignity and respect, while minimizing the environmental impact of • environmental care the industry. The group believes in the benefits of a common • business ethics. approach in this regard, such as training and common messages, while maintaining the management of their independent supply The assessment includes minimum standards of performance and chains and complying strictly with competition law. a requirement for an action plan where a supplier does not achieve The group’s goal is to develop common tools to improve sustainthe critical aspects. In addition to these assessments, we conduct ability in the supply chain. regular site visits during product development, which gives us more direct control over our supply chain. Requirements on suppliers The Volvo Group’s supplier requirements are based on the princiAutomotive product suppliers ples contained in the Group’s Code of Conduct. All suppliers are Some 72 percent of the Volvo Group purchasing spend derives from requested to appoint a senior executive as their contact person for suppliers that completed the self-assessment during 2010–2013. 72 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 EARNING TRUST MANAGING OUR VALUE CHAIN RISKS AND IMPACTS Eighty-seven percent of suppliers that completed the assessment ahead of target, with CO2 emissions reduced by 0.3 million tons passed it. between 2009 and 2012 – 13 percent lower than in 2008. The main reason for not passing was a lack of adequate systems The Volvo Group has production sites in 18 countries. Regardless to enforce the requirements down the chain to their sub-suppliers. of size and location, every production unit must comply with the The rest failed due to a lack of other processes to comply with Group’s minimum requirements for environmental performance and requirements. have an improvement program. The requirements include monitoring Sixty-eight percent of suppliers from countries considered to be of energy consumption, waste levels and emissions to air and water, ‘high risk’ from a CSR perspective completed the self-assessment. as well as specifying maximum emission levels to air and water. Of these suppliers, 87 percent were approved. In terms of spend, In accordance with the Volvo Group’s global environmental stand62 percent of the goods bought came from suppliers that passed in ard for production plants, each production facility must: the self-assessment. • define environmental goals and follow up on them • implement an environmental management system, assessing the Indirect products and services suppliers environmental impact of new projects and examining ways of Owing to the large number of suppliers in this category – more than reducing such impact 30,000 – the focus is on suppliers in high and medium-risk coun• apply the Group’s environmental requirements to suppliers and tries, as well as on high-risk segments, according to the Volvo contractors. Group’s risk model. In 2013, the Group sent out approximately 600 requests to fill in Environmental risk management the self-assessment form to prioritized suppliers, suppliers in high The consideration of environmental risk represents a component of risk countries or those operating in high-risk segments. All of these the Volvo Group’s risk process. When assessing potential acquisisuppliers completed the assessment and 58 percent passed. tions of companies and real estate, audits consider environmental In 2014, the Volvo Group will continue with supplier self-assessand social factors in addition to financial, legal and other aspects. ments in identified high and medium-risk countries and work with The information provides the basis for action plans, if required. non-compliant suppliers to ensure our requirements are met. Environmental audits Production To ensure adherence to our environmental policy, the Volvo Group has conducted internal environmental audits since 1989. The audits The Volvo Group has 67 production sites in 18 countries around the monitor the environmental activities and examine the data. Priority world. In 2013, the Group delivered 200,300 trucks, 8,900 buses, is given to auditing newly-acquired operations, or operations where 70,800 units of construction equipment, 17,500 marine engines and improvements in environmental performance has ceased. 17,700 engines for industrial applications. In addition to our production sites, our industrial operations worldwide include several prodData collection uct development centers, and a large number of parts distribution The Volvo Group had 67 majority-owned production plants around centers and logistics centers. the world at the end of 2013. We will disclose detailed environmenEnvironmental care is one of our corporate core values. Ever tal data on these plants in a separate environmental data report, since the United Nations Conference on the Human Environment available from May on www.volvogroup.com/responsibility. was held in Stockholm, Sweden, in 1972, we have had an environThe Group has reported detailed environmental data since 1991 mental position on mobility and the environment and have continuand has continually developed indicators and tools since that time. ously conducted management and employee training on environOur key performance indicators cover the following areas: mental responsibility. Today, environmental issues are an integral • use of chemicals part of the Volvo Group’s vision, business strategy and daily work. • energy consumption We have many strategies in place to manage and mitigate the • water consumption environmental impacts of our production. This includes greenhouse • emissions to air and water gas emissions, air and noise pollution, energy and water usage, • waste chemicals and harmful substances, and waste. • noise. ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT Our energy data includes data from our worldwide development The Volvo Group was one of the first companies in the world to have centers, larger parts distribution centers and logistics centers. In an environmental management system certified to ISO 14001. total 125 sites report energy data. Today, 94 percent of our major production facilities – all but four – are certified to ISO 14001. Remediation programs As part of our commitment under the WWF Climate Savers ProAudits may reveal a need for remedial work at contaminated propgram, the Volvo Group has pledged to reduce carbon dioxide (CO2) erties used for former or current operations. Through an ongoing emissions from our production plants by 0.2 million tons (12 percent) program of remedial measures, contamination discovered in refurby 2014, compared with 2008. Results indicate that we are already bishment or rebuilding projects is dealt with immediately. Installa73 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 EARNING TRUST SUSTAINABILITY REPORT MANAGING OUR VALUE 2013RISKS CHAIN AVSNITT AND IMPACTS The amount of sulphur dioxide and nitrogen oxide emissions is largely affected by the use of energy for heating, so the Group requires that no oil or coal shall be used for heating purposes. Emissions of organic solvents stem mainly from painting and surface treatment processes. This is a high priority issue that is subject to regulatory control in most countries. Our strategy to decrease emissions of sulphur dioxide and nitrogen oxides involves using low-sulphur fuels and/or purification equipment. The availability of low-sulphur fuels determines emisCarbon-neutral sites within the Volvo Group now number four in total. Our Braås factory is the world’s first construction equipment prosions. Nitrogen oxides are very much dependent on the use of duction facility powered entirely by renewable energy. energy and the amount of product testing. SO2 and NOX emissions Emissions of SO2 decreased from 26 tons in 2012 to approximately 23.4 tons in 2013. Nitrogen oxides decreased from 413 tons to 347 tions posing the greatest risk of causing soil and groundwater contons. tamination – such as underground storage tanks and underground piping systems – have been targeted for rebuilding work under an Solvent emissions internal directive focusing on such installations. Solvent emissions totaled 2,221 tons in 2013, representing a slight decrease of 137 tons. GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS The Volvo Group’s long-term ambition is to make all its production ENERGY facilities carbon neutral, which means only having facilities using The Volvo Group’s environmental requirements for our plants energy produced from renewable sources – for example, solar, include a mapping of all energy-consuming processes, implementahydro, wind and biomass. tion of efficiency utilization on a continuous basis, and a focus on In 2013, carbon emissions from the Volvo Group’s production facilienergy usage in new projects. ties increased from 234,800 tons to 279,900 tons. This is partly due to a plant in China which is still using fossil energy. Energy consumption Most of the recorded energy usage is for heating and production Carbon-neutral production processes, with approximately 20 percent used at the engine and Volvo Trucks’ plant in Ghent, Belgium, became the automotive indusdriveline production facilities. try’s first carbon-neutral production facility in 2007. Between 2004 and 2013, the Volvo Group has The plant invested in wind power and a biofuel plant decreased energy consumption in its own proto produce electricity and heat, resulting in an annual Our long-term ambition duction processes by 29 percent and carbon reduction in CO2 emissions of 10,000 tons. is to make all our production dioxide emissions by 93 percent per produced Since May 2011, Volvo Penta’s engine plant in facilities carbon neutral” unit. Vara, Sweden, has been powered without using The Volvo Group’s energy consumption was any fossil fuel and is considered to be carbon neutral. Volvo Trucks’ 2,536 GWh in 2013, compared with 2,518 GWh in 2012. Our energy plant in Tuve, Sweden, also became carbon neutral in 2011. efficiency index – comparing energy consumption with net sales – was 9.6 MWh/SEK M, compared with 8.6 MWh/SEK M in 2012. Carbon-neutral Braås facility The 2013 efficiency index has risen compared to previous years, The Volvo Construction Equipment’s factory in Braås, Sweden, promainly due to lower net sales in 2013. duces articulated haulers. It was certified carbon neutral at the end of December 2013, becoming the first construction equipment proEnergy efficiency duction facility in the world to be powered entirely by biomass and Reducing energy usage per manufactured unit is a priority target, hydropower. as it means both reduced costs and lower emissions. Energy effiThis was the culmination of collaborative efforts that began back ciency initiatives – such as controlled lighting and ventilation, turnin 1999 and involved the local energy supplier, Växjö Energi AB, ing off equipment from idle running and replacing old machinery – Volvo Group employees and the local community. Carbon neutrality have contributed to the result. has been achieved by switching heating and burners from gas to Between 2010 and 2013, measured in MWh per MSEK, total renewable electricity supplies and substituting diesel forklifts with energy use at the Volvo Group level has increased. electromobility models. Individual plants have been able to considerably reduce energy use during times of no production, known as idling losses. For OTHER EMISSIONS example, the Volvo Penta factory in Vara, Sweden, has reduced its In addition to carbon dioxide emissions, the Volvo Group manages level of energy consumption at nights and weekends by approxiother emissions of pollutants – sulphur dioxide (SO2), nitrogen oxides mately 70 percent since 2008, by carefully tracking and shutting (NOX) and solvents – to the air. down all unnecessary energy-consuming equipment. 74 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 EARNING TRUST MANAGING OUR VALUE CHAIN RISKS AND IMPACTS At our Renault Trucks’ cab paintshop in Blainville, France, a cross-functional team set up in 2011 has successfully mapped energy consumption and executed a plan to make significant energy and cost savings. Between 2011 and 2013, the project has saved EUR 320,000, equating to an average annual reduction of 4,513 MWh of energy and a 1,170 tons reduction in CO2 emissions. Positive progress in the US In 2013, the Volvo Group joined the US Department of Energy’s BetMacungie improved its energy efficiency by 42%, earning it a platiter Plants program. We have committed to reducing energy usage num rating – the highest Superior Energy Performance rating available per unit built by 25 percent over a 10 year period, compared to 2009. in the US. All six of our manufacturing and both our remanufacturing sites in the US are participating. As part of the program, we are partnering with the US Department of Energy to establish energy performance baselines, in line with their guidance and consistent with ISO 50001. ISO 50001 is the leading international certification program for work to streamline the internal processes for REACH compliance driving continuous improvements in energy efficiency. In early 2012, and adapt existing tools to reflect the content of REACH. the Volvo Trucks’ New River Valley (NRV) plant in Virginia became the first US facility to be certified to ISO 50001 standards under a Harmful substances pilot program supported by the US Department of Energy. The plant In addition to the Volvo Group’s basic requirements on our black and improved its energy performance by 25.8 percent over three years grey lists of chemicals, we are also required to comply with regulawhile maintaining daily truck production levels. tions covering the automotive industry. The Mack Trucks’ Macungie plant in Pennsylvania, US, gained ISO In 2009, we adopted the Global Automotive Declarable Substance 50001 certification in 2013. Over the past 10 years, the Macungie List (GADSL), which was devised between global automotive manuplant has improved its energy performance by 41.9 percent. facturers and subcontractors. The GADSL list includes substances Both NRV and Macungie are certified to the Superior Energy designated as prohibited and/or declarable within the industry. Performance (SEP) – the most stringent US energy specification. SEP certification requires energy improvements of at least 15 perSubstrack cent. Due to improvements in excess of this, both Macungie and NRV Substances present in parts and components are controlled have been awarded SEP’s platinum level – the highest available. through a system called Substrack, under which Volvo Group suppliers can report the material composition through the International CHEMICALS AND HARMFUL SUBSTANCES Material Data System (IMDS). Using the Substrack system, the To restrict the use of chemicals and harmful substances, the Volvo Volvo Group can secure compliance with global material and chemGroup closely monitors all parts and components used in the vehiical regulations. For instance, the EU REACH regulation includes cles produced. special control measures for substances in articles. Chemicals WASTE The Group’s global environmental standard for production plants The Volvo Group’s minimum requirements on production plants requires processes for health and environmental assessment of all include: chemicals, paying attention to our ‘black list’ and ‘grey list’. • sorting and quantifying all waste at source • implementing measures to reduce the quantity of waste, increase Black and grey lists reuse, material recycling and energy recovery Since 1996, to restrict the use of chemicals, the Volvo Group has • reducing the quantity of waste consigned to landfill. maintained a ‘black list’ of prohibited chemicals and a ‘grey list’ of products whose use must be limited. The lists are revised annually In an effort to improve material efficiency, resource usage and and serve as tools for substituting harmful substances from our accounting for waste related to specific raw materials, the Volvo Group production processes. The databases MOTIV and FLECS contain implemented a system for assessing key material usage in 2009. detailed information on more than 6,000 chemical products and Waste is usually classified as either hazardous or non-hazardous, aims to make it easier to choose chemicals. although definitions vary from country to country and change over The Volvo Group has a process in place to fulfill the EU REACH time. Although the Volvo Group’s total amount of waste has (Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemidecreased over time, changes in definitions have resulted in an cals) legislation, and has conducted projects to ensure compliance increase in the amount of hazardous waste in recent years. with it. REACH aims to evaluate and limit the risks of chemicals to The total amount of hazardous waste in 2013 was 28,395 tons, health and to the environment through the implementation of concompared with 32,547 tons in 2012 – a decrease of 13 percent. trol measures, including registration, restrictions, prohibitions and communication requirements. The Volvo Group is continuing its 75 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 EARNING TRUST SUSTAINABILITY REPORT MANAGING OUR VALUE 2013RISKS CHAIN AVSNITT AND IMPACTS TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS The total volume of the Volvo Group Logistics Services in 2012 was 18,526 million ton/km. 2013 data will be available and presented during the second quarter of 2014. We transport the majority of freight to and from the Volvo Group plants by sea and road, and a small proportion by air and rail. Carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions resulting from freight transport and deliveries to customers are more than double the CO2 emissions from our production plants. New River Valley is a 1.6 million square-foot truck assembly plant. It is one of our largest manufacturing facilities in the world and our first Business travel is also an important contributor to our carbon in North America to achieve zero landfill status. emissions. We aim to reduce emissions both from our logistics and business travel. ISO certification All our 33 distribution centers are certified in accordance with ISO Zero landfill 9001 (quality) and ISO 14001 (environment) standards. The Volvo Trucks’ New River Valley (NRV) assembly plant in Dublin, By 2012, 88 percent of the Volvo Group’s major transport suppliVirginia, in the US, is a 1.6 million square-foot truck assembly plant. ers were certified in accordance with ISO 14001, or equivalent. It is one of the Volvo Group’s largest manufacturing facilities in the Social and business ethics requirements are also included in the world, and the company’s first in North America to achieve zero Volvo Group’s supplier specification requirements. landfill status. NRV’s journey began in 2003 by identifying and evaluating all Group logistics emissions solid and liquid waste streams, followed by a new framework to betVolvo Group Logistics Services is responsible for the material logister coordinate recycling efforts and expand reuse, recycling and tics flow from suppliers to our plants, the storage and distribution of composting opportunities. Intensive evaluation of materials flow aftermarket products, and the distribution of new vehicles from our and work with parts and raw materials vendors resulted in the elimplants to dealers. The carbon footprint for 2012 shows CO2 emisination of styrofoam and foam rubber from parts packaging. NRV sions totaling 624,000 tons. The results for 2013 will be calculated also changed its paint process to capture, reconstitute and reuse and available in the second quarter of 2014. solvents typically used to flush paint lines, and utilize paint sludge to Between 2009 and 2012, we reduced overall CO2 emissions help power a cement kiln. Waste reduction efforts also extend to (measured in grams per ton of goods transported one kilometer) NRV’s onsite cafeteria, where all food waste, utensils, cups and from road, rail and sea transportation of goods to and from the containers are compostable. Volvo Group’s plants in Europe by 11 percent. In 2012, we reported an increase of seven percent, which resulted from a change to the WATER scope of our calculations. Since 2010, each plant establishes targets related to water use, which will eventually lead to aggregated targets at a Group level. Road The main issues in relation to water include inefficient water use The Volvo Group requires suppliers of road transportation to comply and industrial wastewater treatment systems. Water consumption with engine class requirements and have their drivers trained in and emissions to water have been measured since 1990. Water is fuel-efficient driving. These requirements are followed up by an also included in the Group’s minimum environmental requirements annual supplier survey. for production. This refers to substances in process water, where process water with organic content must be treated chemically or Data from the 2013 survey showed: by an equivalent method. The standard also requires all plants to • In Europe, one percent of trucks were compliant with Euro 6; 55 peraddress sustainable usage of water resources. cent with Euro 5; 21 percent with Euro 4 and 23 percent with Euro 3. Compared with net sales, water consumption continues to • In North America, 36 percent of trucks were EPA10; 10 percent decrease every year, from 24.9 m3/SEK M in 2012 to 21.9 m3/ EPA07; 16 percent EPA04 and 38 percent EPA98 engine-classified. SEK M in 2013. • In Asia Pacific (China, India, Japan, Korea and Australia), two perEvery one of the Volvo Group’s majority-owned plants has either cent of trucks were Euro 5; eight percent were Euro 4; 48 percent installed its own water treatment facilities or discharges its effluEuro 3 and 42 percent Euro 2. ents to external treatment plants. An increasing number of plants are also installing closed process water systems. Sea A significant portion of the Volvo Group’s goods are transported by NOISE sea. Since 2010, all contracted sea carriers are required to report Noise levels from most of the Volvo Group’s production plants are the environmental impact of each of their vessels. The Volvo Group generally very low. The target is to ensure that the external noise is a member of the Clean Shipping Index – a network of large export level from plant operations, measured at the nearest residential and import companies in Scandinavia, Germany and the Netherproperty, does not exceed 60 dB(A). lands. The Clean Shipping Index aims to enhance environmental There were no reported violations in 2013. 76 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 EARNING TRUST MANAGING OUR VALUE CHAIN RISKS AND IMPACTS development in the maritime industry by providing buyers of sea Anti-greenwashing transport with a tool to evaluate the environmental performance of The Volvo Group has a directive on how to communicate about enviships and shipping companies. ronmentally-enhanced products such as hybrid solutions and vehicles that can operate on renewable fuels. The purpose is to ensure Packaging system that all communication about the environmental performance of the The Volvo Group uses a reusable packaging system to transport Group’s products is accurate, substantiated and does not mislead goods from material suppliers to our plants, and all the way to the customers and other stakeholders. production line. When empty, the packaging can be stacked, taking minimal space when freighted. The system comprises over 100 Environmental product information types of packaging in different materials, such as wood, plastics, For many products, our customers receive an Environmental Prodcardboard and metal. uct Information (EPI) based on the results from its life cycle assessThe Volvo Group has terminals around the world for collecting ment. The purpose is to help customers better understand the enviand cleaning packaging materials, which are reused until they no ronmental impact of the product and help them make more informed longer meet quality standards. All packaging is ultimately scrapped, choices when choosing vehicles. with most parts being recycled into new materials or energy. Environmental impact is a vital aspect in the development of new The Volvo Group’s EPI is divided into three sections: packaging. The Volvo Group uses a Life Cycle Assessment tool to •  ‘ Production’ provides information about energy consumption, compare the environmental impact of different packaging materials. emissions and waste during the production of the products • ‘Use’ presents fuel consumption, emissions and spare parts utiliBusiness travel zation during the use phase of the products In 2011, the Volvo Group initiated a project to reduce carbon emis• ‘End of Life’ deals with the scrapping and recycling of the products. sions from business travel, including flights, hotels, rental cars, trains and virtual meetings. For instance, employees can now see CUSTOMER SATISFACTION the CO2 emissions for proposed flights when booking online. We In the Volvo Group’s 2013 materiality assessment, customer satisalso have agreements with major rental car suppliers to increase faction was ranked as the most important issue for our business their fleet of environmentally-enhanced cars, which we encourage and the second highest stakeholder expectation. A strong dealer employees to rent. network is essential for fulfilling these expectations and providing To further reduce CO2 emissions we developed a Green Meeting our customers with the best availability, service and parts. Signifiguideline. It explains how to arrange a meeting with as less environcant investment in the dealership network has been made over mental impact as possible. Things to consider include locations, recent years. venues, transport, accommodation, food, and technical solutions. Technical solutions – such as teleconferences, video or net conQuality objectives ferences, and web cast presentations – are encouraged between Customer satisfaction is linked to our corporate core value of quality. meetings of individuals and smaller groups. One of our long-term sustainability goals is to be our customers’ closest business partner. Distribution and service Success in the market depends on our ability to always provide our customers with products and services that meet or exceed their The Volvo Group is present in more than 190 markets and sells its expectations. We continuously listen to our customers in order to products through both wholly-owned and independent dealerships. understand their needs, and promptly implement sustainable The Group’s products are sold under different brands, and each improvements in our operations based on these needs. brand focuses on different industries and market segments. Some The success of our business partnerships with customers is based brands are sold globally, while others are marketed in specific on being best at solving the customers’ problems and strengthening regions of the world. their operational performance. To this end, we provide tailored soluThe Volvo Group’s customers are professionals dependent on tions, combinations of products and services that meet their needs. reliable products and 24/7 support if something happens. To support the Group’s customers, an extensive network of dealerships Customer satisfaction surveys and workshops is available along main routes. All companies in the Group measure customer satisfaction as an More and more of our customers – especially fleet owners – want integrated part of the improvement work at the Volvo Group. We information about our CSR and sustainability performance. It increasmeasure customer satisfaction for all our businesses and brands ingly influences their decision to do business with the Volvo Group. and have strategic targets by markets. Customer satisfaction is measured by established surveys. TRANSPARENT COMMUNICATION In line with the Volvo Group Quality Policy, the Volvo Group aims to Clear and honest product, marketing and sales information – espebe the leader in customer satisfaction, delivering pioneering products cially about new technology – is essential for customers to be able and services for the transport and infrastructure industries. Today, in to make an informed choice about products and services. terms of customer satisfaction, we occupy a top three position in all main markets and for all our products. 77 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 EARNING TRUST SUSTAINABILITY REPORT MANAGING OUR VALUE 2013RISKS CHAIN AVSNITT AND IMPACTS The latest competition got under way in September 2012 with over 17,000 participants from 93 countries. Following a series of theory rounds and regional semi-finals, 32 teams of four people from authorized dealerships around the world made it through to the 2012-13 VISTA world final, held in June 2013 in Gothenburg, Sweden. Team Harju from Finland, were announced the winners. Volvo Construction Equipment Masters Volvo Construction Equipment (Volvo CE) also organizes a global 2012–13 VISTA World Championship involved over 17,000 ­part­icipants from 93 countries. 32 teams competed in the final in competition for its aftermarket personnel, called the Volvo CE Gothenburg, Sweden. Masters. Each team consists of a team leader and three technicians – two service technicians and a spare parts technician. Starting summer 2013, each region – Americas, EMEA, China and APAC – organizes qualification rounds, beginning at local dealer level. After advancing through various challenging exercises Proactive service and 24/7 assistance and heats, the winning team goes on to the regional final. Two The Volvo Group’s customers depend on reliable products to deliver teams from each regional final will compete in the Volvo CE Masters productivity within their own businesses. By proactively informing cus2013–2014 in May in Eskilstuna, Sweden. tomers that their vehicle needs to be repaired, we increase uptime, reduce warranty costs and improve customer satisfaction. If something SUSTAINABLE DEALERSHIPS happens on the road – such as a flat tire or a broken windshield – 24/7 All Volvo Group-owned dealers work according to the Group’s envisupport reduces the customer’s downtime ronmental requirements and towards fuland associated costs. fillment of the ISO 14001 standard. This We use new technologies, such as teleWe organize global competitions to means they receive, for example, detailed matics, to provide feedback on the perforencourage and showcase best practice instructions on how used oils and other mance of our products. By using new among our aftermarket personnel” fluids are to be handled. technologies in a proactive way, we are During 2013, we completed a study on able to diagnose early indications of faults and actively contact custhe sustainability performance of our dealerships to help us measure tomers before a fault occurs. progress and implement action plans. Volvo Action Service – the road assistance service for Volvo trucks customers – is available 24 hours a day, seven days a week. Energy efficiency The customer gets support from a case manager who speaks the Since 2008, to evaluate energy saving potential, we have carried customer’s language and supports them until the issue has been out two comprehensive energy mappings for wholly owned Volvo solved. This service can also include financial assistance, trailer Trucks dealers in the UK and Sweden. This involved a detailed study repair, driver repatriation or legal assistance. conducted on site by in-house energy experts, reviewing the heatRenault Trucks 24/7 Assistance service carries out immediate ing and electricity use (lighting, compressed air, office equipment, emergency breakdown repairs for its customers anywhere in ventilation and cooling) for a period of one year. The survey results Europe. Under its GO24 agreement, Renault Trucks undertakes to suggested an average energy saving potential of 30 percent. pay its long distance customers compensation if their vehicle is not In 2012, the Volvo Group established a reporting system to back on the road within 12 hours of a breakdown. gather environmental data from approximately 300 Group-owned trucks dealerships in Europe. The system reports two types of figImproving aftersales ures: the energy consumption in MWh and energy cost in Euro. The The Volvo Group organizes local, regional and global competitions aim is to analyze the data and find ways to reduce energy consumpto encourage and showcase best practice among our aftermarket tion, using the experience of the Group’s production facilities. We personnel. also plan to extend this reporting to dealers outside Europe, and to independent dealers. VISTA Volvo Trucks and Buses aftermarket competition – The VISTA World Renewable energy Championship – is the biggest competition for aftermarket personIn addition to reducing energy consumption, the Volvo Group aims to nel in the world. It is held every two years and has been running for increase the usage of energy from renewable sources in its dealerover 50 years, attracting thousands of participants globally. ship network. Our dealership in Verona, Italy, was the first to install Its objective is to encourage teamwork and build team spirit and photovotaic solar roof panels to generate electricity, since then dealpride. It also serves as a great way for our aftermarket personnel to ers in Switzerland have followed by using wood pellets for heating. In increase their knowledge and quality. Through VISTA, thousands of Slovakia, dealers have used thermal solar panels for heating water. people across the world train themselves to become better at what they do every day. 78 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 EARNING TRUST MANAGING OUR VALUE CHAIN RISKS AND IMPACTS Products in use More than two million trucks and 100,000 buses manufactured by the Volvo Group in the past ten years, operate on roads globally, and more than half a million units of construction equipment are in operation across construction sites worldwide. Developing engines with innovative technologies to reduce fuel consumption is not enough. Driver and operator behavior also has a direct impact on the fuel consumption of vehicles, and plays a key Operator Idol China attracted 164,292 excavator operator contestrole in preventing accidents. ants in 2013 and more than 6,800 people directly participated in 34 city contests nationwide. FUEL CONSUMPTION Typically, the fuel costs for a truck can represent between 25 percent and 35 percent of total haulage firm costs. At the same time, hauliers’ profit margins are often very small, which means that all savings make an important difference. The part played by drivers is vital in Fuelwatch APAC cutting overall fuel consumption. The finals of the Asia Pacific (APAC) Volvo Trucks Fuelwatch competition took place in Brisbane, Australia, at the end of October. The Eco driving final competition among 14 national champions was the culminaThe Volvo Group has launched several eco-driving initiatives around tion of months of challenges across the region, involving a total of the world and offers a variety of training 2,500 truck drivers. programs to optimize the skills of drivers The main purpose of Fuelwatch is to and operators of our products. The aim of Fuel-efficient driving reduces cusencourage maximum fuel efficiency these programs is to improve vehicle tomers’ costs and environmental impact” when operating a truck or a fleet of knowledge and reduce fuel consumption. trucks. It is also a competence developOn average, drivers can save five to 10 percent in fuel consumption ment effort, providing truck drivers with the opportunity to improve after participating in a course on fuel-efficient driving. This reduces safety as well as efficiency skills. customers’ costs and environmental impact, while better route planThe competition has been run in various formats since 2009. The ning can also reduce the risk of accidents. last global event attracted 3,600 participants from 22 countries. Since 2010, we have delivered more than 76,500 days of The next global competition will take place in 2014 under the new eco-driving courses to EMEA customers through Renault Trucks name of The Drivers’ Fuel Challenge. and Volvo Trucks. In Japan, the Volvo Group’s UD Trucks have been running Eco Operator Idol China Driving Seminars since 2007. In total, around 19,000 drivers have Volvo Construction Equipment (Volvo CE) China’s Operator Idol been trained and in 2013, seminars were held in 190 places with competition continues its success. The 2013 contest attracted approximately 3,000 drivers participating. The results are usually 164,292 excavator operator contestants, 6,350 more than last very impressive, with improved accelerator, gearshift operations and year. More than 6,800 people directly participated in 34 city conspeeds resulting in average fuel savings of some 8.7 percent. tests nationwide, and took part in fuel-efficient driving skills training UD Trucks has also built a bus that is specially designed for holding both online and at competition sites. eco-driving seminars. The company plans to increase the total numThe competition’s Ultimate Fuel-saving Driving Challenge – ber of these customized training vehicles to 10 by 2015. including Three-ball Challenge and Fuel-saving War programs – simulated actual operating conditions to test operators’ construcFUEL CHALLENGES tion and fuel-efficiency techniques. The Volvo Group organizes fuel challenges worldwide to stimulate Operator Idol has successfully ignited public attention in China by fuel-efficient driving and reward especially skilled drivers and opercombining fuel-efficiency and skills training with human interest. It ators. These are just two initiatives that took place in 2013. has even spawned a TV spinoff called The Showdown, where viewers watch operators of Volvo excavators show off their operating skills. 79 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 EARNING TRUST SUSTAINABILITY REPORT MANAGING OUR VALUE 2013RISKS CHAIN AVSNITT AND IMPACTS Re-use Recycling of materials and remanufacturing of spare parts is a growing part of the Volvo Group’s activities. It minimizes the need for raw materials and limits the depletion of the earth’s mineral resources. REMANUFACTURING Remanufacturing engines and spare parts is a growing industry Seven remanufacturing centers worldwide handle used compotrend and a growing part of the Group’s activities. In 2013, total nents from the Group’s whole range of products. The Group has more Volvo Group sales of remanufactured components increased by 2 than 50 years’ experience in this area. percent, compared with the previous year and by 25 percent, compared to three years ago. Remanufactured components are offered to Volvo Group customers worldwide. Engines, gearboxes, filters and rear axle transmissions can all be renovated to the same condition as new parts The center provides chinese customers of Volvo Construction and our range continues to increase. Customers benefit from the Equipment, Volvo Trucks, Volvo Buses and Volvo Penta with certisame quality and a full warranty, delivered at a considerably lower fied remanufactured components that meet the same quality standprice. ards as new parts, but at a considerably lower price. Environmentally, remanufacturing minimizes the need for raw This not only shares value with our customers, it also advances materials. It also significantly reduces energy consumption and emisthe practice of remanufacturing in China in general. sions. For example, a remanufactured engine saves up to 80 percent of the energy needed to build a new engine and dramatically cuts the RECYCLING emissions of nitrogen oxides and carbon dioxide. A truck produced by the Volvo Group is largely recyclable, since Giving a second life to used engines and components is the misalmost 85 percent of its weight consists of metal – mostly iron, steel sion of the Volvo Group’s remanufacturing centers. The Group has and aluminum. The additional materials are mainly plastic, rubber more than 50 years’ experience and material from electronics and seven centers worldwide, components. handling used components from Remanufacturing minimizes the need for raw The Volvo Group has manuals the Group’s whole range of ­m aterials and limits the depletion of the earth’s minand other tools to assist disasproducts. The first center eral resources” sembly workers extract the most opened in 1960 in Flen, Swefrom used vehicles. den. Other centers are located The total weight of a truck, in France, Japan, Brazil and the US, with the newest one opening in such as a Volvo FH tractor, is approximately 7,000 kg. Today, Shanghai, China, at the end of 2013. approximately one third (30 percent) of a Volvo Group truck is produced from recycled material. Despite the high recyclability of our China Remanufacturing Center products, virgin material is still needed to ensure quality and solidity. The Volvo Group continues to demonstrate its commitment to the China market by opening its first remanufacturing center in Shanghai. The initial investment in the center is up to RMB100 M over next three to four years. 80 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 EARNING TRUST INDEPENDENT RECOGNITION Independent recognition The Volvo Group is always proud to receive external awards for its practice and performance. Here is a selection of external recognition awarded to the Volvo Group in 2013. Dow Jones Sustainability World Index 2013 “Prime-status” by Oekom The Volvo Group has qualified for inclusion in the Dow Jones SusOekom research assessed the Volvo Group’s performance to be tainability World Index (DJSI World) as well as DJSI Euro Stoxx and “Prime” and therefore qualifies the Group’s tradable bonds and Nordic. DJSI assesses the world’s 3,000 largest companies on the shares to qualify for ecologically and socially-based investment. basis of economic, environmental and social criteria, focusing on The assessment of the social and environmental performance of a long-term shareholder value. company as part of the Corporate Rating is carried out with the aid The DJSI World includes approximately 300 of the highest of over 100 social and environmental criteria, selected specifically ranked companies, one of which is the Volvo Group. The annual for each industry. assessment includes areas such as corporate governance, risk management, climate change management, sourcing and work Folksam environment. The Volvo Group received special recognition for its Folksam, a major Swedish insurance company with four million cusimplementation of environmental policy and management systems. tomers, uses a company’s performance in environmental issues and human rights as criteria for their investments. In the assessment for 2013 they evaluated the Volvo Group as the best company on the NASDAQ OMX Stockholm to handle environmental issues. The Volvo Group has been awarded the top score on environmental management for five consecutive years. We were also announced as being among the top six companies for how we deal with human right issues. STOXX SPP Global Topp 100 For the third consecutive year, the Volvo Group remains a compoThe Storebrand Group’s SPP Global Topp 100 fund is a global equity nent of the STOXX® Global ESG Leaders indices – an innovative fund which invests in the 100 most sustainable companies in the series of environmental, social and governance (ESG) equity indiworld according to the company’s analysis methodology. The Volvo ces. Group is included in this fund. Storebrand is the Nordic region’s leading provider of life insurance and pensions with a longstanding comChina Low Carbon Enterprises mitment to sustainability. The companies in the fund are selected Volvo Construction Equipment China was successfully elected as from the MSCI All Countries Index. The fund is sector neutral and the one of fifteen 2013 Annual China low-carbon model entersome adjustments are made regarding region representation to prises, in recognition of its fuel-efficient innovation strategy and ensure that emerging markets’ companies are also included. achievements in carbon reduction aspects. It was also the only winner from construction equipment industry. 81 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 EARNING TRUST KEY DATA Key data ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE OF VOLVO GROUP PRODUCTION PLANTS, INDUSTRIAL OPERATIONS1 Absolute values related to net sales 2013 20122 2011 2010 2009 2008 20073 2006 2005 2004 2003 Energy consumption (GWh; MWh/ SEK M) 2,536; 9.6 2,518; 8.6 2,471; 8.1 2,315; 9.0 1,888; 9.1 2,530; 8.6 2,426; 9.6 2,612; 10.5 2,683; 11.6 2,695; 13.3 2,607; 14.9 CO2 emissions (1,000 ton; ton/ SEK M) 280; 1.1 235; 0.8 255; 0.8 279; 1.1 213; 1.0 291; 1.0 242; 1.0 282; 11.4 292; 1.3 293; 1.5 298; 1.7 Water consumption (1,000 m3; 5,815; 7,372; 7,970; 7,519; 6,637; 8,205; 7,067; 7,596; 7,419; 8,495; 8,687; m3/SEK M) 21.9 25.2 26.2 29.2 31.8 27.8 27.9 30.6 32.1 42.2 49.1 NOX emissions (ton; kg/SEK M) 347; 1.3 413; 1.4 474; 1.6 719; 2.8 322; 1.5 800; 2.7 542; 2.1 606; 2.4 672; 2.9 645; 3.2 570; 3.3 Solvent emissions (ton; kg/ SEK M) 2,221; 8.4 2,358; 8.1 2,554; 8.4 2,294; 8.9 1,435; 6.9 1,945; 6.6 1,979; 7.8 2,048; 8.3 1,960; 8.5 2,085; 10.3 1,965; 11.2 Sulphur dioxide ­emissions (ton; kg/ SEK M) 23.4; 0.1 26; 0.1 34; 0.1 33; 0.1 38; 0.2 64; 0.2 58; 0.2 69; 0.3 209; 0.9 184; 0.9 200; 1.1 Hazardous waste (ton; 28,395; 32,547; 25,943; 22,730; 17,558; 27,675; 27,120; 26,987; 23,590; 24,675; 21,613; kg/SEK M) 107.0 111.4 85.5 88 84 94 107 108.8 102 122.1 124 Net sales, SEK bn 265.4 292.2 303.6 257.4 208.5 294.9 253.2 248.1 231.2 202.1 174.8 1 Based on data from 67 majority-owned production plants in relation to net sales in industrial operations. 2 Restarted for new accounting rules. 3 Excluding UD Trucks and Ingersoll Rand Road Development. The full Volvo Group Environmental Data Report includes about 40 indicators and will be available on www.volvogroup.com/responsibility from May 2014. ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL PERFORMANCE OF THE VOLVO GROUP 2013 2012 2011 2010 6 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 Net sales (SEK M) 272,622 299,814 310,367 264,749 218,361 303,667 285,405 258,835 240,559 211,076 183,291 Operating income (SEK M) 7,138 18,069 26,899 18,000 (17,013) 15,851 22,231 20,399 18,153 14,679 2,504 Operating margin (%) 2.6 6.0 8.7 6.8 (7.8) 5.2 7.8 7.9 7.5 7.0 1.4 Number of employees4 95,533 96,137 98,162 90,409 90,208 101,380 101,700 83,190 81,860 81,080 75,740 Share of women (%) 17 17 18 16 17 17 17 17 17 16 16 Share of women, presidents and other senior executives (%) 19 20 17 15 19 17 15 15 15 16 14 Employee engagement index (%)5 76 76 76 — — — — — — — — Performance excellence index (%)5 75 74 — — — — — — — — — Leadership effectiveness index (%)5 71 — — — — — — — — — — Employee satisfaction index (%)5 — — — — 85 86 85 84 83 81 77 4 At year-end. As of 2009 regular employees are shown; previously temporary employees were also included. 5 We stopped measuring the employee satisfaction index in 2009 and replaced it with new indices. We introduced the employee engagement index in 2011, the performance excellence index in 2012 and the leadership effectiveness index in 2013. 6 There was no employee survey in 2010. Pages 82-86 ABOUT THIS REPORT The aim of the Volvo Group Sustainability Report 2013 is to present our CSR and sustainability work in a transparent way. It is based on the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3.1 framework for sustainability reporting and our Communication On Progress report to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). CONTENTS Reporting scope and boundary 83 References 85 Dialogue with stakeholders and 83 Disclaimer 85 issues in focus Contact 86 Accounting principles 83 Scope and boundary of the report 84 Data collection and verification 84 Standards 84 83 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT Reporting scope and boundary The Volvo Group’s Sustainability Report 2013 describes how we address economic, environmental and social challenges and opportunities to contribute to sustainable development. Our aim is to present our work in a straightforward, transparent and informative way for a wide audience. This report is structured in accordance with the Volvo Group’s CSR model, business environment and operational context. By conductand sustainability model – visualized as a pyramid – which is based ing interviews with internal and external stakeholders and analyzing on the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact initiaglobal trends and challenges, we have identified the issues of sigtive, other internationally recognized norms of behavior, and on nificant material impact that we need to address, and have reported interviews with internal and external stakeholders. The model is on them. included in the ‘Strategic approach’ section of this report. As a member of the International Integrated Reporting Council Accounting principles (IIRC) pilot program on integrated reporting, the Volvo Group’s Annual Report 2013 has been influenced by the Integrated ReportThe financial statement of the Volvo Group is included in the Annual ing framework currently under development, and includes certain Report 2013, with accounting principles detailed in note 1. In this CSR and sustainability information. The Group’s Sustainability section, we give further guidance on some of the data described in Report 2013 provides greater detail than the Annual Report on our the Annual Report 2013. CSR and sustainability progress. This report is based on the voluntary G3.1 framework provided by Financial data Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). The full GRI Index can be found on The financial data is based on the accounting principles described our web-based Sustainability Report (www.volvogroup.com/ in the Annual Report. sustainabilityreport) and includes references to where the information may be found. Employee data The HR data is based on principles described in the Annual Report. The data on gender diversity originally reported in 2012 did not Dialogue with stakeholders include Volvo Penta executives. and issues in focus Number of employees completing e-learning The Volvo Group is a global company committed to including all our The Volvo Group has an IT-based system for providing and monitoring majority-owned companies in our CSR and sustainability work and employee training. We offer several mandatory Group-wide training having a dialogue with those who are impacted by our operations. programs, including e-learning programs on anti-corruption, Code We have various processes in place to map stakeholders’ expecof Conduct and competition law. The results of this training, pretations and address these issues in our business. sented in this report, are collected from our internal IT system which We believe that our Sustainability Report is an efficient channel reaches approximately 50,000 employees. Employees without for providing information about our practices based on our business access to our IT system have received training from their managers 84 SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY 2013 2013ABOUT REPORT REPORT AVSNITT THIS REPORT in other ways. We have not included these results in the statistics. steam. Consumption is based on meter readings and invoices. Supplier assessment data Emissions of sulphur dioxide and nitrogen oxides We have based our assessment of supplier performance on data These emissions are based on the use of energy and the amount of logged on the VSIB IT-support system (Volvo Supplier Information product testing in test rigs. Consumption is based on meter readBase). The assessment is carried out on a plant level – on the actual ings and invoices. location to which the supplier delivers. The volume performance is calculated on the purchased value of goods used in the products, Hazardous waste unless otherwise stated. National regulations in the countries where we operate are used to The Volvo Group’s risk assessment is based on indices and data divide generated waste into hazardous and non-hazardous. Confrom internationally recognized institutions and is used to identify sumption is based on meter readings and invoices. and prioritize our efforts on suppliers considered to be facing higher risk due to their location. Emissions of solvents (VOCs) The emission of solvents arises mainly from painting and surface Society engagement data treatment processes. Consumption is based on meter readings and In 2013 we developed a tool for systematic reporting of our society invoices. engagement activities, including projects, strategic partnerships, philanthropic donations, volunteering and sponsorships. The tool provides Scope and boundary of the report an aggregation of their value. While this was a Group-wide effort, it was not exhaustive and will need to be further refined in 2014. Unless otherwise stated, the Sustainability Report 2013 encompasses companies fully consolidated in the Volvo Group. Our finanEnvironmental data cial performance and information regarding the Volvo Group’s At the end of 2013, the Volvo Group had 67 majority-owned pro­Corporate Governance is available in the Annual Report 2013 at duction plants around the world included in environmental data www.volvogroup.com/investors. reporting. In addition to our production sites, our industrial operations worldwide include several product development centers, and a Data collection and verification large number of parts distribution centers and logistics centers. The The process for collecting environmental data is audited by a third environmental performance for industrial operation is reported in party and certified in accordance with ISO 14001. Due to the re­orabsolute values related to net sales. The Säffle factory in Sweden ganization of the Volvo Group, some data on an aggregated level for closed mid-2013 – all figures relating to the factory are from 2012. the Group is unavailable. Implementing environmental management systems helps to The Volvo Group Sustainability Report 2013 has not been audited assure the quality of the reported data. Internal monitoring and conby a third party. Although we acknowledge the value of sustainability trol are important elements of this activity. As a means of monitorreport auditing, we have opted to give priority to developing our ing environmental activities, the Group’s environmental auditor also in-house process in an effort to further improve our work. Parts of the carries out environmental audits. In addition, the auditor is respondata in this report are also presented in our Annual Report 2013. sible for the examination of environmental data – as part of the normal plant audits and when reporting environmental data for the Group’s Annual Report. Standards The Volvo Group’s Sustainability Report 2013 adheres to the followEnergy consumption ing internationally recognized voluntary standards and principles: Energy consumption (direct and indirect) is measured on both direct • Global Reporting Initiative G3.1 guidelines and indirect supply of energy (energy produced by parties other • United Nations Global Compact principles for Communication On than the Volvo Group). We include all energy used at a plant, except Progress for the implementation and reporting of the Group’s for internally-recovered energy. Consumption is based on meter sustainability work. readings and invoices. A table with full GRI indexing for this report can be found at Carbon dioxide emissions www.volvogroup.com/sustainabilityreport. The total amount of energy – including energy used for heating and cooling, processes, product testing and internal transportation – is GRI index used to calculate the energy index. Carbon dioxide emissions from The Volvo Group applies the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) G3.1 inbound and outbound transports and business travel are not guidelines for sustainability reporting. This framework (G3.1) sets included. Consumption is based on meter readings and invoices. out principles and indicators for measuring and reporting economic, environmental and social performance. Water consumption The table featured in our web-based report provides references Water consumption includes drinking water, industrial water and 85 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT to where the indicated GRI-information can be found in the Susable on www.volvogroup.com/investors. tainability Report 2013. In some cases, reference is made to content in the Volvo Group Annual Report or the Corporate Disclaimer Governance Report for 2013. The Volvo Group has self-declared this report as meeting the GRI G3.1 Application Level B. Any links to external or third-party websites in the Volvo Group SusThe Volvo Group aims to prepare future sustainability reports in tainability Report 2013 are included solely for the reader’s convenaccordance with the GRI’s new G4 guidelines that were introduced ience. You make use of any links, and rely on the information conin 2013. tained on such external websites at your own risk. The Volvo Group does not give any representation regarding, nor accepts any liability Communication On Progress for the quality, safety, suitability or reliability of any external websites The Volvo Group has been a signatory to the United Nations Global or any of the content or materials contained therein. Compact since 2001. We submit our Communication On Progress This report contains forward-looking statements. Such statereport annually. This Sustainability Report describes our work to ments reflect management’s current expectations. Although manadvance the Global Compact’s ten principles in our daily operations agement believes such statements to be reasonable, no assurance as well as in our strategies. can be given that such expectations will prove correct. Such statements are subject to risks and uncertainties and such future events References could differ materially from those set out in the forward-looking statements as a result of, among other factors (i) changes in ecoAnnual sustainability reports nomic, market and competitive conditions, (ii) success of business The Volvo Group has published annual sustainability reports since and operating initiatives, including research projects, (iii) changes in 2007. The Sustainability Report 2013 was published end of March the regulatory environment and other government actions and (iv) 2014 on www.volvogroup.com/sustainabilityreport. More business risk management. This report does not imply that the cominformation on sustainability and previous reports are available on pany will revise the forward-looking statements. the Volvo Group’s website: www.volvogroup.com/responsibility. Audrey Grandjean, at the CSR management department at Volvo Environmental Data Report Group Headquarters, was the project leader for the ­Sustainability The Volvo Group has published environmental reports since 1991. Report 2013. These reports are available on www.volvogroup.com/responsibility and contain the environmental performance of our industrial operations. The 2013 report will be available in May 2014. Annual Report The Annual Report 2013 was published on March 12, 2014 and includes the Corporate Governance Report. The report is availThe Global Compact In 2001, the Volvo Group signed Global Compact, the United Nations’ initiative on socially responsible business. Our Addis Ababa vocational training pilot project in Ethiopia has been followed by a new 5-year partnership with Sida and USAID to provide vocational training in 10 African countries. Contact For questions about this report or the Volvo Group’s CSR and sustainability work, please contact: Malin Ripa, Senior Vice President, Corporate Social Responsibility Management, Volvo Group Headquarters. E-mail: csr@volvo.com Contact details for Volvo Group Headquarters: AB Volvo (publ) SE-405 08 Gothenburg, Sweden Phone: + 46 31 66 00 00 www.volvogroup.com Responsibility for the publication of the Sustainability Report 2013 is taken by Niklas Gustavsson, Executive Vice President, Sustainability and Public Affairs, Volvo Group Headquarters.
