“ WELL LIVING ” through VEGETABLE products 2012-2013 Registration document The Bonduelle 2 2.1 Introduction Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility AFR 20 2.4 Commitments to social 2.1.1 Message from Jean-Bernard Bonduelle 20 responsibility and civil 2.1.2 The Bonduelle Group and sustainable society AFR 57 development 20 2.4.1 Commitments to social responsibility 58 2.4.2 Commitments to economic partners 66 2.2 Commitments to Corporate 2.4.3 Commitments to civil society 68 Social Responsibility AFR 22 2.2.1 Challenges and outlook 22 2.5 Responsibility 2.2.2 CSR governance 23 to consumers AFR 71 2.2.3 History 24 2.5.1 Quality 71 2.2.4 Internal requirements 24 2.5.2 Product composition and nutritional quality 76 2.2.5 External commitments 30 2.5.3 Consumer information and satisfaction 77 2.3 Environmental 2.6 CSR Reporting: commitments AFR 36 note on methodology AFR 78 2.3.1 Agricultural upstream 38 2.6.1 Context and objectives 78 2.3.2 Natural resources 42 2.6.2 Procedures 78 2.3.3 Packaging 53 2.6.3 Scope 79 2.3.4 Transport 55 2.6.4 Indicators 80 2.6.5 2013 reporting schedule 83 2.6.6 Assurance report 84 2.6.7 Overview of indicators 86 2.7 Glossary and acronyms 93 Items in the annual financial report are identified in the contents using the AFR symbol Bonduelle / Registration document 2012-2013 19 CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE CORPORATE SOCIAL CORPORATE COMMENTS FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE ON THE FISCAL YEAR STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Introduction 2.1 Introduction 2.1.1 Message from 2.1.2 The Bonduelle Group Jean-Bernard Bonduelle and sustainable development According to the United Nations, the world’s population is Bonduelle, a family-run group established in 1853, is the global projected to grow from 7.2 billion today to 8.1 billion in 2025 and market leader in prepared vegetables. The Company has built its climb to 9.6 billion by 2050. The challenge posed by this population success on two pillars of growth: respect for the natural environment, trend is threefold: environmental, economic and social. which is essential for a group whose business is directly linked with The environmental challenge arises as global demand for food the earth, and placing People at the heart of our long-term corporate increases and consumption patterns change, increasing pressure plan. As part of our commitment, we aim to offer the best that on the planet’s resources, with the many consequences already in nature can provide, guided by ethical principles formulated over six evidence: soil erosion, water pollution, increase in greenhouse gas generations of involvement in agricultural production. emissions, higher volumes of waste and damage to biodiversity, to Bonduelle has been a pioneer in sustainable development, in line name but a few. with the objectives defined by the group’s family Shareholders: The economic, social and community challenges that arise in sustainability, independence and the development of employees. We addition to these environmental issues include access to water, take our responsibilities to sustainable development very seriously food safety for the most disadvantaged groups, nutrition and and in 2002-2003 formed a dedicated Sustainable Development health. Steering Committee to formulate policy and further strengthen the group’s actions in this area. Bonduelle recognizes these issues and places them at the core of its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) policy, which aims to 2012 saw Bonduelle initiate a new phase in its development to strike a harmonious balance between economic performance and define how the group will develop over the years to 2025. A process respect for the environment, People and society. involving the family Shareholders, members of the Executive The launch of the visionary VegeGo! Initiative in 2012 reafﬁrms the Committee, 300 Managers and external experts culminated in the group’s aim to meet consumers’ needs while limiting the impact of launch of VegeGo! at the end of 2012. its activities on the planet. A visionary and collaborative program, the aim of VegeGo! is to We intend to be seen as a benchmark, not only for our performance, position the Bonduelle Group as “the world reference in “well but also for our responsible approach to our employees, partners, living” through vegetable products”, wholeheartedly embracing its customers and the environment. Being a world reference means responsibilities to Shareholders, employees, partners, customers that we never lose sight of our responsibility to lead the way and to and the environment. play our part in building a better world. 20 Bonduelle / Registration document 2012-2013 www.bonduelle.com CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE CORPORATE SOCIAL CORPORATE COMMENTS FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE ON THE FISCAL YEAR STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Introduction VegeGo! is structured around four pillars: The Bonduelle Group is now organized into two geographic regions and four business segments (business unit): 1 We respect the planet and our commitments to civil society 1. Bonduelle Europe Long Life (BELL) covers all of the group’s Backed by our unique agro-industrial expertise, particularly in canned and frozen vegetable activities in Europe for the Bonduelle agricultural upstream, Bonduelle’s proactive policy over the past and Cassegrain national brands, as well for private label brands, in 10 years demonstrates its determination to implement the very the retail and food service sectors; best business practices. 2. Bonduelle Fresh Europe (FRESH) covers all the group’s prepared 1 We promote the development of the men and women who fresh vegetables: fresh-cut bagged salad and prepared salad work for us activities in Europe, for the Bonduelle brand and private label People matter most to Bonduelle and are placed at the heart of brands, in the retail and food service sectors; its corporate plan. This pillar demonstrates the group’s intention of furthering its actions in the area of equal opportunity, diversity, internal mobility and safety, setting a target of zero accident. 3. Bonduelle Americas (BAM) covers all canned and frozen vegetable activities in North and South America for the Bonduelle and Arctic Gardens brands, and private label brands, in the retail 2 1 We are developing our brands and vegetables in all their forms and food service sectors; Bonduelle’s brand portfolio enjoys international recognition. The 4. Bonduelle Development (BDV) covers the group’s activities and group defined its international positioning in 2013 to create strong development in the rest of the world, particularly in Eastern Europe unity: “Bonduelle, your daily source of inspiration for cooking and for the Bonduelle and Globus brands, and for private label brands, eating delicious vegetables”. This positioning focuses on how our for all technologies and all distribution channels. products contribute to healthy living (health, nutrition, pleasure and Included in the 22 transformation projects, seven are focusing on taste) and demonstrates the group’s intention of developing all its improving our sustainable development performance: brands, across all channels and in all technologies. 1 Our organization serves our customers 1 Ecologically intensive agriculture; Bonduelle offers national brands and private label products, in line 1 Eco-design of products; with the specific requirements of consumers in different markets. 1 Enhancing safety at work; The group has a global presence in all distribution channels 1 Participation in local community life; and prides itself on innovative products and services delivering differentiating value added. 1 Developing networking; The four essential pillars of VegeGo! (We respect the planet and our 1 Investment in a community development and project; social commitments, we promote equality and encourage everyone 1 Promoting communication in the farming community. to realize their full potential, we promote our brands and develop vegetables in all forms and customer service is the focus of our organisation) have led to the launch of 22 transformation projects, one of the major ones being the new group organization introduced in July 2013. This significant step is designed to adapt and shape Bonduelle’s organization in line with the changing face of its business and its international expansion plans. Bonduelle / Registration document 2012-2013 21 CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE CORPORATE SOCIAL CORPORATE COMMENTS FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE ON THE FISCAL YEAR STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Commitments to Corporate Social Responsibility 2.2 Commitments to Corporate Social Responsibility 2.2.1 Challenges and outlook ■ Challenges and outlook for2013-2017 AGRONOMY Encourage farmers to adopt environmentally-friendly practices Produce vegetables 1 Reduce the use of phytosanitary products and promote responsible 1 Increase the number of signatories of the Sourcing charter V4 to 100% within five years and sustainable 1 Develop pilot farms implementing alternative cultivation methods in countries where Bonduelle is established cultivation methods, 1 Launch a plan to reduce waste upstream in partnership Maintain and develop sustainable relations with producers with farmers 1 Develop partner loyalty 1 Support our partners in the use of innovative vegetable-growing techniques NATURAL RESOURCES Optimize the use of non-renewable resources Optimize product design 1 Continue to reduce water consumption, without compromising on product quality and production to 1 Continue to reduce energy consumption achieve greater efﬁciency 1 Have at least five projects using renewable energy in five years in resource use and Avoid, sort and recover waste recovery 1 Recover 80% of ordinary industrial waste in the period 2012-2015 1 Achieve 100% recovery from green waste 1 Launch a plan to reduce wastage of resources Minimize packaging impacts TRANSPORT – Reduce CO2 emissions by 5,000 metric tons for the group’s transport and logistics SUPPLY CHAIN Implement a transport plan using methods other than road, and trial it by business unit Control and optimize Roll out the purchasing charter to all suppliers the supply chain (transport and logistics) and purchasing PEOPLE AND SAFETY Target zero workplace accident Be an efﬁcient company Promote personnel training and development that listens to and 1 Target individual career development interviews for all personnel (100%) ensures the development 1 Give priority to internal promotion and encourage a policy of local recruitment of its People in countries Distribute the ethics charter to all employees where Bonduelle is Share Corporate Social Responsibility principles in management and in the group’s corporate culture established Promote diversity and comply with the principles of equality STAKEHOLDERS Implement a community project at every site and in countries where Bonduelle is established Be a company that Engage with stakeholders in countries where Bonduelle is established is engaged with all Undertake a group community development project its stakeholders across countries QUALITY AND Ensure maximum product quality and safety NUTRITION 1 Target quality process certification for 100% of sites Offer safe products 1 Reduce the complaints rate to our consumers Promote healthy and natural eating through our products and support them in 1 Continue the action plan to develop and update recipes to optimize their nutritional value developing a healthy, 1 Reduce additives in product composition by 2017 balanced and natural diet, Promote healthy and natural eating for all through our support and advisory actions based on vegetables 1 Raise consumer awareness in countries where Bonduelle is established on the importance of a balanced diet and the inclusion of vegetables 1 Support the initiatives of the Louis Bonduelle Foundation and research projects 22 Bonduelle / Registration document 2012-2013 www.bonduelle.com CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE CORPORATE SOCIAL CORPORATE COMMENTS FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE ON THE FISCAL YEAR STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Commitments to Corporate Social Responsibility 2.2.2 CSR governance annual standardized reporting for all the group’s plants, including data on natural resources, human resources, safety, agronomy, quality and Aligned with the new Bonduelle Group organization, the composition nutrition. Reporting is consolidated in this way to assess the current and operation of the Sustainable Development Steering Committee status of issues and measure changes with reference to the history have been reviewed and responsibility for steering sustainable for each plant, business unit and at group level. development policy now lies with each business unit. The Steering Bonduelle also makes progress reports to stakeholders during formal Committee therefore includes a representative from each of the meetings. This working methodology was launched two years ago Executive Committees of the four new business units, in addition to in France, was extended to Italy this year and will be rolled out in all committee members from across the group’s disciplines. The work of countries where Bonduelle exercises an industrial and commercial the Steering Committee is focused in six areas: agricultural upstream; presence. food, nutrition and health; natural resources; supply chain, transport and purchasing; Employees and management; and, since 2013, the new focus on “commitment to stakeholders”. Environmental and social data are gathered at group level and used “The participation of a representative from each business unit is the main change to the organization of 2 the Sustainable Development Steering Committee. This as the basis for defining improvement actions, which are updated is a key change, helping to ensure that aspects speciﬁc and added to annually and which enable Bonduelle to improve its to the business units are taken into consideration in the efforts. The revamped Steering Committee will improve roll-out of deﬁnition of group-wide targets. Targets and challenges policy and achievement of sustainable development objectives at may vary between technologies and geographical regions, business unit level. Representatives of the business units are required depending on the local context. In this way, targets become to set precise CSR and group objectives. more realistic and better aligned with our communication The Steering Committee, which comprises the heads of these channel between the group and its business units.” areas and representatives of the business units, ensures the flow of Pascal Piret, director of Operations, Bonduelle information between all parts of the Company, from functions and Development, member of the CSR Steering Committee. operations to management and Executive Management. It prepares CSR GOVERNANCE CHART EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE* Deﬁnes CSR policy BUSINESS UNIT CSR STEERING COMMITTEE Business unit representatives EXTERNAL MANAGEMENT STAKEHOLDERS COMMITTEES Experts and support staff Responsible for Support and coordinate actions React and inﬂuence implementing CSR policy COUNTRY AND FACILITIY EMPLOYEES Establish action plans * The Executive Committee is presented on page 58. Bonduelle / Registration document 2012-2013 23 CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE CORPORATE SOCIAL CORPORATE COMMENTS FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE ON THE FISCAL YEAR STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Commitments to Corporate Social Responsibility 2.2.3 History ■ 2011-2012 1 Increased involvement with stakeholders; Bonduelle’s approach to sustainable development has moved forward over the years since our policy was formulated and launched: 1 Preparation of an ethics charter, an environmental responsibility charter, and the fourth version of the sourcing charter for growers; 1 Adoption of the Global reporting initiative (GRI) guidelines and ■ 2002-2003 verification of CSR data. 1 Definition of four focus areas: agricultural production, people, nutrition and quality, and natural resources; ■ 2012-2013 1 Definition of the priorities for progress; 1 Launch of the VegeGo! program, the group’s vision to 2025; 1 Improvement metrics; 1 Launch of the Bonduelle Sustainable Development website; 1 Publication of initial results; 1 Extension of the international reach of stakeholder dialog; 1 Awareness-building within the Company; 1 The group responds to Article 225 of the Grenelle environment law 1 Membership of the Global Compact. on CSR reporting; 1 Creation of the Bonduelle chair within the Edhec Group, to contribute ■ 2003-2004 to research in and teaching of marketing. 1 Unified indicators; 1 Development of self-assessment tools; 1 Implementation of action plans; 2.2.4 Internal requirements 1 Continued internal deployment of action plans; A. ETHICS CHARTER 1 Response to the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). In 2012, the Bonduelle Group produced its ethics charter conveying the values it has long been committed to and has worked to promote: integrity, confidence, simplicity, excellence, open-mindedness, fairness ■ 2004-2007 and people-minded. This charter demonstrates the group’s intention 1 Sustainable development embedded in all subsidiaries’ growth to pursue continuous improvement. It supplements the Company’s plans; existing rules and regulations for employees, while encouraging 1 Internal mobilization; individual ethical behavior in accordance with Bonduelle’s values. The ethics charter will reiterate the group’s commitment to Corporate 1 Evaluation of the first phase; Social Responsibility, particularly through its long-standing 1 Launch of the Louis Bonduelle Foundation. membership of the Global Compact (since 2003). This United Nations initiative requires signatories to apply ten basic principles in the areas of human rights, anti-corruption, environment and labor standards. ■ 2007-2011 The group’s ethics charter defines the core principles of Bonduelle’s 1 Definition of a fifth focus: transport; stance as a corporate citizen, responsible, equitable and integrated company. 1 Launch of pilot farms focused on reducing the use of pesticides and integrated production and signature of the French Institute for In the spirit of openness and trust synonymous with our Company, sustainable agriculture charter; the group encourages dialog and discussion on ethical issues. An Ethics Committee was formed and commenced work in 2013, tasked 1 Further actions to promote the inclusion of workers with a disability with an advisory role to support the group’s efforts. The distribution and safety in the workplace; of this charter, started in 2012-2013, will be completed during the 1 Support for the launch of the World Responsible Economy Forum 2013-2014 fiscal year. in Lille, France; 1 Listing on the Gaia index, a listing of the best midcaps in terms of sustainable development. 24 Bonduelle / Registration document 2012-2013 www.bonduelle.com CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE CORPORATE SOCIAL CORPORATE COMMENTS FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE ON THE FISCAL YEAR STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Commitments to Corporate Social Responsibility ■ BONDUELLE’S ETHICS CHARTER Responsible corporate citizenship Back by a strong history and a commitment to the long term, the ETHICS CHARTER Bonduelle Group’s undertakings in respect of Corporate Social Ethics in action Responsibility are clearly shown by our membership of the Global Why have an ethics charter? Compact. In 2012 Bonduelle decided to write a charter, drawing inspiration PEOPLE FIRST from our history, epitomizing our values and committing us to a Bonduelle complies with the regulations of a number of international process of continuous improvement. We are fully aware that while organizations. The group complies with the conventions of the ethics cannot be regarded as absolute, they must inspire each International Labour Organization and is particularly stringent and every one of us as stakeholders, both inside and outside the Company. Our ethics charter must lead us to do more in the Bonduelle spirit of corporate responsibility. about ensuring respect for basic human rights in the workplace (freedom of association, the right to collective bargaining, the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor, and the 2 effective abolition of child labor). Bonduelle’s spirit and values In this ethics charter, Bonduelle sets out to expand on the core BUILDING THE COMMUNITY values it intends to defend and promote: integrity, confidence, Bonduelle’s international reach means that it respects communities simplicity, excellence, open-mindedness, fairness and people-minded. and local cultures and seeks to add value and develop local areas Bonduelle is convinced that its success stems from its corporate wherever it operates. Reflecting this commitment, the Louis culture and is intent on continuing to grow, underpinned by these Bonduelle Foundation works with local authorities in areas where values. The group is committed to living the “Bonduelle spirit” the Company operates, developing communities and supporting through ethical behavior that promotes sound practices. By acting local associations. Bonduelle encourages its employees to play an with integrity, our Company engages with its stakeholders in a active role in this type of project. relationship built on trust. The challenge we face is to consolidate this connection, sharing and nurturing it in the long term. RESPECT FOR THE ENVIRONMENT Bonduelle respects the environment and endeavors to reduce Ethics, how does it work? its carbon footprint, independent of its activities. The group is a This ethics charter supplements our existing rules and regulations major and committed sustainable development player. It takes for all employees. It defines the framework for the group’s policies responsibility for the impact of its activities, products and services and helps to explain their rationale and intentions. The ethics on the rural and urban environment, as well as their broader charter is a tool. It can be used to challenge existing practices environmental impact. We encourage all our employees to embody and aid in decision-making. The charter is inclusive, promoting this commitment in their day-to-day lives. Bonduelle emphasizes individual ethical behavior in line with our corporate values. Ethical this environmental responsibility to all its stakeholders and in dilemmas can be complex and rarely have clear solutions. For this particular, to agricultural producers and suppliers. reason, and in the spirit of openness and trust synonymous with COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS, CONVENTIONS our Company, the group encourages dialog and discussion on AND INTERNATIONAL TREATIES ethical issues. Bonduelle complies with all laws and regulations in its relationships Ethics Committee with partners. The group complies with the conventions of the International Labour Organization and is particularly stringent An Ethics Committee has been formed and may be consulted on about ensuring respect for and guaranteeing basic human rights issues of general interest when no solution is proposed by general in the workplace, namely freedom of association, the right to management, or the group’s experts in Human Resources, Health collective bargaining, the elimination of all forms of forced and and Safety or Purchasing. The role of the Committee is to support compulsory labor, and the effective abolition of child labor. The the Company on ethical issues, and to issue opinions in an advisory Company is committed to respecting the European charter of capacity. The Committee has four members, two appointed from fundamental rights in the organization. Bonduelle is meticulous in within the Company and two external members, selected based its attention to compliance with health regulations, quality control, on their experience, profiles and expertise. The Ethics Committee food legislation and food packaging legislation. The group also reserves the right to invite outside experts or submissions from respects communities and seeks to add value and develop local employees on specific subjects. areas wherever it operates. The Committee will meet at least twice a year, and a secretary will be appointed. Bonduelle / Registration document 2012-2013 25 CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE CORPORATE SOCIAL CORPORATE COMMENTS FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE ON THE FISCAL YEAR STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Commitments to Corporate Social Responsibility An fair company employees have the right to be respected, and to a positive, DIALOG IN THE COMPANY pleasant and professional working environment in which each Dialog and openness in internal company relations are important person’s ideas and contributions are valued. All employees must for Bonduelle. The group respects the right of its employees foster and respect this commitment by being open and clear in to form or join the representative organization of their choice, their relations with their fellow workers to maintain a culture including trade unions and workers’ organizations, and to be able founded on loyalty, trust and solidarity. to participate in collective bargaining negotiations. Bonduelle TRAINING respects the role and responsibilities of the social partners and is committed to negotiating issues of collective interest with them. Excellence is the cornerstone of the group’s success and Bonduelle listens to its employees and engages an independent competitiveness. Bonduelle aims to develop employees’ skills at body to conduct international surveys to assess personnel all stages of their career through a voluntary training and coaching satisfaction with working conditions. policy. The Institut Pierre et Benoît Bonduelle was created to deliver training to all group personnel, validated by recognized HEALTH AND SAFETY professional qualifications. Each and every person working for or with Bonduelle has the right SUPPLIERS AND SUBCONTRACTORS to a healthy and safe working environment, ensuring their physical, mental and social wellbeing. Bonduelle is committed to maintaining Suppliers and subcontractors are key to ensuring the value of working conditions at the highest standards by developing policies Bonduelle’s products and play an important role in customer to prevent negative impacts on health and working conditions. All satisfaction. They are required to adopt behavior in keeping with employees must comply with Bonduelle’s rules on health, safety Bonduelle’s values, especially when making purchasing decisions. and security in the workplace. Bonduelle’s suppliers and subcontractors must adhere strictly to all legislation regarding their activities and working environment. WORK-LIFE BALANCE Moreover, the group encourages its suppliers and subcontractors Bonduelle strives to offer conditions that ensure a healthy work-life to engage in ethical conduct and requests that they sign this balance. It promotes dialog between employees and management charter. Purchasing decisions must be made based on all the values to optimize work organization in order to take individual obligations advocated by Bonduelle, and primarily, the values of excellence, and requirements into account. The group aims to create a working open-mindedness and fairness. Relations with suppliers must take environment where individual wellbeing is valued and nurtured. place in a climate of mutual trust, placing People first and simplicity. Purchasing decisions are based on an objective assessment of the DISCRIMINATION reliability and integrity of the supplier or subcontractor, as well as Employee diversity is important for Bonduelle. We are committed the overall value of their offer relative to both shortand long-term to eliminating all forms of discrimination, either direct or indirect, considerations and objectives. Purchasers must also take into in the workplace and in employee relations, including that based account their important role in the local ecosystem. on age, color, civil status, disability, nationality, sexual orientation, ethnic or social origin, race, religion or gender. This antiA trustworthy company discrimination policy applies to all stages of employment, from QUALITY PRODUCTS AND SERVICES hiring through an entire career. All employees are free to take part, For Bonduelle, providing high-quality and efficient products and in a personal capacity, in activities or organizations of a political or services bears testimony to its commitment to and respect for religious nature. consumers. The group is meticulous in its attention to compliance HARASSMENT with health regulations, quality control, food legislation and food Placing People first is a key value for Bonduelle. Its policies packaging legislation. The trust thus created is essential for the protect employees from all forms of harassment, intimidation or Company’s reputation and long-term presence. The highest levels victimization, be it physical, psychological or sexual. Any form of food safety are guaranteed through advanced technologies and of moral or sexual harassment is resolutely condemned. All constant adaptation to new regulatory requirements. 26 Bonduelle / Registration document 2012-2013 www.bonduelle.com CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE CORPORATE SOCIAL CORPORATE COMMENTS FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE ON THE FISCAL YEAR STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Commitments to Corporate Social Responsibility CONFIDENTIALITY CONFLICTS OF INTEREST Respect for confidentiality is a measure of Bonduelle’s integrity We each have a responsibility to avoid situations where personal and safeguards the relations of trust built up with our partners. interests conflict or may conflict with those of Bonduelle or harm the Therefore, it is vital that each employee pays the strictest attention group. Objectivity must be our guide in relations with the group’s to safeguarding the confidentiality of Bonduelle’s information. partners. Relations with partners may not involve or be influenced Information obtained by employees of the Bonduelle Group by personal factors. It is up to each one of us to ensure such may not be used, either directly or indirectly, for the purposes of objectivity is maintained at all times and in all long-term relations. personal investment. The confidentiality of all information relating All potential conflicts of interests must be disclosed so that the to the activities of the Company or its partners must be guaranteed appropriate action can be taken to prevent or resolve the situation. in all roles and areas in which employees work. In particular, the Moreover, Bonduelle does all in its power to prevent corruption, level of information available to different employees is restricted and data is secured. reflected in its responsibility policy, defined in accordance with the rule of law. 2 SAFEGUARDING THE COMPANY’S ASSETS GIFTS AND INVITATIONS The purpose of Bonduelle’s funds or assets is to ensure the Bonduelle’s marketing activities do not exclude the possibility of group achieves its targeted results and safeguard its financial exchanging gifts and invitations, provided that these do not result independence. Misuse or waste of these resources is potentially in a conflict between personal gain and professional obligations. It damaging; personnel must guard against any illicit use or use is therefore our policy to ensure transparency when accepting gifts unrelated to the group’s business. We each have a responsibility or invitations, which must not exceed a nominal or insignificant to safeguard Bonduelle’s tangible and intangible resources, to value. For example, such gifts may be accepted in line with the protect against diversion of assets or their use other than for their normal rules of courtesy or hospitality, but under no circumstances original purpose by providing them to a third party. For example, may they appear, be considered or interpreted to be complaisance information systems provided may not be used inappropriately. All or favoritism. Company assets remain the property of Bonduelle. POLITICAL SPHERE TRANSPARENCY All employees are entitled to engage in political activities in a Honesty and fair dealing must at all times be exercised in personal capacity, provided that they take place outside of working relationships with customers, notably by providing accurate and hours and do not involve any of Bonduelle’s assets, and provided transparent information on our products and services and by that it is clear that such activities are in no way representative of the demonstrating openness on all related issues. The transparency Company. Bonduelle and its employees comply with all applicable of information provided to our stakeholders and employees is an laws and regulations governing contributions to political parties, integral part of the relationship of trust that Bonduelle wishes to regardless of the location of the Company’s activities. establish and maintain. REPRESENTING THE COMPANY It is our responsibility to ensure that Shareholders receive reliable, Each and every employee is an ambassador for Bonduelle. It is transparent, honest and timely information, with regard to the therefore important to exercise good judgment in accordance Stock Market Code of Conduct. with Bonduelle’s values and interests and to ensure an explicit distinction between personal opinions and interests and those of the Company. All of our conduct may have an impact on the group’s reputation and we must therefore ensure never to say or do anything that could damage Bonduelle’s image. Bonduelle / Registration document 2012-2013 27 CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE CORPORATE SOCIAL CORPORATE COMMENTS FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE ON THE FISCAL YEAR STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Commitments to Corporate Social Responsibility ■ RULES OF PROCEDURE FOR THE The members of the Ethics Committee may validly deliberate by BONDUELLE GROUP ETHICS COMMITTEE video conference, telephone conference or in writing, including by mail or fax, provided that all the members agree to this expedient. Article I. Purpose The Ethics Committee Chairman has the casting vote in the event The purpose of these rules of procedure is to define the of a tie. composition, competence and operating rules of the Bonduelle Group Ethics Committee (hereafter the Ethics Committee). Should a member of the Ethics Committee (including its Chairman) find themselves in a situation of conflict of interest regarding Article II. Composition an issue handled by the Committee, they must abstain from The Ethics Committee has four members: two from within the participating in the discussion and be available to provide any group, namely the CSR director and an employee; and two noninformation deemed necessary. employees from outside, one a member of Bonduelle SAS’s Board of Directors, and one a member of Bonduelle SCA’s Supervisory Article VI. Missions and competence Board. The Ethics Committee is a multidisciplinary, pluralist, advisory and independent body, with a mandate from the group Chairman. It is Article III. Appointment of Ethics Committee members a forum for discussion and is bound by confidentiality rules. It is The Committee’s members are appointed by the Chairman of the tasked with dealing with all issues arising regarding compliance Bonduelle Group. with the Bonduelle Group’s ethics charter. Its mission includes: Article IV. Terms of ofﬁce and attendance at meetings Members are appointed for a three-year period, renewable 1 presenting recommendations on the ethics charter, issues taken by a decision of the group’s Chairman. Members may not be up by the Committee independently, or issues submitted to it; represented during Ethics Committee meetings. 2 promoting discussion of ethical questions related to the group’s business; Article V. Operating 3 promoting compliance with the charter across the Bonduelle Chair: the Chairman is appointed by the group Chairman for a Group; three-year renewable term of office. 4 ensuring the dissemination and understanding of the ethics Executive: at the first meeting and at each renewal date, the charter by all employees, according to the local context; Ethics Committee constitutes an executive of two members for the Chairman. The agenda, prepared by the Ethics Committee 5 proposing modifications to the charter, where required; executive, must be sent to the members called to the meeting, 6 issuing recommendations or guidelines based on case studies, together with any preparatory documents and the minutes of specific questions or general topics; the previous meeting, at least three days before the date of the meeting. The Ethics Committee makes decisions on a majority 7 distributing its opinions and recommendations inside the vote of the members present. Company; Working groups: the Ethics Committee may decide to form working 8 participating in preparing communications on the ethics charter groups on particular topics to carry out research in preparation for with outside entities, as required; plenary sessions. 9 the Ethics Committee reports to the group Chairman on its work The Ethics Committee meets as often as required to ensure the and agenda. performance of its duties and at least twice a year. Its Chairman The Ethics Committee may not be substituted for other Bonduelle may decide to call meetings without notice. decision-making and dialog structures, or for specific regulations. The Ethics Committee may request the Bonduelle Group’s It is not competent to decide or examine disputes between Chairman to provide it with the assistance of any Executive individuals. It is bound by the rules of professional secrecy and Manager in the group, or any external person (who would then confidentiality. be bound by confidentiality) whose expertise might facilitate discussion of an item on the agenda. It may also have access to Article VII. Submission of matters all documents deemed useful for its deliberations and may hear The Ethics Committee may initiate debate on the issues of its submissions from any group employee. choice within the scope of its mission and competence, by a majority decision of the members. Matters may also be submitted 28 Bonduelle / Registration document 2012-2013 www.bonduelle.com CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE CORPORATE SOCIAL CORPORATE COMMENTS FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE ON THE FISCAL YEAR STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Commitments to Corporate Social Responsibility to the Committee by writing to: the Chairman of the Ethics The Committee’s opinions are purely advisory and for information. Committee, rue Nicolas Appert, PO Box 30173, 59653 Villeneuve Opinions must respect the principle of anonymity and must comply d’Ascq Cedex, France, by: with the rules of professional secrecy. The Ethics Committee guarantees that an opinion will be issued to the applicant. 1. the decision-making bodies in the Bonduelle Group; An annual report on the Ethics Committee presents the issues 2. an employee of any Bonduelle Group subsidiary receiving referred to it, their nature and a summary of its non-confidential correspondence from a third party or from an employee that work and general opinions, based on an analysis of actual case calls the subsidiary or the group into question; studies. The report is included in the group’s CSR report. 3. any employee who encounters difficulties related to application The Committee’s opinions are collective opinions based on of the ethics charter, when no resolution is proposed by hierarchical management and acting in good faith; 4. any stakeholder concerned by the ethics charter who becomes consensus. Article IX. Changes and amendments to the Ethics 2 aware of a breach of the charter. Committee’s Rules of Procedure The Ethics Committee may change its operating methods, Article VIII. Recipients and scope of the Ethics composition and missions, according to the terms and conditions Committee’s opinions and work specified by the Committee in its rules of procedure. All such The Ethics Committee answers all questions according to the changes are presented to the Bonduelle Group Chairman for principle of hierarchical organization, with a focus on dialog with approval. the employee and having examined the case. B. ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY GUIDE 6. devise nutritious recipes for our consumers; In 2012, a team with representatives from across the organization 7. reduce the use of additives; (R&D, marketing, purchasing, communications, etc.) worked on 8. optimize and develop low-impact packaging, while guaranteeing preparing a Guide to assist teams to include environmental and the quality and safety of our products; social criteria at all stages of a product’s life cycle. Its purpose will be to provide direction for the teams responsible for design, production 9. limit the impact of transport by optimizing the loading rate and and marketing. It will set out the core objectives for all Bonduelle routes for road transport and by developing alternative transport products sold throughout the world (Bonduelle, Cassegrain, solutions; Arctic Gardens and Globus) and provide guidelines for improving 10. Provide consumers with recommendations for use, factoring in responsibility, without compromising on aspects such as pleasure, environmental and nutritional impacts and raise awareness of taste and accessibility. Hand-in-hand with this Guide, Bonduelle is food waste. developing a tool to help teams to plan improvement actions based on their objectives and the requirements of consumers in their markets. The inventory and test phase is currently under way, prior to C. NEW SOURCING CHARTER publication of the Guide and roll-out of the tool to all teams. Bonduelle’s sourcing charter sets out the group’s requirements This Guide, to be finalized in 2014, will be informed by 10 basic from our producer partners. Its main purpose is to limit agricultural principles: production risks and to ensure the quality of vegetables. 1. measure the environmental footprint of our products and be The charter was revised in 2012. The first charter was launched in transparent about their impacts; 1996, and the fourth edition will become the reference manual for all Bonduelle producer partners. 2. ensure responsible sourcing according to our agronomy charter or sourcing contracts (covering vegetables, ingredients and The latest version will reflect new environmental and social packaging); challenges for the sector (health and safety). It will support the group in expanding its international reach by defining a single reference 3. monitor cultivation methods to guarantee the safety of our base, which may be supplemented by any business unit, to reflect products by controlling and minimizing the use of inputs for our sustainable development policy. vegetable crops, anticipating regulatory changes and seeking alternative solutions; 4. limit distances traveled by our vegetables and other ingredients; 5. reduce environmental impacts, ensure socially responsible management and guarantee food safety during production; Bonduelle / Registration document 2012-2013 29 CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE CORPORATE SOCIAL CORPORATE COMMENTS FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE ON THE FISCAL YEAR STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Commitments to Corporate Social Responsibility 2.2.5 External commitments In 2012, the Bonduelle Group submitted certain of its A. TRANSPARENCY REQUIREMENTS 2011-2012 CSR reporting indicators for verification by an independent third party, in this instance, Bonduelle obtained Global reporting intitiative (GRI) application level B+ in Deloitte. The initiative anticipated the entry into force of November 2012. It is one of the very few companies outside the CAC 40 Article 225 of the French law of July 12, 2010, known as index to have committed to applying the GRI reporting framework at this Grenelle II. This new law is effective for ﬁscal years ended level, thus placing it among the best French companies also using this on or after January 1, 2013 and applies to all companies frame of reference. This assessment reflects the group’s commitment to with a balance sheet total of more than €100 million, or developing a standardized and credible approach to Corporate Social with total revenue of more than €100 million and with more Responsibility. This result also reflects both the excellent work achieved than 500 employees. This law requires that reporting on by all of its teams (all the sites and business units are included, both in social, environmental and sustainable development this GRI reporting framework and the sustainable development reporting) indicators must be included in the management report and Bonduelle’s intention to meet its stakeholders’ expectations in and must be veriﬁed. In 2013 Deloitte was also appointed terms of non-financial reporting. The success is testimony to its policy of to carry out this work in respect of the 2012-2013 ﬁscal continuous improvement in sustainable development since 2003, based year. on the GRI’s main guidelines. 30 Bonduelle / Registration document 2012-2013 www.bonduelle.com CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE CORPORATE SOCIAL CORPORATE COMMENTS FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE ON THE FISCAL YEAR STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Commitments to Corporate Social Responsibility 2 Bonduelle / Registration document 2012-2013 31 CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE CORPORATE SOCIAL CORPORATE COMMENTS FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE ON THE FISCAL YEAR STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Commitments to Corporate Social Responsibility B. DIALOG WITH STAKEHOLDERS In December 2012, a panel of stakeholders was invited to exchange ideas with Christophe Bonduelle, Chairman of the Bonduelle Group, The Bonduelle Group has long engaged in active dialog with its Grégory Sanson, Chief Financial Officer, and members of the stakeholders, both internally (employees and social partners) and Sustainable Development Steering Committee. outside the Company (farmers, suppliers, national and local public bodies, etc.). Bonduelle employees participate in the work of trade Stakeholders were selected with a view to forming a representative organizations, as committee members, directors or Chairpersons, panel encompassing general CSR professionals, experts in to ensure the Company’s active and responsible engagement in Bonduelle’s priority areas and associations. The aim of the initiative, the sector and to defend its interests through the communications following the first meeting organized in 2011, was to challenge our of these joint trade groups and federations with government bodies sustainable development approach and how we communicate in France and in Europe. Areas of work include protection of the information about it. Stakeholders submitted ideas for further environment and agricultural production. The Bonduelle Group did consideration, asked questions about published information, and not make any contributions to funding political parties in 2012-2013, requested more educational materials aimed at consumers regarding either in France or abroad. In addition, the Company has a history the group’s sustainable development policy. This report takes into of forging partnerships and initiating actions to share best practices, account considerations arising from these discussions. with an emphasis on pilot programs run in conjunction with public or Bonduelle also developed a Toolbox for its business units in 2012private institutions and organizations. In his role as director of External 2013 with the goal of fostering greater dialog with stakeholders in all Relations and Sustainable Development, Jean-Bernard Bonduelle is countries in which the group operates. tasked with developing relations with a diverse range of stakeholders: trade federations, institutions, national, European and international The Toolbox provides each business unit and country with the general regulatory bodies and agencies, NGOs, ratings agencies, local principles concerning: communities, the media, and teaching and research institutions, etc. 1 identification of local challenges and targets; Moreover, the Louis Bonduelle Foundation is particularly proactive in promoting lasting changes in eating habits against the backdrop 1 content of corporate information and dialog; of growing public health concerns related to poor diet, working in 1 resources and tools for media relations; collaboration with its scientific and public partners and associations. 1 resources and tools for dialog with stakeholders; The Bonduelle Group also improved in dialog with its stakeholders. It 1 communication rules. expanded the scope of this dialog with the establishment of its CSR approach: extending dialog to new stakeholders (ratings agencies, The Toolbox was formally introduced in 2012-2013 with a Bonduelle solidarity associations, etc.), and incorporating new focus areas (to Open Day initiative in Italy, during which guests were able to learn meet the demands of retail grocery markets, partnership on disability, about Bonduelle’s CSR priorities, its history and its social and and environmental projects such as the “frugal factory” project), community objectives. The day ended with a press conference for which continue to enrich Bonduelle’s corporate policy. specialist journalists on the themes of business and sustainability. The program is currently being developed in other countries, This new and dynamic approach to dialog, aligned with VegeGo!, is including Germany, Canada, Poland, Hungary, Brazil, the United reflected in the increasingly constructive discussions with suppliers States and Russia. that approach Bonduelle regarding CSR audits. The group embraces this procedure, which consists of answering questions asked by its customers (distribution groups and commercial food service companies) on CSR. 32 Bonduelle / Registration document 2012-2013 www.bonduelle.com CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE CORPORATE SOCIAL CORPORATE COMMENTS FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE ON THE FISCAL YEAR STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Commitments to Corporate Social Responsibility The table below shows Bonduelle’s stakeholders by type and outlines the methods used to provide them with information and engage in dialog with them. This document includes the actions in Italy where Bonduelle rolled out its stakeholder relations policy during FY 2012-2013. AgreementspartnershipsStakeholders Information and Communication Dialog consultation collaboration Employees/ 1 Web-based communication tools 1 Dialog with employees, employee Two agreements were Social partners (Intranet, Internet) representatives and trade unions signed in France in 1 Brochures and reports 1 European Works Council – at least 2012-2013 (providence 1 Displays (including dynamic displays one meeting per year and medical insurance) on some sites) Customers 1 Specific events 1 Corporate Social Responsibility report in the registration document 1 Response to questionnaires and customer CSR audit – yearly 2 1 Specific questionnaires Citizens/ 1 Country-specific websites 1 Consultation with consumer panels: Consumers 1 Websites: www.developpementdurable. attitude and behavior survey and specific bonduelle.com and www.sustainability. surveys – an average of one survey per bonduelle.com month is carried out within the group 1 Brochures and reports 1 Louis Bonduelle Foundation in Belgium, 1 Specific events, e.g. awareness-raising France, Italy, the Netherlands and initiatives by the Louis Bonduelle Foundation Canada. The Foundation’s three objectives are: 1 information and awareness building 1 field initiatives 1 support for research Institutions/ 1 Websites: www.developpementdurable. 1 Participation of national and international National, European bonduelle.com and www.sustainability. institutions in the stakeholders’ session and international bonduelle.com in December 2012 in France – yearly regulatory bodies 1 Corporate Social Responsibility report 1 Participation in the Global Compact* and agencies in the registration document – yearly Farmers under 1 Brochures and reports 1 Dialog and consultation – yearly, and 1 Sourcing charter contract with 1 Specific events, such as plant visits, permanent contact during the harvest Bonduelle for example period 1 Websites: www.developpementdurable. bonduelle.com and www.sustainability. bonduelle.com Suppliers 1 Brochures and reports 1 Awareness campaigns focusing 1 Sustainable 1 Websites: www.developpementdurable. on Human rights, working conditions development bonduelle.com and www.sustainability. and the environment – yearly clause included bonduelle.com 1 Evaluations and questionnaires – yearly in purchasing contracts (reminder of the ten principles of the Global Compact) NGOs 1 Websites: www.developpementdurable. 1 Replies to queries bonduelle.com and www.sustainability. 1 Meeting with NGOs – yearly bonduelle.com 1 Participation of environmental and social 1 Corporate Social Responsibility report associations in the stakeholders’ session in the registration document in 2012 in France – yearly 1 Participation of environmental and social associations in the first meeting with stakeholders in May 2013 in Italy – yearly Bonduelle / Registration document 2012-2013 33 CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE CORPORATE SOCIAL CORPORATE COMMENTS FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE ON THE FISCAL YEAR STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Commitments to Corporate Social Responsibility AgreementspartnershipsStakeholders Information and Communication Dialog consultation collaboration Ratings agencies 1 Websites: www.developpementdurable. 1 Response to questionnaires/queries bonduelle.com and www.sustainability. – yearly bonduelle.com 1 Corporate Social Responsibility report in the registration document 1 Specific questionnaires Investors 1 Quarterly financial information 1 Financial calendar/analysts’ meetings – 1 Annual and interim results at least twice a year 1 Annual and interim reports 1 Specific meetings (socially responsible 1 Corporate Social Responsibility report investment funds) – at least twice a year in the registration document and individual meetings upon request 1 Letter to Shareholders 1 Response to questionnaires/queries – 1 Specific events, including the Shareholders’ yearly (for the CDP), e.g.: Bonduelle Meeting and plant visits has answered the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) questionnaire since it was first introduced in 2003. Its responses are available on the CDP website (www.cdproject.net) Local communities 1 Brochures and reports 1 Dialog with local communities, on 1 Website request, e.g.: On November 16, 2012, 1 Specific events the Louis Bonduelle Foundation in Italy 1 Country-specific websites took part in the World Children’s Rights Day in Medolla (Italy), a region hit by earthquake in January 2012. 50 children joined in the educational game, InOrto Media 1 Press releases – at least once per year 1 Visit by the French press to 1 Websites: www.developpementdurable. salad-growing farms in Murcia (Spain) bonduelle.com and www.sustainability. in July 2013 bonduelle.com 1 Presentation to the Italian press 1 Specific events in May 2013 on Bonduelle’s sustainable development initiatives in Italy Trade federations One or more Bonduelle employees participate in the following trade organizations as a committee member, director or Chairperson, to ensure the Company’s active and responsible engagement in the sector and to defend its interests: ADEPALE; FIAC; UNILET; ANIFELT; ANIA; UPPIA; CTCPA; PROFEL; ILEC; ECOPAR; SYNAFAP; SFPAE; AETMD; ANICC (for an explanation of these acronyms, please see Section 2.7 Glossary) – meetings during Board of Directors’ meetings and Shareholders’ Meetings. Together with 52 other European companies, Bonduelle is a signatory to the European Brands Association (AIM) charter on the “Role of brands for health and wellbeing”. 34 Bonduelle / Registration document 2012-2013 www.bonduelle.com CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE CORPORATE SOCIAL CORPORATE COMMENTS FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE ON THE FISCAL YEAR STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Commitments to Corporate Social Responsibility AgreementspartnershipsStakeholders Information and Communication Dialog consultation collaboration Education 1 Initiatives in schools close to headquarters, 1 Trainee and apprenticeship programs 1 Partnerships with and research subsidiaries and sites 1 Partnerships/studies schools 1 Websites: www.developpementdurable. 1 €10,000 bonduelle.com and www.sustainability. international bonduelle.com research prize awarded by the Louis Bonduelle Foundation to a PhD student – yearly 2 1 Launch of the Bonduelle chair within the Edhec Group in France in 2012. This teaching and research department investigates the impact of technological changes on marketing of food brands. CSR experts 1 Websites: www.developpementdurable. 1 Response to questionnaires – yearly bonduelle.com and www.sustainability. 1 Participation in forums – yearly bonduelle.com (e.g.: World Responsible Economy Forum 1 Corporate Social Responsibility report in Lille, with Bonduelle as one of the in the vregistration document major partners) 1 Satisfaction surveys – yearly 1 In Italy, Bonduelle was named as a national finalist in the 2012-2013 European Business Awards, in the category “The Millicom Award for Environment and Corporate Sustainability” * Membership of the Global Compact: Bonduelle / Registration document 2012-2013 35 CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE CORPORATE SOCIAL CORPORATE COMMENTS FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE ON THE FISCAL YEAR STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Environmental commitments 2.3 Environmental commitments Held in June 2012, the Rio+20 Conference saw the 188 states Foundation on Economic Trends – also described the preservation represented commit to working towards a green economy with the of ecosystems as one of the key challenges facing us in the near goal of reducing poverty, developing sustainable economic growth, future. According to Rifkin, the essential question that all countries improving social integration and human well-being and creating and economic sectors must ask themselves is this: how can we decent employment opportunities for all. These challenges must ensure the sustainable growth of the globalized economy in the be met while ensuring that the planet’s ecosystems are allowed to coming decades? Decades that will see the inevitable decline of function healthily. the current energy system based primarily on fossil fuels – coal, natural gas and especially oil – the use of which is responsible for In his opening address at the World Forum held in Lille in climate changes that threaten the future of human civilization and November 2012, an event the Bonduelle Group has been involved thus the planet’s ecosystems. in since 2007, Jeremy Rifkin – a world-renowned expert in future economic and scientiﬁc trends and founder and President of the 36 Bonduelle / Registration document 2012-2013 www.bonduelle.com CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE CORPORATE SOCIAL CORPORATE COMMENTS FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE ON THE FISCAL YEAR STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Environmental commitments BONDUELLE’S ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS Challenges PROCESSES DERIVED FROM NON-RENEWABLE NATURAL RESOURCES Fossil fuels / Water / Packaging / Soil 1 Map consumption 1 Optimize and manage consumption 1 Develop alternative resources or techniques 2 Challenges DISCHARGES INTO THE NATURAL ENVIRONMENT Discharge into the Air / Water / Soil / Waste 1 Control the treatment process / Recovery from waste 1 Reduce discharges Challenges OVERALL ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT Global warming / Biodiversity 1 Measure and reduce greenhouse gas emissions 1 Promote biodiversity Challenges OVERALL IMPACT ON SOCIETY Consumers / Local communities / Employees 1 Inform / Communicate / Train 1 Take our local environmental impact into consideration Bonduelle / Registration document 2012-2013 37 CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE CORPORATE SOCIAL CORPORATE COMMENTS FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE ON THE FISCAL YEAR STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Environmental commitments 2.3.1 Agricultural upstream The aim of the Bonduelle Group is to produce high-quality vegetables which are accessible to the public and grown according to the values of respect for the land and the environment in general. For Bonduelle, the land is not merely a resource, but a habitat for living organisms which must be protected. The group shares these challenges with all of its vegetable producer partners. A. REMINDER OF OBJECTIVES Environmental impact Objectives 2012-2013 Highlights 2012-2013 1 Protect the soil and biodiversity 1 Finalize and circulate the 4th agronomy charter 1 Creation of the agronomy research 1 Reduce sampling from non-renewable 1 Reduce pesticide use by 20% in the period and development division natural resources 2011-2014 1 Launch of the VegeGo! working 1 Measure the environmental impact group on Ecologically Intensive of agricultural practices and introduce metrics Agriculture 1 Pursue agricultural research in more environmentally-friendly projects B. RESOURCES IMPLEMENTED EIGHT KEY STAGES IN MONITORING VEGETABLE CULTIVATION From seed to harvest, our Sourcing Charter tracks vegetable growing and sourcing in eight stages. Plots are selected This stage is Fertilization involves Approval of the plot according to a rigorous “Planting the crop”. preparing a fertilization before the harvest, process, based It involves correct soil plan using both mineral harvesting and washing on the soil, preparation giving and organic fertilizers. the vegetables. the environment priority to natural and water resources. methods. Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Stage 4 Stage 5 Stage 6 Stage 7 Stage 8 THE PLOT SOWING SOIL CULTIVATION FERTILIZATION IRRIGATION HARVEST THE PLANT During this stage, we This last stage choose the seed and Accurate water in the charter variety focusing on Careful management supply management, encompasses quality of taste and of plant protection in terms of both the sequence excluding all GMOs. products. quality and quantity. from ﬁeld to plant. 38 Bonduelle / Registration document 2012-2013 www.bonduelle.com CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE CORPORATE SOCIAL CORPORATE COMMENTS FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE ON THE FISCAL YEAR STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Environmental commitments SUPPORTING AGRICULTURAL UPSTREAM Bonduelle maintains close relationships with its producer partners “As a Partner of Bonduelle for more than 16 years, (3,687 grouped into producers’ associations in some countries). my relationship with the group is mainly seen in my These relationships help ensure the quality and yield required for its discussions with the ﬁeld supervisor. Together, we business and encourage the producer partners to limit their impact examine the areas to be planted according to Bonduelle’s on the environment. needs. I also know I can count on him for technical crop Our producer partners supply around 90% of the group’s vegetables. monitoring. The dialog is very open and covers things like Bonduelle does not produce its own vegetables, choosing instead to controlling disease and weeds amongst the crops, new assign this task to trusted partners under contractual agreements, products and pilot tests being carried out in the sector. except in Russia, where it runs its own agricultural operations, and In addition, he shares other farmers’ experiences of Spain and Canada, where it operates farms producing part of its planting techniques, weeding and pesticide use with us.” needs. This approach allows the group to concentrate on its core business Philippe Fourdinier, Bonduelle producer partner 2 of vegetable preparation. Bonduelle also works with service In 2013, an agronomy research and development division was providers able to take care of transport, planting, harvesting and created. As well as research and development, its mission consists of other cultivation activities. This avoids producers having to invest identifying the best agronomy practices observed in the areas where heavily in special equipment. the group operates, circulating them and sharing them. The division For other sources of vegetables, the group requires its suppliers to also manages the International Agronomy Network and provides the comply with all laws and regulations in force related to their activity business units with specialized agronomy advice. and their professional environment. The rules and standards are set out in our sourcing charter, which all producer partners are PREVENTION required to sign. This charter is an exclusive contractual commitment Monitoring crops and providing support to producers are key aspects covering the process from seed to harvest to ensure that Bonduelle’s of Bonduelle’s agricultural policy, with prevention being viewed as specifications are strictly adhered to, from selection of plots of land key. By selecting the most suitable land for different vegetable and seed selection to cultivation methods, etc. varieties and ensuring regular crop rotation, we avoid exhausting the soil of nutrients, while promoting biodiversity and improving yields. 91% of our producer partners have signed the sourcing charter, which was first launched in 1996. The fourth edition will be published The introduction in 2012 of geo-referencing of land in France is a in 2014. It will take into account the group’s international expansion major advantage, since it provides an “agronomy database” of and specific factors encountered in the various geographical regions cultivated areas (varieties, planting and harvesting dates, yield, and production chains. It will also emphasize new topics such as qualitative analysis, etc.), aiding optimization of crops and soil from water conservation and protection for the people working in the year to year. fields. This charter is the result of a participatory process led by This initiative supplements the predictive testing method already in Agronomy Managers in various countries and business lines. The place to enable prevention of diseases that could endanger seedlings, charter is testimony to Bonduelle’s ongoing commitment to using thereby reducing the risks of crop failure and waste of commodities environmentally-friendly farming techniques. (seeds, fertilizer, water, etc.). According to the same principle of early To meet the needs and challenges of our countries and markets, the detection, observation networks have been established to operate as group’s agronomy organization is broken down by business unit, with early-warning systems if pests are detected. each being responsible for their own agricultural policy. Their sales For example, in France, based on the information gathered, producer forecasts determine the activities of their agronomy departments partners receive recommendations on the best techniques to use for each business segment. The agronomy departments manage a to control these risks. This initiative forms an integral part of the range of issues, including: selection of the areas and amount of land biological monitoring system established by the French Ministry of to be sown, signature of contracts and relationships with producers Agriculture, which has been run by industry professionals since 2010. and producers’ associations, selection of varieties according to the sowing plan, monitoring of crops and vegetable maturity, harvest date and choice of equipment to be used by specialist providers, and transport logistics to the plant. They are responsible for ensuring compliance with the specifications, before the vegetable preparation process. Our field supervisors are the link between Bonduelle and its producer partners and play a key role in ensuring application of Bonduelle’s principles. Bonduelle / Registration document 2012-2013 39 CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE CORPORATE SOCIAL CORPORATE COMMENTS FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE ON THE FISCAL YEAR STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Environmental commitments PROTECTING THE SOIL AND BIODIVERSITY SEED SELECTION Soil protection and biodiversity are constant guiding principles of the Optimum seed selection constitutes the genetic lever of Bonduelle’s group’s policies. For Bonduelle, the land is not merely a resource, but pesticide-reduction policy. The group works with national and a habitat for living organisms which must be respected. We also seek international seed producers to identify the varieties with the highest to optimize the protection of crops and aim to reduce pesticide use resistance to disease, water and climate stress using traditional by 20% over three years. cross-cultivation methods. Bonduelle also takes part in testing new varieties to measure their suitability and behavior in different geographies. C. RESULTS AND KEY FIGURES Biodiversity Almost 500 vegetable varieties distributed in the group’s various ranges. 199 varietal collections enabled 942 plant varieties to be observed in 2012-2013. Agronomy workforce 239 employees (full-time equivalent agronomy department employees, including administrative staff, seasonal staff, trainees and those on permanent and fixed-term contracts). Sourcing charter 91% of farmers and suppliers have signed. Farmers and suppliers 54% of farmers and suppliers have been assessed assessed (through a process aimed at carrying out an annual review according to a pre-established grid). Soil analysis 98% of nitrogen fertilizing has been calculated using residual method analysis. Farming intensity 28.7 hectares of vegetables grown by each producer on average. Security network 168 trapping networks. Global Gap * 100% of Bonduelle’s salad production is certified by Global Gap. * Global Gap is a protocol of best agricultural practices that sets the standards that agricultural and horticultural companies worldwide have to meet in terms of food safety, sustainability and quality. D. TOMORROW’S AGRICULTURE The first stage, which is essential for the success of the project, is already underway. It calls for the scope of possibilities to be For Bonduelle, agriculture is a vital link in the prepared vegetables clearly defined, taking into account the diverse geographical, value chain. This is why the group has committed, through its technological and behavioral factors. Three action areas have been VegeGo! program, to favoring environmentally-friendly farming with selected: identifying applicable agronomy practices, determining the goal of protecting the environment while maintaining high levels and formalizing customer expectations and formalizing agri-food of crop productivity and profitability. initiatives that have already been implemented. The “Ecologically Intensive Agriculture” project, which forms part of This project is consistent with the actions undertaken to promote the VegeGo! initiative, is an overall process comprising three stages: sustainable development. New seeding techniques, alternative 1. defining the scope of the project by carrying out an in-depth review mechanical weeding methods, research on optimizing soil activity, of the agronomy possibilities and customer expectations; testing the contribution of mushrooms or bacteria to stimulate plant 2. establishing clear goals that reconcile customer expectations and root systems and protect against parasites, controlled irrigation through agronomy possibilities; capacitive probes, etc. are just some of the increasing number of pilot projects run by Bonduelle and its partners to promote sustainable 3. drawing up action plans designed to achieve these goals. agriculture using natural techniques and control mechanisms that are as close as possible to those occurring naturally in nature. The principles of Ecologically Intensive Agriculture have working widths. This initiative has helped cut tractor passes by been deployed in the region of Murcia (Spain), where Bonduelle half for some operations, leading to 10,000 liters of diesel being grows 18 salad varieties over 142 hectares. To reduce the use saved in 2013. The controlled fertilization plan has allowed us to of pesticides, various solutions have been implemented, such as reduce nitrogen fertilizer volumes and reduce CO2 emissions to insect traps and the use of beneficial micro-organisms that help 392 kg per hectare. Soil restoration and enhancement is also a strengthen plants’ natural defenses. To limit the impact on natural clear area of improvement, involving the application of organic raw resources and reduce our consumption of water and fossil fuels, an materials to maintain soil fertility, crop rotation, summer fallow, etc. investment plan has been implemented with the goal of doubling 40 Bonduelle / Registration document 2012-2013 www.bonduelle.com CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE CORPORATE SOCIAL CORPORATE COMMENTS FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE ON THE FISCAL YEAR STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Environmental commitments In 2009 Bonduelle and its partners began investing in a pilot program Another example of our commitment is the visit in September 2011 for the integrated crop management of field-grown vegetables. The to the Woestyne farm, the birthplace of the Bonduelle Group and initiative is conducted in collaboration with producers’ organizations now operating independently. Woestyne is still operated by members in northern France that supply our facilities in Picardy, the Chambers of the Bonduelle family using innovative farming techniques (direct of Agriculture in that region, Agro-Transfert, the Institut National de seeding under plant cover with intermediate crops, limited use of la Recherche Agronomique (French National Institute for Agricultural pesticide products, etc.) and constantly testing ideas and best Research INRA), the Union interprofessionnelle des légumes en practices to ensure, once again, that the healthiest vegetables are conserves et surgelés (UNILET), and the Fédération régionale contre available to consumers. Bonduelle promotes and develops farming les organismes nuisibles de l’agriculture (French Regional Federation innovations and shares the lessons learned to encourage the most Against Harmful Organisms in Agriculture FREDON), and is being environmentally-friendly practices in the field. run on eight farms. In Russia, the group has launched a test protocol for simplified Bonduelle presented the initial findings of the program, primarily on weed control, at a pilot farm in July 2012. After three years’ work on vegetables and biological pests (adventitious plants, diseases, pests, cultivation techniques, avoiding the use of plowing and encouraging the re-use of the plant cover from the previous crop. This method, known as the strip-till technique, avoids land erosion, limits the use 2 etc.), practical advances enable us to recommend new practices of tools thus helping to reduce fuel consumption, reduces the need to the benefit of the industry and enabling us to produce higher to purchase often costly equipment and, above all, improves soil quality and healthier vegetables for the consumer. The mechanical fertility. A further illustration of Bonduelle’s long-term commitment is tools tested have resulted in the optimization of machines and a the creation and management of a network of approximately forty reduction in certain pesticide treatments. As part of this program, farmers in the Picardy region already applying Strip-Till cultivation Agro-Transfert published a brochure (Le désherbage mécanique des techniques. The goal is to foster interaction and encourage the légumes en région Picardie Mechanical weed control of vegetables implementation of best practices on a much larger scale. in the Picardy region) reporting on this new approach. It will be distributed to all producers in the area. In Canada, mainly on the St. Lawrence Plain, Bonduelle is encouraging the development of environmentally-friendly farming that favors soil and water conservation. Yves Duquet, the group’s Agriculture Manager (Québec Province Section) in Canada and Jocelyn Michon, a Bonduelle producer partner, explain the advantages of this approach. In your opinion, what are the challenges of environmental learn about the benefits of practices that are less harmful to the conservation agriculture? land and the environment. Jocelyn Michon: “Ecologically Intensive Agriculture” (EIA), or What practices does environmental conservation agriculture “conservation agriculture” as we call it here, is about ensuring consist of? both soil quality and protecting natural resources, especially water. J. M.: The basic rule consists of keeping at least 30% of the This cultivation method allows us to meet two key challenges, residue from the old crops on the soil after planting. This therefore one economic and the other environmental. It means producing means that plows cannot be used, as they bury the residue. Some more and better, using less fertilizer and reducing soil compaction practices, such as direct seeding, take this principle even further. by farming machinery – mainly tractors, which consume a lot of The goal with direct seeding is to keep up to 80 to 85% of the diesel – and so on. residues on the surface of the soil. This method helps prevent soil How is the Bonduelle Group helping to develop these new erosion while maintaining a very rich habitat for living organisms cultivation practices? through natural biological activity. Living soil encourages water Yves Duquet: As Jocelyn said, soil conservation is not only an infiltration and high yields. Furthermore, eliminating the plowing organic and environmental issue. It must also allow yields to be phase allows us to cut fuel expenditure by three-quarters and, increased using proven methods that the group promotes to in the long-term when biological activity has been fully restored, its producer partners, mainly on the St. Laurent Plain within a consume half as much fertilizer. This helps to significantly reduce 100-kilometer radius of Montreal. Agricultural conferences also greenhouse gas emissions. give producers the opportunity to share their experiences and Bonduelle / Registration document 2012-2013 41 CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE CORPORATE SOCIAL CORPORATE COMMENTS FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE ON THE FISCAL YEAR STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Environmental commitments 2.3.2 Natural resources With its unique agro-industrial expertise, Bonduelle is keen to strike a balance between high performance and protecting the environment. For more than a decade, the group has implemented a proactive policy to reduce its environmental footprint. The green economy topics presented at the 2012 Rio Conference included some aspects covered by Bonduelle’s environmental strategy: 1 incorporating environmental criteria into the design and production of products and services; 1 discontinuing, over the next few decades, the use of fossil fuels in consumption and production practices; 1 promoting renewable energy; 1 aiming for high quality construction; 1 recycling mineral and material commodities; 1 returning organic matter to the soil for agricultural land. Testing planning tools to incorporate collective targets (including reducing greenhouse gases and consumption of commodities). When assessing the group’s performance in terms of the conditions also affected the group’s performance in terms of preservation of natural resources, two key aspects must natural resources. The summer of 2012 was marked by a drought be taken into account: the change in the group’s geographical in Spain and Italy, while the winter saw heavy rainfall. These poor scope and the characteristics of the last harvest, which can vary conditions were also observed in northern France, where the according to the area in question. As regards its international spring of 2012 was particularly wet, which led to difficulties with growth, in 2011-2012 Bonduelle acquired the agricultural, lifting root vegetables. As a result, the harvest was extended and industrial and commercial assets of the French co-operative the production programs required a substantial change to the group Cecab in Russia and the Hungarian company Kelet-Food. mixes. The purchase of three processing plants and one packaging Overall, taking into account the change of scope, the group’s facility for frozen vegetables belonging to the American firm production in 2012-2013 (metric tons of manufactured product, Allens also provided a major growth channel for Bonduelle’s TMP) increased by around 6.5% compared with the previous year. activities in the United States. This change of scope naturally had an impact on the group’s use of natural resources. The various The integration of new canned and frozen entities will make 2012new entities were trained in reporting and monitoring the group’s 2013 a new benchmark year for measuring plant performance. standard indicators. As well as the widening of its scope, weather A. REMINDER OF OBJECTIVES Environmental challenges Objectives 2012-2013 Highlights 2012-2013 1 Reduce sampling from 1 Reduce energy consumption by 5% per 1 Energy consumption reduced by 2% in 2012-2013* non-renewable resources year between 2011 and 2014 and reduce 1 Water consumption reduced by 4% in 2012-2013 water consumption by 3% per year 1 Launch of two projects in 2012-2013, the first year between 2011 and 2014 of the program: construction of a biomass-fueled 1 Increase the use of renewable 1 Launch five alternative energy projects steam plant near Estrées-Mons (France) and the energy in five years operational re-use of biogas on the Nagyk rös site 1 Control and minimize 1 Recover 80% of ordinary industrial waste (Hungary) discharges into the natural in the period 2012 to 2015 1 Recovery of 76% of ordinary industrial waste environment 1 The eco-design process launched in 2011-2012 1 Understand and manage the 1 Roll out the Guide to Environmental was incorporated into the VegeGo! program overall impact of the group’s Responsibility and develop tools activity on the environment to measure environmental impact and society * The scope and definition of the thermal energy consumption ratio are detailed in Section 2.6.4 Indicators, on page 81. 42 Bonduelle / Registration document 2012-2013 www.bonduelle.com CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE CORPORATE SOCIAL CORPORATE COMMENTS FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE ON THE FISCAL YEAR STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Environmental commitments B. RESOURCES IMPLEMENTED 2. CONTINUALLY IMPROVING PERFORMANCE In order to optimize the use and management of natural resources, Once meter readings have been taken, the management of the Bonduelle Group encourages networking between its plants, natural resources consists of making use of the accumulated business units and central departments. “Operating network” data so as to correct deviations as quickly as possible, drawing meetings are organized for this purpose on an annual basis. These up speciﬁc action plans and fostering topic-based discussions cross-company meetings on energy and the environment provide within the group. the forum for sharing best practices and monitoring the roll-out of Two major initiatives were launched in this area in 2012-2013: the group’s strategic priorities. 1 creation of a Water and Energy Steering Committee at two key The participants vary according to the topic being discussed, plants of the BELL business unit Estrées-Mons frozen foods from equipment operators to subsidiary Technical directors. This and Renescure (France) involving all management with periodic approach is in line with the challenges facing our societies, and more specifically, with issues closely related to the group’s activities, namely, increasingly scarce natural resources, volatile energy prices, reviews to prioritize actions; 1 launch of an energy management process meeting international standard ISO 50001, with the creation of pilot initiatives to assess 2 metrics to measure environmental impact, etc. The method, applied to each field relating to the management of natural resources, consists the implementation methods best suited to Bonduelle’s activity of shifting from short-term management to a longer-term dynamic and assess the effectiveness of the process based on the results vision that ensures industrial and environmental sustainability, as obtained. part of a program deployed in four complementary and consecutive The Estrées-Mons frozen foods plant was granted ISO 50001 level phases: 1 certification (2011 version) in July 2013 (according to standardized 1. measuring in order to set priorities; operation form IND-SE-01, issued through the ministerial order of March 28, 2012). Meanwhile, the Straelen site in Germany carried out 2. continually improving performance; a study on how best to align the necessary means with its activities. 3. anticipating technological and economic constraints; These two initiatives will help define the conditions for deployment on 4. explaining, informing and educating internal stakeholders. the group’s other sites. 1. MEASURING IN ORDER TO SET PRIORITIES In 2012-2013, the amount of investment devoted to protecting The measurement and breakdown of consumption and emissions the environment came to €7.3 million. is the basis of efﬁcient short-term management. To achieve this, Bonduelle has implemented a mapping system with a view to 3. ANTICIPATING TECHNOLOGICAL AND ECONOMIC identifying the areas that consume the most natural resources. CONSTRAINTS This system, which is standardized throughout the group and The development of new, frugal practices and technologies is promotes a benchmark to be used by its various entities, consists an essential part of the Bonduelle Group’s natural resources of implementing specific tools such as the networking of meters, preservation strategy. regularly making use of data and analyzing performance according Its work in 2012-2013 included: to past TMP ratios and the targets set. This approach was applied in 2012-2013 on the Estrées-Mons site in 1 a study prior to the implementation of a tri-generation system at the Reutlingen plant in Germany. Combining an absorption motor France, which drew up a complete map of its water and energy meters with electricity co-generation, this system will be installed in 2013for its frozen vegetable production in order to compile a database of 2014 and will improve the facilities’ overall energy efficiency; historical consumption ratios according to each production type. Meanwhile, the Saint-Mihiel site, also in France, developed 1 the continuation of the program to deploy heat recovery systems based on coolant from refrigerated unit compressors. In 2012monitoring tools designed to supervise the water and electricity used 2013, Bonduelle installed this type of machine at its Santarém by its production lines and optimize the washing process by using (Portugal) plant (generation of hot water for line washing operations just the right amount of natural resources. and reheating of the water supplied to the boiler) and on the French Rosporden site (generation of hot water for heating cloakrooms). Bonduelle / Registration document 2012-2013 43 CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE CORPORATE SOCIAL CORPORATE COMMENTS FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE ON THE FISCAL YEAR STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Environmental commitments To support this ongoing equipment improvement process, Bonduelle 4. EXPLAINING, INFORMING AND EDUCATING has undertaken ambitious research programs on groundbreaking STAKEHOLDERS technology. These programs are derived from the “Frugal Factory The mobilization of every participant is a key factor in ensuring phase 1” project. the success of the natural resources preservation program launched by Bonduelle over a decade ago, which is structured around Energy, Environment and Purchasing networks. The “Frugal Factory phase 1” project was undertaken in partnership with EDF Research & Development and the 1 The Energy network: active over the group’s entire scope, the energy network brings together business unit representatives, Center for Energy and Processes (CEP) of the École des industrial directors, technical Managers, plant directors and Mines de Paris from 2009 to 2011. Supported by the French Purchasing Managers and is coordinated by the group’s Energy Environment and Energy Management Agency (ADEME), the Manager. It encourages the sharing of best practices in terms of “Frugal Factory” initiative set out to analyze the energy-related coordination, management, technology and investment choices. It issues presented by the various technologies (Canned, Frozen, meets once a year. Fresh-cut) used within the group. To begin with, the analysis, carried out on three representative pilot sites, identified 1 The Environment network: also active over the group’s entire possible optimization actions based on proven technological scope, the environment network brings together environmental solutions that are currently being implemented. Secondly, Managers from all sites and, depending on the topic in question, overall “breakthrough” solutions relating to several key stages is open to manufacturing, quality and safety Managers and of our processes underwent concept studies. These solutions plant directors. It meets to discuss sustainable development arose from the implementation of the “energy integration” best practices, investment, waste management, regulatory method. Some of these pre-study phases, carried out in 2011requirements and cross-departmental studies. 2012, led to the development of laboratory or industrial pilots. 1 Appraisal visits are organized across the entire group scope by the Their purpose is to test the reliability of the models developed Energy and Environment Managers or a specialist service provider. by research partners and to try out these models on prototypes These visits are scheduled according to current issues and plant produced by other partner equipment suppliers. Project status requests. Their purpose is to put forward prioritized action plans meetings are scheduled for 2013-2014 to assess the industrial in the field of energy, disseminate group recommendations in the and economic appropriateness on a semi-industrial scale. field, ascertain best practices in order to spread them and provide These forward-looking projects relate mainly to the key thermal support and corporate culture standards for recently-integrated stages of our processes. sites. Overall, around 40 visits were organized in 2012-2013. 1 Internal technical reference guides draw on assessments of the current situation in order to produce recommendations. They The group’s involvement in European projects such as emphasize the efforts made by the teams and provide a document FRISBEE (Food Refrigeration Innovations for Safety, that is ready for operational use and presented at network and consumers’ Benefit, Environmental impact and Energy business unit technical meetings. optimisation along the cold chain in Europe) demonstrates its commitment to environmental issues. Bringing together Various guides have been produced on, for example, boilers, cold 15 research, development and consulting partners, the aim of rooms, drinking water supplies, compressed air and technical FRISBEE is to reduce the environmental impact of the cold chain water management. in Europe by improving food technology, quality and safety. 1 Training: managed by the group’s internal university – the Institut Bonduelle is involved in the process for compiling European Pierre et Benoît Bonduelle –, training programs are offered databases of cold chain profiles observed from the industrial in various fields such as industrial cold optimization, thermal stages (storage of raw materials, production monitoring, optimization of sterilization processes, the management of plant storage of finished products) through to transfer logistics and drinking water supplies and technical water management. storage by the distributor and consumer. 1 Technical seminars: These events are organized by the business units and deal mainly with energy-related issues. 44 Bonduelle / Registration document 2012-2013 www.bonduelle.com CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE CORPORATE SOCIAL CORPORATE COMMENTS FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE ON THE FISCAL YEAR STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Environmental commitments C. REDUCING SAMPLING FROM NON-RENEWABLE RESOURCES ENERGY EFFICIENCY This policy, illustrated by the various initiatives taken in the fields of electricity, gas and steam, achieved the following results: Total energy Electricity Thermal (fossil kWh of electricity kWh of electricity + renewable) Group CSR per TMP per TMP kWh GCV per TMP* 2012-2013 scope 885 355 530 2011-2012 scope 901 343 558 Change in ratios in 2012-2013 versus 2011-2012 Target -2% -5% +3.5% -5% -5% -5% 2 * Three new frozen food operating sites in the USA were integrated at the start of the energy consumption optimization initiative in 2012-2013. The amount invested to save energy in 2012-2013 came to €3.2 million, i.e. 45% of all investment devoted to the management of natural resources. ELECTRICITY WATER CONSUMPTION EFFICIENCY 1 Continuation of the cold room energy consumption optimization Water consumption in 2012-2013 amounted to 12,434,274 m3, program, based on the benchmarking of best practices. The which represented a ratio per metric ton of manufactured product overall freezing cold room energy consumption ratio was stabilized of 11.8 m3/TMP and a 4% reduction from the level observed in in 2012-2013 over the BELL and BAM scope at a value 25% lower 2011-2012. than 6 years ago (2006-2007 base). This represents a saving of 46 GWh, equivalent to the annual consumption of 5,700 French Water people; m3 per metric ton of manufactured 1 Installation of low energy-consuming lights in the refrigerated Group CSR product (TMP) warehouses and packaging rooms of the Canadian plants of Ingersoll, Strathroy and Tecumseh; 2012-2013 11.8 1 Action taken to improve pre-tunnel cooling at the plants recently 2011-2012 12.3 acquired in the United States. Change in ratios in 2012-2013 GAS AND STEAM versus 2011-2012 -4% 1 Injection of steam into the heating processes and sharing of best Target -3% practices between the sites of Ruchocice, Gniewkowo (Poland), Renescure (France) and Saint-Denis (Canada), with audits In 2012-2013, a number of initiatives improved the group’s designed to improve equipment. performance in this area: 1 program to assess treatment technologies for the re-use of water: created in 2012-2013 and piloted by the Saint-Césaire plant (Canada), this program will enter the test phase in 2013-2014; 1 installation on the Santarém site (Portugal) of a hot water station benefiting from heat recovered from ammonia compressors; 1 continuation of water monitoring and management programs: in line with the measurement and definition of management targets, the sites check their consumption ratio on a daily basis in order to identify deviations as quickly as possible. Bonduelle / Registration document 2012-2013 45 CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE CORPORATE SOCIAL CORPORATE COMMENTS FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE ON THE FISCAL YEAR STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Environmental commitments D. INCREASING THE USE OF ALTERNATIVE REDUCING ORGANIC POLLUTION AT SOURCE ENERGY Reducing the amount of waste to be treated allows plants to increase The implementation of alternative solutions in our processes and their treatment capacity, limits purification costs and the production the development of renewable energy sources are two channels of sludge and helps reduce odor emissions caused by organic for improvement with respect to sustainable development. fermentation: 1 improving management practices during the key stages of the ALTERNATIVE SOLUTIONS TO THE USE OF WATER process (Ruchocice plant, Poland) in terms of the production of 1 Renovation of the cold production room at the Saint-Mihiel plant chemical oxygen demand (COD), leading to a reduction in pollution (France) in 2012-2013, switching to air cooling; ratios; 1 Full renovation plan for the Timashevsk plant (Russia), switching to 1 filtering of carrot pulp from the peeling stage (Russy plant, France), dry transport for vegetable conveying. allowing the material to be removed in dry form for animal feed instead of in solubilized form as it enters the water treatment plant. ALTERNATIVE SOLUTIONS TO FOSSIL FUELS The effluent to be treated on exiting the plant thus has a lower COD 1 Purchase of biomass-based steam for the Estrées-Mons site (the organic pollution is dissolved) and contains less suspended (France). Under this project, scheduled for late 2014, one of our matter (particle pollution). partners will build a biomass co-generation boiler near to the plant, which will be able to provide 90% of the plant’s steam CONTINUALLY IMPROVING OUR INDUSTRIAL requirements. The project will also contribute to the creation of a EFFLUENT TREATMENT PRACTICES AND FACILITIES wood-energy system in Picardy; The industrial effluent generated by the plants is treated in the following facilities: 1 Recovery of biogas produced in anaerobic treatment plants. Since 2012-2013, the Nyiregyhaza plant in Hungary has been equipped 1 25 independent ventilated biological treatment plants managed with a methane digester, with the biogas produced being recovered by Bonduelle. 6 sites have a treatment stage using an anaerobic directly to the plant’s boiler; biological reactor (production of biogas); 1 Construction by a specialist company, of a process for the 1 12 plants use urban infrastructures for the full or finishing treatment methanation of agricultural by-products, close to the Bordères of their effluent; plant (France). This project, named EGISOL, is part of a consortium 1 11 production facilities have an agricultural wastewater recycling created in 2011 with the goal of increasing the production of non system, after varying degrees of physical or biological treatment. fossil-based electricity and meeting the objectives of France’s national energy policy. Bordères will provide 40% of the necessary The group’s environment department rigorously control and monitor biomass thanks to its corn by-products. the quality of plant effluent before it is discharged into the natural environment: E. CONTROLLING AND MINIMIZING DISCHARGES 1 85% of wastewater transits through urban wastewater plants or a INTO THE NATURAL ENVIRONMENT Bonduelle treatment plant; 1 12% of effluent is treated using agronomy methods (fertigation, CONTROLLING THE QUALITY OF DRINKING WATER spreading); SUPPLIED IN PLANTS 1 3% of effluent is good quality and is returned directly to the natural Bonduelle is increasing its use of chemical-free technologies, as environment. demonstrated by the initiatives carried out in: In 2012-2013, effluent generated from industrial activities represented 1 Gniewkowo (Poland): construction and activation of a water approximately 24,600 metric tons of biochemical oxygen demand. purification station with 100% organic technology; 99.4% of this amount is treated through operating process controlled 1 Bedford (Canada): project to enhance the reliability of the plant’s directly by Bonduelle (treatment plants and agricultural spreading). water supply distributed by the town with a water purification Wastewater treatment generated around 1,936 metric tons of stage using ozone and UV. biological sludge dry matter (DM) in 2012-2013. The sludge is used for controlled agricultural spreading, compost or methanation. In a drive to reduce the organic load of effluent at source and to reduce waste treatment downstream, production facilities are developing a range of actions. 46 Bonduelle / Registration document 2012-2013 www.bonduelle.com CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE CORPORATE SOCIAL CORPORATE COMMENTS FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE ON THE FISCAL YEAR STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Environmental commitments The activities carried out by our facilities evolve substantially over 1 In 2012-2013, 96% of this tonnage was reused for animal feed, time: tonnages, the types of vegetables handled, industrial processes methanation or standardized composting products (NF 44-051). and so on. The composition of the effluent produced during the Other agricultural uses accounted for the remaining 4%. manufacturing process changes as a result. The treatment plants built on the basis of original circumstances can, over time, suffer INDUSTRIAL WASTE: REDUCING CONSUMPTION capacity shortfalls or see their equipment age, both of which hinder AND IMPROVING THE RECYCLING RATE their efficiency or make them no longer able to adapt to changes In 2012-2013, the group produced 43,802 metric tons of ordinary in regulatory requirements in this field. As Bonduelle manages the industrial waste, equating to a ratio of waste generated per metric vast majority of its effluent treatment processes, the Company is ton of manufactured product of 41.5 kg, a rise of 15% compared with very careful to ensure that its facilities continue to comply with its the previous year. obligations. The actions undertaken on the treatment plants are of Recycling of industrial waste is another key priority, with a target two types: Facility improvements recycling rate of 80% by 2015, to be achieved by selective sorting at source and a specific sourcing policy. 2 1 The facility at the Strathroy plant (Canada) has benefited from a The group’s overall performance in terms of the recovery of energy or complete refurbishment of its ventilation system and the facility at recycling improved in 2012-2013, with a rate of 76% compared with the Russy plant (France) has had its storage and treatment basins 73% in 2011-2012. Our production facilities worldwide are continuing reprofiled; their campaigns to raise employees’ awareness and optimize the efficiency of sorting at source, either internally or by subcontractors. 1 After the rate of activity at Soleal’s plants changed during the 2012 harvest, the Bordères and Labenne treatment plants in In 2012-2013, the group generated 262 metric tons of special France were unable to fulfill the totality of their tasks. A large-scale industrial waste (SIW) (i.e. 0.25 kg/TMP), which was disposed of renovation program was launched in 2012-2013 that includes through a specialized waste management provider. The scheduling studies and the construction of a comprehensive plan with the of disposal operations explains the annual variations in the ratio and support of an external expert. This project is supported by a multitonnage produced (239 metric tons and 0.24 kg/TMP, in 2011-2012). year investment program. In order to anticipate similar situations, A diagnostic process, supervised in France by the group’s Purchasing studies of the same type are underway on various sites. department and an external firm with the goal of identifying economic and organizational synergies in relation to industrial waste management, was carried out on 20 plants in 2012. The resulting The investment made in improving water treatment report was used to streamline the number of service providers and facilities in 2012-2013 amounted to €3.7 million, i.e. 52% treatment processes and thus optimize purchasing and disposal of investment devoted to the environment. costs in order to ensure a greater environmental benefit. Optimization of management principles F. UNDERSTANDING AND MANAGING In addition to investment programs, the plants are drawing up THE OVERALL IMPACT OF THE GROUP’S strategies to improve their management: ACTIVITY ON THE ENVIRONMENT AND SOCIETY 1 development of the separate management of pollution streams INTEGRATING THE GROUP’S INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY at the Gniewkowo plant (Poland) in order to adapt to its various INTO ITS LOCAL ENVIRONMENT outlets: biological treatment facility and agricultural fertilization; Human environment 1 development of new test management methods at the two French plants of Russy-Bémont and Renescure, for the treatment of their Sensitivity to odors, road transport and noise is one of the key issues residual phosphorus content at low operating speeds; facing Bonduelle’s efforts to integrate its plants into their environment. The group addresses this issue in two ways, with each plant director 1 improvement of management practices for coolant systems and managing his or her own action plan to suit local needs as closely boilers applied on the sites of Russy (France) and Gniewkowo as possible: (Poland). 1 investing in technical solutions: improving equipment, optimizing QUALITATIVE RECOVERY OF PLANT BY-PRODUCTS management, implementing additional treatment, applying specific solutions; 1 Bonduelle’s activities generated 576,361 gross metric tons of green waste (GW plant or mushroom by-products) in 2012-2013, 1 opening up to residents by organizing discussion sessions in town equating to a ratio of 546 kg plant matter (PM) per TMP; halls, creating odor monitoring panels comprised of independent volunteer residents, organizing public open days, measuring and Based on the 2011-2012 scope, with five fewer plants, the studying impacts in order to assess complaints objectively. production ratio falls to 470 kg PM/TMP, which represents a 5% increase compared with 2011-2012 (448 kg PM/TMP); Bonduelle / Registration document 2012-2013 47 CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE CORPORATE SOCIAL CORPORATE COMMENTS FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE ON THE FISCAL YEAR STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Environmental commitments Biodiversity APPLICATION OF ARTICLE 75 OF THE GRENELLE ENVIRONMENT LAW FOR THE MEASUREMENT OF GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS PRODUCED In 2012-2013, Bonduelle launched an initiative to identify all of its BY INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITIES (FRANCE) local issues relating to sustainable development. Its implementation Article 75 makes a scope 1 and 2 carbon footprint assessment at group level will allow it to review the current situation and draw mandatory for companies with more than 500 employees. The up suitable action plans to respect biodiversity in the areas where results have been published on Bonduelle’s sustainable development Bonduelle operates. This Toolbox is presented in Section 2.2.5.B of website: this report. The following sites, all of which belong to Bonduelle, are located in 1 Bonduelle Traiteur International = 3,124 TEQ CO2; areas deemed to be biodiversity hotspots: 1 Bonduelle Conserve International = 39,712 TEQ CO2; 1 Mediterranean basin: Santarém, Torre-Pacheco; 1 Bonduelle Surgelé International = 12,309 TEQ CO2. 1 Caucasus; Timashevsk, Novotitarovskaya; VOLUNTARY MEASUREMENT OF THE GROUP’S CARBON AND WATER FOOTPRINTS FOR 2011-2012 SCOPE 1 Cerrado (Brazil): Cristalina. Data collection is based on life cycle analysis (LCA), as described To qualify as a hotspot (source: conservation.org), a region must meet in ISO 14040. Net greenhouse gas emissions for 2011-2012 were two strict criteria: estimated at approximately 1,800,000 TEQ CO2, equivalent to the 1 it must contain at least 1,500 species of vascular plants (with average annual emissions of about 235,000 Europeans (ADEME – vessels through which the water drawn up by their roots is 8.8 TEQ CO2/Western European/year). circulated) and endemics (plants that only exist spontaneously in The stages in the life cycle analysis are as follows: that area), i.e. more than 0.5% of the world’s total; 1 cultivated and purchased food commodities: emissions for 1 it has to have lost at least 70% of its original habitat. production, growing and supply to our production facilities: 42%; COMBATING CLIMATE CHANGE 1 non-food commodities, such as packaging: emissions for production, supply, end-of-life and emissions avoided through reMeasuring the group’s CO2 impact use: 34%; The greenhouse gas emissions produced by the group’s industrial 1 industrial processing: direct and indirect energy emissions relating activity (purchase of fossil energy, refrigerant fluid leaks, electricity to scope 1 and 2 GHG Protocol emissions, and emissions from the consumption) in 2012-2013 amounted to 192,034 TEQ CO2 (metric treatment of ordinary industrial waste: 10%; tons of carbon dioxide equivalent), of which 1.3% originated in refrigerant fluid harmful to the ozone layer, one-third consisted of 1 transport of intermediate and finished products: emissions indirect emissions from electricity and two-thirds consisted of direct generated by inter-site flows and customer deliveries to the fossil fuel emissions. distributor’s warehouse: 13%; GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS EUROPEAN QUOTAS 1 transport of employees and work-related travel: 1%. Directive 2003/87/EC establishing a scheme for greenhouse gas Direct and indirect water consumption calculated in 2011-2012 for emission allowance trading within the European Community applies the manufacture of input materials is estimated at 87,500,000 m3 per to the Bonduelle Group in respect of four sites: Estrées-Mons, Vaulx, year, broken down as follows: Renescure and Russy (France). 1 agricultural production (for food crops): 62%; The quota allocation for the 2008-2012 period is 355,115 TEQ CO2. 1 manufacture of non-food materials, such as packaging: 23%; Annual emissions in the period were: 1 industrial processing: 15%. 1 2008 = 49,460 TEQ CO2; These results were widely presented and commented on during the 1 2009 = 43,473 TEQ CO2; last quarter of 2012 to contributors, sector Managers and employees. 1 2010 = 45,566 TEQ CO2; Management of refrigerant ﬂuid 1 2011 = 47,045 TEQ CO2; 1 The replacement of refrigerant fluid R22 by R134-A, in line with international recommendations on the protection of the 1 2012 = 48,615 TEQ CO2. stratospheric ozone layer, was completed on the FRESH sites of Given the low visibility provided by the EU In terms of the Saint-Mihiel (France) and Straelen (Germany); management of quotas beyond 2013, the stock of excess quotas of almost 121,000 TEQ CO2 was retained. For the 2013-2020 period, 1 At Estrées-Mons (France), the removal of the 170,000 m3 cold under the ETS (Emissions Trading System), two sites were able to room allowed R22 to be replaced with ammonia reduce the power of their boilers thanks to the energy optimization of their processes and thus no longer be subject to the regulation. In 2013, Bonduelle will therefore have only two sites (Estrées-Mons and Renescure) required to comply with European greenhouse gas emissions quotas. 48 Bonduelle / Registration document 2012-2013 www.bonduelle.com CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE CORPORATE SOCIAL CORPORATE COMMENTS FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE ON THE FISCAL YEAR STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Environmental commitments Continuation of energy substitution ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY TO CONSUMERS 1 Saint-Denis (Canada): replacement of fuel oil by natural gas in 2012 Environmental product labeling and conversion of the treatment plant to natural gas, replacing light oil and propane; energy conversion and improved energy In 2011, Bonduelle was one of the pilot volunteer companies as a performance led to a reduction of 6,000 TEQ CO2 per year on this member of ADEPALE in the national initiative in France to inform site, representing a 45% fall in industrial emissions from energy. consumers about the environmental impacts of consumer products through environmental labeling. Currently on hold in France, In 2012-2013, the share of thermal energy supplied by liquid fossil environmental labeling receives much closer attention in the rest of fuels (very low-sulfur heavy fuel oil and domestic fuel oil) was reduced Europe. Bonduelle therefore actively monitors this subject through fivefold compared with 2011-2012 and this year accounted for only the agri-food sector. 1.6% of the group’s thermal energy mix. The share of renewable energy in the thermal energy mix is comprised Eco-responsibility charter of two sources: wood and biogas. It was doubled from the previous year and now accounts for 2.2% of the group’s thermal energy mix. The creation of the eco-responsibility charter is fully integrated into the VegeGo! program. The assessment of the carbon footprint during 2 the design of a new product is an important step in this initiative. The characterization of environmental impacts (mainly greenhouse For the past ten years, Bonduelle has responded to gas emissions at present) is part of the training given to raise the international questionnaire issued by the Carbon awareness among the marketing and development teams. The Disclosure Project (CDP), specifying the main principles by group’s expertise in measuring carbon is sought when assessing which it seeks to combat climate change: new products. Various measurement scenarios were studied in 20121 diversifying its agricultural sourcing regions and its 2013. Once the specifications have been validated by the Eco-team production locations; working group, the test phase can be launched over a pilot scope. 1 implementing an industrial process that reduces its consumption of fossil fuels; 1 offering the consumer product ranges that produce lower greenhouse gas emissions; 1 developing expertise in quantifying the greenhouse gas emissions generated by its processes and products; 1 working in partnership with external process operators. Any provisions for environmental risks are included under Note 24 to the consolidated financial statements. Details of the amount of provisions and guarantees for environmental risks will be given in the 2013-2014 report. Bonduelle / Registration document 2012-2013 49 CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE CORPORATE SOCIAL CORPORATE COMMENTS FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE ON THE FISCAL YEAR STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Environmental commitments BONDUELLE’S MAIN CONSUMPTION AND EMISSIONS Energy: 3,247,707 GJ <1% LPG <1% Fuel (very low sulfur content) Metal cans <1% Biomass 3% Effluent returned directly 1% Domestic fuel oil to the natural environment 1.5% Propane on account of its clean quality 3.3% Steam and biogas 12% Treated via the soil (spreading) 41% Electricity 85% Discharged to biological treatment plant 51% Natural gas Water: 12,434,274 m3 Industrial waste 3% Surface water Plant <0.1% Special industrial waste 22% Urban water 7% Non-hazardous industrial waste 75% Well water 93% Green waste Packaging: 146,140 metric tons CO 2 1.6% Plastic trays Greenhouse gas emissions (industrial) 2.1% Labels and other 2,446 TEQ CO2 From refrigerants 3.6% Lids 68,383 TEQ CO2 From indirect emissions 5.1% Plastic film (electricity) 9.8% Glass jars 121,205 TEQ CO2 From direct emissions (fossil fuels) 20.3% Cardboard 57.6% Metal cans 50 Bonduelle / Registration document 2012-2013 www.bonduelle.com CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE CORPORATE SOCIAL CORPORATE COMMENTS FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE ON THE FISCAL YEAR STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Environmental commitments G. RESULTS AND KEY FIGURES The indicators below were prepared in accordance with our reporting framework, whose main components are summarized in the Methodology note on page 78 of this report. TMP 1,055,837 TMP (metric tons of manufactured products) Water consumption 12,434,274 m3 consumed, i.e. 11.8 m3 per TMP Water sourcing 9,281,434 m3 of well water 2,802,329 m3 of urban water 350,510 m3 of surface water Energy consumption Overall consumption 3,247,707 GJ Electricity: 1,350,776 GJ 2 Natural gas: 1,663,950 GJ Fuel (very low sulfur content): 2,082 GJ Propane: 48,744 GJ LPG: 6,275 GJ Domestic fuel oil: 39,749 GJ Biomass: 29,943 GJ Purchase of steam: 95,213 GJ Biogas: 10,975 GJ Electricity consumption by country: 50% France 24% Canada 13% United States 4% Portugal 3% Poland 2% Hungary 2% Germany 1% Russia 0.5% Brazil Production of ordinary waste 43,802 metric tons, i.e. 41.5 kg/TMP Treatment: Low-impact landfill site: 24% Energy recovery: 4% Recycling: 72% Production of special waste 262 metric tons, i.e. 0.25 kg/TMP Production of green waste 576,361 metric tons, i.e. 546 kg/TMP Use: Agricultural spreading: 3% Animal feed: 77% Energy recovery: 1% Marketable product: 19% Other (compost): 1% Bonduelle / Registration document 2012-2013 51 CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE CORPORATE SOCIAL CORPORATE COMMENTS FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE ON THE FISCAL YEAR STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Environmental commitments Pollution discharge Breakdown of treatment in m³: 85% m3 discharged to treatment plant 10% m3 discharged for spreading after pretreatment 2% m3 discharged directly for spreading on crops 3% m3 discharged as clean effluent Discharge of pollutants and proportion treated: 24,591 metric tons BOD produced at industrial sites 84% of BOD treated at Bonduelle treatment plants 13% of BOD treated by the soil and plant cover (controlled agricultural spreading) 2% of BOD treated at external treatment plants 0.6% discharged into the natural environment in compliance with regulations Biosolids Production of 1,936 metric tons of dry biological sludge Production of 1,591,006 Nm3 of biogas Packaging 146,140 metric tons Breakdown by type of material: Metal cans: 57.6% Cardboard: 20.3% Glass jars: 9.8% Plastic film: 5.1% Lids: 3.6% Plastic trays: 1.6% Labels and other: 2.1% Expenditure for minimizing Wastewater and sludge treatment: €3,777,825 the impact of activities Industrial and green waste: €241,403 on the environment Air and energy: €3,253,175 Greenhouse gas emissions 68,383 TEQ CO2 from indirect emissions (purchase of electricity) (expressed in metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent TEQ CO2) 121,205 TEQ CO2 from direct emissions (purchase of fossil energy, biomass, refrigerant fluid leaks) Emissions of ozone 2,446 TEQ CO2 for R22, R134A, R404A and R422A depleting gas EU GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSION QUOTAS The quota allocation for the 2008-2012 period is 355,115 TEQ CO2. Annual emissions in the period were: 1 2008 = 49,460 TEQ CO2; 1 2009 = 43,473 TEQ CO2; 1 2010 = 45,566 TEQ CO2; 1 2011 = 47,045 TEQ CO2; 1 2012 = 48,615 TEQ CO2. 52 Bonduelle / Registration document 2012-2013 www.bonduelle.com CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE CORPORATE SOCIAL CORPORATE COMMENTS FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE ON THE FISCAL YEAR STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Environmental commitments 2.3.3 Packaging ■ REDUCING QUANTITIES OF PACKAGING MATERIALS Faced with the particular issues presented by natural resources, Waste prevention is a regulatory obligation for packaging design packaging management is based on measuring and monitoring as the basic requirements stipulate that it “must be designed and usage, seeking technical solutions and innovative technologies in manufactured in order to reduce its volume and weight to the strict production processes and raising awareness among internal and minimum necessary to guarantee a sufficient level of hygiene and external operators. security for both the product and the consumer” (2/ Article R. 543For Bonduelle, packaging fulfills multiple functions: 44 of the Environmental Code and European Regulation 1462 EC). Waste prevention is thus an integral part of the design, optimization 1 keeping products fresh; and renovation processes, as illustrated by the following examples: 1 protecting the content against outside contamination; 1 2009-2011 optimization program consisting of assessing the value 1 preserving the nutritional and organoleptic qualities; 1 transporting, grouping and storing products in the best possible of frozen vegetable packaging. This program covered primary packaging (in contact with products), secondary packaging (bulk 2 conditions. product) and tertiary packaging (pallets, transport packaging). The purpose of the program was to optimize frozen vegetable Packaging design must also help to limit food losses and spillages, packaging. It consisted of reviewing the end-of-line process in which can harm the environment in various ways. Each type of order to optimize the fill-up rate and thus reduce the dimensions of packaging is designed for different uses and preservation periods. the boxes used. This re-sizing allows the product to be used as a Canned packaging allows products to be preserved for up to four semi load-bearing item and means that the strength of the boxes years at ambient temperature and vegetables to be consumed can be reduced while improving their end quality. This initiative led throughout the year irrespective of seasonal harvests. Fresh to 155 metric tons of cardboard being saved in France in 2012; packaging, meanwhile, ensures a preservation period of 10 to 14 days and allows green salad to be available throughout the year. 1 Bonduelle has also reduced the dimensions of some products packed in pouches, reducing the area of film per package by 11%; Bonduelle thus uses various types of packaging to ensure the best possible quality for its customers. These include: 1 optimization program consisting of assessing the value of canned goods packaging, launched in 2012. This program relates to 1 steel and aluminum for metal cans; secondary packaging and aims to optimize the wrapping systems 1 glass for jars; (shrink-wrap film, boxes, machinery) through various improvement methods: optimizing the thickness of the batch and unit shrink1 flexible plastic for bags of frozen and fresh vegetables; wrapping films, reducing the dimensions of boxes (trays and 1 rigid plastic for trays of prepared products; cups), improving the wrapping machines so as to reduce the film 1 cardboard for some frozen packaging and all bulk and transport thickness more easily and cut energy consumption; packaging. 1 program to reduce the weight of canned packaging, using two These materials are chosen according to processes, preservation methods: requirements, market convention and their robustness in relation to • an ongoing effort to reduce the wall thickness of metal cans, the product and their use. with the goal of limiting the quantity of steel or aluminum raw material used. This project, which has been underway for a number of years, involves a range of qualification tests designed ■ OVERALL DESIGN to take into account the specific constraints of the various Bonduelle’s goal is to package its vegetables with materials that industrial processes and tools. Bonduelle thus managed to save preserve their organoleptic qualities and preserve them whilst limiting 400 metric tons of metal in Europe between 2009 and 2012, the environmental impact of the packaging. In Europe, the group thus across all ¼ (212 ml) and ½ (425 ml) formats, encourages its marketing departments, sites and suppliers to work a project dedicated to breakthrough innovations that lead to • together to identify the packaging most suited to the product. Its the design and use of innovative packaging with, for example, a approach using purchasing pairs, consisting of technical specialists specific process achieving a 15% reduction in the weight of the and salespeople, allows the best initiatives to be shared and ensures metal used in the two-portion can format. compliance with the regulatory framework. The work undertaken also consists of improving the packaging tools and equipment while optimizing processes in order to limit waste and the use of different materials. Bonduelle / Registration document 2012-2013 53 CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE CORPORATE SOCIAL CORPORATE COMMENTS FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE ON THE FISCAL YEAR STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Environmental commitments ■ ECO-RESPONSIBILITY: COMMITTING ■ MONITORING: ANTICIPATING FUTURE TO AN ONGOING IMPROVEMENT PROCESS TECHNOLOGICAL AND ECONOMIC CONSTRAINTS The eco-responsibility initiative launched in 2011-2012 has been integrated into the VegeGo! program. The monitoring and comparison Bonduelle actively monitors environmentally-friendly packaging, of packaging in identified families is one of the key pillars of ecoexamining all possibilities offered on the market, including materials design processes. Bonduelle is working on establishing internal based on recycled products and bio-sourced materials. The group is ratios for each coordinated product range in order to help its product also working on implementing raw material consumption ratios for development, marketing and sales teams determine the impact of each type of packaging. packaging for the ranges marketed. This initiative will also allow new product designs to focus on using packaging that is necessary and sufficient for their use and to bring about an overall environmental ■ RECYCLING: EXPLAINING, INFORMING AND EDUCATING THE PUBLIC and economic benefit. The group is also committed to recycling which, in addition to prevention, is a means of reducing the environmental impact of packaging. In France, Bonduelle recently decided to implement the Info-tri Point Vert (waste recycling information) pictogram, created by the Éco Emballages organization, on most of its packaging. This pictogram encourages consumers to sort their household waste correctly by indicating how to dispose of the packaging. 54 Bonduelle / Registration document 2012-2013 www.bonduelle.com CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE CORPORATE SOCIAL CORPORATE COMMENTS FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE ON THE FISCAL YEAR STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Environmental commitments 2.3.4 Transport Transporting vegetables to production facilities and ﬁnished products to distribution points is central to Bonduelle’s business. The group is implementing a wide range of projects to optimize ﬂows and reduce the environmental impacts of transport and minimize greenhouse gas emissions. A. OBJECTIVES REMINDER Environmental impact Objectives 2012-2013 Highlights 2012-2013 1 Understand and control 1 Reduce CO2 emissions by 3,000 metric tons 1 Sea highway the impact on climate change 1 1 Extend CO2 emissions metrics to include all subsidiaries 1 Development of combined rail-road Identify and share pilot actions transport 2 1 Optimize logistics and increase the use of alternatives 1 3,057 metric tons of CO2 saved to road transport in 2012-2013, thanks to combined rail-road transport B. RESOURCES IMPLEMENTED PRODUCT TRANSPORT FLOWS AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION AREA Customers Plant Plant Fields Commercial depot Plant Logistics/ packaging Customers centre Plant Plant Upstream agricultural activities : agricultural commodities Inter-site ﬂows: semi-finished products Distribution: finished products Fields AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION AREA Bonduelle / Registration document 2012-2013 55 CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE CORPORATE SOCIAL CORPORATE COMMENTS FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE ON THE FISCAL YEAR STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Environmental commitments Since transport is a particular focus for Bonduelle, it has formed This performance was achieved by intensifying existing combined a Transport and Sustainable Development Committee to monitor rail-road flows, leading to the following additional tonnages being strategy in this area. The members of the Committee include transported: international representatives from sales and marketing, production 1 2,450 metric tons via combined rail-road transport between Northfacilities’ logistics, supply chain, and Purchasing departments, as Picardy and Italy; well as sustainable development officers. 1 1,000 metric tons from North-Picardy to south-eastern France; The Committee is responsible for legislative intelligence in the sector, monitoring the progress of the French Environment Round Table 1 9,000 metric tons between sites in the south of France, North(Grenelle de l’environnement), and researching long-term solutions to Picardy and Belgium; minimize the environmental impact of transport flows. 1 2,900 metric tons from Hungary to North-Picardy and Belgium; It has always been Bonduelle’s policy to locate production facilities 1 1,200 metric tons from North-Picardy and Belgium to Hungary. close to agricultural production areas to optimize product quality, allowing crops to ripen to maturity and reducing the time between Meanwhile, Bonduelle has developed new combined rail-road harvest and processing. The selection criteria for crop-growing areas transport flows between Picardy and Spain, taking advantage of the comprise soil and regional climate, but also proximity to markets. standardization of rail widths in the two countries. In addition to this Careful location of production facilities not only minimizes the good performance, one of the highlights of the year for Bonduelle distance traveled by Bonduelle’s products, but also promotes the was the realization of a project that had been worked on for a number development of local economies. of years: the use of sea highways. Bonduelle goes further and continually looks for new ways to optimize the transport of its products and supplies. One possibility From Zeebrugge to Bilbao via the sea highway. Since being examined is the creation of larger-scale storage infrastructures. April 2013, Bonduelle has been using this innovative solution Logistics sites are also organized by geographical area and are for one load per week. A tractor and trailer depart from the responsible for selecting carriers for distribution to customers group’s heritage Renescure site. The trailer is loaded onto a according to the most appropriate transport options. ship. After a three-day journey, the cargo arrives in Bilbao, In 2008, the group initiated a program of measuring CO2 emissions at where the trailer is hooked up to a Spanish tractor and towed its Bonduelle Conserve International subsidiary (BCI, now integrated to the Bonduelle distribution center in Sesena, near Madrid, into the BELL business unit) to identify opportunities for improvement which serves the whole of Spain. This procedure has two and ways of minimizing our carbon footprint. This pioneering advantages: it is more economical than road transport and it measurement program for the agri-food sector was based on the is more environmentally-friendly as the total CO2 emissions calculation method developed by the ADEME (French Environment produced amount to 1.34 metric ton, compared with 2.44 tons and Energy Management Agency) and approved by an independent by road. The rate of shipments between Zeebrugge and Bilbao firm of experts, Bio Intelligence Service. is expected to be ramped up in 2013-2014. Bonduelle is also examining other possible routes where the same solution could Initially launched for product flows between BCI’s French production be used, such as between Boulogne-sur-Mer and Larvik, 60 km facilities and logistics centers, the emissions measurement program from Oslo, in order to serve Norway, Sweden and Finland. was subsequently extended to all countries in Europe to which finished products are delivered. Progress was achieved by using combined rail-road transport, especially between production facilities In addition to combined rail-road transport, Bonduelle has teamed located in the France South-West and North-Picardy regions. up with two of its long-standing service providers to deploy 44-ton Combined rail-road transport is used for routes between Northloads for all inter-site road transport flows in France. This new system Picardy and south-eastern France and Italy, as well as for flows from follows the official authorization given in France in 2011 permitting Hungary to Germany. this type of trailer to be transported, with the goal of drastically This measurement program is ongoing under the group’s new reducing the number of trucks on the road. organizational structure, which is now comprised of four business units for separate geographical areas. In 2012-2013, the scope C. RESULTS AND KEY FIGURES covers almost all BELL, BDV and FRESH business units. In order to (EXCL. CANADA AND THE UNITED STATES) stimulate the process, the CO2 performance of the BELL business unit is regularly reported on the group’s collaborative platform. CO2 Upstream agricultural transport,15,657 TEQ CO2 In addition to measuring the progress made, the purpose of this emissions savings metric is to allow the results obtained to be shared with other Inter-site,16,716 TEQ CO2 (metric business units and encourage them to develop their own specific, tons) Distribution, 72,941 TEQ CO2 measurable actions that can be integrated into the overall program. i.e. 105,314 TEQ CO2 (excl. Canada) The use of combined rail-road transport has been increased (for Ratio of Upstream agricultural transport, 18 kg CO2 the Hungary-France and Hungary-Belgium routes, for example) to kg of CO2/ emitted/metric ton transported improve our environmental performance. By favoring this alternative metric ton method of transport, Bonduelle exceeded its greenhouse gas emission Inter-site, 20 kg CO2 emitted/metric ton transported reduction targets for 2012-2013. Originally forecast at 3,000 metric Distribution, 75 kg CO2 emitted/metric ton tons, these savings will eventually amount to 3,057 TEQ CO2, thanks transported to combined rail-road transport. 56 Bonduelle / Registration document 2012-2013 www.bonduelle.com CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE CORPORATE SOCIAL CORPORATE COMMENTS FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE ON THE FISCAL YEAR STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Commitments to social responsibility and civil society 2.4 Commitments to social responsibility and civil society Bonduelle’s aim is to be seen as a benchmark, not only for our performance, but also for our responsible approach to our employees, partners, customers and our societal environment. We view our commitments to social responsibility and civil society as essential to the group’s vision and its growth in the long term. BONDUELLE’S IMPACT ON SOCIETY 2 Challenges RESPECT FOR STANDARDS OF BEHAVIOR: ETHICS Workers / Economic partners / Local communities / Company / Consumers 1 Ensure fair marketing and communication 1 Comply with the International Labour Organization’s conventions 1 Commit to the principles of the Global Compact Challenges SAFETY AND WELL-BEING Workers / Economic partners / Local communities / Company / Consumers 1 Control food safety throughout the product life cycle 1 Commit to quality from end to end of the value chain 1 Promote good nutritional practices 1 Offer new recipes to encourage diversity 1 Ensure workers’ safety and protection against illness 1 Promote diversity in the workplace Challenges WEALTH CREATION Workers / Economic partners / Local communities / Company / Consumers 1 Develop local employment 1 Develop economic relations with local suppliers 1 Strive to ensure economic sustainability for partners 1 Ensure customer satisfaction 1 Make products accessible Challenges DEVELOP SKILLS AND KNOWLEDGE Workers / Economic partners / Local communities / Company / Consumers 1 Develop employees’ skills 1 Disseminate best practices along the value chain 1 Inform consumers and raise awareness 1 Establish research programs Bonduelle / Registration document 2012-2013 57 CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE CORPORATE SOCIAL CORPORATE COMMENTS FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE ON THE FISCAL YEAR STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Commitments to social responsibility and civil society 2.4.1 Commitments to social responsibility In the past few years, Bonduelle has continued to strengthen its international presence and increase its global headcount. VegeGo!, the group’s vision to 2025, includes a focus on people, to support the Company’s future growth, through three complementary priorities: our international growth model, the creation of economic value, and the development of human capital, in line with our corporate values. A. OBJECTIVES Social impacts Objectives 2012-2013 Highlights 2012-2013 1 Safety of people 1 Ensure safety at work, with a target of zero work-related 1 The work-related accident frequency rate 1 Developing potential accident fell from 18.76 in 2011-2012 to 11.75 in 1 Diversity 1 Promote our employees’ personal development and 2012-2013 training, conduct career development interviews with all 1 Introduction of the STOP safety procedure personnel 1 Agreements on providence, medical 1 Pursue initiatives aimed at ensuring equality, diversity insurance and profit-sharing and the inclusion of people with disabilities 1 Responsible Economy Trophy gold award 1 Continue actions promoting gender equality 1 Finalize the ethics charter B. RESOURCES IMPLEMENTED ORGANIZATION Social dialog, working conditions, training, diversity, and health Bonduelle’s HR policy is led by the group Human Resources director, and safety, are among the central concerns of the Bonduelle who participates in and contributes to all the group’s strategic Group’s human resources policy, which is founded on the seven decisions. He has a team of four people, with responsibility for: corporate values: integrity, confidence, simplicity, excellence, 1 defining group-wide policies and processes for Personnel development; open-mindedness, fairness and people-minded. The policy revolves around three core priorities: 1 developing and steering programs to enhance key competencies and management; 1 the international growth model, integrating skills development, increasing the internationalization of management and anticipating 1 designing and implementing international communication needs; initiatives, in line with the challenges facing the group and designed to promote sharing and networking; 1 the creation of economic value, through hiring high-potential employees, knowledge and skills transfer, and the management of 1 steering the Bonduelle Group’s compensation and benefits policy, value-creation with quantified targets; and supporting the business units. The group’s Human Resources Division team meets with all the HR 1 the development of human capital, including talent development, cohesion and a shared corporate culture, and embracing teams from the four business units (BAM, BDV, BELL and FRESH) Bonduelle’s corporate goals. during an international seminar, organized twice a year. Bonduelle’s global human resources strategy is presented and the action priorities Bonduelle employs 9,758 people (full-time equivalent), 6,613 of them are identified for each business unit, the business units being in permanent positions. 29% of our workforce is outside Europe, responsible for human resources management within their own scope. 24% in Europe (excl. France) and 47% in France. Monthly coordination meetings between the four business units HR departments and the four group human resources Managers discuss vacant positions and available resources. This policy facilitates mobility for employees between the four business units. The policy is then approved by the Executive Committee * and applied in each business unit, where the human resources contact leads a network of dedicated human resources correspondents. * The Executive Committee comprises the Chief Executive Ofﬁcers of Bonduelle’s business units (or business segments) in Europe and outside of Europe, as well as the group’s Chairman, Chief Financial Ofﬁcer and HR director. The members are: • Christophe Bonduelle, Chairman; • Benoît Bonduelle, Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, Bonduelle Development (BDV); • Pascal Bredeloux, Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, Bonduelle Fresh Europe (FRESH); • Philippe Carreau, Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, Bonduelle Europe Long Life (BELL); • Bruno Rauwel, director of Human Resources; • Grégory Sanson, Chief Financial Ofﬁcer; • Daniel Vielfaure, Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, Bonduelle Americas (BAM). 58 Bonduelle / Registration document 2012-2013 www.bonduelle.com CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE CORPORATE SOCIAL CORPORATE COMMENTS FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE ON THE FISCAL YEAR STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Commitments to social responsibility and civil society SAFETY out STOP at its Renescure, Estrées-Mons (frozen products division), Each and every person working for or with Bonduelle has the right Bordères and Labenne facilities. The feedback from these plants will to a healthy and safe working environment, ensuring their physical, then guide implementation at the business unit’s other French and mental and social well-being and preventing occupational disease. European sites. Training has begun with the Estrées-Mons frozen Bonduelle is committed to maintaining working conditions at the products teams. 15 staff will start behavior observation visits in the highest standards by developing policies to prevent negative impacts manufacturing sector. The “BELL attitude” will be gradually extended on health and working conditions. to other departments in the plant with the aim of reducing the frequency rate to ten in the next fiscal year, and to zero within four In November 2011, the group undertook a review of its safety years. 45 people will be trained in the next six months. organization to redefine responsibilities at all levels of the structure, and launched a large-scale awareness campaign on this vital issue at all its sites worldwide. Moreover, Bonduelle appointed an officer The STOP method (Safety Training Observation Program), with responsibility for safety issues across the group, who attends Executive Committee meetings. developed by DuPont de Nemours, is based on a preventive behavior observation approach. It enables employees to 2 We have established a more robust reporting system with safety integrate the safest working practices into their work culture, included as a mandatory point on the agenda for Executive to optimize safety performance and reduce or eliminate injury Committee meetings, weekly production facility Management and occupational illness. Participants are trained in methods Committee meetings, monthly meetings between the Industrial to provide them with the skills, tools and motivation to work directors of each subsidiary and Production Facility directors, and more safely. They then return to their workplace and pass on the quarterly meetings between subsidiaries’ general management these skills to their co-workers to ensure that safety is the and country Managers. responsibility of everybody, every day. To intensify employees’ commitment to safety, the group’s policy is designed to encourage Managers to include safety performance in SOCIAL DIALOG the criteria determining variable compensation bonuses for operating personnel. Bonduelle promotes an open culture and dialog with people inside the Company, in accordance with its ethics charter, communicated In addition, a safety network was created in May 2012 with site and to directors and officers in 2012-2013 and to be rolled out across the subsidiary representatives. The network’s purpose is to discuss best group in 2013-2014. The group respects the right of its employees practices and priorities for action programs and investment. The to form or join the representative organization of their choice, work also includes a monthly reporting. including trade unions and workers’ organizations, and to be able to participate in collective bargaining negotiations. Bonduelle respects the role and responsibilities of the social partners and is committed to As a result of this new safety network, the group has already negotiating issues of collective interest with them. The group had no recorded significant progress. The accident frequency rate fell labor disputes during the 2012-2013 fiscal year. During this period, from 24.4 in 2010-2011 to 18.76 in 2011-2012 and 11.75 in it signed 41 agreements with employee representative bodies in the 2012-2013. These results reflect the close care and attention countries in which it is present. by Bonduelle to safety issues at all sites around the world, such as in Strathroy (Canada) which has recorded zero accident for The European Works Council (EWC) meets at least once a year for the past five years. a presentation on the group’s strategic direction and a report on the fiscal year just ended in Europe. The French group Works Council is the representative body for Bonduelle’s five product segments in In addition to measures undertaken in the business units, BELL and France (canned, frozen and fresh products and prepared foods). FRESH are set to roll out the STOP (Safety Training Observation The group Works Council provides French employee representative Program) program developed by DuPont. Deploying STOP is as one bodies (47% of the workforce) with additional information, above and of the 22 VegeGo! initiatives. Its target is to achieve zero accident with beyond its legal obligations, on Bonduelle’s activities in Europe and job interruption by 2025. The STOP program draws on the experience outside of Europe. of DuPont, which implemented solutions to achieve an accident-free workplace. Bonduelle Fresh Europe presented the method during The dynamic of social dialog in the Bonduelle Group was illustrated technical training days early in June 2013 in Italy. Employees will be in 2012-2013 by the signature of a number of different agreements: trained to manage and deploy the method at their sites. The business 1 collective agreement establishing supplementary disability unit’s target is to cut the frequency rate by half in the next fiscal year and death benefits. This agreement is in force in France and and to have zero accident within three years. BELL will start rolling standardizes these benefits in the Company; Bonduelle / Registration document 2012-2013 59 CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE CORPORATE SOCIAL CORPORATE COMMENTS FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE ON THE FISCAL YEAR STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Commitments to social responsibility and civil society 1 company agreement on the compulsory group “Medical expenses LOCAL EMPLOYMENT reimbursement” system for all employees. This agreement is in These agreements signed by Bonduelle continue its long tradition of force in France and introduces a single family system. initiatives in this area, including specific actions aimed at seasonal These signatures follow on from the agreements in 2011-2012: workers. The very nature of its business and the rhythm dictated by the harvests mean that the Bonduelle Group employs a large number 1 amendment to the agreement on older workers; of seasonal workers. Seasonal employment accounts for 19% of 1 amendment to the working conditions agreement; all Bonduelle Group’s contracts (full-time equivalent). We develop loyalty through an attractive remuneration policy and employment 1 gender equality agreement; contracts by type of harvest, affording them work that is compatible 1 workplace stress agreement; with other seasonal employment. At some sites, Bonduelle works 1 “Handipol 3” (disability) agreement. with employer groupings to pool skills, provide regular seasonal work and offer specific training, such as a fork-lift truck operator WORKING CONDITIONS qualification. Another aspect of this policy, in the United States and Human resources activity during fiscal year 2012-2013 concentrated Canada, is the provision of good quality accommodation for seasonal on implementing the agreements signed during the prior year. The workers. The group also offers specific video-based training courses objective of the workplace stress agreement negotiated with the for seasonal workers with little or no English. In Italy, for example, social partners in June 2012 is to protect all employees from stress in dedicated programs are run for seasonal workers with limited their jobs (physical stress, aggressive environment, pace of work). It knowledge of the local language, and in Hungary, Bonduelle runs a sets four guidelines: reducing exposure of employees to multiple risk bus service for workers so that they save on the cost of travel to their factors, adapting and fitting workstations, improving overall working place of work. All of these measures help to ensure the loyalty of our conditions and acting to reduce sources of stress, stress-prevention seasonal workers. and training. Efforts to reduce stress take a four-pronged approach: Depending on the employment areas in which its sites are located, 1 building risk awareness; Bonduelle focuses on local employment or opportunities for people from areas with few economic prospects. Hiring procedures focus on 1 integration of prevention modules in workstation technical training; recruiting local employees and Managers, following the example of 1 awareness training for supervisory personnel; Hungary where the majority of employees and management staff are Hungarian (with only two French expatriates). 1 campaigns to increase professionalism for employees working at stressful jobs. SUPPORTING AND DEVELOPING POTENTIAL Bonduelle intends to dedicate 10% of its training budget in France At Bonduelle, we offer our people the support and opportunities to safety-stress in order to reach these objectives. The three-year to develop their potential. Indeed, learning and development are a agreement provides for one or two annual monitoring meetings core priority of the group’s HR policy. For the group to continue its with a report on the outcomes of actions, as well as consultation on international expansion and seize opportunities for growth, it must the basis of the report prepared by the Health, Safety and Working be able to rely on the best skills in each country in which it operates. Conditions Committee at each site. This international vision underpins the group’s HR policy as a whole. The amendment to the working conditions agreement aims to Training is all the more essential as our headcount continues to grow: reinforce awareness and understanding of workplace stress and 9,758 employees in 2012-2013 compared with 8,971 in 2011-2012 psychosocial risks by the Company, employees and representatives, (full-time equivalent). by anticipating risks that may arise in specific situations related Bonduelle’s training policy gives priority to providing support, to work organization (substantial changes to health and safety enhancing safety in all our activities, developing skills, learning about conditions, introduction of new technologies, etc.) and by providing the Bonduelle culture, integration within the group and developing employees with a framework to detect, prevent and deal with possible new talents. The training rate stands at 1.57% (training expenditure cases of workplace stress. as a percentage of payroll) and the average length of training is 23 hours. SALARY AND OVERTIME Bonduelle’s wage policy in all its four business units is based on offering wages in line with the average for the industry, above and beyond the minimum levels in force in each activity sector. 60 Bonduelle / Registration document 2012-2013 www.bonduelle.com CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE CORPORATE SOCIAL CORPORATE COMMENTS FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE ON THE FISCAL YEAR STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Commitments to social responsibility and civil society 1 safety: analyze the causes of accidents, improve workstation Launched in 2002, the group’s university, the Pierre et Benoît safety and improve ergonomics, develop a system of warm-ups Bonduelle Training Institute (IPB), was set up to accelerate before starting work, etc. skills development and the group’s human dimension. It is open to all company employees. DIVERSITY The institute works to achieve three objectives: Employee diversity is important for Bonduelle. It is committed to eliminating all forms of discrimination in the workplace and in 1 share the Company’s values and culture, for example, by employee relations, both direct and indirect. This anti-discrimination organizing “Know your company” seminars and language policy applies to all stages of employment, from hiring through an immersion programs to help new hires to successfully entire career. It is underpinned by programs to promote diversity. integrate into the group’s culture; The group signed a gender equality agreement in 2011-2012, 1 develop know-how and expertise specific to the group’s business segments, such as seaming techniques training modules for the group’s canned food plants; concentrating on four main areas: 1 recruitment; 2 1 working conditions; 1 develop relationship and managerial skills. The most recent program developed by the institute, the Bonduelle Executive 1 actual remuneration; Program, trains Managers to detect and develop new talent 1 balance between work and family responsibilities. in the Company to prepare for the managerial organization of Bonduelle launched an action plan along with this agreement to: the future. A new personal development module was added to the BEP training program in 2012-2013. 1 forge partnerships with schools and/or approved training centers to encourage job applications; The amendment to the strategic and preventive workforce planning 1 produce three guides and a film presenting careers in the Company; agreement, signed in France in 2008 and extended at the end of 1 organize an open day at four industrial sites, targeting students; 2011, provides for assessing foreseeable developments in jobs and the employment market in relation to the Company’s needs, and for 1 analyze job requirements with a view to adapting job frameworks promoting awareness of this agreement with the aim of informing and training; employees and building accountability throughout the organization. 1 analyze training actions required before employees return to work It plays a role in guiding a number of training actions by identifying: after taking parental leave. 1 the need for more personnel, anticipating requirements in terms of Bonduelle continued to increase the number of women in training, retraining, recruitment, etc.; management in 2012-2013 with the appointment of a female Chief 1 declining workforce needs. In addition to natural attrition, some Executive Officer for Brazil, a female Production Manager at the jobs are under threat, and reconversion and training actions, etc. Cristalina (Brazil) site and a female Marketing director in Poland. In need to be anticipated; 2011-2012 the group appointed a female director to head up one of the group’s largest production sites at Renescure in Northern France, 1 stable workforce needs, but with a substantial rate of natural and two female Chief Financial Officers in Poland and Spain. attrition requiring corrective measures to guarantee availability of key resources and skills; Signature of the Handipol 3 (disability) agreement in 2011-2012 is set to further embed existing programs in place for a number of years 1 significant changes to content that call for new skills and with new awareness actions inside the Company and the involvement appropriate training policies. of all employees. In France, the group is committed to: In 2012-2013, the group focused on three major priorities for its 1 increase the percentage of workers with a disability to 6% * or higher; training policy: 1 provide each subsidiary with the appropriate objectives and 1 corporate culture: develop management skills, implement and resources in this area; share values, integrate and support employee development; 1 adopt forward planning measures to deal with possible aptitude 1 business expertise: capitalize on and develop skills (agronomy, issues with a view to promoting long-term employment; industry, quality, supply chain, marketing, sales, product innovations, etc.); 1 take into account the consequences of an aging population at the group’s sites. 1 social responsibility: improve safety and security at work, improve employability; * The percentage of employees with a disability at Bonduelle (permanent staff) went from 7.76% in 2010-2011 to 10.65% in 2011-2012 and to 2.38% (full-time equivalent) in 2012-2013. These ﬁgures do not reﬂect a reduction in the number of workers with a disability employed by Bonduelle, but rather result from a change in the method of calculation: the group uses the deﬁnition of disability set out in French law, which is very speciﬁc in this area, and not the deﬁnition in each of countries where Bonduelle is established. Bonduelle / Registration document 2012-2013 61 CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE CORPORATE SOCIAL CORPORATE COMMENTS FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE ON THE FISCAL YEAR STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Commitments to social responsibility and civil society The Bonduelle Group has embarked on numerous initiatives to In addition, Bonduelle signed an amendment to the 2009 agreement support its disability policy: with its social partners on the employment of older workers highlighting three key principles: forward career planning, development of skills 1 creation of the Disability Mission in the HR department in France, and qualifications and access to training, dissemination of knowledge with a pilot unit in each facility and a group-wide joint monitoring and skills and the development of coaching. Under this agreement, committee; the percentage of older workers over 55 employed by the group was 1 creation of a “Handipol 3” coordinator; due to exceed 11% by December 31, 2012. As at June 30, 2013, the 1 organization of information and awareness-building campaigns for percentage of permanent employees aged over 55 was 14.6%. employees with a disability rating of 10% or more; HUMAN RIGHTS 1 regular communication on actions through the Company Bonduelle complies with international labor laws. It is committed newsletter and the Intranet; to respecting the European charter of fundamental rights in the 1 recruitment on permanent contracts of two employees with a organization. The group also lays particular emphasis on respecting disability at the end of the agreement’s term; and promoting the seven fundamental conventions of the International Labor Organization (ILO): the elimination of discrimination in respect 1 13 permanent employees obtained recognition of their status as workers with disabilities; of employment and occupation, freedom of association and the recognition of the right to collective bargaining, the effective abolition 1 opening up of all accessible positions to people with disabilities; of child labor, and the elimination of forced or compulsory labor. The 1 possible tutoring with the agreement of the disabled employee; majority of countries in which Bonduelle operates as an employer are signatories to these conventions. Bonduelle’s internal commitments 1 training and raising awareness amongst those directly involved in ensure compliance with these conventions, over and above countries’ disability policy on the specific needs of employing people with commitments. The countries that are not signatories are: disabilities; 1 convention No. 135 on workers’ representatives: Belgium, Canada 1 developing a program for trainees from the sheltered employment and the United States; sector. 1 convention No. 98 on the right to organize and collective bargaining: Canada and the United States; Bonduelle won the Responsible Economy Trophy gold award (Trophée d’Or de l’Économie Responsable) in July 2013, in 1 convention No. 87 on freedom of association and protection of the recognition of its policy to integrate workers with disabilities. right to organize: Brazil and the United States; Organized by the Réseau Alliances (northern France) every 1 convention No. 138 on the minimum working age: Canada and the year, the Responsible Economy Trophies reward the efforts of United States; companies that integrate Corporate Social Responsibility into the core of their strategy. In the category of companies with 1 convention No. 111 on discrimination in employment and over 500 employees, the trophy was presented by Pierre De occupation: the United States. Saintignon, vice-President of the Conseil Régional du Nord – All countries in which Bonduelle operates have ratified the following Pas-de-Calais to Christophe Bonduelle, the group’s Chairman, conventions: and to Hélène D’Huyveter, director of the Renescure plant, 1 convention No. 182 on the worst forms of child labor; the pilot for the group’s integration policy. Since 2008, the historic site and cradle of the Bonduelle Group has employed 1 convention No. 105 on the abolition of forced labor. three workers with intellectual disabilities on permanent Under its ethics charter, Bonduelle requires all employees, suppliers contracts. After extensive preparatory work in collaboration and subcontractors to strictly adhere to all laws regulating their with the “Papillons Blancs” Hazebrouck ESAT (French disability activities and working environment. We encourage our subcontractors employment and support agency), a selection procedure was and suppliers to commit to ethical conduct. established by the plant’s Human Resources department, together with training for three Bonduelle liaison employees Bonduelle has been a member of the Global Compact since tasked with facilitating and supporting their integration. This 2003. This United Nations initiative launched in 2000 encourages initiative strengthens ties between the Bonduelle factory at companies to adopt fundamental values according to ten universal Renescure and its environment. The site had 613 employees principles derived from the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, (FTE) including 41 employees with disabilities in 2012. Diversity the International Labor Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental in its labor force, including the integration of employees with Principles and Rights at Work, the Rio Declaration on the Environment disabilities initiated more than five years ago at Renescure, is and Development, and the United Nations Convention Against integral to the group’s CSR strategy. Our approach to integration Corruption. was initially developed at all Bonduelle sites in France where the employment rate of people with disabilities is 8.14%, before being extended throughout the group as a whole. 62 Bonduelle / Registration document 2012-2013 www.bonduelle.com CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE CORPORATE SOCIAL CORPORATE COMMENTS FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE ON THE FISCAL YEAR STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Commitments to social responsibility and civil society C. RESULTS AND KEY FIGURES TOTAL EMPLOYEES 1 6,736 permanents. 1 9,758 on permanent, fixed-term, seasonal and other contracts (FTE). ■ Total employees by type of employment contract and geographical area (full-time equivalent) Europe France excl. France Non-Europe Total Permanent Non-Permanent 3,301 286 1,352 103 1,960 81 6,613 470 2 Seasonal 778 541 577 1,895 Other 268 314 198 780 ■ Total employees by gender, status and geographical area (permanent staff) Europe France excl. France Non-Europe Total Women 1,349 618 683 2,650 Men 1,989 863 1,234 4,086 Executive 675 301 220 1,196 Non-Executive 2,663 1,180 1,697 5,540 Seniority (permanent staff): New hires, in number of contracts: 1 0 to 3 years: 1,530; 1 Permanent: 589; 1 3 to 9 years: 1,571; 1 Fixed-term: 1,095; 1 > 9 years: 3,635. 1 Seasonal: 4,986. Average seniority: 13.29. Workers with a disability (FTE): 232. Bonduelle / Registration document 2012-2013 63 CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE CORPORATE SOCIAL CORPORATE COMMENTS FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE ON THE FISCAL YEAR STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Commitments to social responsibility and civil society TURNOVER Total group turnover: 11.64%*. ■ Departures by type of contract Europe France excl. France Non-Europe Total Due to layoff – Executive 10 6 2 18 Due to a death, retirement, agreed departure, etc. – Executive 13 6 2 21 Executive Due to the employee (resignation, end of probationary period, etc.) – Executive 32 7 7 46 Due to transfer 39 0 2 41 Due to layoff – Non-executive 52 30 242 324 Due to a death, retirement, agreed Nondeparture, etc. – Non-executive 74 66 24 164 executive Due to the employee (resignation, end of probationary period, etc.) – Non-Executive 212 101 592 905 Due to transfer 27 0 6 33 ■ Turnover by gender* Europe France excl. France Non-Europe Total Turnover – Women 7.5% 6.4% 20.4% 10.59% Turnover – Men 6.9% 8.9% 23.3% 12.37% Departures – Women 145 65 213 423 Departures – Men 186 115 412 713 ■ Turnover by age* Europe France excl. France Non-Europe Total Turnover of employees aged under 26 2.1% 2.6% 8.0% 3.90% Turnover of employees between 26-35 1.9% 1.8% 4.4% 2.62% Turnover of employees between 36-45 1.1% 1.8% 3.9% 2.07% Turnover of employees between 46-49 0.2% 0.6% 1.3% 0.59% Turnover of employees 50+ 1.8% 1.0% 4.6% 2.45% Departures of employees under 26 98 59 224 381 Departures of employees between 26-35 89 42 125 256 Departures of employees between 36-45 50 42 110 202 Departures of employees between 46-49 9 13 36 58 Departures of employees 50+ 85 24 130 239 * Scope: departures at the request of the employee, due to death, retirement or agreed departure. 64 Bonduelle / Registration document 2012-2013 www.bonduelle.com CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE CORPORATE SOCIAL CORPORATE COMMENTS FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE ON THE FISCAL YEAR STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Commitments to social responsibility and civil society TRAINING SAFETY CONDITIONS 1 % of gross payroll: 1.57%. 1 Frequency of work-related accidents: 11.75. 1 Number of training hours: 123,795. 1 Work-related accident severity rate: 0.61. 1 Average training duration per individual: 23 hours. 1 Severity rate of Occupational Diseases for France: 1.39. 1 Breakdown of training by gender: 39.08% of women and 60.92% of men. ■ Breakdown of work-related accidents Europe France excl. France Non-Europe Total 2 Women – Frequency rate 17.87 11.31 4.34 12.26 Men – Frequency rate 16.32 11.89 5.22 11.43 Frequency rate 16.95 11.65 4.92 11.75 Women – Number of work-related accidents with lost time 51 17 8 76 Men – Number of work-related accidents with lost time 68 25 18 111 Number of work-related accidents with lost time 119 42 26 187 Women – Severity rate 1.14 0.15 0.60 0.74 Men – Severity rate 0.88 0.49 0.14 0.53 Severity rate 0.99 0.35 0.30 0.61 Women – Number of lost days due to work-related accidents 3,253 226 1,103 4,582 Men – Number of lost days due to work-related accidents 3,668 1,032 495 5,195 Lost days due to work-related accidents 6,921 1,258 1,598 9,777 Europe France excl. France Non-Europe Total Women – Occupational disease severity rate 2.80 N/A N/A 2.80 Men – Occupational disease severity rate 0.43 N/A N/A 0.43 Occupational disease severity rate 1.39 N/A N/A 1.39 Women – Number of lost days for work-related accidents and occupational disease 8,005 N/A N/A 8,005 Men – Number of lost days for work-related accidents and occupational disease 1,780 N/A N/A 1,780 Number of lost days for work-related accidents and occupational disease 9,785 N/A N/A 9,785 Data not available INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING REMUNERATION AND DEVELOPMENT Staff affected by industrial restructuring plans who have received 1 Total remuneration (permanent + fixed-term + seasonal contracts): outplacement support: 454. €241,900,106 (€234,819,248 in 2011-2012). WORK TIME ORGANIZATION 1 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews: 80.45%. 1 Number of hours worked: 15,914,984. 1 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and 1 Absenteeism rate: 4.46%. career development reviews by gender: 87.13% of women and 78.70% of men. Bonduelle / Registration document 2012-2013 65 CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE CORPORATE SOCIAL CORPORATE COMMENTS FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE ON THE FISCAL YEAR STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Commitments to social responsibility and civil society 2.4.2 Commitments to economic partners Integrity, conﬁdence, simplicity, excellence, open-mindedness, fairness and people-minded: these seven fundamental values form the core of the group’s corporate plan, which aims to develop equitable and innovative collaboration with its economic partners. A. OBJECTIVES Social impacts Objectives 2012-2013 Highlights 2012-2013 1 Respect for ethical standards 1 Set up indicators for monitoring 1 Set up indicators to monitor signature by Bonduelle’s of behavior Bonduelle’s suppliers in terms suppliers of the principles of the Global Compact 1 Consumer food safety of CSR commitments 1 Creation of a CSR risk map of Bonduelle’s suppliers B. RESOURCES IMPLEMENTED (3,687, grouped into producer organizations), who are signatories of a particularly rigorous sourcing charter. Bonduelle’s suppliers and THE BONDUELLE GROUP’S PURCHASING POLICY subcontractors must adhere strictly to all legislation regulating their The Bonduelle Group’s commitment to society is illustrated by activities and working environment. Moreover, this purchasing policy its involvement in the value chain: sourcing policy, training and is reflected in the inclusion of CSR criteria in purchasing contracts awareness-building incorporating environmental and social criteria. (either at group level or locally). For foodstuffs, Bonduelle has specific procedures to evaluate and control the relevant health risks. The aim of Bonduelle’s Purchasing department is to contribute to For packaging, it constantly seeks to optimize consumption of raw the group’s long-term growth and development by implementing a materials. purchasing policy according to a defined and consistent quality and a balanced price/quality ratio, by ensuring the resources required ENCOURAGE SUPPLIERS AND SUBCONTRACTORS TO to control product safety and security, financial risks and technical COMMIT TO A SOCIALLY RESPONSIBLE APPROACH requirements. These purchasing principles notably include constant As part of the contractual relation, suppliers undertake to respect research by the sector and competitive intelligence to ensure the principles of the Global Compact (Bonduelle has been a member appropriate market prices. since 2003). This approach is currently being extended across the Purchasing quality policy reflects the group’s overall quality policy group. For example, in 2011-2012, 85% of contracts to purchase according to three key priorities: cans (by quantity) incorporated the principles of the Global Compact (cans account for 40% of all purchases by value). 1 listen to and meet the needs and requirements of internal customers; Purchasing decisions are based on an objective assessment of the reliability and integrity of the supplier or subcontractor, as well as 1 ensure the quality of products and services purchased, in the overall value of their offer relative to both shortand long-term accordance with specifications and regulations; considerations and objectives. Buyers from the group’s Purchasing 1 implement a dynamic continuous improvement process. department, with local contacts for some products, must also take Bonduelle places strong emphasis on its founding values of the importance of their role in the local ecosystem into account. This excellence, open-mindedness and fairness during its purchases of is a core part of Bonduelle’s activities. supplies (metal cans, cardboard boxes and packing wrap, vegetables Relations with suppliers are based on mutual trust, placing people first and ingredients used in its recipes and not grown or produced by and simplicity. Bonduelle is committed to working with its partners the group, energy, animal products, advertising and communication, to guarantee the best economic, qualitative and environmental seeds, etc.), as well as for vegetables grown by our producer partners performance in the long term. 66 Bonduelle / Registration document 2012-2013 www.bonduelle.com CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE CORPORATE SOCIAL CORPORATE COMMENTS FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE ON THE FISCAL YEAR STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Commitments to social responsibility and civil society Although the group’s policy is to source supplies close to centers In all, in the scope as measured for 2012-2013 (excluding Brazil and of consumption, some types of product may have to be sourced Canada), 70% of the purchasing budget is covered by a commitment from countries further afield, in particular, in Africa. In this event, the to the Global Compact. Company selects partners to work with small producers, providing Bonduelle also maps the CSR risks of its suppliers, based on a CSR them with an additional revenue stream to their food producing questionnaire with 23 questions on four topics: activity. Bonduelle’s partners are quality-certified. They support their producers to manage and minimize the use of pesticides. This 1 the Company’s CSR policy; long-term partnership is one way for Bonduelle to make an effective 1 the Company’s CSR commitment; contribution to the local economy. One of its partners, for example, offers its small producers micro-credit solutions to fund such 1 the Company’s commitment to the community; requirements as rental and labor costs, as well as health care for the 1 environmental commitment. employees in its production facilities. To ensure compliance with the production criteria specified by Bonduelle and to support its partners as part of a continuous improvement process, the group ensures a In practical terms, the questionnaire gives Bonduelle information on its suppliers’ commitments pertaining to: 2 permanent or periodic presence by its own employees. 1 commitments to equal opportunity and anti-discrimination; 1 incorporation of the principles of the Global Compact in contracts; HIGHLIGHTS OF THE YEAR Bonduelle adopted new metrics in 2012-2013 to measures its 1 measures undertaken to reduce the supplier’s environmental footprint (reducing energy and water consumption, preventing suppliers’ compliance with the principles of the Global Compact. pollution, reducing waste, promoting recycling, reducing transport These indicators take into account the proportion of suppliers that distances). have embraced the principles of the Global Compact for purchasing. For example: Another highlight of the year was the ethical purchasing charter, taking its inspiration from the group’s ethics charter. Approved by 1 84% of suppliers under contract have signed the principles of the buyers in November 2012, it was signed in spring 2013 by all group Global Compact for the category, purchases stocked in France; buyers. 1 86% of suppliers under contract have signed the principles of the Global Compact for the juices and concentrates product family in France. C. RESULTS AND KEY FIGURES The indicators also incorporate the proportion of revenue represented % SIGNATURE OF THE GLOBAL COMPACT by suppliers who adhere to the principles of the Global Compact: (BASED ON 91% OF THE SCOPE) 1 71% of revenue from purchases stocked in France comes from 1 86% of the purchasing budget relates to framework agreements; suppliers who have signed the principles of the Global Compact; 1 88% of the budget for these framework agreements for which the 1 75% of revenue from the juices and concentrates product family Global Compact has been signed; comes from suppliers who have signed the principles of the Global 1 2% of the budget non-related to the framework agreements for Compact. which the Global Compact was signed. France Hungary Poland Germany % of the purchasing budget related to framework agreements (A) 88% 89% 77% 57% % of these purchases under framework agreements for which the principles of the Global Compact have been signed (B) 88% 97% 84% 54% % of the purchasing budget concerned by framework agreements and for which the principles of the Global Compact have been signed (AxB) 77% 86% 65% 31% % of the purchasing budget not related to framework agreements (C) 12% 11% 23% 43% % of these purchases outside of framework agreements for which the principles of the Global Compact have been signed (D) 0% 0% 22% 8% % of the purchasing budget not related to framework agreements and for which the principles of the Global Compact have been signed (CxD) 0% 0% 5% 3% Proportion of the budget accounted for with commitment to respecting the principles of the Global Compact 77% 86% 70% 34% Bonduelle / Registration document 2012-2013 67 CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE CORPORATE SOCIAL CORPORATE COMMENTS FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE ON THE FISCAL YEAR STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Commitments to social responsibility and civil society 2.4.3 Commitments to civil society The three pillars of the Foundation’s work are: As a responsible corporate citizen, Bonduelle intends to play a full role in current issues in society to promote healthy eating 1 inform and raise awareness, providing practical tools and information on vegetables on its website, www.fondationhabits and conﬁrm its commitment to the communities in which louisbonduelle.org for teachers, health professionals, its facilities operate. journalists and the general public; 1 support research, with a research prize awarded to support ■ PROMOTE LONG-TERM HEALTHY EATING: work on a thesis each year, as well as a prize awarded THE LOUIS BONDUELLE FOUNDATION jointly with the European Childhood Obesity Group. The Created in 2004, the Louis Bonduelle Foundation was born of the Foundation is also the co-founder of the Fondation Coeur et group’s desire to contribute to the debate on healthy eating and to Artères (Healthy Heart and Arteries Foundation), recognized demonstrate its commitment to nutrition. The aim of the Foundation for its work in the public interest; is to contribute to long-term change in eating habits by focusing on 1 initiatives and support on the ground to improve eating vegetables and their benefits. habits, carefully targeted at groups most in need, such The Company’s Louis Bonduelle Foundation has launched an appeal as children or disadvantaged groups, to make sure that for projects every six months since 2007, to support local initiatives vegetables form an important part of a healthy diet. improving eating habits. These appeals, open worldwide, have already resulted in support for 112 projects, with more than 260,000 individual beneficiaries for a total budget of €330,000. Key stages in the history of the Louis Bonduelle Foundation: Similarly, each year since 2005, the Foundation has awarded a 2004-2005 €10,000 research prize for a thesis on a subject related to nutrition, also open to researchers around the world. The Louis Bonduelle 1 Launch of the Foundation in France; Foundation has committed more than €1,160,000 to supporting 1 Launch of Vegetable Day; research. The Foundation’s website features theoretical and practical 1 Launch of the Louis Bonduelle Research Prize; information on changing eating habits. The site is currently available in English, French, Italian and Dutch, with Portuguese and Spanish 1 Launch of the Foundation’s website; due to be added during 2013-2014. 1 Co-founding of the Fondation Coeur et Artères (Healthy Heart and The Louis Bonduelle Foundation is administered by a Board of Arteries Foundation), recognized for its work in the public interest. Directors with seven voluntary members: three independent members chosen for their expertise in the areas in which the foundation works 2005-2006 (Béatrice de Reynal, Nutritionist, Marie-Laure Frelut, Pediatrician and 1 Launch of the Foundation in Italy; Secretary of the European Childhood Obesity Group, Jean-Charles 1 First initiatives to raise awareness of healthy eating amongst Fruchart, President, International Atherosclerosis Society), and four Bonduelle employees; representatives of the Bonduelle Group: Christophe Bonduelle, Chairman of the Louis Bonduelle Foundation and Chairman of the 1 Launch of Les Robins du potager (“Heads of the Vegetable Bonduelle Group, Jean-Bernard Bonduelle, director of External Garden”) for children (aged 9 to 11) in France; Relations and Sustainable Development, Laurence Depezay, 1 Launch of Amici per la Tavola for children (aged 6-12) in Italy. Nutrition Manager, and Christophe Château, director of Corporate Communications and Marketing. 2006-2007 1 Launch of the Foundation in Belgium and the Netherlands; 1 Launch of Het Groente & Fruit Lab in the Netherlands for children aged 4 to 12; 1 Launch of Légumes 2000 (Vegetables 2000) for young adults in France; 1 Nutridor prize awarded to the Foundation for communication of information on nutrition. 68 Bonduelle / Registration document 2012-2013 www.bonduelle.com CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE CORPORATE SOCIAL CORPORATE COMMENTS FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE ON THE FISCAL YEAR STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Commitments to social responsibility and civil society 2007-2008 1 Agreement of a partnership with the French Ministry for Agriculture, 1 First international calls for proposals; Agri-foods and Forests; 1 First Louis Bonduelle Foundation Conference organized in Paris; 1 Launch of the Art and Nature project with the Fédération Nationale des Maisons d’accueil rurales pour personnes âgées in France. 1 Launch in France of initiatives in partnership with the Secours The workshops received the recognition of the French Ministry for populaire français, the Ronde des légumes (Vegetable Round) Agriculture, Agri-foods and Forests, and the project was awarded project for vulnerable groups; the PNA (French National Program for Food) logo; 1 Launch of “5ive” for children (aged 6-12) in Italy. 1 Launch in Italy of Il Gioco di in Orto, an educational game designed to introduce children (aged 6 to 12) to the world of vegetables and 2009-2010 learn how to create a vegetable garden. 1 Launch of the European Childhood Obesity Group and the Louis Bonduelle Research Prize; 1 Extension of the Louis Bonduelle Foundation in France for a period 2012-2013 1 Sixth Louis Bonduelle Foundation Conference, under the 2 of 99 years; patronage of the Minister for Agriculture, Agri-foods and Forests. Three experts, Nicoletta Diasio, Marie Marquis and Claude 1 Lunch-discussion at the European Parliament in Brussels; Fischler, presented new approaches to healthy eating during the 1 Collaboration with Age Platform Europe; pivotal adolescent years; 1 Launch of Orto in Condotta for children (aged 6-14) in Italy. 1 The 2013 Louis Bonduelle research prize was awarded to Filipe de Vadder, University of Lyon 1, for the “Role of soluble edible fiber 2010-2011 and short-chain fatty acids in inducing intestinal gluconeogenesis 1 Launch of the Foundation in Canada; and energy homeostasis”; 1 Conclusion of a partnership with the Fédération Nationale des 1 ECOG and Louis Bonduelle research prize awarded to the Maisons d’accueil rurales pour personnes âgées (Rural retirement Elisabeth Ardelt-Gattinger team (at the University of Salzburg) for homes federation) in France; its work to find a system of measurement for infant obesity using interdisciplinary variables. A second team, led by Hélène Thibault, 1 Foundation recognized by health professionals (1). was recognized for “Improvement of food supply in middle and 2011-2012 high schools of the Aquitaine Region – Southwest of France”; 1 Exhibition and conference at the European Parliament in Brussels 1 Launch of the Gustaterrium project with the Ministry of Agriculture in November 2011 to present the Foundation’s aims and actions. and Agri-foods, for the development of an educational program to The conference was sponsored by MEP Sophie Auconie on “Eat create a portable vegetable garden with children or adults; well to live well?” examining the impact of new eating habits and 1 Stand at the Sustainable Diet and Food Security Conference lifestyles on health; organized in Lille in May 2013 by French, Belgian and British 1 Fifth Louis Bonduelle Foundation Conference entitled “Food and nutrition societies. The Foundation was also present during the Healthy Aging”; Journées Francophones de Nutrition (nutrition days) held in Lyon in December 2012 and at the Regards croisés sur l’obésité 1 Louis Bonduelle Research Prize was awarded to Eloise Remy, at the (Perspectives on Obesity) conference in Wattrelos in June 2013. Centre des sciences du gout et de l’alimentation (Center for Taste The Foundation also prepares information packs to be included and Food Science) at the French National Institute for Agricultural in conference kits, such as during the Nutri-Débat in Paris during Research (INRA) in Dijon, for the study entitled “Factors influencing November 2012, and for the Annual Meeting of the International children’s eating behavior and food preferences”, and to Nathalie Society of Behavioral Nutrition and Physical Activity (Ghent, MICHELS, department of Public Health, University of Ghent in Belgium, May 2013); Belgium for the “Longitudinal Study to assess the influence of stress on eating habits and body composition in primary school 1 Three new scientific case studies, available on the Foundation’s children”; Website; which now has in excess of 50,000 visitors every month: 1 ECOG (European Childhood Obesity Group) and Louis Bonduelle • healthy eating for healthy aging, prizes awarded to the team in the Nutrition department at John • dietary behavior of 11 to 15 year-olds in Europe, Moores University in Liverpool (UK) for its research into the eating dietary magnesium in plants. • habits of children in Liverpool; (1) Opinion Way study conducted in France for the Louis Bonduelle Foundation in October 2009 and again in May 2011. Aided brand awareness up 16 points to 49%. Favorable opinion up 19 points to 100%. Bonduelle / Registration document 2012-2013 69 CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE CORPORATE SOCIAL CORPORATE COMMENTS FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE ON THE FISCAL YEAR STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Commitments to social responsibility and civil society ■ COMMITMENTS TO LOCAL COMMUNITIES through projects aimed at community development and improving living standards, while embracing the specific characteristics of each Reflecting Bonduelle’s ambition to fulfill its commitments to society area. Each location aims to initiate at least one social project with in all countries in which it has a presence, the Foundation regularly local partners. To ensure the success of the program, the group will expands its international reach, which now includes Canada and issue calls for proposals open to all employees. Topics for calls for several European countries. It initiates actions on a national level in projects will include agriculture, sustainable development, disability, these countries, for example: education, eating habits or social actions. Projects may be rolled 1 in France, the Foundation works to raise awareness of healthy out through educational initiatives in schools, activity programs eating amongst disadvantaged groups, in a campaign known as in retirement homes, sponsorship or support for young people in Ronde des legumes (Vegetable Round); difficulty and participation in charitable works. This project continues 1 in Italy, the foundation has turned its attention to children aged 6 to the tradition of initiatives in this area by the group and its entities, 14 to teach them about a balanced diet and where our food comes including food donations, donations to clubs and associations, and from through the Orto in Condotta campaign. organization and participation in events. The Foundation runs its own field initiatives and also provides financial support for local projects. In 2012-2013, it launched two ■ FOOD DONATIONS international calls for proposals. Reduction of food waste is the Bonduelle donated 2,031 metric tons of food in 2012-2013 in France, theme of the second call. Italy, Poland and Hungary, including canned, frozen and prepared In addition to the Foundation’s work, Bonduelle has made participation foods, and fresh-cut salads. in the local life of its local communities a priority under its VegeGo! program. VegeGo! sets a number of complementary objectives: Develop a brand image in line with the group’s values, increasing sites’ and employees’ involvement in the local life of the community 70 Bonduelle / Registration document 2012-2013 www.bonduelle.com CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE CORPORATE SOCIAL CORPORATE COMMENTS FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE ON THE FISCAL YEAR STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Responsibility to consumers 2.5 Responsibility to consumers Being a world reference entails wholeheartedly embracing responsibilities. Bonduelle has created numerous initiatives to help consumers enjoy cooking and eating vegetables. 2.5.1 Quality The Bonduelle Group’s quality policy ensures the Company fulﬁlls its commitment to its customers, individuals and food service companies and is continuously being updated internally as well as with suppliers. 2 A. OBJECTIVES Product-related impacts Objectives 2012-2013 Highlights 2012-2013 1 Consumer food safety 1 Extend the sourcing charter to all fruit 1 49,000 quality control tests on canned goods, and vegetable suppliers 18,000 on frozen foods 1 Reduce the complaints rate 1 Testing of alternative coatings to bisphenol A 1 Maintain certifications and recognition 1 Review of all recipes to decrease or limit the amount by external bodies of additives 1 DNA testing on recipes containing meat products Bonduelle / Registration document 2012-2013 71 CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE CORPORATE SOCIAL CORPORATE COMMENTS FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE ON THE FISCAL YEAR STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Responsibility to consumers B. RESOURCES IMPLEMENTED MANUFACTURING PROCESSES Dozens of quality control inspections are carried out from initial reception to storage of the products, including temperature, bacteriology and weight. Bonduelle’s quality control system provides full traceability from field to dispatch, ensuring we can react swiftly in the event a quality problem is detected. The charts below show the main checks conducted throughout the production process. CANNED AND FROZEN VEGETABLES ✪ ✪ ✪ ✪ 1 VEGETABLE 2 ACCEPTANCE 3 SORTING BY 4 STONE 5 END 6 GRADING 7 BLANCHING SELECTION AT PLANT VENTILATION REMOVAL/ TRIMMING Extra-ﬁne, very ﬁne, Vegetables are brieﬂy AND HARVEST On intake to An air-ﬂow WASHING The tips of ﬁne, etc. Certain plunged into boiling Bonduelle’s the plant, a series system separates An air-ﬂow system the vegetables products pass into water and/or steam partner producers of checks are the denser removes the denser are trimmed perforated cylinders at temperatures harvest and supply conducted on products (seeds) products (such as mechanically when where they are from 70°C to vegetables in the vegetables: from the lighter stones) from the they protrude beyond selected according 100°C. The process accordance with ones (leaves, pods). vegetables. the slots in the to their size. eliminates the gases the Sourcing Charter. • analysis; machines. Washing is an in the vegetables • checking (flavor, essential part of For example, this and tones down color, size, maturity, the preparation process removes overpowering tastes. etc.); process, removing the tips and stalks It also reduces foreign matter of green beans. enzymatic activity • compliance with that could affect speciﬁcations. (soil, dust) and contamination vegetables during from the soil. storage. CANNED VEGETABLES FROZEN VEGETABLES consumption, are destroyed 8 CANNING by heating (several minutes ✪ 8 FREEZING ✪ 11 PACKING The required quantity is placed at +/130°C). This stage also To optimize quality, the core AND STORAGE in the can, in compliance with ensures that the vegetables temperature of the vegetables The packaged vegetables the label. These are extremely are cooked and preserved. is quickly reduced to -18°C are packed in cardboard boxes accurate volumetric and in a matter of minutes. and stored in refrigerated weighing procedures. 12 STORAGE OF From this point, the vegetables warehouses. BLANK CANS are maintained in a controlled 9 JUICING 12 SHIPPING Once cooled, the cans are temperature environment Juice composed of water, salt placed on pallets, then stored of -18°C. The vegetables are dispatched and spices is used in most in warehouses. in refrigerated trucks (-18°C) canned products, giving taste 13 LABELING ✪ 9 BULK STORAGE to the point of sale. and aiding cooking. The vegetables are stored The label provides in refrigerated warehouses 10 SEALING ✪ The cans are hermetically consumers with information on the contents of the can, in special containers. sealed by crimping the body recommendations for use, ✪ 10 WEIGHING AND BAGGING and the base of the can. They weight, composition and The product is weighed and are clamped tightly to ensure nutritional information. divided into bags or boxes. a perfect seal to preserve the The best-before date is printed 14 PACKING vegetables. The best-before on each pack. date is marked on the can. AND STORAGE The labeled cans are stored ✪ 11 STERILIZATION OR APPERTIZATION on pallets in the warehouses. 15 SHIPPING Microorganisms and toxins naturally present in The cans are dispatched vegetables, which could by truck to the point of sale. render the product unﬁt for ✪ Quality control checks 72 Bonduelle / Registration document 2012-2013 www.bonduelle.com CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE CORPORATE SOCIAL CORPORATE COMMENTS FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE ON THE FISCAL YEAR STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Responsibility to consumers READY-TO-USE FRESH VEGETABLES (BAGGED SALADS) AND READY-TO-EAT FRESH VEGETABLES (SEASONED, PREPARED 1 ✪ VEGETABLE SELECTION Bonduelle’s partner producers harvest and supply vegetables in accordance 2 ✪ ACCEPTANCE AT PLANT From this point, the vegetables are maintained in a controlled temperature 2 with the Sourcing Charter. environment at +4°C. Harvesting is a delicate operation for all fragile vegetables, especially salads. On intake to the plant, a series of checks are conducted: • analysis; • checking (flavor, color, size, maturity); • compliance with speciﬁcations. FRESH VEGETABLES PREPARED VEGETABLES 3 CUTTING 7 PACKING ✪ 3 ORDERING AND ✪ 7 WEIGHING AND BAGGING Salads are cut, sorted The bags and trays are RECEPTION The salads are measured and carefully inspected placed in boxes, taking care Seasoned, prepared salads out and weighed in the before they are sent to avoid shocks or crushing have a short shelf life; different types of packaging. for washing. the produce. therefore they are only supplied and produced 8 LABELING ✪ 4 WASHING 8 STORAGE on receipt of the customer The lid is pressured sealed The salad leaves are Before shipping, the products order. and the label afﬁxed giving thoroughly washed to remove are stored for a maximum of the contents, storage and soil and insects, without several hours, at +4°C. ✪ 4 PREPARATION consumption instructions damaging the leaves. Vegetables are rinsed, and the best-before date. ✪ 9 SHIPPING cut, grated and drained. ✪ 5 SPINNING A constant temperature 9 STORAGE OR DRYING of +4°C is maintained ✪ 5 ASSEMBLY Before shipping, the products Excess water is carefully throughout the entire Each recipe has its own are stored for a maximum of removed after washing logistics chain and to ingredients, which are several hours, at +4°C. by draining or ventilation. the point of sale using prepared before the order refrigerated trucks. is produced. ✪ 10 SHIPPING ✪ 6 WEIGHING AND BAGGING A constant temperature The salad is weighed and ✪ 6 MIXING of +4°C is maintained packed in bags or trays. The ingredients for throughout the entire The best-before date is printed the recipe are combined. logistics chain and to on each pack. Bonduelle ensures careful the point of sale using measurement of the refrigerated trucks. ingredients in each recipe so that the end product is well-balanced. Bonduelle / Registration document 2012-2013 73 CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE CORPORATE SOCIAL CORPORATE COMMENTS FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE ON THE FISCAL YEAR STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Responsibility to consumers CONTROLLING PROCESSES on product quality and safety. The current version is IFS V6. BRC The policy implemented by Bonduelle to ensure maximum product (British Retail Consortium): Private standard, owned by the British quality is based on a process and management system under the Retail Consortium, and very similar to the IFS. The current version control of a Quality Manager in each business unit. Working in a is BRC V6); network, these Quality Managers report to a general coordinator 1 4 are FSSC 22000 accredited and four American sites SQF (Safety and meet once a year. Each business unit has a quality plan tailored Quality Food) accredited to their specific technological needs (canned, frozen or fresh food), (Private international standard owned by the Foundation for Food and the requirements particularly regulatory applicable to their Safety Certification, based on ISO 22000 and PAS 220 for food locations. producers). Quality plans are implemented at all production sites, broken down Regular audits are carried out to keep certification up to date: every into three main aspects: incoming quality control of vegetable three years, and every year for IFS, BRC and FSSC. ISO certification commodities and all other supplies, production line quality control, also requires an annual audit. and quality control of end products before dispatch. Bonduelle also The Company’s quality designations also include other specific areas operates a continuous monitoring system. In 2012-2013, almost (“organic”), or client-specific requirements, which are also audited by 49,000 quality control tests were carried out on canned foods and the appropriate accredited external bodies. 18,000 on frozen or prepared products. Moreover, the group is continuing its annual policy of renewing and SOURCING OF COMMODITIES upgrading optical sorters to detect the presence of foreign bodies Sourcing of commodities is central to the group’s Quality policy. Our during the vegetable preparation process. These investments are vegetable producer partners sign a specific charter with the group part of our program to reduce the use of pesticides and to promote guaranteeing compliance with the cultivation specifications for each greener farming methods, which necessarily entail sorting of vegetable species. The third version of this charter, first established vegetables on receipt. in 1996, was published in 2007. A new charter was drafted in 2012Bonduelle undergoes a thorough and rigorous certification process 2013 and will become applicable in 2014. for its production facilities, requiring each one to be at least ISO 9001 As part of our policy of continuous improvement, Bonduelle drew up certified or certified under an equivalent system. In addition to in 2010 a dedicated sourcing charter for suppliers of food products such certification, it also complies with other standards (IFS, BRC) used in the composition of its recipes, but not grown directly or related to its industry, operating regions, or at its clients’ requests indirectly by the group. In addition to signing this charter, the suppliers (McDonald’s, etc.). may be subject to an audit to check their performance and measure 97% of Bonduelle’s production facilities have at least one certification, compliance with their commitments. i.e. 99% of the group’s tonnage. Of our quality-certified facilities, the Bonduelle requires that the suppliers of its vegetables, ingredients majority are certified by several bodies: and products guarantee their quality and picks out a sample from the 1 17 have obtained ISO 9001 certification. supplier once a year to conduct quality tests. In addition, its suppliers (International quality management certification standard delivered in Africa must each have quality process certifications. by an accredited external body. It sets out the requirements for an effective quality management system ensuring that products From January 1, 2015, the use of bisphenol A (BPA) in food comply with the requirements of customers and applicable packaging will be banned under French law. Bonduelle is regulations. The most recent version is ISO 9001 V 2008); unquestionably affected by this regulatory change: BPA is one 1 1 site is ISO 22000-certified. of the materials used in the coatings which protect the inside of (This standard specifies the requirements for food safety its metal packaging from oxidation. For more than three years, management systems and aims to improve customer satisfaction Bonduelle has been working with packaging manufacturers to by effectively controlling food safety hazards); find BPA substitutes in preparation for the regulatory change. Different types of coatings were tested and large batches of 1 34 units are IFS and/or BRC certified. cans were made in 2012-2013 to try out these alternatives. (IFS: Private international food standard, owned by the French The group’s goal is to start the transition during the 2014 Food Retail and Wholesale Federation (FCD Fédération des manufacturing season so as to be compliant with the law as entreprises du commerce et de la distribution) and its German of January 1, 2015. counterpart. The IFS evaluates food product suppliers focusing 74 Bonduelle / Registration document 2012-2013 www.bonduelle.com CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE CORPORATE SOCIAL CORPORATE COMMENTS FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE ON THE FISCAL YEAR STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Responsibility to consumers C. RESULTS AND KEY FIGURES Total quality control personnel 589 employees (full-time equivalent), of which: 8.3% in the subsidiaries’ quality control departments and in the Purchasing department 35.9% in the plants’ quality control departments 40.4% in quality control on the production lines 18.1% in final receiving controls Certiﬁed factories 17 are ISO 9001 certified 1 site is ISO 22000 certified 23 facilities are IFS-certified 4 are FSSC 22000-accredited 2 17 are BRC-certified (British Retail Consortium) 4 are SQF-accredited 9 produce certified “organic” goods Customer services 1 customer services department operates in each country Fruit & vegetable purchasing 78 suppliers have signed the simplified charter (i.e. 32%) 277 phyto and TME analyses carried out, of which 96% were in compliance 44 suppliers have been audited (i.e. 18%) 126 suppliers have been assessed (i.e. 51%) Bonduelle / Registration document 2012-2013 75 CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE CORPORATE SOCIAL CORPORATE COMMENTS FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE ON THE FISCAL YEAR STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Responsibility to consumers 2.5.2 Product composition 1 all new vegetable products developed must meet a number of minimum criteria defined by Visa Santé. and nutritional quality The Visa Santé initiative ensures that Bonduelle offers products Bonduelle constantly endeavors to incorporate sound nutritional whose nutritional quality is carefully controlled, by reducing salt principles and environmentally-friendly practices in its products. content across all product ranges, eliminating palm oil, reducing the In line with this priority and to supplement its quality policy, the fat content in salad dressings, etc. All of the products in the Bonduelle group introduced a product development charter in each of its Group brands were audited (2009 scope). business units, exceeding regulatory requirements. The program’s objectives also include the development of These charters were reviewed during FY 2011-2012. They include a well-thought out, simple, transparent and objective nutritional list of ingredients and additives that Bonduelle has banned from use communication. The group will therefore not put nutritional claims on in its products. For example, Bonduelle’s products do not contain the packaging of “prepared and gourmet” foods. any GMOs in accordance with applicable legislation. Palm oil is no Visa Santé was launched by general management and, in addition longer used in products manufactured or sold by any Bonduelle to the nutrition department, now involves engineers in the quality Group company. department, R&D and subsidiary marketing departments. In all, more Another project initiated during the past fiscal year is also aimed at than 100 employees are involved in this mature, cross-disciplinary reducing or limiting additives used in recipes. Based on the categories project, which constitutes one of the group’s ongoing, day-to-day defined by the program, Bonduelle either bans certain additives or commitments. works to minimize others. All recipes were reviewed in 2012-2013. Guided by the same principles, MARELLE (www.marelleNutritional quality is a key priority for the group. 2008 saw the launch repasequilibres.com) was launched in May 2012 as a tool for planning of Visa Santé, a continuous improvement initiative built around balanced meals and menus in accordance with the recommendations reviewing and optimizing our products. This program demonstrates of the GEMRCN (Groupe d’étude des marchés de restauration Bonduelle’s commitment to having a voluntary and transparent collective et de nutrition French Working Group on institutional communications and marketing code. food service contracts and nutrition) for school catering. These efforts have been recognized by the French Ministry of Agriculture, Visa Santé is organized around four essential points: Agri-Food and Forestry and the logo of the National Food Program 1 a nutritional audit of the Bonduelle product range: the group’s (Programme National pour l’Alimentation PNA) was awarded. nutrition department has prepared a reference framework of Along with Visa Santé and MARELLE, the Mistral Gagnant program nutritional values related to recommendations on the quantity is the third pillar of the nutritional tool box developed by Bonduelle. and quality of salt, sugar and fat content in food. 1,158 products Mistral Gagnant has led to the implementation of Nutrigo, which – from across the range – were analyzed by the group’s nutrition provides Bonduelle’s teams with all the necessary elements for the department to determine if they were in line with the recommended communication of nutritional information. The data, derived mainly nutritional values; from the group’s research, is made available to Bonduelle teams on 1 classification of products into three “nutrition” groups, according an IT platform. to their levels of certain nutrients: • “raw products, that have undergone minimum processing”, Listening to consumers’ expectations is key for Bonduelle. • “lightly cooked vegetables”, Tastes vary from one country to another and from culture • “prepared and gourmet products”; to culture. To be able to satisfy its customers’ greatest expectations, Bonduelle conducts tests relating to both 1 reformulating recipes: the 200 recipes that did not meet the sensory perception and enjoyment, enabling it to select the nutritional standards were reviewed by the development most appealing ingredients and to adjust its recipes. departments in the respective business units; 76 Bonduelle / Registration document 2012-2013 www.bonduelle.com CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE CORPORATE SOCIAL CORPORATE COMMENTS FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE ON THE FISCAL YEAR STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Responsibility to consumers 2.5.3 Consumer information Bonduelle is committed to fighting against food waste. The group offers its consumers different packaging to allow them to make and satisfaction informed decisions based on their household and way of consumption. Practical tips can be found on its sustainable development website, This approach goes hand in hand with the actions undertaken such as regarding the use-by date which applies to all products that to communicate transparently on products and their health could present a health risk after a short time period, and the bestbeneﬁts. In addition to high food quality, pleasure, taste and before date which relates, in particular, to canned goods and frozen Corporate Social Responsibility are fundamental principles for foods. Bonduelle in producing its products. In addition to such tips, Bonduelle participates in specific studies All Bonduelle products provide the consumer information required related to this issue, such as a study conducted at the end of 2012 under European law. To ensure transparency, in 2004 Bonduelle in a school in the city of Lyon. This project provided insights on voluntarily started to add nutritional labeling to its products listing the following items: energy value, amounts of protein, carbohydrate and fat, saturated fatty acids, sugars, dietary fiber and sodium. In 2012how to better understand food waste, particularly vegetables, in school cafeterias and, most importantly, how to describe the waste in both qualitative and quantitative terms as well as the reasons it 2 2013, more than 80% of the Bonduelle Group brand products had was not consumed. This study was conducted in collaboration nutritional labeling. The goal is to reach 100% in 2014. with Bonduelle, the Research Center of the Paul Bocuse Institute All of this information is now mandatory under the European Food (Centre de Recherche de l’Institut Paul Bocuse) and the food service Information Regulation, No. 1169/2011, which became effective on company Elior. December 13, 2011. The general provisions of the regulation will be applicable in 2014. Bonduelle goes further and presents the RDA The “summer 2013” call for proposals by the Louis (Recommended Daily Allowance) of minerals and vitamins on the Bonduelle Foundation addressed the issue of food waste. majority of its containers (size of container permitting) to encourage a This is a major issue as French people throw away an average varied diet and a healthy lifestyle. of 20% of the food that they buy each year, including 7 kg of The Bonduelle Group keeps ahead of the evolving demands of unopened and unconsumed food! This problem can be seen society. For example, it is participating in the national initiative in across the whole of Europe: in Belgium the equivalent of €174 France to inform consumers about the environmental impacts of in food is thrown away per inhabitant each year. In the United consumer products through environmental labeling. Bonduelle is Kingdom, 25% of food purchased is thrown out. This waste one of the volunteer companies in this pilot program as a member not only impacts household budgets, but is harmful to the of ADEPALE. environment. This call for proposals aims to support actions to In each country where it has a presence, Bonduelle’s customer reduce consumer household waste. service departments focus on customer satisfaction, respond to complaints from consumers and feed information back to the Quality In a similar vein, during Veggi’Week, Bonduelle and the Paul Managers. Each label provides a toll free number that customers Bocuse Institute organized a challenge based on food waste at may call at any time to speak to a customer service representative school cafeterias. The program’s objective was to have students whether to make a complaint or request information. in the Culinary and Innovative Master Management Program at the Complaints may relate to such items as the presence of a foreign Paul Bocuse Institute reflect on the following question: “how can object, an uneven proportion of vegetables in a mix, packaging we prevent food waste while promoting the eating of vegetables anomalies, etc. The group has developed a tool to monitor these in cafeterias?” Backed up by Bonduelle’s experts, the students complaints at an international level so that it may implement the constructed a program of strategic and operational recommendations necessary corrective measures as soon as possible. for cafeterias. The goal is both nutritional and environmental: to improve children’s nutritional balance by encouraging them to eat The issue relating to the use of horse meat as a substitute vegetables, to help school cafeteria cooks to prevent waste and for beef in prepared dishes did not in any way concern to raise awareness among everyone involved of the environmental Bonduelle, whose business and products are for the most impacts of certain behaviors. part vegetable-based. Nevertheless, conscious of the ethical, commercial and food safety concerns, the group decided to test and screen for DNA the recipes including meat additives: fried bacon, poultry pieces, etc. These tests did not reveal any anomalies. This period in which legal issues (fraudulent food labeling) came to the fore, has given the group the opportunity to demonstrate the quality of its production chain which is based on the use of reliable and regularly audited partners. Bonduelle / Registration document 2012-2013 77 CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE CORPORATE SOCIAL CORPORATE COMMENTS FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE ON THE FISCAL YEAR STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION CSR Reporting: note on methodology 2.6 CSR Reporting: note on methodology 2.6.1 Context and objectives The primary aim of comprehensive reporting is to enable the group to enhance sustainability management. With this in mind, the findings The analysis of Bonduelle’s sustainable development performance is are analyzed by the Sustainable Development Steering Committee reported annually in this registration document. and the Bonduelle Executive Committee to determine the objectives for the following year. Bonduelle set out its commitment to progress in sustainable development in 2002-2003, using a traditional phase-based project The 2012-2013 registration document was prepared in accordance management methodology: with the level B+ requirements of the GRI and Article 225 of the French Grenelle II law of July 12, 2010. 1 phase 1: set and validate objectives and communicate these throughout the organization; The GRI association verified the registration document (version 3.1 of the GRI Food Sector Supplement its certificate can be found on 1 phase 2: implement progress plans to achieve these objectives; page 31). 1 phase 3: measure and monitor the results. Relevant Managers For this fiscal year, the audit firm Deloitte, Joint Statutory Auditors, have drawn up lists of indicators for Bonduelle’s sustainable also verified the Corporate Social Responsibility report, the reporting development priority areas, in association with their exchange procedures and a selection of indicators, to meet the certification networks and approved by the operating departments. These requirement of the Grenelle II law, and to provide an external indicators have been chosen on the basis of a combination verification of the reliability of the reporting, as required in order to of Bonduelle’s sustainable development commitments and obtain a B+ rating (see the assurance report on page 84). GRI version 3 guidelines, and have led to the development of Bonduelle’s own reporting guidelines. Since 2011, Bonduelle has brought together a panel of stakeholders each year to review the group’s CSR communication and reporting. 2.6.2 Procedures This initiative led the group to set itself the target of improving The group’s director of Sustainable Development is responsible for reporting and obtaining the GRI B+ application level in 2012. In oversight of reporting, in addition to the Managers of the five areas 2013 the group examined its priority commitments in light of its concerned (transport, quality-nutrition, agriculture, natural resources, stakeholders’ expectations. Based on the feedback from regular dialog People and safety). (2.2.5 External commitments Section B Dialog with stakeholders, p. 32) through consumer surveys, attention to the requests of A multi-lingual guide, available in seven languages and uniformly distributor clients and stakeholder panels (4.1.7 Highlights, p. 116), applied throughout the group, includes indicators that have been Bonduelle redefined its challenges and priority commitments during retained in accordance with the requirements of the GRI (Global an in-house seminar attended by delegates from across the group. Reporting Initiative) and the Grenelle law, specific issues related to Each challenge considered to be relevant in light of the group’s the Bonduelle Group’s business and requests made by stakeholders. business and location was assessed according to its importance for The data is collected annually by the correspondents on the sites stakeholders, the Company and Bonduelle’s vision to 2025, defined and in the subsidiaries. The group’s management consolidation in the VegeGo! program. The priority actions fundamental to the department checks and consolidates this data. group’s approach were redefined and a new pillar added, bringing the total number to six. Since 2011-2012, the data has been collected via the group’s Intranet exchange platform, “e-space”. The following data-collection tools Stakeholder engagement and dialog is essential to inform Bonduelle’s are available on the platform: dynamic CSR strategy. Tools are provided to business units to facilitate consultation with local stakeholders. 1 a reporting matrix (Excel table); The group has issued a review of operations and sustainable 1 the guidelines defining the reporting indicators (available in the development report since 2002-2003, based on the fiscal year, correspondent’s language). namely this year from July 1, 2012 to June 30, 2013. The indicators As part of the commitment to continuous improvement, the guidelines published in the registration document cover the year just ended. were compiled into a common structure: name of indicator, indicator’s objectives, scope, unit, definition and calculation rules. For quality and natural resources, consistency checks are performed at several levels: plant, business unit, group, and field head: 78 Bonduelle / Registration document 2012-2013 www.bonduelle.com CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE CORPORATE SOCIAL CORPORATE COMMENTS FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE ON THE FISCAL YEAR STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION CSR Reporting: note on methodology ■ SITE LEVEL refrigerated transport) by road (truck), rail or sea freight, but does not take into account truck manufacture and depreciation. The correspondent who collects the indicators performs consistency checks using historical information (current year’s result versus The assumptions used are: previous year). 1 road transport: The maximum payload for trucks is taken to be For certain indicators, the site’s management control is also involved 25 metric tons for a 40-metric ton road tractor and 28 metric tons in the data collection and validates the indicators. for a 44-metric ton vehicle, with the following two exceptions: for upstream agricultural activities, the maximum payload was taken The plant director has responsibility for the collected data. as the maximum vegetable tonnage transportable, according to the density and crush resistance of the produce, for refrigerated ■ BUSINESS UNIT LEVEL transport, a maximum useful payload of 22.5 metric tons was used to take account of the weight of the refrigeration system; for The business unit’s management control performs consistency checks for all of the business unit’s sites. distribution, 21% was taken as the rate of unladen return (the part of the run when the vehicle is empty); 2 1 sea transport: for inter-continental ocean transport, we took ■ GROUP LEVEL an average tanker for which the Ecoinvent database gives the The group’s Management Consolidation department consolidates emission factor, for other transport, Bonduelle uses roll-on/roll-off and checks the consistency of the group’s data. Specialist experts vessels (ADEME emission factor); also check the consistency of the indicators relating to their area of 1 rail transport: for countries in Europe (France, Germany, Belgium, expertise across all sites. Spain, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Portugal and the The group’s Sustainable Development Steering Committee validates United Kingdom), it was assumed that rail transport is powered by all of the (group-level) indicators in September. electricity, for other countries, we assumed that trains are powered mainly by diesel. For upstream agricultural activities, reporting is performed by production area (France North-Picardy; France South-West; Fresh The in-house tools used for social reporting are: Europe; Hungary; Poland; Russia; Portugal; Quebec; Ontario; USA). 1 database tools: COGNOS; The Agriculture Managers of these areas are responsible for ensuring that the data is reported. Each production area performs consistency 1 training management tool: FOEDERIS; checks prior to the group-level controls (Management Consolidation 1 payment platforms: ARCOLE, HOROQUARTZ, CEGID, ADP GSI. department and specialist experts). CSR reporting involves approximately 200 correspondents in various Supply chain services conduct the reporting on transportation. Each roles across the group’s production facilities: quality control experts, subsidiary verifies its indicators before they are consolidated by the environmental experts, supply chain, etc. To facilitate communication, group (management control + specialist experts). a newsletter has been launched to keep this correspondents’ “network” up to date on reporting issues and current events in Reporting data for People and safety are provided by the human sustainable development. The goal is to create a virtual community resources contacts at each site for consolidation and validation by on the group’s new Google tool in order to improve the sharing of the Managers of the three areas, France, Europe excluding France documents and best practices. and Non-Europe. The data is then further consolidated by the People and safety Manager. ■ THE IN-HOUSE REPORTING TOOLS 2.6.3 Scope The Bonduelle Group chooses its indicators according to the group’s Sustainable development reporting extends to all Bonduelle Group specificities and business, allowing it to have a reporting matrix sites and business units (see 1.6 Group organization structure on comprised primarily of operating indicators. For example, in natural page 14). The reporting scope is governed by the following rules: resources, energy consumption is monitored weekly and waste 1 new sites and business units acquired during the fiscal year ended production is monitored monthly. will be included within the scope for the following year; The supply chain use the database tool COGNOS for transportation 1 sites and business units either disposed of or no longer in operation reporting. during the year ended are excluded from the scope for the entire The method for computing greenhouse gas emissions was period, to enable comparability of results; developed in partnership with ADEME (French Environment and 1 equity affiliates (see Note 31 of Section 5.5 Notes to the annual Energy Management Agency) in 2009-2010, based on the carbon consolidated financial statements on page 176). List of group footprint calculator, Bilan Carbone© V-6 2010. It was reviewed by companies) are excluded from the scope. Their activities are Bio intelligence service in 2011. The calculation covers the transport reported as external purchasing; of goods (fuel combustion and consumption of refrigerants for Bonduelle / Registration document 2012-2013 79 CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE CORPORATE SOCIAL CORPORATE COMMENTS FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE ON THE FISCAL YEAR STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION CSR Reporting: note on methodology 1 logistic centers are also excluded from the reporting scope, with The following changes to the scope took place during the 2012the exception of transport, and People and safety; 2013 year: 1 the registered offices of fully consolidated companies (see The new production facilities in the United States: Bergen, Oakfield, Note 31 of Section 5.5 Notes to the annual consolidated financial Brockport and Fairwater, Timashevsk (Russia) and Nyiregyhaza statements on page 176). List of group companies) are excluded (Hungary) were included in the reporting scope in 2012-2013. from the scope, with the exception of People and safety. The scope is presented on page 14 (1.6 Group organization structure). Transport has been included in Bonduelle’s sustainable development strategy since 2007-2008. Data will be added to group-wide data on a gradual basis. Accordingly, the operational scope of reporting for transport in 2012-2013 is defined as: Frozen Canned Mushroom Fresh Prepared Canada Upstream France North-Picardy Hungary Mushroom picking France France agricultural France South-West France North-Picardy Saumur (France) region Italy activities France South-West Germany Inter-sites France Hungary France France France Poland France North-Picardy Poland Italy Portugal France South-West Germany Distribution France France Poland France France Spain Europe France Italy Italy Russia Belgium Germany Benelux Brazil Spain Germany/Austria Export Italy Germany Since 2011-2012, the canned goods supply chain has added the ■ DESCRIPTION OF INDICATORS VERIFIED upstream agricultural activities in Hungary as well as the new plant BY DELOITTE there. For frozen foods distribution, the supply chain has added Italy, HUMAN RESOURCES INDICATORS Benelux and Germany/Austria to its reporting. The scope remains unchanged for other technologies. Total employees by type of employment contract, age and geographical area (full-time equivalent) For upstream agricultural activities, the production areas that have carried out the reporting are: SCOPE Includes permanent staff (open-ended contracts), temporary staff (fixedFrance North-Picardy; France South-West; Fresh Europe; Hungary; term contracts) and seasonal and other (trainees and external workers). Poland; Russia; Portugal; Quebec; Ontario. Only the plant in Fairwater, USA is included in the agronomy segment (the other plants Scope includes France, Europe (excluding France) and Non-Europe. only make purchases). The “agriculture” reporting procedure has not yet been set up here and we are allowing the site the time necessary Hiring during the ﬁscal year to put in place appropriate structures in order to ensure the reliability SCOPE of data. Includes permanent staff (open-ended contracts) and temporary staff (fixed-term contracts). Scope includes France, Europe (excluding France) and Non-Europe. 2.6.4 Indicators DEFINITION The quantitative reporting indicators are found on page 242 Number of hires (8.4 Cross-reference tables). In addition, a cross-reference table lists Number of individuals having their start date falling within the the GRI indicators and their correlation to the Grenelle initiatives. reference fiscal year. The following cases are not included in the indicator: 1 employees on fixed-term contracts who have been offered permanent contracts; 1 renewal of fixed-term contracts; 1 intra-group transfers of employees requiring a new work contract; 1 returns after extended leave of absences. 80 Bonduelle / Registration document 2012-2013 www.bonduelle.com CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE CORPORATE SOCIAL CORPORATE COMMENTS FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE ON THE FISCAL YEAR STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION CSR Reporting: note on methodology Departures and Transfers DEFINITION SCOPE Number of days lost as a result of work-related accidents per million hours worked. Days lost which relate to accidents that occurred Includes permanent staff (open-ended contracts), temporary staff prior to the fiscal year (before July 1, 2012) and which continue into (fixed-term contracts) and seasonal and other (trainees and external the subsequent fiscal year are included in the calculation. Figures workers). concern calendar days. Lost time occurring after the end of a Scope includes France, Europe (excluding France), Non-Europe. contract is not included. Takes into account departures: Number of training hours (hours) 1 at the employee’s request (resignations); SCOPE 1 at the employer’s request (layoffs); Includes permanent staff (open-ended contracts), temporary staff 1 due to death, retirement or agreed departures; 1 due to transfer to another group company. (fixed-term contracts) and seasonal workers. DEFINITION 2 Continuing Professional Development Turnover Gaining and developing knowledge and skills within one’s professional SCOPE activity. Work-study contracts are considered to be continuing Includes permanent staff (open-ended contracts), temporary staff professional development. (fixed-term contracts) , seasonal and external workers (trainees and To be considered as training, the session must be at least four external workers). hours long (continuous or not). DEFINITION NATURAL RESOURCES INDICATORS Turnover is calculated by dividing the total workforce by the number of departures (at the request of the employee, due to death, retirement Indicators are the result of quantitative measurements (invoices, or agreed departure), expressed as full-time equivalents (FTE). weight, meter readings, etc.). If no direct quantitative measure is available, data may be estimated according to calculation rules duly Absenteeism rate described and validated by the production facilities. SCOPE Subcontractors’ energy consumption, such as the boiler operators, is Includes permanent staff (open-ended contracts), temporary staff included in the volume of gas consumed by the relevant production (fixed-term contracts) and seasonal and other (trainees and external sites, and not in the volume of steam consumed by the plant. workers). Renewable energies (for example, the biogas produced on site or close by) consumed by on-site boilers are included along with fossil DEFINITION fuels. Percentage of the hours of absence for a work accident, a commuting accident, occupational sickness, unjustified or unpaid absence Thermal energy consumption rate justified at the last minute (authorized or unpaid absence) based on the number of theoretical hours worked during the given period. SCOPE Consumption of natural gas, which is the chief energy source used Frequency of work-related accidents in our industrial processes, plus the major energy source for sites not supplied with natural gas (very low sulfur content fuel, propane and SCOPE steam purchases). Includes permanent staff (open-ended contracts), temporary staff (fixed-term contracts) and seasonal workers. DEFINITION The consumption of natural gas, steam purchases, bio gas recovered DEFINITION for boiler, propane at the Saint-Benoist site, very low sulfur content Number of work-related accidents during the fiscal year leading to at fuel at the Saint-Denis site (expressed in Megawatt Hour Gross least one full day off work per million hours worked. Calorific Value), divided by the tonnage of manufactured product for the scope. Severity rate of work-related accidents SCOPE Water usage and sourcing (m3) Includes permanent staff (open-ended contracts), temporary staff SCOPE (fixed-term contracts) and seasonal and other (trainees and external Drilling water. workers). Surface water. Drinking water distribution network. Bonduelle / Registration document 2012-2013 81 CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE CORPORATE SOCIAL CORPORATE COMMENTS FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE ON THE FISCAL YEAR STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION CSR Reporting: note on methodology Quantity of pollution generated and treated at the Electricity consumption in Megawatt Hour (MWh) production facility in metric tons of Biological Oxygen SCOPE Demand (TBOD) produced and TBOD treated All consumption at the production facility is included: production, SCOPE storage, treatment plant, etc. This consumption corresponds to the 1 BOD treated at Bonduelle’s treatment facility; total invoiced at the facility. 1 BOD treated by the soil and plant cover (controlled agricultural spreading); Natural gas consumption in MWh Gross Caloriﬁc Value (GCV) SCOPE 1 BOD treated at external treatment facilities; The total consumption of natural gas expressed as MWh. 1 Discharge into the natural environment in compliance with regulations. Metric tons of packaging used and packaging type (T/yr) DEFINITION SCOPE BOD: Biological Oxygen Demand. When measured BOD data is Primary, secondary and tertiary packaging of goods supplied during unavailable, BOD is estimated using Chemical Oxygen Demand the fiscal year. (COD) measurements and a proportionality factor selected for each Packaging used in production is excluded from the scope. plant. In the event that such factors are unavailable, a ratio of two is used upstream of treatment plants and five downstream (Bonduelle TYPE OF PACKAGING expert data). Primary packaging: packaging in contact with the goods (boxes, plastic films, plastic trays, bags, cans, etc.). Generation of “green waste” and recycling (gross metric tons/year) Secondary packaging: bulk boxes used in palletization. SCOPE Tertiary packaging: plastic films for palletization and transport. Tonnage weighed upon exiting from plant (gross weight) or where Greenhouse gas emissions directly related to plants a weighing is not possible, calculated according to a rule to be (expressed in metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent established by each plant. TEQ CO2) Generation and recovery of ordinary industrial waste (OIW) SCOPE (gross metric tons/year) Emissions related to the consumption of fossil fuels, electricity and SCOPE burning biomass at the production facilities. Tonnage = gross weight invoiced by the service providers for the DEFINITION fiscal year. Conversion of total quantities of energy consumed at the facilities DEFINITION using the corresponding ADEME emissions factors, except in the case of Canada for which more detailed emission factors by state OIW = non-hazardous industrial waster as classified under European have been used (source: Environnement Canada). waste terminology, with disposal carried out by companies licensed to process waste. For example, paper, cardboard, wood, plastic, Greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) directly related glass, food oils, discarded food, factory rejects, etc. to transporting our goods (TEQ CO2) Generation of special industrial waste (SIW) (kg/year) SCOPE SCOPE Direct emissions during the transport of goods. Tonnage = gross weight invoiced by the service providers removing Variable scope in relation to the subsidiary. the special industrial waste during the fiscal year. As a minimum: DEFINITION 1 inter-site transport: between Bonduelle plants; SIW definition: environmentally-hazardous industrial waste as 1 distribution transport: from Bonduelle plants to our customers. classified under European waste terminology, with disposal carried out by companies licensed to process special waste. For example, DEFINITION technical oils and greases, solvents, barrels of chemical products, The methodology used was developed in partnership with ADEME in medical waste, neon, ink cartridges, etc. 2010 and approved by Bio Intelligence Service in 2011. 82 Bonduelle / Registration document 2012-2013 www.bonduelle.com CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE CORPORATE SOCIAL CORPORATE COMMENTS FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE ON THE FISCAL YEAR STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION CSR Reporting: note on methodology 2.6.5 2013 reporting schedule Date Action department March Update of the reporting matrix incorporating the requirements Area Managers and reporting coordinator of GSI and Article 225 of the Grenelle law D Indicators April Update of definition guidelines Area Managers and reporting coordinator May Review of definition guidelines by Deloitte Deloitte April Translation of reference frameworks and data-collection tools Reporting coordinator June and update Transmission of data-collection tools to the reporting Reporting coordinator 2 correspondents July Gathering and escalation of information Subsidiary sites/areas to the subsidiary coordinator August Escalation of information Subsidiary coordinator to group management control August Consolidation at group level by area and validation of Group management control to area Managers consolidation August Reporting audits at the production facilities Production facilities audited and Deloitte September Audit of the group consolidation Group management control and Deloitte September Meetings with area Managers: audit of the Sustainable Area Managers and Deloitte Development Policy September Review of the registration document for GRI certification and GRI & Deloitte regulatory compliance with the Grenelle law September Validation of the registration document and detailed Area Managers to group communications and group management charts management control For all questions relating to the content of this report, please contact: www.developpement_durable@bonduelle.com. The most recent published sustainable development report is included in the Bonduelle Group’s registration document, available on www.bonduelle.com as of October 25, 2012. Bonduelle / Registration document 2012-2013 83 CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE CORPORATE SOCIAL CORPORATE COMMENTS FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE ON THE FISCAL YEAR STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION CSR Reporting: note on methodology 2.6.6 Assurance Report 1. ATTESTATION OF COMPLETENESS We conducted the following procedures in accordance the Attestation of completeness and limited assurance report of one professional guidelines applicable in France: of the statutory auditors on social, environmental and societal information published in the management report 1 we compared the CSR Information presented in the management report with the list set forth in Article R. 225-105-1 of the French Fiscal year ended on June 30th, 2013 Commercial Code; (This is a free translation into English of the original report issued in French 1 we verified that the CSR Information covered the consolidated and is provided solely for the convenience of English speaking readers. This scope, i.e., the company and its subsidiaries within the meaning report should be read in conjunction with, and is construed in accordance of Article L. 233-1 of the French Commercial Code and the with, French law and professional auditing standards applicable in France) companies that it controls within the meaning of Article L. 233-3 of the French Commercial Code, subject to the limits set forth in the methodological note presented in the management report; ■ TO THE SHAREHOLDERS, 1 in the event of omission of certain consolidated information, we At the request of the Group and in our capacity as Statutory verified that explanations were provided in accordance with the Auditor of Bonduelle, we hereby present you with our report on provisions of French Order no. 2012-557 of April 24th 2012. the consolidated social, environmental and societal information presented in the management report prepared for the fiscal year Based on our work, we attest to the completeness of the required ended on June 30th, 2013, pursuant to Article L. 225-102-1 of the CSR Information in the management report. French Commercial Code (Code du commerce). 2. LIMITED ASSURANCE REPORT Nature and scope of procedures ■ RESPONSIBILITY OF THE COMPANY We conducted our work in accordance with ISAE 3000 (International The Management Board of Bonduelle is responsible for preparing a Standard on Assurance Engagements) and the professional guidelines management report including the CSR Information provided for by applicable in France. We conducted the following procedures in Article R. 225-105-1 of the French Commercial Code (hereinafter order to provide limited assurance that the CSR Information does not the “CSR Information”), prepared in accordance with the reporting contain any material anomalies likely to call into question its fairness, criteria used by Bonduelle (the “Reporting Criteria”) and available in all material respects, in accordance with the above-mentioned for consultation on request, of which a summary appears in the Reporting Criteria. A higher level of assurance would have required management report. more extensive work. We performed the following procedures: ■ INDEPENDENCE AND QUALITY CONTROL 1 we assessed the appropriateness of the Reporting Criteria with Our independence is defined by regulatory texts, the profession’s respect to its relevance, completeness, neutrality, clarity and Code of Ethics as well as by the provisions set forth in Article reliability, by taking into consideration, when relevant, the sector’s L. 822-11 of the French Commercial Code. Furthermore, we have set best practices; up a quality control system that includes the documented policies and 1 we verified the set-up within the Group of a process to collect, procedures designed to ensure compliance with deontological rules, compile, process and check the CSR Information with regard to professional standards and the applicable legal texts and regulations. its completeness and consistency. We familiarized ourselves with the internal control and risk management procedures relating to the compilation of the CSR Information. We conducted interviews ■ RESPONSIBILITY OF THE STATUTORY AUDITOR with individuals responsible for the CSR Information preparation; Based on our work, our responsibility is: 1 we selected the consolidated information to be tested (1) and 1 to attest that the required CSR Information is presented in the determined the nature and scope of the tests by taking into management report or, in the event of omission, is explained consideration their significance with respect to the social and pursuant to the third paragraph of Article R. 225-105 of the French environmental consequences related to the Group’s activity as well Commercial Code (Attestation of completeness); as its corporate commitments: 1 to express limited assurance on the fact that, taken as a whole, the other • concerning the consolidated quantitative information that we CSR Information is presented fairly, in all material aspects, in accordance considered to be most significant: with the adopted Reporting Criteria (Limited assurance report). We have called upon our Corporate Social Responsibility experts to assist us in our work. (1) Water consumption; electricity consumption; natural gas consumption; waste production: green waste; production of ordinary industrial waste (OIW), production of special industrial waste (SIW); metric tons of packaging used; metric tons of BOD discharged (treated in external treatment plants + released into the natural environment in accordance with regulations); CO2 emissions (Scope 1); CO2 emissions (Scope 2); CO2 emissions (transport related); permanent employees at 30 June: by gender, age, region; seasonal employees (FTE); number of departures by reason (employee’s request, employer’s request, transfers); permanent and temporary hirings; number of training hours; hours worked; rate of absenteeism; frequency rate of work-related accidents with lost time; work-related accident severity rate. 84 Bonduelle / Registration document 2012-2013 www.bonduelle.com CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE CORPORATE SOCIAL CORPORATE COMMENTS FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE ON THE FISCAL YEAR STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION CSR Reporting: note on methodology for the consolidating entity and controlled entities, we 1 regarding the other published consolidated information, we set up analytical procedures and verified, using sampling assessed its fairness and consistency in relation to our knowledge techniques, the calculations as well as the consolidation of of the Group and, where necessary, through interviews or by this information, consulting documentary sources; at the sites that we selected (1) based on their activity, their 1 Finally, we assessed the relevance of the explanations relating to, contribution to consolidated indicators, their location and a where necessary, the absence of certain information. risk analysis, we: conducted interviews to verify the proper application of procedures, ■ CONCLUSION conducted substantive tests, using sampling techniques, Based on our work, we did not identify any material anomaly likely to verify the calculations performed and reconcile data with to call into question the fact that the CSR Information are presented supporting evidence. The sample selected represents an average of 15% in terms of headcount and between 10.1% and 41.7% (depending fairly, in all material aspects, in accordance with the Reporting Criteria. Notwithstanding the conclusion expressed above, we wish to 2 on the indicators) in terms of the quantitative environmental draw your attention to the fact that certain specific methodological information tested, assumptions have been made for the calculation of the CO2 emissions • concerning the consolidated qualitative information that we related to transport. They are mentioned in the Note of Methodology. considered to be most significant, we reviewed the related source documents and conducted interviews to corroborate this information and assess its fairness; Signed in Lille, October 2nd, 2013. The Statutory Auditors Deloitte & Associés Gérard BADIN (1) Bordères, Renescure, Saint Benoist, Straelen, Tecumseh. Bonduelle / Registration document 2012-2013 85 CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE CORPORATE SOCIAL CORPORATE COMMENTS FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE ON THE FISCAL YEAR STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION CSR Reporting: note on methodology 2.6.7 Overview of indicators ■ ENVIRONMENTAL COMMITMENTS AGRICULTURAL UPSTREAM Biodiversity Almost 500 vegetable varieties distributed in the group’s various ranges. 199 varietal collections enabled 942 plant varieties to be observed in 2012-2013. Agricultural headcount 239 employees (full-time equivalent agronomy department employees, including administrative staff, seasonal staff, trainees and those on permanent and fixed-term contracts). Sourcing charter 91% of farmers and suppliers have signed. Farmers and suppliers assessed 54% of farmers and suppliers have been assessed (through a process aimed at carrying out an annual review according to a pre-established grid). Soil analysis 98% of nitrogen fertilizing has been calculated using residual method analysis. Farming intensity 28.7 hectares of vegetables grown by each producer on average. Security network 168 trapping networks. Global Gap * 100% of Bonduelle’s salad production is certified by Global Gap. * Global Gap is a protocol of best agricultural practices that sets the standards that agricultural and horticultural companies worldwide have to meet in terms of food safety, vsustainability and quality. 86 Bonduelle / Registration document 2012-2013 www.bonduelle.com CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE CORPORATE SOCIAL CORPORATE COMMENTS FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE ON THE FISCAL YEAR STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION CSR Reporting: note on methodology NATURAL RESOURCES TMP 1,055,837 TMP (metric tons of manufactured product) Water consumption 12,434,274 m3 consumed, i.e. 11.8 m3 per TMP Water sourcing 9,281,434 m3 of well water 2,802,329 m3 of urban water 350,510 m3 of surface water Energy consumption Overall consumption 3,247,707 GJ Electricity: 1,350,776 GJ Natural gas: 1,663,950 GJ 2 Fuel (very low sulfur content): 2,082 GJ Propane: 48,744 GJ LPG: 6,275 GJ Domestic fuel oil: 39,749 GJ Biomass: 29,943 GJ Purchase of steam: 95,213 GJ Biogas: 10,975 GJ Electricity consumption by country: 50% France 24% Canada 13% United States 4% Portugal 3% Poland 2% Hungary 2% Germany 1% Russia 0.5% Brazil Production of ordinary waste 43,802 metric tons, i.e. 41.5 kg/TMP Treatment: Low-impact landfill site: 24% Energy recovery: 4% Recycling: 72% Production of special waste 262 metric tons, i.e. 0.25 kg/TMP Production of green waste 576,361 metric tons, i.e. 546 kg/TMP Use: Agricultural spreading: 3% Animal feed: 77% Energy recovery: 1% Marketable product: 19% Other (compost): 1% Bonduelle / Registration document 2012-2013 87 CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE CORPORATE SOCIAL CORPORATE COMMENTS FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE ON THE FISCAL YEAR STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION CSR Reporting: note on methodology Pollution discharge Breakdown of treatment in m³: 85% m3 discharged to treatment plant 10% m3 discharged for spreading after pretreatment 2% m3 discharged directly for spreading on crops 3% m3 discharged as clean effluent Discharge of pollutants and proportion treated: 24,591 metric tons BOD produced at industrial sites 84% of BOD treated at Bonduelle treatment plants 13% of BOD treated by the soil and plant cover (controlled agricultural spreading) 2% of BOD treated at external treatment plants 0.6% discharged into the natural environment in compliance with regulations Biosolids Production of 1,936 metric tons of dry biological sludge Production of 1,591,006 Nm3 of biogas Packaging 146,140 metric tons Breakdown by type of material: Metal cans: 57.6% Cardboard: 20.3% Glass jars: 9.8% Plastic film: 5.1% Lids: 3.6% Plastic trays: 1.6% Labels and other: 2.1% Expenditure for minimizing the impact Wastewater and sludge treatment: €3,777,825 of activities on the environment Industrial and green waste: €241,403 Air and energy: €3,253,175 Greenhouse gas emissions (expressed 68,383 TEQ CO2 from indirect emissions (purchase of electricity) in metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent 121,205 TEQ CO2 from direct emissions (purchase of fossil energy, biomass, refrigerant TEQ CO2) fluid leaks) Emissions of ozone depleting gas 2,446 TEQ CO2 for R22, R134A, R404A and R422A TRANSPORT (EXCL. CANADA AND THE USA) CO2 emissions (metric tons) Upstream agricultural transport,15,657 TEQ CO2 Inter-site, 16,716 TEQ CO2 Distribution, 72,941 TEQ CO2 i.e. 105,314 TEQ CO2 (excl. Canada) Ratio of kg of CO2/metric ton Upstream agricultural transport, 18 kg CO2 emitted/metric ton transported Inter-site, 20 kg CO2 emitted/metric ton transported Distribution, 75 kg CO2 emitted/metric ton transported 88 Bonduelle / Registration document 2012-2013 www.bonduelle.com CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE CORPORATE SOCIAL CORPORATE COMMENTS FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE ON THE FISCAL YEAR STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION CSR Reporting: note on methodology ■ COMMITMENTS TO SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND CIVIL SOCIETY COMMITMENTS TO SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Total employees 1 6,736 permanents. 1 9,758 on permanent, fixed-term, seasonal and other contracts (FTE). ■ Total employees by type of employment contract and geographical area (full-time equivalent) Europe Permanent France 3,301 excl. France 1,352 Non-Europe 1,960 Total 6,613 2 Non-Permanent 286 103 81 470 Seasonal 778 541 577 1,895 Other 268 314 198 780 ■ Total employees by gender, status and geographical area (permanent staff) Europe France excl. France Non-Europe Total Women 1,349 618 683 2,650 Men 1,989 863 1,234 4,086 Executive 675 301 220 1,196 Non-Executive 2,663 1,180 1,697 5,540 SENIORITY (PERMANENT STAFF) NEW HIRES, IN NUMBER OF CONTRACTS 1 0 to 3 years: 1,530; 1 Permanent: 589; 1 3 to 9 years: 1,571; 1 Fixed-term: 1,095; 1 > 9 years: 3,635. 1 Seasonal: 4,986. Average seniority: 13.29. Workers with a disability (FTE): 232. Bonduelle / Registration document 2012-2013 89 CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE CORPORATE SOCIAL CORPORATE COMMENTS FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE ON THE FISCAL YEAR STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION CSR Reporting: note on methodology TURNOVER Total group turnover: 11.64%*. ■ Departures by type of contract Europe France excl. France Non-Europe Total Due to layoff – Executive 10 6 2 18 Due to a death, retirement, agreed departure, etc. – Executive 13 6 2 21 Executive Due to the employee (resignation, end of probationary period, etc.) – Executive 32 7 7 46 Due to transfer 39 0 2 41 Due to layoff – Non-executive 52 30 242 324 Due to a death, retirement, agreed Nondeparture, etc. – Non-executive 74 66 24 164 executive Due to the employee (resignation, end of probationary period, etc.) – Non-Executive 212 101 592 905 Due to transfer 27 0 6 33 ■ Turnover by gender* Europe France excl. France Non-Europe Total Turnover – Women 7.5% 6.4% 20.4% 10.59% Turnover – Men 6.9% 8.9% 23.3% 12.37% Departures – Women 145 65 213 423 Departures – Men 186 115 412 713 ■ Turnover by age* Europe France excl. France Non-Europe Total Turnover of employees aged under 26 2.1% 2.6% 8.0% 3.90% Turnover of employees between 26-35 1.9% 1.8% 4.4% 2.62% Turnover of employees between 36-45 1.1% 1.8% 3.9% 2.07% Turnover of employees between 46-49 0.2% 0.6% 1.3% 0.59% Turnover of employees 50+ 1.8% 1.0% 4.6% 2.45% Departures of employees under 26 98 59 224 381 Departures of employees between 26-35 89 42 125 256 Departures of employees between 36-45 50 42 110 202 Departures of employees between 46-49 9 13 36 58 Departures of employees 50+ 85 24 130 239 * Scope: departures at the request of the employee, due to death, retirement or agreed departure. 90 Bonduelle / Registration document 2012-2013 www.bonduelle.com CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE CORPORATE SOCIAL CORPORATE COMMENTS FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE ON THE FISCAL YEAR STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION CSR Reporting: note on methodology Training Safety conditions 1 % of gross payroll: 1.57%. 1 Frequency of work-related accidents: 11.75. 1 Number of training hours: 123,795. 1 Work-related accident severity rate: 0.61. 1 Average training duration per individual: 23 hours. 1 Severity rate of Occupational Diseases for France: 1.39. 1 Breakdown of training by gender: 39.08% of women and 60.92% of men. ■ Breakdown of work-related accidents Europe Women – Frequency rate France 17.87 excl. France 11.31 Non-Europe 4.34 Total 12.26 2 Men – Frequency rate 16.32 11.89 5.22 11.43 Frequency rate 16.95 11.65 4.92 11.75 Women – Number of work-related accidents with lost time 51 17 8 76 Men – Number of work-related accidents with lost time 68 25 18 111 Number of work-related accidents with lost time 119 42 26 187 Women – Severity rate 1.14 0.15 0.60 0.74 Men – Severity rate 0.88 0.49 0.14 0.53 Severity rate 0.99 0.35 0.30 0.61 Women – Number of lost days due to work-related accidents 3,253 226 1,103 4,582 Men – Number of lost days due to work-related accidents 3,668 1,032 495 5,195 Lost days due to work-related accidents 6,921 1,258 1,598 9,777 Europe France excl. France Non-Europe Total Women – Occupational disease severity rate 2.80 N/A N/A 2.80 Men – Occupational disease severity rate 0.43 N/A N/A 0.43 Occupational disease severity rate 1.39 N/A N/A 1.39 Women – Number of lost days for work-related accidents and occupational disease 8,005 N/A N/A 8,005 Men – Number of lost days for work-related accidents and occupational disease 1,780 N/A N/A 1,780 Number of lost days for work-related accidents and occupational disease 9,785 N/A N/A 9,785 Data not available Industrial restructuring Remuneration and development Staff affected by industrial restructuring plans who have received 1 Total remuneration (permanent + fixed-term + seasonal contracts): outplacement support: 454. €241,900,106 (€234,819,248 in 2011-2012). Work time organization 1 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews: 80.45%. 1 Number of hours worked: 15,914,984. 1 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and 1 Absenteeism rate: 4.46%. career development reviews by gender: 87.13% of women and 78.70% of men. Bonduelle / Registration document 2012-2013 91 CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE CORPORATE SOCIAL CORPORATE COMMENTS FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE ON THE FISCAL YEAR STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION CSR Reporting: note on methodology COMMITMENTS TO ECONOMIC PARTNERS % Signature of the Global Compact (based on 91% of the scope) 1 86% of the purchasing budget relates to framework agreements; 1 88% of the budget for these framework agreements for which the Global Compact has been signed; 1 2% of the budget non-related to the framework agreements for which the Global Compact was signed. France Hungary Poland Germany % of the purchasing budget related to framework agreements (A) 88% 89% 77% 57% % of these purchases under framework agreements for which the principles of the Global Compact have been signed (B) 88% 97% 84% 54% % of the purchasing budget concerned by framework agreements and for which the principles of the Global Compact have been signed (AxB) 77% 86% 65% 31% % of the purchasing budget not related to framework agreements (C) 12% 11% 23% 43% % of these purchases outside of framework agreements for which the principles of the Global Compact have been signed (D) 0% 0% 22% 8% % of the purchasing budget not related to framework agreements and for which the principles of the Global Compact have been signed (CxD) 0% 0% 5% 3% Proportion of the budget accounted for with commitment to respecting the principles of the Global Compact 77% 86% 70% 34% ■ RESPONSIBILITY TO CONSUMERS QUALITY Total quality control personnel 589 employees (full-time equivalent), of which: 8.3% in the subsidiaries’ quality control departments and in the Purchasing department 35.9% in the plants’ quality control departments 40.4% in quality control on the production lines 18.1% in final receiving controls Certiﬁed factories 17 are ISO 9001 certified 1 site is ISO 22000 certified 23 facilities are IFS-certified 4 are FSSC 22000-accredited 17 are BRC-certified (British Retail Consortium) 4 are SQF-accredited 9 produce certified “organic” goods Customer services 1 customer services department operates in each country Fruit & vegetable purchasing 78 suppliers have signed the simplified charter (i.e. 32%) 277 phyto and TME analyses carried out, of which 96% were in compliance 44 suppliers have been audited (i.e. 18%) 126 suppliers have been assessed (i.e. 51%) 92 Bonduelle / Registration document 2012-2013 www.bonduelle.com CONSOLIDATED PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION ON THE BONDUELLE CORPORATE SOCIAL CORPORATE COMMENTS FINANCIAL FINANCIAL THE COMPANY AND ADDITIONAL GROUP RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE ON THE FISCAL YEAR STATEMENTS STATEMENTS THE SHARE CAPITAL INFORMATION Glossary and acronyms 2.7 Glossary and acronyms ■ GLOSSARY Cleanlabel Literally means clear, clean and understandable food labeling, which Agronomy excludes technical terms as well as certain artificial ingredients. Science of agriculture Cogeneration Biodiversity A simultaneous production method in which two different energy Biodiversity is a generic term used to refer to the diversity and richness in living species inhabiting the Earth, a region or an ecosystem. It is assessed in terms of the number of different genes, species and forms are produced in the same process. Ecological footprint 2 ecosystems in a given geographical area. The ecological footprint is a measure of the pressure being placed on This notion applies to the different species of plants and animals, nature by Humans. This tool is used to assess the productive surface from monocellular organisms to the most complex organisms. required by a population to satisfy its consumption of resources and its requirements in terms of waste absorption. Biogas Efﬂuents Biogas is the gas resulting from the biodegradation of organic animal or plant matter when no oxygen is present. It is primarily comprised of Usually refers to used domestic and urban waste water (effluents methane and carbon dioxide. It is produced in waste storage facilities are received by Bonduelle’s waste water treatment plants) and, by or in methane digesters. It is combustible and can be recycled as extension, waste water from industrial processes. energy. Energy performance Biological oxygen demand (BOD) The energy performance of an operation or a technology is measured Amount of oxygen necessary to break down organic matter by the ratio of the energy provided to the energy used. In energy (biodegradable) biologically (oxidation of biodegradable organic techniques, energy performance can be used to ensure that more matter using bacteria). The biological oxygen demand (BOD) is an energy is recovered than has been used. indicator of the level of pollution of water, which enables assessment Environmental impact of the biodegradable fraction of the carbon pollution load of waste water. Environmental impact refers to all qualitative, quantitative and functional environmental modifications (negative and positive) Biomass resulting from a project, process, procedure, one or more organisms Biomass is a term used in ecology to refer to the total mass of living and one or more products, from its conception to its end-of-life. organisms in a given biotope at a given moment. It can be measured Enzymes by surface unit for a land environment or by volume unit for an aquatic environment. Molecules naturally present in vegetables, which are involved in chemical reactions and result in loss of color or the appearance of Carbon Disclosure Project undesirable tastes. The Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) is an organization whose Global Compact objective is to enlighten the investment decisions of its members by informing them of how “carbon constraints” and climate The Global Compact was launched in January 2000 at the World change can impact companies. Each year, the CDP sends major Economic Forum in Davos by Kofi Annan, the then-Secretaryglobal corporations a questionnaire on how they are responding to General of the United Nations. The goal of the Global Compact is climate change (strategy, risks and opportunities, etc.) and on their to align the power of markets with individual ideals in order to place greenhouse gas emissions (GHG: direct, indirect and other indirect greater responsibility on businesses. emissions, objectives and reduction policy, etc.). The CDP helps GRI Guidelines improve the quality of the information published by companies, by creating a worldwide database of GHG emissions. The Global Reporting Initiative is an independent organization that brings together stakeholders from different backgrounds: companies, Carbon footprint NGOs, universities, researchers, trade unions. The GRI develops The “carbon footprint” measures the volume of carbon dioxide the international directives intended to structure and standardize (CO2) emitted by the burning of fossil fuels, by companies or living organizations’ management reports in terms of sustainable organisms. development. The GRI’s main contribution has been the definition of guidelines covering almost 80 (extra-financial) indicators used to Bonduelle / Registration document 2012-2013 93
